30-03-2021||Calcutta||Religious leaders come together to celebrate host of of festivals||Leaders of different religious communities greeted and fed each other sweets to celebrate a host of festivals together at the Archbishop’s House in the city on Sunday. This year, Holi and Hola Mohalla, a Sikh festival, coincided with Shab-e-Barat and Palm Sunday. The United Interfaith Foundation India had organised a multi-religious celebration to spread the message of inclusiveness, peace and harmony. Taking part in one another’s celebrations is the true culture of Bengal and must be preserved, the organisers said. The participants included the Archbishop of Calcutta, Reverend Thomas D’Souza; Maulana Qari Fazlur Rahman, one of the senior-most maulanas in Bengal; and Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, general secretary of Gurdwara Behala. Swami Achyutananda Puri, secretary of the International Vedanta Society, could not attend because of Holi-related programmes but sent a message of solidarity, saying: “Togetherness is the essence of our culture. We will continue to live together, come what may.” Archbishop D’Souza, president of the United Interfaith Foundation, said: “The celebration of various festivals of different religions makes us aware of the presence of the divine in our midst and also inspires us to share the joy of that presence with all our brothers and sisters.” Maulana Rahman, who leads the namaz at Red Road during Id every year, said Bengal had always been known for “harmony between Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians and everyone else”. “But there is a conspiracy to disturb this peaceful co-existence. Outsiders are trying to spread hatred to stoke communal tension. But they will not be successful,” he said. A statement from the foundation said: “The festival of Shab-e-Barat is celebrated with pomp and enthusiasm as Allah writes the destinies of all men and women for the coming year by taking into account the deeds they committed in the past, whereas Palm Sunday commemorates Jesus’s triumphal entry into Jerusalem, an event mentioned in each of the four canonical gospels; at the end all these festivals bring us together, irrespective of our differences and beliefs.” The statement added that the interfaith meeting had been organised to deliver the message of inclusiveness at a time “unrest and divide is spreading, and the pandemic has deeply affected people”. Foundation spokesperson Ahluwalia said: “Celebrating festivals together irrespective of religion and caste has been the culture of Bengal. We must preserve that culture. There is an attempt to pit one religion against another and spread divisiveness. But we must resist the attempt.” The foundation, which has representatives from all faiths, had donated dry rations to thousands during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Cyclist killed in road accident ||A man riding a bicycle died and another man riding a motorbike was injured in separate accidents on Sunday. Around 10.45pm, a lorry hit cyclist Monojit Bhar, 57, of Bagmari Lane in Kankurgachi, at the CIT Road-EM Bypass crossing near Hudco. Bhar was declared dead at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.The lorry driver has been arrested. Around 8.15pm, Krishnendu Halder of Sonarpur got injured after he lost control of his motorbike and rammed into a sidewall of the Parama flyover. Halder was treated at the National Medical College and Hospital for multiple injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Salt Lake shanty fire engulfs 50 homes||A fire broke out in a cluster of shanties adjacent to Central Park, opposite Bikash Bhavan, on Monday morning. More than 50 bamboo and plastic structures were gutted in the fire. More than a dozen trees were charred and the boundary wall of Central Park was damaged in some places. At least 10 fire tenders were called in from the Sector V fire station. Firefighters took 45 minutes to douse the flames, a fire official said. The flames, leaping up to 35 feet, were checked just before they spread to the adjacent Central Park. According to residents, the fire broke out around 9.30am and spread rapidly to engulf the entire colony, spread across 1,000mX25m. “Shob chhai hoye gyalo (everything has turned into ashes),” mumbled Shabina Ali, a vegetable vendor, whose home was reduced to a heap of debris in less than an hour. “I don’t know what to do. We (her family of five) are alive, but where do we spend our nights now?” she wondered aloud sitting on the pavement with her five-year-old son. A fire official said that at least two gas cylinders had burst fueling the flames. "There were inflammable materials in the area. These included bottles of kerosene as well as gas cylinders. There were two big explosions, possibly triggered by cylinders," said the official. The fire spread quickly through shanties, most of which are constructed of plastic sheets and bamboo. Apart from fire department officials and police, a team from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation visited the spot. “We will accommodate the families who have lost their homes in temporary shelters,” said an official of the civic body. Another fire department official said the blaze could have been triggered by an electrical short-circuit. At least four men who had tried to get their belongings out of their burning homes were injured. They were taken to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, near City Centre, from where they were discharged after treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Certificate hurdle for out-of-turn jab||The state health department on Monday expressed concern that some private healthcare units were administering Covid shots to people not yet eligible for them, in violation of the immunisation rule. At a meeting with the units to plan vaccination of all people above 45 from April 1, health department officials said they were getting complaints from those who were given Covid shots despite not being eligible for them, that they were unable to collect vaccination certificates, people present at the discussions said. Among the other issues discussed were increasing the pace of the immunisation campaign and following the standard operating procedure. Shots for non-eligible Health department officials told representatives of private healthcare institutes that many people had complained that they had received at least one dose of a Covid vaccine but were unable to get a certificate from the Co-Win portal. Officials found out that those people were non-eligible for the jabs. “Vaccinate only those who are eligible. We are getting complaints from people who have been vaccinated out of turn and are now unable to get the certificate,” an official in the health department was quoted as saying by hospital representatives who were at the meeting. Initially, healthcare and frontline workers were eligible for a Covid shot. Later, senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities were brought within the immunisation ambit. From April 1, anyone above 45 can be vaccinated against Covid. “To vaccinate people above 45, those born on or before January 1, 1977, should be considered,” a health department official told hospital officials at the meeting. Department sources later said they had received information that a few sales representatives of pharmaceutical companies and personnel of insurance companies had been vaccinated out of turn. “This is unethical. If this is not stopped, we’ll take strong action,” said a health department official. Step up drive Private healthcare units have been asked to vaccinate more people above 60, officials said. “The Covid-19 mortality rate is higher among the aged. So we need to vaccinate them in more numbers. Also, those above 45 should be brought to the vaccination sites after April 1 in high numbers. This way we can try to prevent a fresh surge in cases in Bengal,” an official said. The private hospitals were asked to approach residential complexes and offices in the vicinity and urge residents and employees meeting the eligibility criteria to get vaccinated. A health department official said that with the existing supply of vaccine doses from the Centre, around five lakh people could be vaccinated in a day at the 5,000-odd centres in the state. “We want more supply to further speed up vaccination,” the official said. Follow SOP At Monday’s meeting, private hospitals were told to strictly follow guidelines. According to some of those who attended the meeting, health officials asked the healthcare units not to administer the jabs with pre-filled syringes because that could affect the vaccine’s efficacy. They were also asked to ensure biomedical waste is disposed of in designated bins. Metro had earlier written that the state health department had told private healthcare institutes that many were not following the SOP. Case count The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 176 on Monday, to 5,152. The total crossed 5,000 for the first time since February 5. The state on Monday recorded 639 new infections and 462 recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Holi: Housing complexes stick to rules, not others||Parts of the city and its adjoining areas exercised caution in celebrating Dol and Holi amid the Covid pandemic, but many others did not. Tens of thousands of people, young and old, played with colours on Sunday and Monday without adhering to the safety protocols despite a sharp rise in the number of Covid cases in the city and its adjoining districts over the past few weeks. The social media was flooded with pictures of people celebrating standing cheek by jowl, just as they used to do before Covid had surfaced. A large part of the city played Holi on Sunday. On Monday, revelers from parts of Posta, Burrabazar, Girish Park, Maniktala, Ultadanga, Alipore and Bhowanipore celebrated the occasion by joining gatherings where most were without masks. Even when not playing with colours, revelers were not wearing masks. Many who are known to express outrage on social media and other platforms at gatherings of people without masks chose not to wear face coverings while celebrating the festival of colours. The blatant violation of safety norms across the city left doctors and others worried over the impact on the Covid case count in the next few weeks. In contrast, residents of many housing complexes strictly adhered to the Covid-19 protocols. "We had issued notices warning residents about the rise in Covid cases. We had requested them to wear masks and stay at a safe distance from one another. They did as told,” said Ranjit Sarkar, who lives in a housing complex in Kasba. On Sunday and Monday, police fined over 200 people across 79 police station areas in Calcutta for not wearing masks, a figure that public health experts said was way too little considering the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Senior officers said they tried to spread awareness and visited markets and localities with loud hailers, asking residents to abide by the Covid-19 norms. But in most places the words fell on deaf ears. Till late Monday evening, the police had seized around 37.2 litres of illicit liquor and arrested 275 people for drunken brawl. “All police stations sent out teams on both days to warn revellers of the Covid-19 situation,” said an officer at Lalbazar. “But it is impossible to have police posted in every nook and corner to ensure revellers maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour.” On Friday, the state health department had issued an advisory asking people to celebrate Holi in a restricted manner this year. The advisory said people should consider celebrating Holi with their families and reiterated that the Covid-19 pandemic was still not over. Most revelers said they did not wear masks because they would have to take them off while playing Holi. Some said it was safe to be without masks in public places. They hugged and smeared each other with colours and stood in gatherings outside eateries — doing everything that experts had warned against. The health department's advisory on Holi had warned that since the virus had undergone mutations, the number of infections could rapidly rise any time. Some states in India are already reporting a very high number of cases, the advisory stated. It had also added that people should not come close to one another while playing Holi and advised them to stay away from crowded places. But not many were ready to listen. “When you are using only abir on Holi, it gets difficult to breathe with the mask on,” said Hari Mohan Kejriwal, a resident of Raja Katra in Burrabazar. “We normally wear masks. But it is not possible to do so on Holi.” Public health experts had warned that the number of cases could see a sharp rise after Holi if people ignored Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We behaved responsibly during Durga Puja and other festivals last year, which is why there was no sharp jump in cases after the festivals. Let us wait for a week or 10 days. We will get to understand if there is a jump after Holi or not,” said an expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University to set up workshop on tech campus in Salt Lake ||Calcutta University will shift the workshop of BTech students from its Ballygunge campus to the Salt Lake campus (also known as the tech campus), possibly over the next few months, so that students don’t have to travel to Ballygunge Science College twice a week. BTech students are taught engineering mechanics and drawing at the workshop in the second semester. Because of the absence of a workshop on the tech campus, students are required to travel to Ballygunge Science College for lessons in engineering mechanics and drawing. Only the Ballygunge campus has a workshop, which was set up in 2000 for the students of the four-year BTech course in jute and fibre |technology. A CU official said that though the university had decided to launch four-year BTech programmes in eight other disciplines like computer science and engineering, and information technology in 2015 on the tech campus, the workshop could not be set up until now. “We will dismantle the workshop on the Ballygunge campus and have it shifted to the Salt Lake campus. We hope that from this academic year, which is likely to start in August, students won’t have to travel to Ballygunge from the Salt Lake campus,” CU registrar Debasish Das told Metro. An official said the tender for the removal and reinstallation of the gadgets would be floated in May, after the Assembly elections. “The long commute from Salt Lake to Ballygunge, apart from inconveniencing students, was eating into their time for theoretical classes,” he said. The engineering classes of Calcutta University are held on the Salt Lake, Ballygunge and Rajabazar campuses. As the duration of the other eight engineering courses of the university was three years before 2015, the students were not required to attend workshop classes. “Attending workshop classes is mandatory only for students in the four-year BTech course,” said a teacher in the radio physics department. Sankhayan Chowdhury, a professor in the computer science and engineering department, said they had flagged the absence of the workshop on the tech campus over the past several years. “The workshop should have been set up in Salt Lake much earlier…. These days if you don’t provide the required infrastructure, a bright student will not enrol,” said Choudhury, the general secretary of the Calcutta University Teachers’ Association. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had told Metro in May 2018 that the university had released funds to build a workshop on the tech campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
30-03-2021||Calcutta||Embroidery lessons come to aid of jobless primary schoolteacher||A 50-year-old primary schoolteacher who lost her job in September last year because children had stopped going to school, started taking embroidery training in January. With around 15 days left to complete the course, she has got an offer from a boutique and hopes to restart her career with something she did years back as a hobby. Women across age groups, whose livelihood has taken a hit during the Covid pandemic — some of who live in slums — are getting three months’ training in embroidery, using sewing machines and tailoring so they can earn a living. Calcutta Rescue started the project in January and aims to train 100 women in batches of 20 by 2021. The schoolteacher, Sima Paul, and her brother lost their jobs during the pandemic. Paul was part of an organisation and taught children in Classes I to IV in different schools. “I was teaching children whose level was not equivalent to the class they were in. But small children are not coming back to school. So, in September, they told us we were not required. I was not the only one to lose my job,” said Paul, a history graduate. “It is difficult to get a teaching job under the current circumstances. I hope that with this training in embroidery I am able to restore my livelihood in some way,” she said. The “Restoration of Livelihood Project” has been started under the Calcutta Rescue Handicrafts project that has been running for the last four decades and receives orders from across the country and overseas. The project includes women like 36-year-old Monika Patra whose husband worked at a private firm as an electrician but since the office is closed, he is no longer required. “The pandemic has decimated jobs and livelihood… The project supplies women with skills so they can earn an income. Beyond that, for these women it’s restoring their dignity and place in society,” said Jaydeep Chakraborty, CEO, Calcutta Rescue. The women are getting a stipend of Rs 150 per day, so their travel expenses are taken care of. It is difficult for some women to spend hours at the training because they have children at home who need their time and attention. “We conduct a thorough screening before enrolling the women to understand their interests and future plans so we know they will put the learning to some use. Some have started getting offers and boutiques have approached us. We plan to give some of them work at the handicraft unit,” said Arunava Ghosh Roy, manager, Calcutta Rescue Handicrafts. “We also see that the women have basic education because tailoring includes measurements,” he added. The NGO also plans to give some of them sewing machines, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
