31-03-2021||Calcutta||Ghutiari Sharif: testament to Bengal’s secular fabric||A BJP rally kept raising high-pitched “Jai Shri Ram” cries as it marched along the Baruipur-Canning Road in South 24-Parganas on Friday afternoon. Slogans in support of the incumbent regime in Delhi were belted thick and fast and scorn was heaped on “infiltrators and termites”. It was around 12.30pm and the road was not busy. But some cars were stalled by the rally. One of them was headed to a shrine dedicated to a Muslim saint, 35km from the heart of Calcutta and two stops before Canning, the gateway to the Sunderbans. All the occupants of the car were Hindus. “I am going to Ghutiari Sharif for the first time. I have heard that if you pray sincerely, Ghazi baba answers your prayers,” said Suparna Dutta, 22, part of the group from Garia. A suburb in South 24-Parganas, Ghutiari Sharif is known for the mazaar (resting place) of Pir Ghazi Mubarak Ali, a revered 17th century figure. It is also a testament to the secular character of the popular devotional culture of Bengal at a time religious polarisation is the dominant narrative everywhere from political rallies to election manifestos. Legends and folklore in Bengal are often a part of everyday life, transcending barriers of religion and caste. When this reporter visited the shrine on Friday, scores of women with sindoor-smeared foreheads were seen dipping their palms into a pond in the shrine compound, praying silently to have their wishes (manat) fulfilled. The shrine embodied the deep-rooted syncretism in Bengal’s culture, something that social scientists said would pose a formidable challenge to any political party seeking to polarise voters. That syncretism was perhaps best represented by an image of two women — Debi Majumder and Umme Habiba Laskar — dipping their palms together in the pond. Majumder, a first-timer at Ghutiari Sharif, had come from her home in Lake Market. She came to know of the place from Laskar, an ayah who looks after one of Majumder’s neighbours. Laskar is a resident of Champahati, another suburb not far from Ghutiari Sharif, and has been there several times. They had boarded a train from Ballygunge to reach the Ghutiari Sharif station on Friday. The shrine is a less than five-minute walk from the station. Around 1.30pm on Friday, the two dipped their palms into the pond together. “I prayed at the mazaar and then made my wish at the pond. I have skipped breakfast, in keeping with the ritual,” said Majumder. Many visitors fast till they pray at the mazaar. Suparna Naskar, who lives in Baruipur, had accompanied a Muslim friend who had come with her newborn. “She had wished for a child. Today, we have come to thank Ghazi baba for granting the wish,” said Naskar. The shrine is a five-minute walk from the Ghutiari Sharif railway station in the Sealdah-Canning suburban section. The narrow road is dotted with shops. The resting place of the pir is at the centre of the compound. The top of the shrine has a mosaic dome with four towers. Legend has it that the area, then part of the Sunderbans, was hit by a severe drought four centuries ago. Pir Ghazi Mubarak Ali is said to have brought rainfall to the area. He is also said to have cured a Hindu king, Madan Roy, from a severe bout of illness, after which Roy gifted him swathes of land. The mazaar stands on that land. “Baba’s spirit still endures, taking care of this place. He did not discriminate between people. We have maintained that tradition. Around one-third of my customers are Hindus,” said Salim Dewan, 65, who owns a store selling incense sticks, flowers, chadars and other objects offered to the pir’s resting place. Dewan is a common title given to the future generations of the pir, some of whom are also part of the managing committee of the shrine. “Many such mazaars and dargahs in Bengal are entrenched in a syncretic culture. The devotees come from all faiths, light incense sticks and offer sinni (a sweet concoction of milk, flour, bananas, raisins and other fruits, usually made during pujas in Bengali homes) and other homely food to the presiding saint,” said Epsita Halder, who teaches comparative literature at Jadavpur University and has researched on the scriptural understanding and popular devotionalism of vernacular Islam in Bengal. “In medieval Bengal, many Islamic preachers became popular among the common people because they spoke in a simple language that everyone could connect with. They were not heavy on scriptural understanding of a religion but talked about devotion as a way of life,” Halder said. Ghutiari Sharif falls under Canning West Assembly seat, won by Trinamul’s Shyamal Mondal in 2016. This time, the ruling party has fielded Paresh Ram Das. His main contender is Arnab Roy of the BJP. Roy switched sides from the TMC to the saffron camp recently and his candidature has triggered protests from local BJP workers, like at so many other places of the state. The influence of the shrine goes far beyond one constituency. Ghutiari Sharif hosts two major fairs in a year. One is in the first week of August, commemorating the death anniversary of the pir. The other is in June, which coincides with the famous Ambubachi Mela at the Kamakhya temple in Assam. According to the local legend, King Madan Roy, a regular at the Kamakhya temple during the fair, started a similar fair near his home after being impressed by the pir. Special trains are run during the fairs and lakhs of people, Hindus and Muslims, throng the shrine, apart from tens of thousands every week. Those at the helm of the shrine said they kept off politics. “We have always practised an inclusive culture and will continue doing so, irrespective of which party comes to power,” said Siraj Dewan, caretaker of the managing committee of the shrine. Political commentator Maidul Islam said the politics of polarisation has yielded dividends in the urban middle class but suburban and rural Bengal was a different ballgame. “The urban middle class is divided into the conservative and the liberal sections. The conservatives have already sided with the saffron brigade. There is a deep churning in a large section of the liberals. Many of them are still undecided among the Left and Trinamul. But the syncretic culture of rural and suburban Bengal is so deep-rooted that it will not be erased in the course of one election,” he said. Ghutiari Sharif is not far for the Sunderbans, the land of another syncretic legend, Bon Bibi, the protector of humans and the forest, worshipped by Hindus and Muslims alike. “All across the Sunderbans, rituals to Bon Bibi are performed by Hindus as well as Muslims. I think it is a wonderful kind of syncretism that you see there. In popular culture, in Bengal, it is incredibly mixed. These traditions, they are impossible to pick apart and say this is Hindu and this is Muslim. I think that’s what makes the popular culture of Bengal so vibrant and so interesting,” author Amitav Ghosh, who had introduced Bon Bibi to the world, said of the legend while speaking on the occasion of a literary meet in Calcutta in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Ward-wise data to fight air pollution in Calcutta||Calcutta, like Delhi, will soon start generating ward-wise air pollution data that will make it easier to manage local pollution, an air pollution expert from IIT Delhi said. “Based on our suggestion, the pollution control board is setting up sensor-based air pollution measuring points all over the state. We expect to use the data generated by these sensors along with satellite data to find ward-wise pollution levels in the Calcutta metropolitan area and elsewhere,” said Sagnik De, from IIT Delhi that has conducted a study, at a meeting organised by Climate Trends. “We have already placed an order for around 150 air pollution sensors. Initially, the sensors will be put up at all district headquarters, followed by all municipal cities,” Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the PCB told Metro. Rudra said the PCB was putting the sensors mostly in universities. Though Calcutta metropolitan area — greater Calcutta, from Budge Budge to Kalyani — followed by the Asansol-Durgapur area are the most polluted, the whole of Bengal’s air quality remains above compliance levels annually, De said. He said that despite increasing awareness and claimed actions, the PM 2.5 level, the most critical pollutant that can reach the deepest layers of the lungs and trigger a range of diseases, has increased significantly between 2010 and 2019 compared to the previous decade. “If you compare the decadal map, you will find that during 2001-09, only the southern part of the state was polluted. The whole of the south and central Bengal surrounding Calcutta became acutely polluted during 2010-19,” De said. The IIT data, accessed by Metro, shows that while the 2001 annual average PM 2.5 was 66.6 microgram per cubic meter of air in the state, it rose to 78.2 microgram in 2019, increasing exposure both in urban and rural areas of the state. The national annual limit is 40 micrograms. The IIT study pointed out that increasing emission load over the years, rather than meteorological changes, has mainly been responsible for the rise in pollution. “Though a sizeable amount of the pollution must be locally generated from vehicles, industry or domestic sources, a part of it is expected to be coming from outside Bengal, say Bihar, Jharkhand or Bangladesh air shade,” De said. A recent international study has shown that Bangladesh is the worlds most polluted country. “Pollution is also coming from Nepal, states in the Northeast, the eastern ghats, besides the Indi-Gangetic plains,” said Abhijit Chatterjee, a scientist from Bose institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine booking rush begins in Calcutta||Private hospitals and civic health clinics in Calcutta and Salt Lake are flooded with requests from people above the age of 45 for slots for Covid jabs. Some hospitals that have been booking slots for a few days said the number of requests had been increasing by the day. An official of a private hospital said 200 people in the “45 and above” category had booked slots for Covid jabs for April 1. The Centre has announced that anyone who is 45 or above will be eligible for a Covid shot from April 1 (Thursday). Till Wednesday, senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities, apart from medical personnel and frontline workers, were eligible for vaccination against Covid. “We have already received 200 bookings for April 1. About 40 people have also booked slots for April 2 and 3. A lot of people are calling up our hospital to book slots. Many others are coming to the hospital for appointment,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. Officials in several other hospitals like Peerless, AMRI and the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) said a large number of people were calling them up or turning up with requests for vaccine slots. An AMRI official said around 2,200 people were calling them up every day with requests for slots. “Around 42 per cent of the callers are people aged between 45 and 59,” the official said. At Peerless Hospital, booking of slots for the “45 and above” category started on Tuesday. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless, said the number of calls and visits to book appointments was far more than what they had witnessed in the days preceding the onset of vaccination of senior citizens and people between 45 and 59 with comorbidities. “The rise in the case count has made people realise that the threat from Covid-19 is still not over. Also, the population above 45 is the working population. People in this category are keen to get vaccinated and stay protected. We are expecting a very high turnout from April 1,” said Mitra. Peerless, which is vaccinating about 200 people a day, has planned to administer jabs to about 500 a day from Thursday. “We can do it if we receive more vials,” he said. At the RN Tagore hospital, 100 people have booked slots for Thursday. Slots have also been booked on all days of the first week of April. The hospital has decided to run vaccination for four more hours every day from Thursday. “We are vaccinating from 8am to 5pm. We will stretch it till 9pm. We will also run vaccination on Sundays if there is a demand. We are doubling the number of registration and document verification counters,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head (east), Narayana Health, which owns the RN Tagore hospital. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), too, will increase its vaccination centres from Thursday. “We are administering shots at 69 ward health clinics. From Thursday, that will go up to 80. On Saturdays, vaccination will continue till 4pm, instead of 1pm,” a CMC official said. The Covid-19 vaccine clinics run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation as well as the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) in New Town will set up help desks where people who are above 45 can register for the shots. The NKDA is running two vaccine sites — one at the CB block community market and the other in Action Area III, opposite the Greenfield Heights housing complex. Those who want to get their shots can register their names by calling up the New Town helpline at 18001037652, an NKDA official said. “The decision to allow residents to book appointments and to get themselves registered on the spot was taken after it came to our notice in the initial days of the vaccination drive that many people were not being able to get themselves or their family members registered on the Co-Win portal,” the official said. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the helpline number had received several hundred calls about the vaccination. “A lot of people have registered for getting the shots through the helpline,” said Sen. At the clinics run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake, Narayanpur, Ashwininagar, Rajarhat and other areas have planned to operate help desks that will allow people to register for their shots. The NKDA vaccination centres and the ones run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will operate from 9am to 4pm. Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital will take a call whether to allow spot registration at a meeting that will be held on Wednesday, an official of the hospital said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Safety guidelines on ISC cards||The ICSE council has included “safety instructions” for Covid-19 in the ISC Class XII admit cards issued this year. The council started sending the admit cards to the schools two weeks ago. The council started sending the admit cards to the schools over the last couple of weeks. The heads of several schools said the safety instructions would serve as a reminder to students to follow the Covid protocols because they would have to carry the admit cards to the exam centres. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has specified the following safety instructions: “The council has stated that the Covid safety protocols mentioned in the instructions published with the timetable should be followed by each examinee. To put more stress on the safety protocols, the council has mentioned it in the admit cards as well,” said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School. The ISC theory papers will begin on May 4 and schools have to hold practical exams between April 1 and May 31. “The mention of the protocols will be a ready reckoner for students. At no point should children forget that they have to follow these safety measures,” said Seema Sapru, principal, The Heritage School. “Earlier, the council had also sent us (schools) safety guidelines that we have to follow,” she said. Several schools said they are already following the Covid safety protocols, but a council instruction on a document that students are to carry with them adds more weight to the matter. Parents have been concerned because of the rise in Covid-19 infections. Three schools in the city had to shut down for about a week because two students and a teacher tested positive for Covid. Last year, some tests could not be held across boards because of the pandemic. Usually, the board exams are held in February and March but this year they have been delayed because of the pandemic. The ICSE council was waiting for the dates of the Assembly elections before announcing the timetable for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. Some schools have already issued admit cards to Class XII students and some are in the process of doing it. “We have issued admit cards to students. We will start with practicals, which we have scheduled in such a way that they will be over by April. If students complete the practicals before they begin their theory papers, they will be less stressed,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government to ramp up Covid tests to tackle rise in cases||The state government is planning to ramp up tests for Covid-19 across Bengal as the number of cases has started rising again, officials said. The health department has decided to increase the number of RT PCR and rapid antigen tests for Covid from 10,000 to 20,000 daily across the state. The ramp-up plan follows a recent spurt in the number of Covid-19 patients being admitted to hospitals. The state registered 628 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. On March 1, this figure was 198. “Calcutta, which recorded 265 new Covid cases on Tuesday, should conduct around 3,000 tests every day. Now around 2,000 tests are being conducted. North 24-Parganas, which registered 145 new Covid cases on Tuesday, has been set a target to conduct 2,000 tests daily. South 24-Parganas and Howrah have to conduct 1,500 and 1,000 tests every day,” a health department official said. The department is planning to involve more healthcare workers, who will go door to door to find out whether anyone has symptoms of Covid-19 and get suspected patients tested. “The implementation might be difficult initially because many healthcare workers are also involved in poll duties. But, we are hoping to achieve the target,” the official said. “Private hospitals and diagnostic centres will be asked to increase testing. Doctors there will again be asked to send people with symptoms for testing.” Gopal Krishna Dhali, the coordinator of the Covid-19 management committee of the state and head of the gastroenterology department at SSKM Hospital, said: “The tests are very crucial for contact tracing because a large number of people are now attending political rallies and meetings throwing caution to the wind. District officials have been asked to be more proactive in meeting the target of daily tests.” With an increasing number of people across the state violating the Covid-19 norms and public health experts pressing the alarm button, the health department has scheduled a videoconference with district health officials on Wednesday. “It is a two-pronged approach — increasing vaccination cover and conducting more and more tests for early detection. District officials will have to engage more of their health workers to get people with Covid-19 symptoms tested,” said another official of the health department. Officials of the districts that went to the polls on March 27 — Bankura, Jhargram, Purulia and East and West Midnapore — have pleaded helplessness saying health workers were engaged in the poll process. Swasthya Bhavan now wants the workers to be more actively involved in getting people with symptoms tested. Doctors at the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata said on Tuesday 30 Covid patients were in the facility, seven of them in the ICU and three in the high dependency unit. A week back, around 20 Covid-19 patients were in the hospital. The number of patients admitted to other Covid-19 hospitals across the city, including MR Bangur Hospital, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and SSKM, was increasing by the day, senior health officials said. Some of these patients are from the three adjoining districts of Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Dry winds heat up Bengal poll season||The heat is on the rise in the poll season, literally. The mercury climbed to around 38 degrees in Calcutta on Tuesday, a couple of notches up from the day before and three notches above normal. The next couple of days could see the maximum temperature rise to 39 degrees, the Met office has warned. In the western districts of Bengal, the mercury could rise to 41 degrees, said a Met official. The Met office has attributed the rise in temperature to hot and dry winds flowing into south Bengal from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “A trough of low pressure is stationed over parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, the Northeast and Bangladesh. Westerly winds are originating under the trough. These hot and dry winds are flowing into Bengal via Jharkhand, pushing the Celsius up,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “Dry weather is likely to prevail over the districts of Gangetic West Bengal. Gusty wind (30-40 kmph) likely at one or two places over the districts of south Bengal. Heat wave condition likely to prevail over the districts of Purulia, Bankura, West Burdwan, Jhargram and West Midnapore,” said a Met bulletin on Tuesday. In Calcutta, the weather portal AccuWeather showed the temperature to be 37.5 degrees around 3.15pm. The RealFeel was a staggering 44 degrees. From north to south, umbrellas were out on the city roads to shield pedestrians from the scorching sun. People often took shelter under a shade or a tree. A week ago, the humidity content in the Calcutta air was unusually low because of very little moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal. The minimum relative humidity, a measure of the moisture content during the driest part of the day, had been in the range of 20 per cent, compared to the around 40 per cent which is usual for March-end. But over the past few days, the moisture content has been rising. On Monday, it was a little less than 40 per cent. Some moisture incursion from the Bay has increased the relative humidity, the Met office said. But there is no chance of rain in the city over the next couple of days. “The dry winds are expected to weaken after April 1. If the moisture content increases in the coming days, it can combine with the pent-up heat to form rain-bearing clouds,” said a Met official. “The showers, if any, will be brought by local clouds. There is very little possibility of Nor’wester in the coming days,” the Met official said. While rain is unlikely in south Bengal, the Himalayan regions of Bengal and Sikkim are likely to get widespread rain because of another trough over north Bengal and Sikkim, the Met office said in a bulletin issued on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: LGBT persons feel left out ||A brief mention in the party manifesto but not a single candidate in 294 seats. Members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual (LGBTQIA) community on Tuesday gave a scathing opinion of how they felt “left out” of the electoral and political process. Amid the high-voltage poll season, community members had taken part in an interaction with a handful of CPM candidates. The meet was organised by a group called the Left for Rainbow Rights. “No party has fielded a single member from our community in the Bengal elections. However, parties have time to run after film stars,” said Ranjita Sinha, the founder of the Association of Transgender/Hijra in Bengal. Sinha said political parties should communicate with the community, not only before elections but throughout the year. Dipan, another speaker, questioned “liberal Leftists” for taking so much time to reach out to the community. “You claim to be progressive and forward thinking. You claim to be able to adapt yourselves to the needs of the time. Yet, you have kept us marginalised for so long,” said Dipan. Multiple LGBTQIA members spoke of their fears stemming from the citizenship thrust of the BJP regime. “Most of us have been discarded by our families. We do not have any papers that can prove our citizenship. What is going to be our future? Should we be prepared for detention camps,” said one of them. The movement against the citizenship thrust in Calcutta had a sizable participation of members of the LGBTQIA community. The Rainbow flag was common across the rallies. The CPM manifesto does not speak beyond the “necessary steps” for the LGBTQIA community. But at the meeting at Shramik Bhavan, off CIT Road, on Tuesday, the CPM candidates released a detailed statement. “The meeting has been organised to stage a united fight in the coming days against the fascist plot to keep LGBTQUIA community members out of the social, economic and political mainstream,” the message said. Dipsita Dhar, the CPM candidate from Bally constituency, said: “Whatever you are saying is absolutely true. Had we been able to establish a perfect society, there would have been no room for this discussion. But as the joint secretary of SFI (Students’ Federation of India), I have taken part in many Pride rallies (organised by members of the LGBTQIA) community. I have friends who belong to the community. Even they think we are the only political party which will take you along.” Sujan Chakraborty and Fuad Halim were among the other politicians present at the meet. Chakraborty, the CPM candidate from Jadavpur, spoke of the need for a separate department for the community. “Speak your heart out. You have equal rights like everyone else. Just as we are with students in their fight for rights, we are beside you in your fight for your rights. Our government in Kerala has taken steps that have resulted in uplift of the marginalised people,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-98
31-03-2021||Calcutta||CU next semester to start online on April 5||The undergraduate and postgraduate classes of Calcutta University in the next semester (even semester) will start on April 5 through the online mode, the university said on Tuesday. The rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and the absence of any directive from the state government on reopening of campuses have prompted Presidency University to announce the start of online classes for the even semester from April 2. Rabindra Bharati University will start online classes on April 8. An official of Jadavpur University said classes for the even semester are likely to start in the online mode in the first week of April. CU’s pro vice-chancellor (academic) Ashis Chatterjee asked the principals and the heads of all postgraduate departments on Tuesday to adhere to the September 24 UGC guidelines and start online classes on April 5. The exams of the even semester will be held from August 9 to 21. “The principals and the heads of the departments at the masters’ level have been informed about the schedule,” vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee told Metro. When asked about the mode of classes, she said: “Classes will continue to be held on digital platforms as the higher education department has not yet said anything about the resumption of on-campus classes.” “We will soon draw the routine as advised by the university authorities,” Joydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College said. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on February 3 left it to the universities to decide when to start classes for the even semester and the mode of classes. A VC who did not want to be named said there had been no improvement in the situation since the February meeting with Chatterjee. “The situation has rather worsened since. We will keep opposing the resumption of in-person classes because we are not sure whether the physical distancing norm, a vital precautionary measure against Covid-19, could be followed in hostels, where each room is shared by as many as four students,” the VC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
