10-11-2021||Pune||Private buses begin operations from ST stands in Pune division; see good response||PUNE In a major relief for passengers, private bus operators began operations from inside the ST stands across 13 depots in the Pune division on Wednesday. As the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers’ strike continued, the state government allowed private tourist buses, school and company buses to transport passengers, due to which several private buses parked inside the Swargate, Wakdewadi, and Vallabhanagar ST stands. “We are supporting the ongoing protest of the MSRTC workers and there is no competition. Nor are we disrespecting them. Only for the sake of passengers and to make travel arrangements as appealed for by the state government we have started the bus service from ST stands today. The fares of the private buses are as per given by the fare chart of the state transport department and we are getting a good response,” said Baba Shinde, president, Maharashtra Transport Vehicle Owners and Drivers Association. Early on Wednesday morning there was rush of passengers at the Swargate and Wakdewadi ST stands to board buses on various routes. Private tourist bus operators were sending buses only on routes within 250 to 300km from Pune, which includes Kolhapur, Satara, Sangali, Solapur, Aurangabad, Ahmednagar and Beed. Initially, there were some arguments between passengers and bus operators over ticket fares, as the fares were a bit higher than the regular MSRTC ticket fares. “The ticket fares are as per the chart given by the transport department, but it doesn’t include the subsidies and benefits for senior citizens and other categories. And passengers were demanding such subsidies from us, but it is not possible to give a half-ticket rate to anyone,” added Shinde. Kiran Pisal, a passenger travelling to Mumbai said, “For the last two days I was planning to go to Mumbai for personal work, but as there were no buses operational, I returned cancelling the journey. I am travelling by private bus and ticket fares are fine as not too high.” There was police bandobast and also RTO officials deployed at all ST stands to monitor the smooth operations of the private tourist buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-buses-begin-operations-from-st-stands-in-pune-division-see-good-response-101636568962425.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP launches river yatras ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has launched river yatras (river journeys) in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls . With this initiative, the party hopes to connect with the riverine community comprising OBCs and 22 influential sub-castes like Nishads and Kashyaps. Named “Kamal Nauka Rallies”, these boat rides would largely see members of fishermen and boatmen communities travelling by the BJP boats, talking about the party’s initiatives for the community that is politically dominant along the banks of the Ganga and the Yamuna. Of the five river journeys, one each in Prayagraj and Kanpur across the Ganga ghats has already been taken out. Three more have been planned on Badaun’s Kachla river, across the Ganga in Varanasi and in Garh Mukteshwar in western UP. “These yatras are to connect with the community that earns its living from the rivers. Over the years, the BJP government has launched several initiatives for this community and naturally, the idea is to make the community aware of these steps,” said UP BJP general secretary and party lawmaker Ashwini Tyagi. “Depending on the ghats, we plan the number of boats. So, for instance Varanasi boat journeys would be bigger than the ones in Badaun’s Kachla, which has only one ghat,” he added. Before the river journeys, boats and river are worshipped and speeches made with party flags fluttering in the background. The BJP has inked a pre-poll pact with the Nishad party, whose chief Sanjay Nishad had only recently been made a member of the legislative assembly (MLC) in Uttar Pradesh. Nishad’s son Pravin Kumar Nishad is currently a Lok Sabha MP from Sant Kabir Nagar on the BJP ticket. He had won the 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll from Gorakhpur as a joint Samajwadi Party (SP)-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate. This time, the Nishad party is aiming to substantially improve its political standing. The community’s influence is spread across Purvanchal stretching from Jaunpur to Gorakhpur and from Varanasi to Ballia and beyond. To woo the community, the BJP government has begun work on installation of a 51-feet (15.54 metre) statue in which Lord Ram will be seen hugging Nishadraj (head of the riverine community), who, according to an ancient belief, had helped Lord Ram cross the river during his period in exile. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was the first to launch a river journey to connect with the riverine community, while the main opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) had got former party MP Phoolan Devi’s mother Mula Devi to attend SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s rally in Kalpi, Jalaun. The SP has also announced a statue in memory of Phoolan Devi. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jai Prakash Nishad, who is the convener of the fishermen cell or the machuara prakosth, said the community of fishermen and boatmen have mostly been exploited with no major political party actually giving them any space until the BJP launched a series of initiatives for the community. Currently, Nishad party leader Sanjay Nishad has been pushing that the riverine community be moved from OBC to the Scheduled Caste (SC) list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-launches-river-yatras-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101636568842645.html
10-11-2021||Other||No new Covid cases in 66 districts of Uttar Pradesh||Lucknow: No fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in 66 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday while only 14 positive cases were detected in nine districts during the last 24 hours. With this, the state has now only 92 active cases, according to an official statement of the state government. In the past 24 hours, six Covid patients were discharged after treatment while about 0.15 million samples were tested during this period in the state. In all, 1.68 million persons have been treated of Covid-19 in the state.So far, more than 135.2 million doses have been given to the people in the state. About 90.99 million people have taken the first dose which means 68% of the eligible population in UP have received the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-new-covid-cases-in-66-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-101636568664750.html
10-11-2021||Pune||MSRTC strike: Final breakdown of mismanaged transport behemoth||PUNE The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which runs state transport bus service, is in bad shape financially. With a fleet of 18,500 buses, MSRTC catered to 6.7 million commuters, daily, in the pre-pandemic era. A true transport behemoth.Currently, it is running annual losses of ₹6,400 crore. Reducing footfall, increased operating costs and rising fuel prices, preceded the Covid- induced lockdowns that have all dealt a massive blow to the ST’s finances.Despite its large fleet and as many as 246 depots – some of them located at premium sites worth crores of rupees – the ST service in Maharashtra has lost its way over the past few years.The allegation is mis-management and apathy shown by successive governments – first BJP and now the MVA alliance.The ongoing strike by its staff, demanding a merger of the service into the state government structure of departments, has come at a time when the transport body is struggling to pay monthly salaries. However, privatisation may also not be a good option, say experts and retired officials from the MSRTC.As the strike by staff continued into its 12th consecutive day on Wednesday, the transport body has now suspended 350 employees from 45 depots across the state and filed a contempt petition in the Bombay High Court against the protesting workers.Despite an HC order deeming the strike “illegal” and several attempts made by the state government and even chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who appealed to the protesting workers to go back to work, the strike continues.The state transport corporation, which runs the inter- as well as intra-district public transport services, was facing a cash crunch before the lockdown and had a debt burden of ₹3,500 crore. The shutting down of services during the two lockdowns, imposed last year and this year, has increased its debt burden to ₹9,500 crore.“There are several reasons for the losses due to mismanagement within the MSRTC, starting from negligence of better services for passengers, especially on the long routes. Also, depot development plan which was proposed 20 years back didn’t get implemented. On other hand, liabilities of the organisation kept on increasing. New means of income, like the newly started cargo services, should have begun long ago. As there were no frequent buses on long routes it gave the chance to private players to enter the market,” said Satish Mistry, a civic activist and transport expert.Due to the ongoing strike of workers at all 250 depots across the state are not operational. The organisation’s 96,000 employees see the transport body becoming a state government department as the only option to stay alive.“There are two angles to look at this strike called by the workers. First whether the merging of the organisation is possible or not; and then what other solutions can be offered to resolve the issue. By keeping the service shut during the peak festival period like Diwali workers are are causing losses to the organisation. Now as the state government has formed a three- member committee to review the situation and take corrective measures, for the benefit of passengers it is necessary that workers go back to work,” said Sharad Kenjale, a former senior Mumbai depot manager of the MSRTC . As the stalemate continued on Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stated that the state government is trying its best to provide relief to the employees.“For the last few days, the state government is taking all possible steps to resolve this issue and the High Court is also satisfied with the measures taken by the state government. So I appeal to all protesting workers of MSRTC not to hold people of the state hostage and get back to work,” Thackeray said in a message on Wednesday.State transport minister Anil Parab said, “Since the strike began, we were always open for dialogue with union members and even later, we were ready to resolve their issues. The merging of an organisation into the government is not so easy and cannot be done in one day. It is a long process. We are following orders issued by the High Court and so workers should also follow it. Now we have filed a contempt of court petition in the High Court against the protesting workers, while at the same time we have formed a three-member committee which will be chaired by the principal secretary. Within three months the committee will submit its report to HC. Our request to all the workers would be to please go back to work. Solutions will be found only after fruitful discussions.”During the pandemic, the MSRTC had launched special cargo services to give a financial boost to the organisation. Despite several measures, the situation has not augured well for the corporation.The monthly financial losses of the organisation is now over ₹500 crore and till now, in the last two years, the losses has gone above ₹9,900 crore, according to MSRTC officials. If the strike continues and workers do not return to work the situation will worsen.“MSRTC is the only transport body which goes to remote parts of the villages all across the state. Also, it is cheap and affordable for common people. There are various subsidies and discounts for senior citizens, ex-Army and other categories. For the last 10 days during Diwali people have had to travel by paying double or triple fares to private tourist buses. This strike should end now or else people, especially from the rural parts of the state will have to stop traveling,” said Mahesh Sarnaik, secretary, state MSRTC bus passengers’ forum..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-strike-final-breakdown-of-mismanaged-transport-behemoth-101636568662424.html
10-11-2021||Other||Chhath in Lucknow: Thousands throng Gomti ghats to offer prayers to setting sun||LUCKNOW: Thousands of devotees thronged the banks of river Gomti in the state capital to perform Chhath Puja rituals on Wednesday evening. They offered first ‘arghya’ to the setting sun while second ‘arghya’ will be offered to the rising sun on Thursday morning. People from Bhojpur Samaaj also organised a grand cultural programme at Lakshman Mela Park that was inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “We are thankful to the chief minister for taking out time from his busy schedule. We are also thankful to the UP government for supporting us and making Chhath Puja special for us,” said Prabhunath Rai, president Akhil Bhartiya Bhojpuri Samaaj —an organisation working for the revival of Chhath Puja tradition here in the state capital. Rai said that more than 8000 people took part in the festivities, however, elaborate arrangements were made in order to ensure that social distancing was followed and Chhath Puja was carried out in a traditional way. Kudiya Ghat, another most preferred Chhath Puja site, also remained packed with the devotees. The atmosphere at the ghat was devotional with Chhath songs playing in the background. Situation remained the same at Mankameshwar ghat and Jhoolelal Vatika where a good number of devotees performed the Chhath Puja. On the first day, the people, especially those hailing from eastern UP and Bihar, joined the festivities and were seen erecting temporary camps, a part of rituals, on the river banks. “It’s a good feel to observe Chhath Puja while staying away from my home. I am a resident of Gorakhpur and is observing Chhath for the past 10 years in Lucknow,” said Sarita Devi, a resident of Janakipuram while offering prayers. Soni Kumari, who hails from Hussainganj, said, “It’s not only females but males too play an important role during the four-day long Chhath Puja festivities. “It is generally believed that only women observe the rituals that include holy bath, fasting and abstaining from drinking water. But in reality, men too play an important role as they carry the entire puja samagris to the ghats and also offer rituals. At many places, they also observe fast,” said Kumari. Irrigation department played a pivotal role in facilitating the Chhath Puja as they regulated the water level in the river to ensure good flow of clean water.Meanwhile, the district administration made elaborate arrangements at the Lakshman Mela Ground and other ghats to facilitate the devotees. “Special arrangements have been made at the ghats for the devotees. We have set up Covid-19 help desk at the ghats and ensured that social distancing is followed,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. “We have illuminated and sanitised the ghats for the devotees. Besides, we have also deputed ambulances, water boats and divers to ensure safety to them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhath-in-lucknow-thousands-throng-gomti-ghats-to-offer-prayers-to-setting-sun-101636568187344.html
10-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Devotees wade into frothy waters of Yamuna river for Chhath rituals||Thousands of devotees turned up on the banks of Yamuna river at Kalindi Kunj bridge and at artificial ponds for the Chhath Puja rituals on Wednesday. Officials said since authorities banned the Chhath Puja celebrations on the banks of Yamuna in Delhi, hundreds of people poured over to the Noida side of the river bank for the rituals. “There were at least one lakh people at Kalindi Kunj bridge in Noida. At least half of the crowd was from Delhi as Chhath puja celebrations were banned there. As a result, there was an unprecedented crowd at the river bank. Adequate police personnel were deployed to prevent any untoward incident,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida. The third day of Chhath Puja saw devotees offering ‘arghya’ to the Sun god in the evening. On Thursday, the festival will culminate with devotees praying to the rising sun. Some devotees decided to stay put at the ghats or artificial ponds on Wednesday night to perform the rituals on early Thursday morning. Singh added that heavy police deployment was there on the banks of the river even at night. “Over 200 constabulary and 100 police personnel have been deployed at artificial ponds as well as the banks of river Yamuna. At Kalindi Kunj, eight boats with local divers and flood platoon were also deployed as a precautionary measure,” said Singh. Sumant Parimal, a resident of sector 119 who came to partake in the Chhath Puja celebrations at Kalindi Kunj said, “There was a huge crowd at banks as devotees performed the rituals in knee-deep water. However, the polluted froth on the river played spoilsport as it was sad to devotees taking a dip in filthy water”. Alok Vatsa, president of Pravasi Mahasangh that held Chhath celebrations in Sector 25, said the footfall at the artificial pond here was unprecedented. “We were expecting about 20,000 people at the venue but there were about four times that figure of people there. About 10,000 people are expected to stay over the night and arrangements have been made for them as well,” he said. However, in Greater Noida west, there was less crowd at the artificial pond created near Ek Murti Chowk. “There were about 300 families or 1,000 people at the pond for the Chhath Puja celebrations. The crowd was manageable and the puja went on smoothly,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Purvanchal Pravasi Ektamanch. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida said there were about 5,000 to 6,000 people at Kasna canal for the Chhath rituals. “The puja was carried out smoothly. There was heavy police deployment at all the ghats earmarked for Chhath Puja celebrations,” said Pandey. When asked about violations of Covid protocol due to heavy crowd at the ghats in Gautam Budh Nagar, district magistrate Suhas LY said, “There is a sense of joy among devotees as they have got the opportunity to celebrate the festival with minimal restrictions this year compared to the last one. Self regulation is very important in following Covid protocols and we anticipated such a situation. Hence, a local public holiday was declared in the district for Wednesday”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/unprecedented-crowd-turns-up-for-chhath-puja-at-noida-side-of-river-yamuna-101636567882429.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Funds for fire safety systems at civic hospitals in Pune diverted for other purposes||PUNE A day after Hindustan Times reported that 20 civic hospitals lack basic firefighting systems and do not have clearance for the same, documents pertaining to correspondence between the PMC’s fire department and the building department show that money meant for the firefighting systems at PMC-run hospitals was diverted for other purposes. As per the documents, ₹1.5 crore was allocated to upgrade the firefighting system at the civic-run hospitals, though the PMC approved the use of funds for other purposes based on the requests made by councillors. These funds were used for installation of CCTV cameras and laying of underground cables. The fire audit conducted by PMC’s fire department showed that these 20 hospitals lack basic firefighting facilities like permanent overhead water tanks, alarm systems, smoke detectors, hose boxes, hose pipes, fire extinguishers, fire service inlets, and hydraulic systems, which compromises the firefighting capacity in case of any inadvertent fire. The HT report dated November 10, states that despite the state government’s instructions to all civic bodies to ensure that the civic-run hospitals are audited for fire safety and necessary changes are put in place, after the Bhandara fire tragedy of January 2021, the PMC is yet to take steps in that direction. The documents procured by Nationalist Congress Party corporator Datta Dhankawade revealed that despite the chief fire officer issuing repeated letters to the building department to ensure that the civic-run hospitals comply as per the Maharashtra Fire Safety Act 2006, the building department failed to take any action. Dhankawade said, “The chief fire officer wrote three letters to the PMC’s building department to ensure that the irregularities are corrected, however, despite that, the required changes were not put in place.” In addition, Dhankawade also said that the documents showed that the ₹1.5 crore allocated for the safety work in PMC buildings, including these hospitals, were diverted for other works. Dhankawade said, “Despite the recent incident in Bhandara, Mumbai, and other places in the state, where fire in hospitals led to loss of multiple lives, the PMC found it appropriate to divert reserved funds to improve street lights, place CCTV cameras and lay ground cables.” Fire department chief Prashant Ranpise wrote a letter dated August 31, 2021, to the estate department that reads: “We did the fire audit of hospitals and pointed out various errors. Despite letters to both estate and health department, the fire systems have not been installed. We have even requesteded a common tender to install it on priority.” Dhankawade said, “It is serious that despite fire department giving reminders, the PMC has not given it a priority. The ruling party diverted funds earmarked for these works.” On Wednesday the PMC’s Fire department trained staff at the Pune district Civil Hospital in Aundh in firefighting techniques. Ranpise said, “We had sent our men to provide demonstration and training to the officers and staff of Aundh District Hospital by giving guidance on the use of fire extinguishers and prevention. Fire officers Shivaji Memane, Kamlesh Sangale and other personnel were present. Fire safety is basic especially in a hospital where patients who are physically vulnerable are housed and in a situation like a fire accident would not be able to help themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/funds-for-fire-safety-systems-at-civic-hospitals-in-pune-diverted-for-other-purposes-101636567881831.html
10-11-2021||Noida||As Covid situation eases in Ghaziabad, thousands throng Hindon for Chhath Puja||There was a massive turnout this year for the annual Chhath Puja as the number of Covid-19 cases in the district has decreased over the past couple of months. According to official estimates, the banks of the Hindon river near GT Road witnessed a mammoth gathering of about 80,000 devotees, whereas last year there were just about 15,000 devotees at the banks.The Hindon riverbank is one of the devotees’ favourite places to offer prayers. This year, expecting a major turnout, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation had extended the puja venues from GT Road till the rail overbridge at Vasundhara (a stretch of over one kilometre). Devotees also performed puja on the other side of the river.“Last year, the celebrations were a low-key affair due to the pandemic. Many of them had moved to their hometowns during the first wave. Since the situation has improved considerably, devotees turned out in large numbers and celebrated Chhath Puja in a grand manner. A helicopter showering flower petals on the river banks was also an added attraction,” said Kaushalya Devi, a devotee.According to district health department data, Ghaziabad recorded 55,675 cases until November 10. At present, there are only two active Covid-19 cases in the district.“Although there were arrangements made for devotees, the filthy river water and the presence of too many water hyacinths was a dampener. Devotees have been striving to get fresh water every year but the situation has not changed. Devotees stand in water to pray and also take a dip. The filthy water causes skin irritation,” said Sushma Mishra, another devotee.Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that the water was unclean as the river gets its water from the Upper Ganga Canal which was closed for annual maintenance only reopened two days ago-- initially, the stagnant, dirty water flowed into the river.“Even the water hyacinth flowed downstream into the river after the water was released. Our teams took every possible measure to provide facilities and clean surroundings,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.He added that the chopper which showered petals on devotees was sent by General VK Singh (retd), an MP from Ghaziabad.The corporation had made arrangements at 61 locations in the city for the devotees, including creating artificial ponds for people who could not reach the riverbanks.“The major takeaway from the festival this time was the turnout which also lifted the people’s mood after the long pandemic. The massive turnout was also possible as the government declared a holiday. The festival will end early Thursday morning when devotees will again go to the riverbank to offer prayers,” said Rakesh Tiwari, national general secretary of Purabiya Jan Kalyan Parishad, a consortium of residents from the Purvanchal region.The Uttar Pradesh government, led by Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, declared public holidays on account of Chhath Puja on November 10, and Kartik Purnima on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-covid-situation-eases-in-ghaziabad-thousands-throng-hindon-for-chhath-puja-101636567522998.html
10-11-2021||Pune||At 11.8 degree Celsius, Shivajinagar records Pune’s lowest temperature this season||PUNE: According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), winter has set in early this year with night temperature plummeting to 11.8 degree Celsius at Shivajinagar on Wednesday; the lowest temperature recorded so far. With the temperature dropping, air quality in the city, too, reportedly deteriorated on Wednesday. Shivajinagar, which recorded the lowest minimum temperature in the city, also reported ‘poor’ air quality on Wednesday.Along with Shivajinagar, Pashan recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6 degree Celsius; and Lohegaon 15 degree Celsius Wednesday night. Chinchwad recorded a minimum temperature of 18.1 degree Celsius; Lavale 17.9 degree Celsius; and Magarpatta 19.1 degree Celsius on Wednesday.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that Pune may continue to see a dip in temperature during the night. “The night temperature is likely to see a dip till November 14. The weather in the city will remain dry. The day temperature is likely to be around 31 to 32 degree Celsius,” Kashyapi said. The city is likely to witness rainfall after November 14, officials of the weather department said. The weather department noted that as the northern region of India experiences western disturbance and the temperature in the north dips, cooler winds travel southward, reducing temperatures in the peninsula.As temperatures drop, the air quality, too, deteriorates further. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality for Pune will continue to remain ‘moderate’ over the next few days.B S Murthy, director, SAFAR, and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), said that as minimum temperatures fall, the air quality, too, deteriorates. “The overall air quality for Wednesday was 128 for PM2.5 particles or particles in the air with a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometre. Shivajinagar on Wednesday reported ‘poor’ air quality at 239 microgram per cubic metre. The air quality may deteriorate further to 159 microgram per cubic metre in the next few days. As temperature drops during winter, pollution rises,” said Murthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-11-8-degree-celsius-shivajinagar-records-pune-s-lowest-temperature-this-season-101636567521640.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||‘More than Muslims, Hindus are flag-bearers of Urdu’||Urdu is the language of love not of a community, said Farhan Wasti, who established Jashn-e-Urdu (which organises the biggest Mushaira of the world in Dubai and Delhi).Talking on the phone from Dubai on World Urdu Day (Tuesday), he said, “Urdu is the language of the country (India). I love Hindi and Urdu both as Hindi is my mother tongue. I established Jashn-e-Urdu with the help of friends like Kumar Vishwas and Alok Srivastava who are Hindus. Today, the Mushaira and Kavi Sammelan of Dubai and Delhi are considered as the most prestigious in the world. Even Pakistani poets crave to participate in the event.”Meanwhile, here in Lucknow, scores of youth, scholars, poets and writers, cutting across religious lines, participated in ‘Jashn Urdu’, a day of conferences, seminars, a Mushaira, and an Urdu Book Fair, on World Urdu Day, at the Islamic Centre of India, Aishbagh.Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, chairman, Islamic Centre of India, said, “You will not believe that more than 80% of the crowd at the Islamic Centre for Jashn-e-Urdu was Hindu. Many of them came directly from Hanuman temple with Tikas on their forehead to purchase an Urdu book. More than 2,000 Urdu books were displayed in 10 stalls and a number of them were sold. I am happy to see the success of the festival. Next year it will be even bigger.“In the very first session of the conference organised as part of ‘Jashn Urdu’, we discussed the contributions of Raghupati Sahay, Firaq Gorakhpuri, Jamuna Das Akhtar, Ram Lal, Dr Jagannath Azad, Krishna Chander, in the development of Urdu. The participation of the common Lucknowite in such festivals exhibits the cosmopolitan culture of Lucknow.”Echoing that sentiment, professor Parvez Malikzada, noted Urdu scholar and editor of ‘Imqaan’ Urdu magazine, felt that today, more than Muslims, Hindus were learning this language of peace and love. In other words, they are the flag-bearers of Urdu. “It’s wrong to label Urdu as the language of Muslims only. Ghulam Hamadani Musafi used the term Urdu for the first time in 1780. The Mughal rulers called this language Hindi or Hindavi. In written form, it used the Persian script. That’s why people think of it as the language of Muslims,” Malikzada said.He said, “Urdu poetry was made rich by the contribution of poets like Brij Narain ‘Chakbast’ who composed his own Urdu narration of Ram’s story. He was the one who decided to interpret Hinduism through the idiom of Urdu high literature. He was born in Lucknow.“Lucknow has inherited not just the poetry of Majaz and Mir Taqi Mir, but also of Chakbast, Krishna Behari Noor, and Sanjay Mishra ‘Shauq’. That’s why Lucknow is one of the most secular cities in the country, both politically and culturally. The interest of most youths in Urdu is a logical continuation of this tradition.”Malikzada said, “The art of marsias, rubais started by Mir Anees is protected and taken to a new high by a Hindu like Sanjay Mishra ‘Shauq’. One rubs one’s eyes in disbelief when an Urdu poet with a name like Mishra (a Brahmin) recites poems in praise of Hasan and Hussain, like Malik Muhammed Jaisi writing about Lord Krishna. This can only be found in Lucknow.”He added that there was some magical connection between Urdu and Lucknow. It is perhaps the only city where Urdu was not confined to a community. Lucknow has produced master Urdu ghazal writers like Krishna Behari Noor, who was popular for his unique style of poetry recitation. Everyone knows Ram Prakash ‘Bekhud’, Khushbir Singh ‘Shad’ and Manish Shukla, not only in India but in other parts of the world.”Sanjay Mishra Shauq said, “Urdu is the language of the masses, not of a community. That’s why today hundreds of youths are learning Urdu. Just go to Urdu Akademi and you will find 95% Hindus in the classes. This shows language has no religion.”Noted Urdu critic Dr Sharib Rudaulvi said, “No one can forget the contribution of Professor Jagannath Azad, Anand Mohan Zutshi, Gulzar Dehlavi, Daya Shankar Naseem, Krishna Chander, Anand Narayan Mulla, Ratan Singh, Bharat Bhushan Pant, Ram Prakash Bekhud and Malik Ram, who was an authority on the works of Ghalib.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-than-muslims-hindus-are-flag-bearers-of-urdu-101636567282111.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: BJP leaders, locals fume over poor state of city centre site||Irked over unhygienic conditions and frequent accidents due to lack of a boundary wall at the abandoned Ludhiana city centre site at SBS Nagar, BJP leaders and locals staged a protest against the municipal corporation and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Wednesday. Writing to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, Punjab State Human Rights Commission among others, BJP leader Vineet Pal Singh Monga also slammed Cabinet minister and Ludhiana (West) MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu for failing to the resolve the problem.Monga said that the authorities had failed to establish a boundary wall around the site, despite repeated complaints. “Unhygienic conditions prevail in the area as garbage is dumped on the site by some residents and construction contractors,” he said, adding, “The site has become a safe haven for anti-social elements and criminals. The decomposed body of a man had also been found hanging on the site last year. Accidents have also taken place as there is no boundary wall and the street lights remain defunct. Recently, a calf had fallen into the dug-up portion and residents had rescued it with great difficulty. Due to dumping of waste, foul smell pervades the surrounding residential areas.” Breeding ground for mosquitoesAt a time when residents are concerned over the rising number of dengue cases in the city, protesters say the site has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. A few road cave-in incidents have also been reported on the adjoining road due to soil erosion in the absence of a boundary walls.LIT superintending engineer Buta Ram said, “The LIT cannot establish a permanent boundary wall on the site as it is in the possession of the construction company. The case regarding the city centre is sub-judice. We had put up a temporary boundary by installing iron sheets and wires around the site for the safety of residents. If the iron sheets have broken, I will direct the ground staff to take corrective steps.”Human rights commission seeks report After a resident of the area, RTI activist Arind Sharma moved the Punjab State Human Rights Commission over absence of a boundary wall around the site, the commission has sought a report regarding the same from MC commissioner on next hearing of the case in January. The MC officials, however, said that the site falls under the jurisdiction of the LIT and the civic body has nothing to do with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-leaders-locals-fume-over-poor-state-of-city-centre-site-101636567103556.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||99% of Mumbai vaccinated at least once: BMC||Ninety-nine percent of the city’s eligible population is vaccinated at least once, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data released on Wednesday. BMC said it had administered 15.067 million vaccine doses (both doses combined) until 6.30pm on Wednesday, November 10. This includes vaccine doses administered at all private, municipal, state and central government-operated vaccination centres since January 16 this year, when the vaccination drive began across the country. The city eligible population is 9,236,500. A BMC statement said, “So far, a total of 9,204,950 beneficiaries have been given their first dose, of which 5,862,933 beneficiaries have received both their doses.” According to the BMC’s vaccination dashboard, 99% of the city’s target population is vaccinated with the first dose and 63% is fully vaccinated.Vaccination first began on January 16 for healthcare workers; on February 5 for frontline workers; on March 1 for citizens above 60 years of age; on April 1 for citizens in 45-59 years age group; and on May 1 for all adult citizens. Vaccination for lactating mothers began on May 26, and for pregnant women from July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/99-of-mumbai-vaccinated-at-least-once-bmc-101636567101695.html
10-11-2021||Pune||‘Property tax exemption scheme for ex-servicemen not implemented in PMC’||PUNE Though the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved a resolution to waive off property tax for ex-servicemen and widows, the civic body has not implemented the scheme say members of Soldiers Independent Rehabilitation Foundation Yogesh Chithade and Sumedha Chithade.Chithade said, “General body of the PMC passed the resolution on June 21 this year, but yet ex-servicemen are not getting its benefit. Despite writing letters to the mayor, standing committee chairman and municipal commissioner, the administration is delaying the implementation.”They said, “Around 20,000 ex-servicemen will benefit from the scheme. Except PMC rest all municipal corporations have executed the scheme after government resolution. But PMC is delaying it,” he said.Ex-servicemen Association, Salunke Vihar society and Army welfare Co-operative society wrote the letters to PMC, but they have not received any reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/property-tax-exemption-scheme-for-ex-servicemen-not-implemented-in-pmc-101636567041831.html
10-11-2021||Other||JDA notice to ex-deputy CM to demolish illegal house near army ammo dump||Jammu The Jammu Development Authority (JDA) has served a notice to former deputy chief minister and former speaker J&K, Nirmal Singh, for illegally constructing his house near the army’s ammunition depot in Nagrota area of Jammu district. In the notice, issued on November 8, the JDA has asked Nirmal to dismantle his bungalow, built on 2,000sq m plot, within five days on his own.“Failure to abide by the notice within five days from the date of its issuance will lead to the enforcement wing of the JDA to dismantle the house, with costs to be recovered from him as arrears of the land revenue,” a JDA official added. The army has already moved the high court against Nirmal for constructing the palatial bungalow, just 580 yards from its ammunition depot.Despite the case being subjudice, Nirmal and his family moved into their bungalow in July last year. Earlier, despite written requests from top officers of Nagrota-based 16 Corps, Nirmal continued with the construction.Nirmal’s wife Mamta Singh had posted a picture of hers along with her grandson at the newly-constructed house on July 25 on Facebook to inform the people about their ‘Grah Pravesh’.“I am in Ludhiana at a wedding function, but my servant has informed me about the JDA notice. Though the matter is sub-judice, my lawyer will take appropriate action and legal remedy available to me,” Nirmal told HT, adding, “I am being singled out. There is politics behind it but I believe in law and will take legal recourse.”He claimed, “There are many big names (involved in land encroachment) but I am being politically victimised. The issue is being politicised but the rule of law is equal for everyone. The notice has been served to me after four years, he said and added that he was a responsible citizen and has a right to legal remedy.”The JDA notice reads “Order of demolition in terms of section 7(3) of Control of Building Operation Act 1988’.This notice was issued pursuant upon a show cause notice issued to him under section 7(1) of the Control of Building Operations Act (COBA). The JDA also noted that Nirmal “has not attained valid permission from the competent authority as prescribed under law”.The plot is part of 12 acre purchased by some senior BJP leaders, through a company Himgiri Infrastructure Development Limited, of which Mamta Singh was a shareholder. CONSTRUCTION BEGAN IN 2017A month after construction of the house started in October 2017, the army informed and requested the then deputy commissioner, Jammu, through a letter on November 2, 2017, to order the police authority and the civil administration to stop it, since the activity was in violation of the Works of Defence Act, 1903. Nirmal Singh was then the deputy CM.The Army had also lodged a written complaint before SHO Nagrota on November 27, 2017, and also approached SSP Jammu on December 12 for the registration of an FIR. With no action resulting, however, Corps Commander 16 Corps Lt General Saranjeet Singh wrote to Nirmal, who was then the deputy CM, on March 19, 2018. Finally, the army moved the high court in May 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jda-notice-to-ex-deputy-cm-to-demolish-illegal-house-near-army-ammo-dump-101636566683420.html
10-11-2021||Pune||15 bottles of liquor stolen from Army officer’s house in Pune||PUNE The house of an Army officer in Khadki cantonment was broken into and bottles of liquor were stolen from it. The officer is a Lieutenant Colonel by rank.The theft happened between the three-four days in the first week of November this year when the officer was not at home.When he got back, around 15 bottles of high-end alcohol was missing from his house. The police are on the lookout for the suspects in the case.A case was registered under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/15-bottles-of-liquor-stolen-from-army-officer-s-house-in-pune-101636566681677.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Four-day Panjab University Youth Festival commences||The four-day Panjab University Zonal Youth and Heritage festival commenced at Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Manji Sahib, Kottan, Ludhiana, on Wednesday.Over 1,400 participants from 16 PU affiliated colleges of Ludhiana Zone-A will compete in over 67 events at the festival, which is being organised after two years due to Covid restrictions. The theme of the festival is “love and respect nature”.The participating colleges include Arya College, Ludhiana; AS College, Khanna; BSSG Govt College, Sidhsar; Gobindgarh Public College, Allour; Govt College, Karamsar; Govt College, Ludhiana (east); Govt College (evening), Ludhiana; Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana; Guru Nanak National College,Doraha; Kamla Lohtia SD College, Ludhiana; Malwa College, Bondli, Samrala; Mata Ganga Khalsa College, Kottan; PURC Ludhiana; SCD Govt College, Ludhiana; Shree Attam Vallabh Jain College, Hussainpura, Ludhiana and Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, Jhande, Ludhiana. Jagir Kaur, president of Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), was the chief guest on Wednesday and inaugurated the festival with a lamp lighting ceremony along with Nirmal Jaura, director of youth welfare, Panjab University, Chandigarh and principals of various colleges. While addressing the students and the participants, Kaur said that the main aim of education is to study and polish one’s skills and the youth should inculcate moral values so that they can become good citizens of the society.Ex-president of SGPC, Kirpal Singh Badungar, was the chief guest of the evening session. Principal Kuldip Kaur Dhaliwal said that such competitions develop talent and creativity skills among the students. The festival witnessed amazing performances in competitions including group shabad, bhajan, group singing (Indian), folk song, classical music vocal, gazal, geet and poem recitation.In the second half of the day, poem, story and essay writing events were organised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-four-day-panjab-university-youth-festival-commences-101636566565823.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi reviews Zika virus situation in Kanpur||Kanpur : Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday reviewed the rising cases of Zika virus in this city and instructed the officials for a dedicated hospital for better treatment of patients. He also directed screening of all the pregnant women in the five affected municipal wards. The review meeting was held in Kanpur Development Authority after inspection of the Zika virus control room. Several ministers and public representatives attended the meeting. As MLAs Upendra Paswan and Abhijit Singh Sanga complained about no fogging in their constituencies, the CM told the officials that fogging was to be carried out not only in Nagar Palika but also panchayat areas. Asking the officials to create awareness among the people about precautions against the Zika virus, he said the Nagar Nigam should nominate one nodal officer for sanitisation in n each of the 110 civic wards. He said the chief medical officer should ensure samples were collected by going from house to house. He said a team of specialists was camping in Kanpur and the surveillance teams were providing medicine kits. Soon, the remaining 88 cases would be negative, he said. Of the 106 cases reported in the city, 17 have become negative. Expressing satisfaction over the ongoing efforts to control Zika virus spread, he said the district administration should regularly review the performance and work of Nagar Nigam and health department. If needed, help of the NGOs may be sought, he said. The chief minister also went to Shyam Nagar to meet the family members of Zika virus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-yogi-reviews-zika-virus-situation-in-kanpur-101636566503032.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||3x3 Punjab Basketball Championship: 65 matches played on Day 2||A total of 65 matches were played in the Under-18 group on the second day of the Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship for men and women at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Wednesday.The tournament will conclude on November 14 and the winners will get a cash prize of Rs1 lakh, besides getting a chance to get selected into the state team.The boys’ teams played 56 matches and girls played nine matches on Day 2.In Pool A, Hoosters beat King Hoopers 21-19; Multicagers thrashed Buddha Dal Public School-1 13-12; Hoopersters outwitted Multi Cagers 15-14; King Hoopers lost to The Kashi 16-18; Multi Cagers defeated the Kashi 15-4; Hoosters defeated Buddha Dal Public School-1 18-10; The Kashi lost to Buddha Dal Public School-1 9-12; Multi Cagers outplayed King Hoopers 14-8; Buddha Dal Public School-1 defeated King Hoopers 14-11 and The Kashi lost to Hoopersters 12-16.In Pool C, Eagles Club defeated RKS 21-11; Royal Warriors defeated Warriors 21-8; Warriors lost to Eagles Club 13-16; RKS got thrashed by BIS Maxima 7-10; Warriors defeated BIS Maxima 20-19; Eagles Club lost to Royal Warriors 16-18; Royal Warriors beat BIS Maxima 18-9; Warriors defeated RKS 16-10; Royal Warriors outplayed RKS 21-16 and BIS Maxima were defeated by Eagles Club 21-19.In girl’s category, Punjab Steelers beat Guru Nanak Ballers 15-7; Khalsa Lakers defeated Unirise School 11-1; Khalsa Warriors thrashed BIS Maxima 12-0; Punjab Steelers beat Doraha Public School (DPS) 9-2; Guru Nanak Hoopers defeated Unirise School 13-1; Ludhiana Challengers beat BIS Maxima 12-11; Guru Nanak Ballers outwitted DPS 7-3; Khalsa Lakers lost to Guru Nanak Hoopers 8-17 and Khalsa Warriors defeated Ludhiana Challengers 10-3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3x3-punjab-basketball-championship-65-matches-played-on-day-2-101636566384347.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Pratapgarh: Police tracing rape victim 18 years after incident||After receiving instructions from court, the Pratapgarh police are searching for a woman who was allegedly raped 18 years back. The woman went missing after lodging the FIR and remained untraceable. According to reports, a woman of Kunda area made a complaint to police on May 13 ,2002 in which she alleged that she was abducted and raped by Hariom Shankar Srivastava, Nanhe Singh and Subhash Kesarwani. The accused also assaulted her and issued life threat. On her complaint, Kunda police registered an FIR against the accused on August 20, 2002. The then investigating officer submitted final report in the FIR, claiming that all accused were found innocent. However, the complainant demanded reinvestigation of the case following which police filed charge sheet against the accused at the court. Since then the case remained pending as the complainant failed to appear before the court on hearings. Now, the court has asked police to produce the woman before the court on the next hearing on November 10. Police have now launched a manhunt for her but failed to trace her yet. SHO Kunda Rakesh Bharti said all efforts were being made to trace the woman. Her kin claimed they did not know of her whereabouts, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pratapgarh-police-tracing-rape-victim-18-years-after-incident-101636566267846.html
10-11-2021||Other||Man killed by tiger in Dudhwa buffer zone||Asha Ram, 52, a resident of Datpur village, under the Mailani police limits, was killed by a tiger near Bharigawan beat of Mailani range forests, under the Dudhwa buffer zone. His partially eaten body was recovered from an area near Katra ghat, close to the reserve forest, on Wednesday. The deceased had been reported missing since Monday afternoon when he had gone to the fields on his bicycle to collect fodder for his domestic animals. Mailani range forest officials and Sansarpur police outpost in-charge Pravin Kumar rushed the spot. Dr Anil Kumar Patel, deputy director of Dudhwa buffer zone, confirmed that Asha Ram was killed by a tiger. Pug marks detected on the spot and nature of attack indicates a tiger attack, said Patel. He added that the area was known for the movement of big cats, and appropriate action would be taken in this case. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination. Asha Ram had gone to the fields on Monday afternoon on his bicycle to collect fodder for his domestic animals. However, when he did not return till late in the evening, his family members started looking for him in the neighbouring areas but to no avail. On Tuesday, his bicycle with a bundle of grass was recovered around 4 km south of his village. The family members searched for him in that area which is close to the Mailani range forest and where the movement of big cats is a routine affair. On Wednesday, Asha Ram’s partially eaten body, with deep injuries on the head, face and abdominal area, was recovered from a field. -Deo Kant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-killed-by-tiger-in-dudhwa-buffer-zone-101636566147222.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Man kills boyfriend for choosing to leave after getting calls from wife||A 28-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing another man, with whom he was suspected to be in a relationship, in Sector 59 on Saturday. The police said that the suspect told them that they were in a relationship for the past three months and that he allegedly killed him in rage for not spending enough time with him. The incident took place on Saturday night at a gooseberry farm in Sector 59, where they allegedly met often after work, the police said. On Sunday morning, the police received a call about a body in the farm, following which a team from the Sector 65 started an investigation. Forensic teams also collected fingerprints and samples from the crime spot. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that it was a blind case and the police teams traced the suspect through technical surveillance. Responding to an alert from the Delhi Police about a missing driver, the Gurugram police identified the victim as a Delhi resident, who lived in a rented accommodation with his wife. Sangwan said that his mobile phone was set on surveillance and the police it was switched on by the suspect, revealing his location. “The Sector 10 crime unit reached his village and questioned him, following which be broke down and narrated the sequence of events,” he said. The suspect was identified as Pradeep Kumar, of Ullawas village in Sector 65, who also worked as a driver. The victim came in contact with him while he was looking for a job, the police said. Sangwan said that on the day of the incident, Kumar got angry as the victim was in a hurry to leave because of repeated calls from his wife. “The deceased shunned his plan following which Kumar got agitated and started abusing him, picked up a wooden stick and attacked him indiscriminately on his head. Finding him unconscious, he left him bleeding and fled the spot on his motorcycle,” he said. Sangwan said that Kumar took the victim’s wallet and mobile phone so that police could not identify him. “He was taken to the crime spot on Wednesday and we recreated the sequence of events,” he said. In her statement to police, the victim’s wife said that she was not aware of her husband having a friend in Gurugram nor that he was meeting someone on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-kills-boyfriend-for-choosing-to-leave-after-getting-calls-from-wife-101636566145796.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Three held for murdering Badshahpur resident over refusal to drink whiskey||The police on Wednesday arrested three men for allegedly killing a 28-year-old Badshahpur resident last month in an altercation that broke out when they met for consuming liquor. The victim, refusing their offers of whiskey, asked for beer due to which an altercation broke out and the trio smothered him to death, stuffed his body in a sack and threw it in the Aravallis, the police said.The incident was reported to the police on October 16 by a Maruti Kunj resident who had gone to the Aravallis and found a human leg stuffed in the sack, when he stopped to relieve himself. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the body was in a decomposed state and had been lying in Aravallis for almost a week. “Investigation was handed over to the crime investigation unit that identified the deceased as Hitesh Yadav alias Bacha of Kherki Daula. He was missing since October 9 night, and the family had lodged a missing person’s report,” he said. The suspects were identified as Mahipal alias Gujjar, Vikram alias Landy and Dinesh alias Desha of Kherki Daula. Sangwan said the suspects were arrested after several rounds of questioning by the crime teams. “They have confessed to the crime and revealed that on October 9 night, Yadav had come to their house to consume alcohol. The three suspects, brothers, and Yadav got into a tiff when Yadav asked for chilled beer. They asked him to have whisky but he refused, which led to the altercation. One of the brothers picked up a stick and started assaulting him,” he said. The police said the trio brutally assaulted him and then smothered him to death. Sangwan said that upon realising that he was dead, they stuffed his body in a sack and threw it in a forest area. They also tried to burn his face so that police could not identify him. The police said that the suspects were repeat offenders with criminal backgrounds and were jailed several times for murder attempts, assaults and loots. They were also jailed for a murder and gang rape case recently, and were currently out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-held-for-murdering-badshahpur-resident-over-refusal-to-drink-whiskey-101636566144576.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: 71,000 yet to take second dose, officials appeal for timely immunisations||The health department has identified 71,000 people in the district whose second dose of Covid-19 vaccination is pending, officials said on Wednesday, as the pace slowed down during the festive season.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer for Gurugram, said, “Gurugram district has been able to control the Covid-19 outbreak to a large extent due to timely vaccinations. But now, we are noticing that a large number of people in the district are not taking their second dose within the stipulated time frame. According to the Co-WIN portal, as of November 10, in the district, around 71,000 people are due for their second dose. The Covid-19 vaccine is completely effective in increasing our immunity, but for this, it is necessary that we must get its second dose during the prescribed period.”Officials said they have collated the data of the past 90 days to identify all pending vaccinations, including people who have missed their due dates for the second dose. So far, over 77% of the total eligible population in the district has been administered both doses of the vaccines.“I appeal to all the citizens of the district to take their second dose done within the prescribed time limit as this pandemic can be won only with awareness and joint efforts by all of us,” Yadav said.To increase the pace of vaccination, with a special focus on the second dose, the district health department has also started door-to-door vaccination drives along with a dedicated drive for pregnant women, which is conducted on the ninth day of every month.On Wednesday, 17,072 people were given the Covid-19 vaccine in the district, said officials, with 3,262 people being administered the first dose and 13,810 being given the second dose of the vaccines. With this, over 3.64 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in Gurugram.On Thursday, the first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 45 session sites and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at six session sites. The second dose of Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic, while door-to-door vaccinations will be carried out at 173 localities.Doctors announce protestDoctors across the state are scheduled to hold a two-hour protest on Friday to demand suspension of the direct recruitment of senior medical officers, because it affects the promotion prospects of almost 90% of the doctors under the Haryana Civil Medical Services. Doctors at government hospitals will shut the out-patient departments from 9 to 11am.Yadav, however, said that he did not receive any memorandum from the doctors’ association of Gurugram till Wednesday evening of their participation in the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-71-000-yet-to-take-second-dose-officials-appeal-for-timely-immunisations-101636566143227.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Chief minister Khattar announces restricted holiday on Chhath Puja from next year||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced a restricted holiday in Haryana for Chhath Puja from next year.Khattar made the announcement while addressing a gathering after offering prayers at a Chhath Puja programme organised in Sector 10A in the city. The CM also announced the construction of a permanent ghat in the district for offering Chhath prayers.While interacting with the Purvanchal community at the event, Khattar said that if they face any issue, they should contact the local MLA or party officials, who shall get their problems resolved at the earliest.This is the first time that a chief minister, senior ministers and political leaders have participated in Chhath Puja events organised in the city. Political watchers said that the population of Purvanchalis, who have migrated from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, is substantial in the city and that Chhath is the right time to reach out to them, especially with municipal and panchayat elections coming up in the district next year.Besides Khattar, state agriculture minister JP Dalal and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda also participated in Chhath functions organised by the Purvanchal community at different places in the city.In his address, Khattar said that the Purvanchali community should choose a place having a source of water so that a permanent ghat for Chhath Puja can be constructed there. He said that he recently inaugurated a ghat on the banks of a canal in Karnal, spread across an area of 2,700 square feet.In his address, the CM said that in 2014, when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed the government in the state for the first time, they had given the slogan ‘Haryana Ek Haryanavi Ek’. “I don’t see any difference between you and Haryanvis. The state government makes domiciles of people who are living in Haryana from any part of the country, and are working or running their business, and the people who have lived here for five years or more are also made domiciles,” he said.Khattar said that this festival highlights the “unity in diversity of the country.”Sujit Camry, the state convener of Purvanchal Cell, informed that ghats were built at 50 places for Chhath Puja in Gurugram and Chhath Puja was organised by constructing such ghats in 53 assembly constituencies across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/chief-minister-khattar-announces-restricted-holiday-on-chhath-puja-from-next-year-101636566141720.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Trio wanted for firing at rivals over waste collection work arrested||Three wanted men were arrested from Mangar village on Tuesday night in connection with a firing incident that took place on September 25, 2020. An altercation took place between two groups over contractual work of waste collection and segregation at the Bandhwari waste treatment plant on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road, the police said. A reward of ₹5,000 was announced for information on two of the suspects, who were also wanted in connection with a case of murder and gang rape, and had been absconding for the past year.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the victims were severely injured in the incident and were hospitalised for over a week. A case of attempt to murder was registered against the suspects and four of their associates were arrested. Sangwan said at least seven people were involved in the scuffle last year, in which lathis were used and several gunshots were fired by both sides. “Prima facie, there was a dispute between the two parties over garbage collection work. Three people from both parties had suffered gunshot injuries and three of them had suffered minor injuries,” he said. A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Arms Act at DLF Phase-1 police station. The suspects were identified as Jitender alias Jeetu, Avtar alias Bhanu and Ramesh Kumar of village Mangar in Faridabad. The police also recovered a Scorpio SUV from their possession. The police said that both the groups belonged to Mangar village in Faridabad, and were involved in segregating waste at the Bandwari plant. However, when one group got the tender for the same, the other group allegedly got agitated and planned to attack the others. Sangwan said that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) gave contracts to third parties for treatment of legacy waste and these companies floated tenders for the procurement of products and services. “Both the vendors came to blows after one could not get tender,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/trio-wanted-for-firing-at-rivals-over-waste-collection-work-arrested-101636566084309.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Developers must make good on promise of assured returns, timely delivery of flats: HRERA||Hearing petitions filed by homebuyers against 26 developers, the Gurugram bench of the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA) on Wednesday held that the assured returns promised by developers, part of the builder-buyer agreements, in terms of paying returns and handing over booked properties, must be made good. In its judgment, the bench headed by Dr KK Khandelwal observed that in disputes pertaining to assured return schemes, money was taken by the promoters/developers/builders as deposit in advance against allotment of immovable property and the possession was to be offered to the allottee within a certain period, as mutually agreed between them, as per the builder-buyer agreement. “By taking sale consideration by way of advance, the builder promised certain amount by way of assured returns for a certain period, therefore on the failure on part of the builder to fulfil his commitment, the allottee has a right to approach the authority for redressal of his grievance by way of filing a complaint,’ a copy of the judgement, accessed by HT, stated. Officials of HRERA said that the issues pertained to stuck housing projects, as homebuyers are neither getting assured returns on their investments nor the delivery of properties, and that over 100 complaints in this regard have been filed. Geeta Rathi Singh, legal officer, HRERA, said that in most cases, the developers took 100% of the property cost at the time of booking, assuring that a minimum amount is paid to them towards their rental costs and also timely delivery of properties. “These schemes appear very lucrative to buyers as they hope to make good income but it has come to the notice of HRERA that a large number of buyers are neither getting the promised rent nor the promised property,” she said. Singh said that in view of the 26 complaints of similar nature listed on Wednesday, the HRERA bench observed that any agreement or memorandum of association pertaining to assured returns would be considered as part of builder-buyer agreement. The bench further observed that several retail buyers have fallen victim to such schemes and failed to get the property, leave aside the assured returns, and ended up as financial creditors, struggling to recover their money from the promoter/developer. “This judgement will ensure delivery of justice to the aggrieved allottees who have been robbed crores of hard-earned money by the errant promoters/developers/builders,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/developers-must-make-good-on-promise-of-assured-returns-timely-delivery-of-flats-hrera-101636566082990.html
10-11-2021||Gurugram||Residents prepared for depositing segregated waste||As the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) prepares to start collecting segregated waste from Thursday, residents’ associations across the city were optimistic about meeting the challenges and improving the waste management process.Residents of many condominiums said that they have been following the process for over a year now and are prepared to give segregated waste.The MCG on Tuesday reiterated that from November 11, it will collect only segregated waste from households and that mixed waste will not be picked up. The civic body also plans to start penalising residents found dumping accumulated mixed waste in public spaces.Residents’ welfare associations (RWA) on Wednesday said that separate boxes are kept at waste collection points and biodegradable, non-biodegradable and hazardous medical waste can be easily collected by the MCG’s concessionaire.Reema Chibb, the general secretary of Oakwood Estate in DLF Phase-2 who manages the waste management system, said, “Till a year ago, household segregation of waste was a problem for everyone as people were not used to it. Over the past few months, we conducted several sensitisation programmes for domestic helps, guards and residents; to make everyone understand that they need to see waste also as something that can be useful.”“We formed WhatsApp groups of residents and waste management experts, who would take questions from residents on what waste goes where — like where is one supposed to dispose off cotton or if pen go as dry waste or hazardous waste? We would do such hourly curiosity sessions. Gradually, people got into the habit of segregating waste and it has now become a practice,” she said.Residents of DLF Phase-1 also shared a similar view and said that the process of waste collection has improved in the past few years with better awareness.Malti Sahney, the general secretary of Silver Oaks Apartment in DLF Phase-1, said, “Over the past two years, all residents have been practising complete segregation of waste and the waste collection vehicles also take it from the collection points as it is disposed. We even compost our wet waste. But this was achieved after there was sensitisation at every level as the main challenge was to change the mindset of people. Domestic helps were taught what is wet waste or dry waste, how to dispose them. There were constant checks and support to the community to ensure that people follow it as rule.”Meanwhile, some residents said that the segregation process was stopped in between due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but it has now been resumed.“Segregation of waste was followed properly before; it was stopped for some time during the second wave of Covid-19. Since the past month, all residents have again started giving segregated waste, but the waste collection vehicles mix the waste when they take it. Today (Thursday), the vendors asked us to dig two pits in the society for composting wet waste,” said Rajan Taneja, secretary of Heritage Society RWA.In the last week of October, the MCG issued directions to its sanitation wing and officials of Ecogreen Energy to make citizens aware of the segregation process. The segregation of waste is also aimed at converting wet waste into compost and recycling dry waste to the maximum possible extent so that the load carried to the overburdened Bandhwari landfill can be reduced.The Bandhwari landfill receives around 2,000 tonnes of waste every day from Gurugram and Faridabad. With municipal solid waste from both the cities being dumped since 2015, around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste is currently accumulated at the Bandhwari landfill.Sanjeev Sharma, the spokesperson for Ecogreen Energy, said, “If segregation of waste is followed properly in the city, then around 90% of the waste that currently goes to Bandhwari will be reduced and processed at the transfer station itself.”Shubhra Puri, the founder of Gurgaon First, a citizen initiative to promote sustainability in Gurugram, said, “If waste segregation is followed properly, 60% of the waste production gets reduced at source itself, as kitchen waste can be used for composting. Along with this, the load to the landfill also reduces, with better working conditions for those who manage our waste. When waste segregation is followed properly, the entire city benefits from it and not just a handful residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-prepared-for-depositing-segregated-waste-101636566081655.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Centre, UP committed to development of Braj: Yogi||Agra : UP chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath said on Wednesday that fairs like ‘Hunar Haat’ which were providing opportunities to artisans would strengthen the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also said that various schemes launched by the Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad would usher in a sea change in development of Braj, with Mathura at its epicenter. The chief minister was in Mathura to inaugurate the 10-day ‘Braj-raj utsav’. Earlier he attended an event and had food with about 500 seers, teerth purohit and ‘bhagawatacharya’. BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, ministers in state cabinet Laxmi Narain Chaudhary and Sri Kant Sharma and MP from Mathura Hema Malini accompanied the CM. In his address, chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath cited various schemes started by the Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad for development of Braj culture and development of Mathura and Vrindavan. “We have already declared important sites linked with Lord Krishna as ‘teerth’ spots or pilgrimage. The central and state governments are committed to development which is being undertaken in Braj by Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad and the effects would soon e visible,” he said . “The 10-day ‘Braj-raj utsav’ will showcase the culture of Braj region and ‘Hunar Haat’ will give an opportunity to craftsmen to show their skills,” Yogi said in his address. Artistes including Punit Issar, Anup Jalota, Suresh Wadkar, Kailash Kher and Annu Kapoor are to perform in the fest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/centre-up-committed-to-development-of-braj-yogi-101636566023086.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||PAU cotton scientist TH Singh passes away at 86||Punjab Agricultural University postgraduate studies dean Dr Tejinder Harpal Singh, who led the research on cotton at the varsity for over three decades, passed away on Wednesday at the age of 86. Born on June 28, 1935 at Bhaini Dharerra village of Ludhiana, he joined the PAU service in 1969 as an assistant cotton scientist. He led breeding in cotton and other crops as head of the department of plant breeding. His efforts have earned Punjab a place of prominence on the cotton map of the country. Singh and his team developed 18 high-yielding and short-duration varieties of Indian and American cotton.He commanded not only his peer’s respect, but also that of the farmers. Singh was the recipient of nine awards, including the Dr GS Khush, distinguished professor award, from different organisations in recognition of his contributions. The Punjab governor had honoured as the ‘leader of survey team’ in 1984.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-cotton-scientist-th-singh-passes-away-at-86-101636566021510.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: GADVASU’s ₹1-crore model gaushala to come up in 8 months||With concrete gaushalas proving to be unviable, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu laid the foundation stone of a ₹1.07-crore model gaushala at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University on Wednesday. Calling the project “the first of its kind”, Ashu said, “It will help other gaushalas run their establishments in a scientific and low-cost manner. It will help improve the cattle breeds in the state, while also offering a solution to the stray-cattle menace.” It will take eight months to build the model gaushala, whose state-of-the-art building will have a covered cowshed, kuchha area, straw area, calving area, sick unit, feed store, processing unit, biogas plant, vermicomposting pit, organic vegetable area and other facilities. Ashu was accompanied by mayor Balkar Sandhu, and the vet varsities’ vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh. The Cabinet minister said most gaushalas face many challenges, including inadequate resources, lack of trained manpower and veterinarians, besides lack of scientific knowledge regarding feeding, housing, care and management of the animals.Inderjeet said there are nearly 1.6-lakh stray cattle roaming the roads of Punjab. “Cattle are one of the major reasons for road accidents, damage to crops and forest plantations. Some people let their cows loose after their productive life is over. Moreover, stray animals are usually malnourished and wounded. This project was developed to create a low-maintenance model, which will help generate higher revenue,” he said. The gaushalas will demonstrate the actual potential of stray cattle, which can be harnessed in the form of income generation, and genetic improvement of germplasm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gadvasu-s-1-crore-model-gaushala-to-come-up-in-8-months-101636565903728.html
10-11-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Devotees offer Chhath puja in ghats, entry to Rabindra Sarobar prohibited||Thousands of devotees performed Chhath Puja in ghats set up in ponds and rivers by the West Bengal government on Wednesday while the Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar were kept out of bound for any visitor to prevent pollution of water.A Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) official said gates of the two lakes were closed since 6 pm Tuesday and will be opened only at 6 am on Friday, after the Chhath puja rituals are over on Thursday morning to prevent anyone from entering into the premises of Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar as per the order of National Green Tribunal to prevent contamination of water.Thirty-two ghats have been set up by the KMDA in Jadavpur, Patuli, Kasba, Anandapur areas along waterbodies in those stretch near E M Bypass for the chhat devotees, he said, adding many pilgrims went there.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation also created several artificial waterbodies in Alipore, Ballygunje, Narkeldanga, Rasbehari MLA and member, board of administrators, KMC Debashis Kumar said.However, the majority of the pilgrims went to over 100 ghats located along river Hooghly in tempos and small vehicles to the accompaniment of drums, music bands as major thoroughfares like Strand Road, Asutosh Mukherjee Road-Shyamaprasad Mukherjee Road, Beadon Street, Ganesh Chandra Avenue were choc-a-bloc with small processions with occasional bursting of fireworks.Environmentalist Subhas Dutta expressed happiness that the gates of Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar were locked and under constant vigil of the police."Unlike the situation in 2019 when some pilgrims barged into the lake compound and offered puja violating the NGT directive, this year not a soul is sighted. We are happy with the role of police and administration," he said.An official of West Bengal Pollution Control Board said the PM 2.5 at south Kolkata was recorded at 159 Air Quality Index at 7 pm, one hour after sunset as the Chhath puja rituals were over for the day."It is moderate and there is not much information about bursting of fireworks," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-devotees-offer-chhath-puja-in-ghats-entry-to-rabindra-sarobar-prohibited-101636565644932.html
10-11-2021||Other||13 from GNDU on world top 2% scientist list||Amritsar Thirteen scientists from Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) have made it to the list of top 2% scientists worldwide this year, in ranking that Stanford University, in collaboration with the publishing house Elsevier and SciTech Strategies. has published. The list includes nearly around 1,90,000 scientists throughout the world. From GNDU, Narpinder Singh, department of food science and technology, tops the list with a world ranking of 6,373.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/13-from-gndu-on-world-top-2-scientist-list-101636565723419.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Chhath Puja celebrated in Gorakhpur with religious fervour||Tens of thousands of women who observed ‘nirjala vrat’ (fasting without water) on Chhath, offered ‘arghya’ to the Sun god, praying for long lives of their sons and welfare of their families, in Gorakhpur on Wednesday. The ghats (banks) along river Rapti, Suraj Kund Tal, Bheem Tal at Gorakhnath temple, Ramgarh Tal and Maansarovar pond witnessed a huge rush of devotees on the third day of the four-day festival. Earlier in the day, MP Ravi Kishan took stock of the arrangements at various ghats and greeted devotees by singing religious songs for ‘Chhath Mayya’ as locals jostled each other to click selfies with the leader who is also a leading actor and singer in Bhojpuri cinema. Women devotees who reached the ghats in groups singing Bhojpuri devotional songs and carrying puja material, stood in ankle-deep water and offered ‘arghya’ to the sun ( at sunset) while men also performed rituals on the occasion. Chhath, originally a festival of Bihar, has been celebrated in eastern UP, specially in Gorakhpur, with great religious fervour since the past few decades, as a major portion of Bihar population has shifted to Gorakhpur over the years for jobs and livelihood . On the fourth and final day, the women will break their fast after offering water to the rising sun at various banks. Meanwhile, strict security arrangements have been put in place for the safety of devotees. Anil Kumar Mishra, trustee of Heritage Foundation, an NGO engaged in protecting the environment said, “The increasing popularity of Chhath festival among the masses in different part of state has seen locals coming forward to conserve and maintain cleanliness of ponds , river or lakes even in remote areas as they consider these water bodies sacred. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chhath-puja-celebrated-in-gorakhpur-with-religious-fervour-101636565722152.html
10-11-2021||Other||36th Indira Marathon: Race to take place on changed route on Nov 19||The proposed route of the popular 36th All India Prize Money Indira Marathon has changed. On the birth anniversary of former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on November 19, the 42.195km race for both men and women, will start from Anand Bhawan and will go to Rewa Road via Naini Bridge, officials said. Returning on the same route from the Reliance Petrol Pump, the race will end at Madan Mohan Malaviya Stadium. District magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri approved the new route of the Indira Marathon in a meeting held on Tuesday and also instructed officials to undertake necessary repairs of the road keeping the route of the marathon in mind for the benefit of the athletes.The Indira Marathon’s maiden edition was on November 19, 1985, after being flagged off by the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. In 2020, the marathon could not be held owing to the lockdown enforced after the Covid-19 breakout.In this first meeting on the preparations for the Indira Marathon chaired by the DM in Sangam auditorium, three probable routes were discussed. Due to sewer work, the traditional route via Mahewa was rejected. There was a detailed discussion on the proposed route from Naini Bridge to Mawaiya via Yamuna Bank Road and return. It was informed by officials concerned in the meeting that Kartik Purnima bathing festival will coincide with the day of the marathon and there will be a crowd of devotees on that route. At the same time, the route is also much narrow at the turning point of the route at Mawaiya, an official who was part of the meeting, said.In view of the problems, the district magistrate finally approved the Rewa Road route after talking with the regional sports officer Anil Tiwari and other officials. “With the route finalised, instructions have now been given to officials of all departments concerned to prepare for the event. The roads will be repaired and the traffic management plan for the route will also be prepared accordingly. ARTO has also been instructed in this regard,” said Khatri.The DM has directed the municipal corporation, health, traffic and education department to prepare for the marathon. SDM (Sadar) has been made the nodal officer of the marathon. The DM instructed the district inspector of schools to ensure participation of school children during the event and also at the closing ceremony. He has also asked the ADM (city) to depute sector magistrates along with the marathon route for smooth conduct of the event.Now the sports department will put the kilometer marks on the new route of the marathon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/36th-indira-marathon-race-to-take-place-on-changed-route-on-nov-19-101636565421982.html
10-11-2021||Other||99 Pakistan Hindus stuck at Attari border for 45 days||Amritsar Even as draconian travel restrictions have been lifted along the international border, as many as 99 Pakistan Hindus, including 57 children, are left stranded at Attari Check Post without any accommodation for the past 45 days. Most of them are from Sanghar district of Sindh province, while a few of them are from West Punjab. Many of them had come to India on a pilgrimage to Haridwar and Jodhpur before the lockdown that was imposed in March last year, some others came in 2018 and overstayed their visa. At Attari, they are not being allowed to cross the border as they have incomplete documents. They don’t have the clearance from the police station concerned, of the area where they earlier stayed. “We have been left stranded here for the last one and half months. We are forced to sit here for an indefinite period. We are very grateful to the local people who are sending food, milk and essential items for us from the nearby gurdwaras,” said an elderly lady belonging to West Punjab.“We came here for pilgrimage. Our homes, properties, relatives and near and dear ones are in Pakistan. We are upset,” she added. Suraj Ram, 12, said, “After lockdown was imposed, we moved to Jodhpur where we did labour. Studies have been disrupted.”Kewal Das said, “All members of this group are stuck in India for about two years. Of them, there are 57 are children and 22 women. When we came here, the immigration authorities sought permission issued by the Jodhpur Police and other concerned cops from us, which we don’t have. Police tell us that our plea has been forwarded to the higher authorities and our issue would be resolved soon.”“We are thankful to residents of Attari and nearby villages and the religious organisations like Kar Sewa Tarn Taran, which are feeding us and meeting our all basic requirements. Only non-government people are helping us. Unfortunately, the government is extending no help. It should at least provide us rooms to stay,” he claimed. “When we came to know that these people are facing a lot of hardships while staying here, on the directions of our head Baba Jagtar Singh, they are being given ration, blankets, mattress, bed sheets etc. Tents are also being provided to them. The administration must send them home,” said Baba Joga Singh, representative of Baba Jagtar Singh, who took the stock of the items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/99-pakistan-hindus-stuck-at-attari-border-for-45-days-101636565361828.html
10-11-2021||Other||SAD (Sanyukt) accuses Channi govt of shielding ex-DGP Saini||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal Sanyukt) on Wednesday accused the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government in Punjab of shielding ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. Releasing a video grab of a purported hearing in Punjab and Haryana high court on October 8, former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said. The hearing pertains to the case of disproportionate assets against Saini registered by the vigilance bureau, the public prosecutor is seen assisting in the bail for Saini, instead of opposing his interim bail.” The interim bail to Saini was extended and the next date of hearing was fixed for January 8, next year. Saini’s bail application was not objected to by the public prosecutor and because of this, the interim orders were extended, Dhindsa alleged. “This clearly proves the point the the Channi government was trying to befool the people of Punjab like its predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh,” added Dhindsa seeking CM’s resignation. Terming the hearing in the case as a safe passage to Saini, Dhindsa said that even during the tenure of the Channi as CM, families of innocent Sikhs who lost their lives in the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing will not get justice. “If the government had acted impartially, Saini would have been in lock-up now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-sanyukt-accuses-channi-govt-of-shielding-ex-dgp-saini-101636564641436.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj admn orders magisterial probe, assures job for youth’s father||AGRA The district administration of Kasganj ordered a magisterial inquiry into the 22-year-old youth’s alleged custodial death and wrote to the state government, recommending that financial relief be granted to the deceased’s kin from the Chief Minister’s Vivekadheen Kosh. Officials also assured a suitable job for Altaf’s father. “Family members of the deceased have expressed financial constraints, and as such recommendation has been made to provide them monetary relief from the Chief Minister’s Vivekadheen Kosh (a discretionary fund),” informed Harshita Mathur, district magistrate of Kasganj. “The deceased’s father also expressed need for a job as his son Altaf was the bread earner. The administration has assured to arrange a job for him in Kasganj,” added the DM. Meanwhile, Kasganj police launched a hunt for another accused who was involved in the abduction of the minor girl. “Now, the case registered under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC was against two, one against Altaf and another unidentified accused. The search is on for the other person,” stated AK Singh, ASP, Kasganj. The Sadar Kotwali police in Kasganj had taken Altaf into custody as he was accused of abducting a minor girl and eloping with her. Later, Altaf died in police custody and cops claimed that he had committed suicide in the toilet of the police station. Five policemen were suspended for laxity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-admn-orders-magisterial-probe-assures-job-for-youth-s-father-101636564581561.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Three men pose as cops, rob woman of gold bangles worth Rs86k in Nigdi||PUNE Three unidentified men were booked for posing as policemen and robbing a woman of gold ornaments in the Nigdi area of Pimpri Chinchwad.The incident happened on Tuesday around 10:45 near Pavle bridge.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 75-year-old woman who was walking in the area. The woman was robbed of three gold bangles worth ₹86,455.“She is from Kerala and could not speak Hindi or English well. She was extremely disturbed. But she managed to describe to us that one man was waiting on the footpath, the second one approached her and told her that one policeman was calling her and the third one was the policeman who told her that there were robbers in the area and that she needs to keep her valuables safe. One of them pocketed it and they fled from there,” said police sub-inspector Vikas Shelke of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case.The woman is a widower who was alone when the incident happened. The police got in touch with her family and provided transport home.A case under Sections 171 (impersonating a public servant), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Nigdi police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-men-pose-as-cops-rob-woman-of-gold-bangles-worth-rs86k-in-nigdi-101636564221485.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||NCB SIT questions British national in Nawab Malik son-in-law Sameer Khan drug case||British national Karan Sajnani who was arrested in January by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drug case involving Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan, appeared before the special investigation team (SIT) on Wednesday. The agency has recorded his statement. Sajnani was questioned for four hours in NCB’s south Mumbai office, where he denied his involvement in the case and said he dealt in herbal smokable products. The SIT has summoned him again on Friday to record his further statement.Sajnani’s advocate Sana Raees Khan said to the media, “Sajnani informed in his statement to SIT that he and Khan have been friends for 25 years but they are not partners in the business”. Sameer Khan was arrested on January 13 for the same case for dealing with commercial quantities of the drug and after eight months in jail, he was granted bail on September 27.NCB team led by Sameer Wankhede raided the residence of Sajnani in Khar in the first week of January, this year and claimed that they allegedly seized around 194.600kg of imported strains of ganja. NCB further claimed at the time of the raid that Sajnani runs a trading business and has been living in Khar (West) for the past one and a half years. Sajnani’s arrest agency also arrested his associate Rahila Furniturewala from her Bandra residence in the same case. Sajnani said before the court then that the found article at his residence was herbal smokable and is available on online platforms. He then also submitted to the court that he sells herbal smokeable which are made of rose petals and leaves and used by people who want to quit smoking. Agency claimed then that most of the seized contraband was sourced from America and 70kg of OG Kush (a high-quality strain of marijuana), was recovered from Sajnani’s Khar residence.Sajnani’s advocate Sana Raees Khan said, “SIT is very fair and cooperative, not biased. They asked relevant questions and there was no pressure on making any statements. They were very keen on understanding the nature of the products seized and very interested to understand how the herbal products were marketed and were interested to know where the packaging material came from”. SIT further asked him whether co-accused Khan is a part of his business. Sajnani replied in his statement that Khan has been his friend for 25 years but denied any business with him, added Khan. “Sajnani is happy with the way the investigation was conducted with such professionalism by the SIT and his full faith is restored towards the NCB because of the new SIT unit” added advocate Sana Raees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-sit-questions-british-national-in-nawab-malik-son-in-law-sameer-khan-drug-case-101636564161666.html
10-11-2021||Other||Robbery at garment store, house in Chohla Sahib||Tarn Taran Three unidentified men looted 5.5kg gold jewellery, worth around ₹2.75 crore, and ₹60 lakh taking a shopkeeper and his family hostage in their home in the historic town of Chohla Sahib on Tuesday night about 8pm, the victim family has claimed. At the time, the shopkeeper was closing his garment store. According to the victim’s family, the accused were armed with sharp-edged weapons and had covered their faces. Police, however, said the total jewellery and the cash that were looted from the house is worth ₹5 lakh only.Shopkeeper Jaimal Singh said, “Our family has been running the shop since 1960 and we reside on its rear. On Tuesday night, I was closing my shop when a man, who had covered his face, came and demanded five turbans. I told him that I have closed my shop and he should come in the morning. He insisted, however, and I opened the shop. Two other miscreants entered the shop and assaulted me with a sharp-edged weapon.”He added, “About 9pm, my wife too came to the shop as I was late in reaching. She didn’t find me as I was tied to the chair. The accused grabbed my wife and tied her too. They threatened to kill us. After this, the accused took around 5 lakh cash from the shop. Later on, the accused went to our home on the first floor and held my father and children hostage.”Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Goindwal Sahib, Bhupinder Singh, said, “The family has told us that only ₹5 lakh cash jewellery was looted. Unidentified persons have been booked at Chohla Sahib police station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/robbery-at-garment-store-house-in-chohla-sahib-101636564103046.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||UPSRTC wants govt to pay ₹544 cr for ferrying migrants, deploying buses for panchayat polls||LUCKNOW After ferrying more than 33 lakh ticketless migrants from different cities to their home districts during the Covid-19 lockdown last year and deploying 1,500 buses to transport polling staff during the panchayat elections this year, the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) is now asking the government to clear bills to the tune of ₹544 crore. Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari recently convened a high-level meeting to find out ways to clear UPSRTC’s arrears, more so when increasing fuel prices had further stressed the cash-strapped corporation, said officials.“The chief secretary listened to all – the UPSRTC and the other departments before referring the matter to the finance department for the final solution,” said a senior UPSRTC official, adding: “Now, we are keeping our fingers crossed.” According to details shared by the corporation with the government, during the first wave of the pandemic/lockdown between March 27, 2020 and June 30, 2020, the UPSRTC deployed 3,905 buses at the government’s behest to ferry 33.93 lakh migrants/other passengers. “The passengers were not charged any fare as the government was committed to compensate the same from the Disaster Management Fund. Accordingly, the UPSRTC raised a bill of ₹631 crore, of which ₹348.80 crore outstanding is still unpaid by the government,” the official claimed. This year, during the second wave of Covid-19 (April 19 to May 9,) the UPSRTC ferried 9.52 lakh migrants/other passengers on ticket basis and the corporation did not raise any bills. “In the meantime, the government also hired 1,520 buses for the panchayat polls between –April 12 and May 6 this year. The UPSRTC gave a bill of ₹183.76 crore to the home department, but it was yet to be paid,” said officials. The total outstanding against the government or its departments was calculated to be over ₹544 crore. The UPSRTC is believed to have suffered a loss of ₹140 crore up to September this financial year, average being ₹25 crore every month with the increased diesel prices. The UPSRTC’s annual revenue/expenditure is around ₹5,000 crore. “Due to reduced income and locked resources, old buses have not been replaced with new ones for the last two years. The corporation needs to replace over 1,200 buses annually,” pointed out another official. “A proposal to grant equity of ₹390 crore to enable replacement of 1,300 buses was sent by the corporation to the state government more than a year back, but it is still pending,” he added. The UPSRTC pays around ₹20 crore tax to the government every month and the government, according to people in the transport department, might adjust tax amount against the corporation’s bills. “But even after the adjustment, the government will need to pay around ₹250 crore to the UPSRTC,” said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upsrtc-wants-govt-to-pay-rs-544-cr-for-ferrying-migrants-deploying-buses-for-panchayat-polls-101636564041610.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Two in custody for illegally selling Mephentermine sulphate injections in Baramati||PUNE Two men were remanded by a local court to custody of Pune rural police for illegally selling prescription-only blood pressure drugs to bodybuilders and 39 vials were seized from them in Baramati on Tuesday.The arrested men have been identified as Pradeep Suresh Satav (27), a resident of Kasba in Baramati and Nikhil Abasaheb Kakade (21), a resident of Rui village in Baramati. While Satav was remanded to judicial custody, Kakade was remanded to police custody till Friday.The drug was identified as Mephentermine sulphate injections IP. The cost of the drug, upon prescription, is ₹268 in the market. However, a source told the police that the two were selling it for different costs based on the demand.“The drug is used in an injection for blood pressure treatment. It helps bodybuilders work out for a longer time to gain more muscle. We first found 20 in a car from the first one and 19 more the second one,” said police sub-inspector Ganesh Patil of Baramati city police station who is investigating the case.The police claim that Satav recommended the drug by falsely claiming that he used it too.“They sold it for anywhere between 400 to 1,000. We are investigating who they sold these vials to. The source of the drug to these men is also under investigation,” said Patil.A case was registered under Sections 175, 276, 328, and 336 of the Indian Penal Code at Baramati police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-custody-for-illegally-selling-mephentermine-sulphate-injections-in-baramati-101636563741554.html
10-11-2021||Other||Punjab ignoring stubble burning; 50,000 cases, not a single FIR this year||Patiala Even as approximately 50,000 farm fires have ben reported from the hinterland of Punjab, playing havoc with the Air Quality Index (AQI) of the, with smog everywhere, not a single FIR has been registered to date. With just three months left for the assembly elections, Punjab has decided to go soft on paddy straw burning by farmers. In 2019, 1,737 FIRs were registered against the erring farmers; 2020 saw a total of 48 FIRs. Once farmers launched their protest against contentious agri-laws of the Centre, the Punjab government decided not to act against any farmer. Paddy straw burning is banned under Section 144 of the CrPC and the violator is liable to face action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated) of the IPC. In addition, the government can impose ₹1,500 per acre as environmental compensation. While ₹56.2 lakh environmental compensation is imposed, only ₹85, 000 is recovered so far this paddy harvest season. Farmer unions are confronting officials making surprise checks in the fields, and imposing fines on farmers found burning stubble. Thus, no official is daring to visit in field. Punjab deputed 8,000 nodal officers to check stubble burning, but no one is working in field. “It is a sorry state of affairs, we are now mute spectators. There is clear direction to not to register any FIR against any farmer. The doesn’t want to draw any wrath from farmers, which is most significant vote bank of the state. Already, the farmers are on protest mode,” said a DC, requesting anonymity. He said that after farmers launched protest against agri-laws in August 2020, no action has been taken against any erring farmers. The environment compensation is being imposed against erring farmers, but that it also a paper work, as there is no direction to use pressure to collect fine, said official. Even as a sizable section of farmers have got access to subsidised stubble-management machines, some of peasants’ unions have been openly exhorting farmers to defy the ban against stubble burning to pressure the government to meet their demand for a bonus of ₹100 per quintal as an incentive for not burning stubble. “With rise in diesel prices and other farm machinery items, the in-situ and ex-situ management of paddy straw has became very expensive. Farmers are not able to spend Rs. 3 to 5 thousand extra to handle straw. Farmers are already under financial stress, If government wants that farmers should handle straw, they must provide ₹5,000 per acre as incentive for handling straw. Otherwise, unions will continue to oppose any penal action”, said Jagtar Singh, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan). Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) nodal officer Samita said it only reported farm fire data, the administration and the other authorities were empowered to act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-ignoring-stubble-burning-50-000-cases-not-a-single-fir-this-year-101636563621387.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park to welcome hyenas next year; PMC standing committee approves ₹1.96 crore for enclosure||PUNE As the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research, Katraj gears up to welcome striped hyenas, for the first time, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved Rs1.96 crore to create a better enclosure for the animal which will go on public display in March 2022.“A moated enclosure is being erected for hyenas in the zoo. We are going to display hyenas for the first time. This enclosure is spread around 2,000 square metres and currently, while it is getting ready, we are in the process of closing the exchange deal for the animals,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research.Hemant Rasne, chairman, standing committee, said, “The standing committee approved Rs1.96 crore for erecting an enclosure for hyenas.”The hyenas belong to the scavenger species and generally prey on the kills of the other animals. Its life span is generally 12 years. “In India, we have the striped hyena which will soon be part of the zoo display,” said Dr Jadhav.Besides this, the PMC had also approved Rs1.53 crore to erect an RCC wall compound to the zoo for increasing its safety. Dr Jadhav said, “There is a need to reinforce and strengthen the southern and eastern periphery wall which was breached by miscreants.”He also stressed upon the progress of the master plan for the redevelopment of the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre, which is continuing in phases of developing a new ecosystem making use of the unused land existing in the 130 acres which will house ten new exotic species, reptiles, and mammals in the next three years.“PMC has already completed four displays, for leopard cat, jungle cat, spotted cat and the Indian giant squirrel as well as the ex-situ breeding and conservation programme for the Indian giant squirrel. By next year, we will also have Zebra in our collection as part of phase 2 of the Master plan,” said Dr Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rajiv-gandhi-zoological-park-to-welcome-hyenas-next-year-pmc-standing-committee-approves-rs-1-96-crore-for-enclosure-101636563261522.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath flags off trial run of Kanpur Metro||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday flagged off the trial run of the Kanpur Metro rail service, and said the people of the city would be able to avail of the best transport within four to six weeks.The trial run was done for the IIT Kanpur-Motijheel corridor (first phase), covering a distance of nine kilometres. Yogi Adityanath said the process for the Kanpur Metro trial would be completed in the next four to six weeks.“It (Kanpur Metro rail service) will be launched for the people of Kanpur by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.The Kanpur Metro project was launched on November 19, 2019.Yogi Adityanath, who flagged off the first trial run at the metro depot on the Kanpur polytechnic premises, said Kanpur should have had a metro rail service a long time ago but other political parties kept ignoring the city’s requirements and the previous governments remained a failure on this front.He has instructed that the commercial operation of Kanpur Metro should commence between December 15 and 20. The Metro was a joint venture of the state and the central governments, he said.No city in Uttar Pradesh had a metro service before 2017, but it was now available in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, he said. Kanpur is going to join this club, he said, adding that the state would become the first in the country with Metro rail services in five cities.The process was sped up after 2017, he said, adding that the Kanpur Metro was a state-of-the-art service.“Kanpur will not be a metro city in terms of population but truly a metro city after this launch,” he said.For the last 19 months, the whole world and the country faced the Covid-19 global pandemic, he said, adding that despite this major obstacle, the UP Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) managed to complete the project and it was a big achievement.Earlier, UPMRC managing director Kumar Keshav apprised the chief minister about the Kanpur Metro project and presented him a model.In the first phase, the Metro trains would run on a nine-km route between IIT Kanpur and Motijheel. In the second phase, the service would be available on the Transport Nagar- Motijheel route as well.The Samajwadi Party accused the BJP government of taking credit for projects launched during its regime.Samajwadi Party city president Imran (who uses one name only) said the foundation of this project was laid by the then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in 2016, in the presence of the then Union urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu and the then Kanpur MP Murali Manohar Joshi. In the last five years, the BJP has done nothing but claim credit for the projects and schemes launched by SP government, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-flags-off-trial-run-of-kanpur-metro-101636563081608.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Stubble burning: 350 incidents of farm fire reported in Uttar Pradesh in 24 hours||As many as 350 incidents of farm fire were reported from several districts of Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours contributing to the worsening air quality in the state. The fires are a reflection of the incidents of stubble burning that continue.Farm fires are a major contributor to air pollution in winter and the effect is palpable in the AQI (air quality index) data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Four Uttar Pradesh cities, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad and Baghpat, recorded severe air pollution with their air quality index (AQI) crossing 401 during the day. The air quality of the state capital also reached near the 300-mark and the average AQI recorded there was 246, which is categorised as “poor”.The farm fires recorded by satellite data are used by Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) to monitor incidents of burning of farm waste, including stubble. According to the satellite data of Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS) of NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration), which is also used by UPPCB, the above-mentioned incidents of farm fires were recorded between Sunday evening and Monday evening.According to UPPCB experts, the (current) farm fire incidents are 18% more than the average seasonal farm fire incidents recorded in the state in a day, particularly in November. Chief environmental engineer (UPPCB) VK Singh said the fire incidents were reported from Saharanpur, Meerut, Baghpat, Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Etawah, Mainpuri, Unnao, Maharajganj, Bahraich and Gonda districts of Uttar Pradesh, among others.“West UP districts have more concentration of farm fires as compared to east UP districts,” Singh said.In previous years, the districts’ administration in many UP districts lodged FIRs and imposed fines on farmers found burning stubble, apart from advising them against the practice. Over 2000 FIRs for stubble burning against farmers across UP was lodged by the local administration last year. In 2019, the number of FIRs was around 3200. Majority of these FIRs were later taken back by the district administration.No FIR has been lodged against farmers for stubble burning in Uttar Pradesh this harvest season.Deputy director (agriculture) of Saharanpur Rakesh Kumar Singh claimed that the administration has been able to reduce the incidents of stubble burning through intervention.“We are in touch with the farmers of the districts and many of them have used alternative methods to remove stubble. The number of stubble burning (instances) has certainly gone down in the district,” he said.The farmers, on other hand, claim that alternative measures to remove stubble cost them more and are impractical.“Use of special combines and spraying of enzyme solution to remove stubble cost us more. The big farmers may afford them, but smaller farmers like us don’t have any option part from burning it,” said Sarwajeet Singh, a farmer of the Kalan area of Shahajahanpur district in western UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stubble-burning-350-incidents-of-farm-fire-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-101636562961580.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||UP aims at 100% first dose vaccination by year-end||LUCKNOW Aiming to achieve 100% first dose Covid vaccination by the year- end, Uttar Pradesh has extended vaccination timings up to 10 in the night. State’s health and family welfare minister, Jai Pratap Singh, said to expedite vaccination coverage chief minister Yogi Adiatyanth has set a target of administering 25 to 30 lakh Covid vaccine doses to people daily. In Lucknow, the Civil and Lok Bandhu hospitals have already started vaccination facility up to 10pm. The cluster model that assisted Uttar Pradesh to ramp up Covid vaccination, has been reworked to achieve the fresh vaccination target, said the minister. In rural areas, vaccinators will not be stationed at fixed spots to give the vaccine jab to people. Rather a group of vaccinators will visit each hamlet and even household to administer vaccine to people. Villages with less than 80% vaccination will be in focus, he added. Out of the 15 crore eligible people, the first dose has been administered to over 10 crore people. The state government has planned to inoculate the remaining people by December. For this, timing of vaccination that was earlier till 5pm, is now revised till 10 pm at all district level hospitals. Experts welcomed the move, sating extended timings will benefit people who are unable to reach vaccination centres during daytime. “People who find taking elderly in their families for vaccination difficult, can make the best use of the extended timings,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In the rural areas, vaccinators will take assistance of people’s representatives including gram pradhans and members of panchayats. In urban areas, the assistance of ward councoillors will be taken to vaccinate beneficiaries, said health minister JP Singh. The state government has adequate doses to organise the vaccination drive in all 75 districts. The list of people who have not been given the first dose and those who have not taken the second dose will be prepared in each village and locality. The vaccinators will contact the people to give them the first and second doses, respectively, he added. The integrated Covid command and control centres will be activated for the vaccination drive. Along with tracking the people who have missed the dose, the centres will guide people in getting the vaccine jab, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-aims-at-100-first-dose-vaccination-by-yearend-101636562902929.html
10-11-2021||Other||Punjab cabinet nod to policy for relief to cotton-picking labourers||Chandigarh The Punjab cabinet, led by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday, approved the policy formulated for extending relief to the families of cotton-picking farm labourers affected by the damage caused to the cotton crop by the pink bollworm (pest attack).With this decision, 10% of total compensation to be given to the farmers, on this count, would be provided to the families of cotton picking farm labourers affected by the pest attack. The cabinet also deliberated upon hardships faced by SC students who are beneficiaries of Post-Matric SC Scholarship Scheme and decided that the state government would bear its liability of 40%, amounting to ₹434 crore since 2017-18, to be released in two instalments during 2021-22 and 2022-23. The cabinet also approved to scrap the fee capping , thereby keeping the fee of SC students on a par with the general category students. It also gave a go ahead to initiate action against those defaulter institutions, which indulged in fraudulent practices by lodging an FIR and blacklisting the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-policy-for-relief-to-cotton-picking-labourers-101636562363618.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Centre gives nod for restoration of Shaniwar Wada in Pune||PUNE The central government has given a nod for restoration and conservation of the historical Shaniwar Wada fort in the city.“The Shaniwar Wada is a priceless heritage and of historic value to the city and it is indeed welcoming that the restoration and conservation will be happening soon in phases,” said Mukta Tilak, ex-mayor during the press conference to state that the central government has taken cognizance of her letter regarding the sorry state of Shaniwar Wada.“Over the years, the stone masonry work has weathered harsh weather conditions and the work done by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has not been up to the mark,” she said.On November 8, 2021, Tilak received a letter from G Kishan Reddy, Minister of Culture, Tourism and Development of North Eastern Region, Government of India. He has replied to Mukta Tilak’s letter written on September 1, 2021, regarding the restoration of the historical Shaniwar Wada fort.He writes, “The matter has been examined and the conservation and restoration of the fort wall have been taken up this year and in addition to this, the work of restoration of the historical painting at Delhi Darwaja will also be taken up at the earliest. ASI is undertaking all efforts for care and conservation of protected monuments in Maharashtra as per need of the monuments and as per the availability of resources.”Uday Kulkarni, historian and retired surgeon from Armed Forces Medical College Pune (AFMC), was present with Tilak during the press conference. He said, “We had surveyed the Shaniwar Wada in April 2021 where we found that earlier restoration efforts were very shoddy and badly done. Cement has been used in places when it should not be used for historical places. There are big cement patches that are peeling off and also the main door known as Delhi Darwaza is also in a bad state. The arches above are devoid of the original paint, while the “Nagar Khana” is also not stable anymore. The paintings of Ganapati and Vishnu next to the ticketing window inside is also fading.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-gives-nod-for-restoration-of-shaniwar-wada-in-pune-101636561641679.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court asks striking MSRTC employees to respond||The Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra Rajya Kanishth Vetanshreni ST Karmachari Sanghatana to file a reply in response to the contempt petition filed by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). The contempt petition was filed after state transport (ST) employees and staff went on strike last week during Diwali. The contempt petition is also against the breach of the restraining order passed by the HC wherein the union members were told not to go on strike and the refusal of the striking employees and staff to join duty though a committee as sought by the them to hear their grievances was constituted on November 8. The vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Surendra Tavade, which was hearing the contempt petition filed by the MSRTC against the employee union and 302 individuals, was informed that though court had restrained the employees from going on strike last week they had breached the court order. MSRTC’s lawyer submitted that at the request of the union and its leader a committee consisting of three high ranking state level officials was constituted to address their demands on November 8. The advocate submitted that though the proposal for the committee was fulfilled on the same day by the state government following a direction of the bench, neither the union nor its leader had withdrawn the strike. In light of this the contempt petition was filed. On November 8, the bench while hearing the petition of MSRTC seeking directions to the members of the union and its leader to refrain from resorting to a strike had directed the state to constitute a committee forthwith and issue a notification to the effect and conduct a meeting to resolve the issue of the union and its members the same day. The employees, staff and union of MSRTC had called a strike from midnight of November 3 as their demand for being treated at par with government employees was not fulfilled. The employees had also been agitating for non-payment of their salaries for three months. Meanwhile, as the MSRTC employees’ strike entered the third day on Wednesday, 542 more employees were suspended on Wednesday taking the number of suspended employees in two days to 918. The employees are on strike for, among other things, a pay hike and be classified as state government employees. Though the authorities have not confirmed the claim, the employee unions have said that 37 MSRTC workers have died by suicide in the last two years due to financial crises. “For five years, our demands are the same, but the government is not willing to listen. We will not call off the agitation till our demands are met,” said said Shashank Rao, coordinator, Sangharsh ST Kamgar Union. “The organisation should be merged with the state government and all benefits should be given to the employees.” The cash-strapped MSRTC, one of the country’s largest transport corporations with 96,000 employees, is struggling to pay salaries for the last two years. “We do not get salaries on time. There have been times that our family members go to bed without eating anything. We are just asking for our rights and want the state government to just listen to us,” said an MSRTC bus driver posted at the Karjat depot. “The state government is trying to pressure employees by taking action against them,” said former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday appealed to MSRTC employees to stop their agitation. Thackeray requested them to resume work and stated that the state government is trying their best to provide relief to the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-asks-striking-msrtc-employees-to-respond-101636561401569.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||30K jabbed in 2 days as vaccination drive against Covid resumes in Thane post Diwali||The vaccination drive, which was stalled in Diwali owing to the festive season, has resumed with more than 30,000 people covered in the last two days in the door-to-door campaign undertaken by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). This is more than the meagre 3,000-4,000 vaccination doses conducted per day in the last week.With more than 5.35 lakh still not jabbed with even the first dose of vaccination, the TMC has initiated a door-to-door survey wherein people who did not get even the first dose or have passed the due date for the second dose will be vaccinated immediately by the surveyors at their homes. The corporation aims at vaccinating the entire population with at least the first dose till November 30.Dr. Prasad Patil, vaccination officer, said, “There were hardly any people visiting the vaccination centres since the start of the month owing to the festive season. The 170 teams formed visited more than 150 houses on Tuesday and Wednesday, each covering a population of 1.25 lakh per day. On the first day, around 14,750 people were vaccinated while 14,600 were jabbed on Wednesday. The figure would have being higher but most of them were busy due to Chaat Puja on Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/30k-jabbed-in-2-days-as-vaccination-drive-against-covid-resumes-in-thane-post-diwali-101636561346460.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to get 9 more corporators||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections – scheduled to be held next year in February-March – the Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to increase the strength of Mumbai civic corporation from 227 to 236 members. Following the decision, the urban development department will make an amendment in the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, to change the composition of the corporation.The state government said that the move was necessary owing to the growth in the city’s population in the past two decades. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, said the move was prompted as the Shiv Sena – which controls the civic body – is “scared” of the election outcome and wants to delay the polls.The current composition of the civic body has been unchanged since 2001. The state government did not increase the number of corporators in 2011 even when the population rose by 3.87% between since 2001. The 2011 census has been used as the base as the 2021 census has been delayed owing to the pandemic.State urban development department minister Eknath Shinde said considering the surge in the population since 2001 and the increasing urbanisation, the move was “unavoidable”. The increase of nine members is in proportion to the population and the voters, he added. He added that had the same number of members been retained, the planning of the wards and the development of the city would have been impacted adversely. “It was also necessary [to increase the numbers] to provide better basic infrastructure in these wards and to do proper planning in wards. Had we kept the same number, the wards would have had a much bigger population and voters,” Shinde added.Meanwhile, Congress corporator and leader of opposition in BMC Ravi Raja welcomed the decision and said, “It has clearly been taken keeping in mind the increase in population in the city. However, for this very reason, we believe the number of seats should have been increased to more than 236.” Congress is Sena’s ally in the state. BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar said the Sena was scared of losing control of the richest corporation in Asia, and therefore, has made the move to increase the electoral wards.“The Shiv Sena is clearly scared and therefore they are engaging in these things. Mr Chief Minister, no matter what you do, BJP will prevail in Mumbai. After seeing that the wards are not being redrawn to your liking, you have made this move. These moves will not work. Mumbaiites have seen your true face and the demon of corruption and inefficiency will be routed in the upcoming BMC polls,” he said.BJP Corporator Bhalchandra Shirsat said the move was political after Sena realised they would not be able to benefit from the demarcation of the boundaries. “It is also a move to delay the ensuing elections. Why did not they take the decision along with other corporations two weeks ago,” he questioned. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP leader in BMC, said, “None of the stakeholders – the political parties in BMC –were taken in confidence during this decision-making. It is a very fishy decision. Shiv Sena is clearly scared that it will lose the upcoming BMC elections due to the shoddy work done by them so far. Where is the data to support this decision? We want to see which areas in Mumbai have seen an increase in population, and see the corresponding increase in the number of corporators in that area for the BMC elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-get-9-more-corporators-101636561161417.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Greens say Raigad Collector’s affidavit to NGT on Panje wetlands misleading||City-based environmentalists have contradicted Raigad Collector’s claims in his affidavit to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that the choke points at Panje wetlands have been removed and tidal water flows freely. A day after the Collector made the claim, NGOs Shri Ekvira Aai Prartishtan and NatConnect Foundation have presented Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with the GPS photographs shot on Wednesday morning and requested the government to take immediate action.Thackeray responded to NatConnect mail and directed Manisha Patankar Mhaiskar, principal secretary – environment, to look into the issue.The affidavit filed by Raigad District Collector Dr Mahendra Kalyankar with the NGT’s Western Zonal Bench has claimed, quoting an inspection done by the revenue and forest officials on October 27, that the choke points have been cleared and even the security cabins have been moved away.“None of these have happened,” said NatConnect director, BN Kumar, in his fresh missive to the CM. “The security cabins remain intact and the physical blocks on the free flow of tidal water have not been removed. This is a blatant violation and I am filing a complaint with the NGT.”Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, alleged, “The authorities have been lethargic in implementing the environment department’s orders. This really is a serious matter as the officials are misleading everyone.”Recording the complaints from Shri Ekvira Aai Prartishtan and NatConnect Foundation, the Collector has informed the NGT that now there is no blockage of water. The 70 sluice gates adjoining the wetland have also been lifted, he said. The Environment Director had also directed NMSEZ to demolish the illegal security cabins. “We seem to be back to square one,” Kumar said.Collector Kalyankar was not available for comment.Dismissing the claims by the greens, an official from Raigad Collector office, who did not want to be named, said, “The affidavit submitted to the NGT is factual. It is based on the reports submitted by officers working on the field. We have confirmed it and the outlets have been opened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greens-say-raigad-collector-s-affidavit-to-ngt-on-panje-wetlands-misleading-101636559781521.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B asks staff, students to get jabbed after 5 Covid cases reported on campus in 2 weeks||Mumbai After recording five new Covid-19 cases on its campus in the past two weeks, the management of the Indian Institute of Technology- Bombay (IIT-B) recently reached out to all their staff and students, requesting everyone to get vaccinated at the earliest. Following the state government’s orders, the institute has now decided to collect vaccination certificates of all staff and students, and in the near future, ask all those unvaccinated to conduct rapid antigen tests at regular intervals as part of the Covid-19 protocols. “In two weeks between October 24 and November 6, we had three and two cases [of Covid-19] respectively. Three out of these cases were hostel resident students and that has resulted in several students, who are high-risk contacts, being subjected to quarantine. The institute’s contact tracing team has noted that most recent cases had a history of travel within Mumbai or out of town (sic),” stated a letter addressed to all the staff and students of the institute.College campuses across Maharashtra reopened on October 20 following a government order calling for a phased reopening of education institutes. IIT-B had been shut since March 28 last year but slowly started allowing students back on campus, starting with PhD scholars and final-year Masters students, whose research projects depend on laboratory access. The institute also brought in around 150 undergraduate students who did not have the means to attend online classes outside campus. Officials from the institute suggested that the move to conduct tests and ensure everyone on campus is jabbed is keeping in mind the preparation for the start of hybrid classes beginning early next year. “It is for this purpose that the institute’s Covid-19 task force has suggested that those without a vaccine certificate should get vaccinated at the earliest. There has been some hesitancy on part of some senior teachers as well as students who are worried about the side effects of getting vaccinated. But this decision could lead to us putting lives of those around us in danger, which we need to avoid,” said the official.While IIT-B management has not shared an official figure on the number of students and staff who are yet to be vaccinated, IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri said the figure will be very small.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitb-asks-staff-students-to-get-jabbed-after-5-covid-cases-reported-on-campus-in-2-weeks-101636558641212.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||High court to Nawab Malik: Did you verify the information before posting it on Twitter?||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik to file an affidavit to the effect that he had verified the information pertaining to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his family, before publishing it on his Twitter handle, even as it said that Wankhede is an “officer” and his actions can be scrutinised by “any member of the public”.A single judge vacation bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar is hearing a defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Wankhede, Sameer Wankhede’s father, who has sought damages of ₹1.25 crores and an order restraining the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader from making any false or incorrect statements against the Wankhede family that would defame or harm their reputation.“You are a public officer....you just need to prove that the tweets (posted by Malik) are prima facie false....Your son is not only an individual, but a public officer and can be examined by any member of public,” the judge told Arshad Shaikh, Dnyandev’s advocate.However, the court also asked Malik’s lawyer Atul Damle whether his client had verified the information posted by him on his social media account. “Is it not your duty to verify the documents before posting? Have you verified the authenticity of the documents as a responsible citizen and spokesperson of a national party?”The bench gave time till November 12 for Damle to file an additional affidavit in that regard.Wankhede’s father has sought an ad-interim injunction order against Malik from making further remarks or statements in media. He has also asked that Malik delete pertinent articles, posts and comments from digital and electronic media. Shaikh on Wednesday sought time to file an additional affidavit to show how the tweets were false and defamatory.“The court is mindful of what relief to give. I am not going to pass a gag order. But he is also a citizen of India, he has come for damages through this suit. I also have to ensure that whatever has been uploaded was verified or not,” Justice Jamdar said on Wednesday.In the past month, Malik has made a series of allegations against Wankhede who conducted a raid on a cruise ship on October 2, following which Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23) was arrested. Wankhede had also arrested Malik’s son-in-law, Sameer Khan, in January, in a case that Malik claims in a false one. Malik has called the cruise ship raid “fake” and accused Wankhede and others of plotting to “kidnap” Aryan with the aim of extorting money. Last month, Malik also accused Wankhede of forging a caste certificate to get a position in the Indian Revenue Service, and said that the Wankhedes were Muslim.Dnyandev and Wankhede have refuted all claims made by Malik.Malik told the HC on Tuesday that Dnyandev’s defamation suit was an attempt to cover up his son’s “illegal activities” and an attempt to curtail Malik’s “freedom of expression”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-to-nawab-malik-did-you-verify-the-information-before-posting-it-on-twitter-101636558161181.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body spends over ₹3,000 crore on Covid-19 in 18 months||In over 18 months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has spent over ₹3,000 crore on handling Covid-19, according to the data provided by the civic body.The BMC has spent over ₹1,219 crore in the ongoing fiscal, over ₹1,809 crore in 2020-21 and more than ₹9.18 crore in 2019-20. The expenditure mainly comprises setting up of healthcare infrastructure like increasing bed capacity, coming up with makeshift Covid hospitals, procuring medications used for treating Covid-19, etc.According to BMC officials, in 2020-21 the BMC’s expenditure was towards enhancing healthcare in the form of jumbo bed facilities, setting up new Covid care centres, followed by expenditure towards hotel bills for the accommodation of frontline staff, along with recruiting new staff on contract basis.Further, the money had to be spent on medical equipment such as personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, three ply masks, gloves, face shields, hydroxychloroquine, thermometers, body-bags, protective eye-wear, sanitisers etc., followed by purchasing of life-saving injections, including remdesivir and tocilizumab.In the ongoing fiscal, the BMC has spent over ₹1,200 crore on Covid-19, which includes cost towards regular purchase of drugs and maintenance of Covid facilities and partially on handling of the second wave. The expenditure of at least ₹500 crore is expected for setting up oxygen plants in the city, along with oxygen refilling plants. The BMC has plans to set up 16 oxygen plants at 12 civic hospitals in the city along with setting up an oxygen refilling plant in Mahul.Further, for handling the much anticipated third wave, the civic body has also set up around half a dozen makeshift hospitals that have been kept on standby for now. These hospitals will be activated when the need arrives, said BMC officials.The BMC in the 2020-2021 budget, had set aside ₹2 crore for fighting Covid-19 and later had spent money from the contingency funds. However, in the ongoing fiscal, the amount is being spent from the health budget. The BMC had allocated ₹4,728.53 crore, 12% of budget, to the health sector in the ongoing financial year.However, corporators across party lines have questioned the BMC over expenditure on Covid-19. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in the BMC said, “We have been demanding a white paper on the Covid expenditure by the civic body since long, but the administration has not made it available to us. We do not know where and how the public money is being spent.”Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator and MLA from Bhiwandi said, “This is one of the biggest scams in the BMC. We need the BMC to table a white paper on the expenditure of the BMC due to Covid-19.Meanwhile, the BJP has claimed that the expenditure on Covid-19 is much more than what the BMC has been claiming. Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator and party leader in the BMC said, “There is no proper spending happening on expenses relating to Covid-19 and they have spent much more than required. To clear all doubts, the BMC should come out with a white paper on the expenditure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-spends-over-3-000-crore-on-covid-19-in-18-months-101636557561185.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Central govt panel recommends fresh environmental clearance for Navi Mumbai airport||An expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the Union environment ministry has recommended granting fresh environmental clearance (EC) to the Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA). The recommendation was made during the last EAC meeting on October 8, minutes of which were accessed by HT this week. All the terms and conditions of the EC granted in 2010 for the project’s nodal agency – City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) – have been retained.The new greenfield NMIA is envisioned as the second major airport for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region after the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Santacruz. It will be built on 1,160 hectares (ha), of which 250ha is forest land, including 108.5ha of mangrove forests, which is roughly equivalent to 73 Wankhede Stadiums.On November 22, 2010, the ministry granted EC and coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance for NMIA, while the wildlife and forest clearances were granted in 2013 and 2017, respectively. The EC was subject to conditions such as compensatory plantation of mangroves over an area of 615ha, including the development of a 245-ha biodiversity mangrove park, a 60-ha mangrove restoration on the west side of the airport around Moha and Panvel creeks and 310-ha on the northeast end of the airport between Gadhi River and Mankhurd Panvel Rail Corridor.Additionally, National Highway 4B was to be declared as a ‘no development zone’, among other conditions. After garnering an extension of validity for EC again in December 2017 up to November 11 this year, Cidco applied for EC renewal on May, claiming to have almost completed all on-site land development work.As per the minutes of EAC’s October 8 meeting, 400ha of compensatory mangrove plantation has been completed through the forest department, while another 108ha of mangroves have been planted in a no-development zone (NDZ) in Kolekhar village. The plans to develop the mangrove park, in Vaghivali village, have been scrapped as per the recommendation of the Bombay Natural History Society. However, Cidco has said it will retain the area in its present condition. Of the total 9,492 trees that were slated to be cut for the project, 9,053 have been felled and of the 3,319 trees that had to be transplanted, only 1,493 trees have been transplanted by Cidco. As per the terms of the earlier EC, an off-site plantation of about 14,000 trees on 50.620ha outside the project site has been proposed near Jite Village in Raigad district. It was revealed in the EAC’s minutes that the construction of the Ulwe Recourse Channel (URC) for diversion of Ulwe River – a proposal which attracted stiff opposition from environmentalists – was completed in June 2019.A Cidco spokesperson, “Granted that there have been several delays, but with the fresh EC almost finalised, we have to now only wait for the terms of the fresh CRZ clearance to be ratified by the environment ministry before we can go ahead with the project. We have obtained CRZ recommendation from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority in September. Our estimated timeline for completion of phases-1 and 2 is December 2024. After operations begin and traffic triggers can be assessed, expansion of phase-3 will be completed by 2028 and phase-4 by 2032.”Last year, activists had filed objections against granting of fresh EC and CRZ for the project and highlighted the alleged violations and non-compliance of conditions imposed during previous clearances, from objections related to site selection, violation of wetland rules, bird strike hazard safety, furnishing of incomplete information by Cidco to livelihood risks, impact of heritage areas and ecosystems near NMIA.The present site was selected for this project despite the fact that 26% of the airport site falls in CRZ-1 (most ecologically sensitive) category and comprised 400 acres of mangroves, 1,000 acres of mud flats and 250 acres of forest lands, environmentalists from Mumbai-based Conservation Action Trust (CAT) alleged in a letter to EAC last year. “The haste in [pre-development] reclamation led to flooding across Kombudbhuj, Dungi, Paragaon, Khalche Owale and Bhangarpada villages across Ulwe,” the letter alleged.Airport in satellite city•Airport site area: 1,160ha•Built-up area: 141ha•Green zone area: 384.90ha•Trees to be cut: 9,492•Trees to be transplanted: 3,319•Off-site plantation: 14,000 trees over 50ha•Deadline for completion: 2024•Expected employment: 90,000 people•Project cost: ₹41,302 crore•Environment management budget: ₹272 crore•Project-affected families: 3,113•Project displaced families: 2633Project conceived 24 years ago•1997: Project first conceived. Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) constitutes committee to find suitable site to decongest Mumbai airport•2000: Cidco prepares techno-feasibility study•2001: International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) conducts simulation study, confirms project feasibility •2007: Cidco submits project feasibility and business plan report to MoCA; project gets in-principle nod of Union cabinet•2008: Cidco appointed as the nodal agency •2010: Project receives clearance from Ministry of Defence as well as initial EC from Union environment ministry up to November 2021•2015: Maharashtra announces plans to develop a 600sqkm city named Naina (Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area) around airport•2016: Project obtains forest clearance•2017: Pre-development works begin amid protests by locals•2018: Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays foundation stone for airport•2021: Adani Airport Holdings announces completion of project by 2024, fresh EC granted||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-govt-panel-recommends-fresh-environmental-clearance-for-navi-mumbai-airport-101636557381450.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||A university stands for everything that’s ideal||Speeches on the university campuses are delivered by great thinkers, educationists, scientists and statesmen who choose their words and implied thoughts wisely. These are often published and become a part of the archives and the university lore, to be reiterated by each batch. What does a university stand for? “A university stands for humanism, for tolerance, for reason, for the adventure of ideas and for the search of truth,” the oft-repeated quote of Jawaharlal Nehru is in fact a fragment of a speech that he delivered at Jawaharlal Nehru University. We have excellent examples of convocation speeches; reading them is a delight, a feast for both the heart and the mind. To my view, a university stands for everything that is ideal in the world, everything that makes us human -- knowledge, ethics, values, justice, equity, equality and transcendence. Remove a university from the city, and the city is shorn of enlightenment, illumination, it goes dark. Even for the large section of society having no direct link with the university, who might not have ever entered the portal of the campus, a university is a site of respect, of academic brilliance and reverential educational discourses. Great things happen inside a campus. Old ideas are churned, tested, scrutinised to be retained or thrown away; new ideas are generated, discovered and invented. Lives get transformed, knowledge enhanced, behaviours perfected, skills acquired. Friendships forged, mentors found, collaborators located, partners stumbled upon, life-long relationships are bonded in the classrooms, corridors, canteens, libraries and laboratories of the university. The society of tomorrow takes birth on the campus, is nurtured into responsible adulthood here. The next wave of the civil society takes shape in the crucible of the university. Apart from the idealistic perspective, a university is also the site of rigorous research, providing to society utilitarian and materialistic techniques, methods, concepts and products. Even if it is not a ceremonial speech, every word that is said on the campus should be erudite, respectful and meaningful, whether these are uttered by students, teachers or administrators. There are certain things which are taboo in the university -- corruption, shrewd designs, conspiracies, petty thoughts, hate speech, suppression, bias, prejudice, inequality, discrimination. Conflicts do arise on the campus, they are bound to arise in the arena of thoughts and perspectives, but these are not solved by insults, abuses, cuss words, uncouth acts, demeaning, belittling or hate speech. This is the first lesson students learn in a university -- agreeing to disagree, sorting differences, listening to your opponent, considering the dissent, allowing the alternative -- with grace and dignity. Students learn to negotiate, express themselves, communicate their deepest thoughts, defend their point of view, and substantiate their argument without raising their voice, with quiet elegance, poise and sophistication. There is no place for rude, uncivilised, ill-mannered, foul-mouthed, coarse dialogues here. Howsoever disturbing be your grievance, nobody has the right to violence of any kind, be it physical, mental or verbal, inside the periphery of the campus. There is no place for provocateurs of hate, violence or users of crude language on a university campus and for that matter a college or even a school campus. jayantiduttaroy@yahoo.co.in The author is faculty in the Human Resource Development Centre, Panjab University, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-university-stands-for-everything-that-s-ideal-101636557261412.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 241 new Covid cases, 3 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: As of Wednesday, Pune district has reported 241 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,976 deaths and 2,951 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 25,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 111 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 366,262 and the death toll went up to 6,922 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 87 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 521,503 and the death toll was 9,202 and no more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 43 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,040 and the toll stood at 3,503 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 25,469 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and in total 12,260,275. Of which 7,882,347 are first doses and 4,377,928 are second doses. A total of 557 sites saw vaccination of which 398 were government centres and 159 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-241-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-24-hours-101636556181246.html
10-11-2021||Pune||BJP’s youth wing holds protest against NCP’s Nawab Malik in Pune||PUNE The youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held agitations in the city against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik as he intensified the allegations against former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Malik on Wednesday addressed a press in Mumbai and questioned the appointments done during Fadnavis’ tenure and alleged that people with “dubious Pakistan connections” were appointed at key posts. Malik also said that the fake currency racket was going on in Maharashtra under Fadnavis’ protection.The members of BJP’s youth wing said Malik is trying to malign Fadnavis’ image and diverting the key issues. During the press conference Malik claimed, “With the blessing of Fadnavis, the game of counterfeit notes started in Maharashtra. After demonetisation was declared by PM Narendra Modi and when the fake currency was being seized in many states, no case was registered in Maharashtra for almost a year. On October 8, 2017, DRI conducted a raid and seized fake currency worth ₹14.56 crore but the case was weakened by Fadnavis, (the then chief minister) showing a seizure of only ₹8.80 lakh.”“Imran Alam Shaikh, an accused arrested from Mumbai got bail and no probe was conducted. Shaikh is the younger brother of Haji Arafat Shaikh, a BJP leader, who was appointed as state minorities commission chairman in the previous government,” the NCP leader further said.He added that there was a “direct connection” of the counterfeit notes with Pakistan.The press conference held on Wednesday was in response to the claims made by Fadnavis on Tuesday, accusing Malik of having business dealings with 1993 Mumbai blasts convicts. The BJP leader said that Malik and his family members purchased land in suburban Kurla at a very cheap rate through fictitious documents from the two convicts.The NCP leader rubbished the “baseless” allegations, which he said have been levelled against him to malign his image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjps-youth-wing-holds-protest-against-ncp-s-nawab-malik-in-pune-101636555281152.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Relief to commuters: BMC opens bridge over Walbhat river shut since July||After keeping it shut for four months since July, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday restarted the Ram Mandir bridge over Walbhat river, connecting SV Road to Ram Mandir, for light motor vehicles. Only half (then south-bound) portion of this bridge has been restarted, for two-way traffic, as the other half (then north-bound) had been demolished in March 2020, for reconstruction. Reconstruction is presently in progress. It was expected to be completed by November 2021; however, it has been delayed until February 2022. The part of the bridge which was not being demolished was closed for vehicular traffic after the Walbhat river submerged the bridge this monsoon. The riding surface was eroded and the bottom slab had been broken due to the force of the water. The BMC had appointed a consultant to assess the condition and closed it for traffic.BMC had then planned to not reopen this undemolished (south-bound) half for traffic, finish constructing the north-bound half of the bridge by November, and then restart traffic on this portion. As per the original plan, the south-bound half of the bridge would be taken up for reconstruction in the second phase.A senior civic body official of the bridges department said, “Our reconstruction work on the north-bound portion was delayed by approximately three months due to the pandemic. Since the entire bridge was closed in July, vehicular traffic on the road below, towards Ram Mandir and SV Road, had become unmanageable. Hence, we decided to resurface the flood-damaged south-bound portion and temporarily reopen it for light motor vehicles. We will demolish this part of the bridge and reconstruct it in February, and start the north-bound part for traffic once its reconstruction is complete.”For the very first time, the bridges department has decided to use stainless steel girders for the construction of this bridge. So far, BMC used mild steel girders for bridge construction.While resurfacing the flood-damaged part to restart traffic flow for a mere four months has caused BMC’s bridges department considerable expenditure, it has eased traffic on the road below.Dhaval Shah from Lokhandwala Oshiwara Citizens Association said, “Traffic flow has been much better on Wednesday. But the bridges department took an unnecessarily long time from July to November to repair only 100 meters, causing inconvenience to lakhs of commuters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/relief-to-commuters-bmc-opens-bridge-over-walbhat-river-shut-since-july-101636555221147.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Navigation route row: Weren’t consulted on coastal road project, Fisherfolk tells BMC||Worli fisherfolk on Wednesday responded to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) statement over the ongoing navigation route row, relating to the coastal road-Bandra Worli sea link (CR-BWSL) interchange. Fisherfolk has reiterated that they were not consulted during the project planning stage and that the civic body’s assurance of compensation, though important, is not in line with their primary demand of a redesign in the interchange. BMC had, on Tuesday, said that the navigation span as per current design specifications is sufficient.“The first point of BMC statement mentions that our two fishing societies were consulted before the fisheries department granted the no-objection certificate (NOC) in 2017. This is false. We were not consulted before the NOC was granted,” states a note issued on Wednesday by Worli fisherfolk.“We have made multiple representations to the BMC and other relevant authorities since 2018 pointing out repeatedly that the navigation span provided for the coastal road is insufficient and unacceptable to us, but we have not received a response to our letters, nor were we called for a meeting to explain our concerns,” the note continues.Nitesh Patil, president of the Worli Koliwada Nakhava Matsyavyavsay Sahakari Society, explained that the span between the Bandra Worli sea link in front of Cleaveland Bunder (which faces a threat of permanent closure due to the interchange) is already very narrow, and the Coastal Road connector bridge will add more columns in this precarious route. “This series of columns will make it impossible for us to navigate the rocksand strong currents,” he said.BMC in its statement referred to the Bureau of Indian Standards’ Code of Practice for Design of Ports and Harbours (IS:4651), which specifies that a “navigation span is required to be 5 times the width of the boat for single carriage and 8 times the width of the boat for double carriage.”Referring to data obtained from the fisheries department, BMC has said that the largest registered vessel operating in Worli Koliwada is 3.8 metres wide, and accordingly the navigation span for boats operating from the koliwada “should be kept at a maximum of 30.4 meters for double carriage.” “The Mumbai Coastal Road Project has a navigation span of 60 meters, which is almost double prescribed the navigation span,” the BMC’s statement said.Fisherfolks have responded saying that the IS:4651 standards are meant for harbour entrance channels, and not for bridge columns in the open sea, as is the case with the CR-BWSL interchange. Moreover, this standard specifies the minimum requirement for navigation routes and not the permissible maximum requirements. “The appropriate distance for navigation ought to be based on the specific geomorphic conditions and tide pattern and currents. The standards do not say that large spans cannot be built,” the fisherfolks’ statement said.Officials in the BMC’s coastal roads department did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navigation-route-row-weren-t-consulted-on-coastal-road-project-fisherfolk-tells-bmc-101636554383022.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Off-the-counter liquor sales in Pune increase as home delivery takes backseat||PUNE: With Covid-19 losing its grip on and normalcy returning to the city, liquor sales have risen over the past few months with off-the-counter sales increasing by 5 to 10%. Whereas ‘home delivery’ of liquor which was started by the Maharashtra government is slowly losing ground in the city although the Wine Association would prefer that the option is kept open and that the government is in no rush to discontinue it. According to the Pune District Wine Merchants’ Association, the demand for home delivery has declined with liquor shops remaining open during normal hours and women, too, opting to visit these shops to choose their liquors. “Ever since the government allowed the shops to remain open as before Covid-19, the demand for home delivery has gone down. During the lockdown, there was a lot of demand and I was sending liquor home for three straight weeks. But now, there are not enough consumers asking for home delivery; they prefer to come to the store,” said Shivaji Khandve, president of the Pune District Wine Merchants’ Association.Ajay Deshmukh, secretary, Pune District Wine Merchants’ Association, said, “With most of the people now vaccinated, it has become easy to buy off-the-counter and choose favourites. While home delivery was very much the need of the hour during the lockdown, and was very efficient then, there are not many takers now.”Santosh Zagade, superintendent of police, state excise department, said, “Home delivery services started by the state government were useful during the lockdown but with shops open throughout, sales off-the-counter have increased in the past few months by 5 to 10% in the district. There was a lot of demand for liquor and spirits during the festive period when IMFL sales were as high as (2848681) 4%, beer recorded (2880193) 25%, and wine (14732) 12% during the month of October.”A recent survey, ‘Consumer pulse on home delivery of liquor’ carried out by the International Spirits and Wines Association of India (ISWAI) – the apex body of the premium alcoholic beverages (AlcoBev) sector – highlighted the challenges of low retail density and price arbitrage in the state namely, revenue loss and smuggling of spurious and counterfeit liquor which in turn is compromising public health. The survey highlighted the growing demand for home delivery of liquor from urban middle- and upper- class consumers including women due to factors such as safety, convenience and comfort. During the pandemic, 78% women consumers of alcoholic beverages across major Indian cities said that they are likely to buy alcohol themselves if online or home delivery services are made available.Nita Kapoor, CEO, ISWAI, said, “The AlcoBev industry in the state is facing the challenge of low retail liquor outlet density, which leads to price arbitrage in premium brands and higher taxes. Home delivery models can bring the convenience of quality products delivered at the doorstep, and importantly, extend comfort and safety to women while buying their drinks. For women buyers, this will improve the alcohol purchasing experience.”Like all other sectors, the pandemic has impacted the alcoholic beverages sector, too. While Indian consumers are increasingly opting for premium brands in the alcoholic beverages space, there has been a tremendous change in trends and patterns of alcohol consumption in the last 18 months. Although associations are of the view that home delivery should continue despite the dwindling demand, Kapoor said, “We request the state government to strengthen and frame standard home delivery norms to ensure that no delivery is done to underage consumers while addressing the concerns of licensed retailers as home delivery would make liquor buying convenient for the citizens of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/offthecounter-liquor-sales-in-pune-increase-as-home-delivery-takes-backseat-101636554380972.html
10-11-2021||Jaipur||Got threat letter, crossed-out poster after gunshot outside house, says BJP MP||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan police on Wednesday set up a special team to probe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member Ranjita Koli’s complaint that someone fired a shot outside her Bharatpur house and left behind a threat letter on Tuesday night.Tuesday evening’s incident comes just five months after the lawmaker complained her vehicle was forced to stop by six unidentified goons and the rear windshield of her car smashed in May this year. She also said the unidentified attackers hit her vehicle with iron rods, presumably to intimidate the member of Parliament and her team.After Tuesday’s incident, Koli told the police that an unspecified number of persons left a threat letter and crossed out her poster on her house. Two bullets were also glued to her poster, she said. The details of the letter have not been released yet.Koli said she had gone out for a public hearing and returned home at about 9.30pm. “When we’re about to sleep, I heard a gunshot. I went downstairs and saw bullets pasted on my posters,” said Koli, who was taken to hospital after the incident as she felt uneasy. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted that he has spoken to the Bharatpur MP and directed the state police chief and principal secretary of the home department to probe the incident and take strict action.Gehlot added that a team of special operation group (SOG) from Jaipur will go to Bharatpur.Director-General of Police ML Lather said a SOG team led by superintendent of police Manish Tripathi will investigate the matter. A case has been registered by police station Bayana under the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/got-threat-letter-crossed-out-poster-after-gunshot-outside-house-says-bjp-mp-101636553782603.html
10-11-2021||Bhopal||MP govt removes three senior officials after 12 children die in hospital blaze||The Madhya Pradesh government removed the dean of Gandhi Medical College Jitendra Shukla, Hamidia Hospital superintendent Lokendra Dave, and Kamla Nehru Hospital director KK Dubey on Wednesday, after a major fire broke out in the special newborn care unit (SNCU) of the Bhopal-based Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital on Monday night killing twelve newborn.“Gandhi Medical College dean Dr Jitendra Shukla, superintendent of Hamidia Hospital Dr Lokendra Dave and Director of Gas Relief Department, KK Dubey, are removed from their posts while Avdhesh Bhadoria, a sub-engineer (electric) of the Capital Project Administration (CPA), the agency responsible for the maintenance of this hospital, has been suspended,” Medical education minister Vishvas Sarang told reporters.The head of the pediatrics department at Kamla Nehru Hospital, Jyotsna Srivastava, told reporters that eight more children lost their lives, taking the total toll to 12. Srivastava claimed that infants did not die inside the SNCU but perished later.“All 40 children admitted at the time were evacuated. The four children who died initially did not die inside the special newborn care unit but died because they weighed very less, had breathing issues and because of smoke their condition worsened. They died around 12 and we are calling it death due to an accident,” Srivastava told news agency ANI on Wednesday.Opposition leader Kamal Nath paid a visit to the hospital and hit out at the BJP government in the state, stating that this was the third such incident in the last six years. "It was a very sad incident. I talked to the family members of the children who died in the incident. They are in very bad condition. This is the third incident in the past six months," he alleged.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had ordered a high-level enquiry into the incident. The state government also announced an ex gratia of ₹4 lakhs for the bereaved parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-removes-three-senior-officials-after-12-children-die-in-hospital-blaze-101636553428102.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||UP first state to administer 10 cr first doses of Covid vax||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday became the first state in the country to administer 10 crore first doses of the Covid vaccine. In all, over 13.60 crore doses (first and second ) had been administered in the state since the vaccination drive began on January 16. At present, UP had 92 active Covid cases, said officials. According to health department data, 100244311 first doses were administered by 6pm on Wednesday while the number of second doses was 35762469. “UP is the first state in the country to have administered over 10 crore first doses of the Covid vaccine,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. Among beneficiaries, over 8.18 crore were between 18 and 45 years of age, over 3.44 crore between 45 and 60 years and over 1.97 crore 60-plus. “The chief minister has directed officials to speed up vaccination and increase focus on rural areas in the state,” said a state government spokesperson in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-first-state-toadminister-10-cr-first-doses-of-covid-vax-101636553481075.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Congress to take out 403 ‘padyatras’ in UP from November 14||The Uttar Pradesh Congress will take out ‘padyatras’ in all the 403 assembly constituencies of Uttar Pradesh between November 14 and 24 to urge people to “vote out BJP to control inflation”, the party said in a statement on Wednesday.“A total of 403 ‘padyatras’ titled “mahangai hatao pratigya padyatra” (Pratigya Padyatra to reduce inflation) will be taken out beginning on November 14, the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister late Jawahar Lal Nehru. Every yatra will pass through at least seven villages or wards and cover a distance of at least 10 km in every assembly constituency every day,” said the statement. “The party proposes to cover total distance of 32,240 km and hold 24180 village level and 5000 roadside public meetings during the period. Party workers would distribute the “pratigya patra” (pamphlets listing Congress promises) and detail out the prevailing situation on the front of rising inflation. After every two days, a day’s rest will be given to the workers and this would bring down the effective number of days of the ‘yatra’ to eight days,” the statement read. Senior party leaders will address a roadside public meeting at local markets at the end of the day’s ‘yatra’. Every ‘yatra’ will cover a minimum distance of 80 km and at least 60 villages or wards. A minimum of eight roadside public meetings will be organised during the period at the end of every yatra. “Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu has sent directives to all district city unit presidents of the party and asked them to fix responsibility of party leaders to make the ‘yatra’ success in their respective districts/cities in the state,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-to-take-out-403-padyatras-in-up-from-november-14-101636553301202.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Finest Indian golf players tee off at Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021||Round 1 of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 commences at 6.50am on Thursday at Chandigarh Golf Course, a tree-lined parkland course which over the past half a century has produced a majority of India’s finest golf players, including the host, Jeev. With a par of 72, Chandigarh Golf Course has 4 par 5s, 4 par 3s and 10 par 4s. It’s now time for serious golf for the next four days after the fun Pro Am in which the pros got a feel of the golf course and the members got a chance to play with the pros and also pick up a few tips from them. This is the leading prize money event on the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) along with the year ending Tata Steel Tour Championship with a total prize money of ₹1.5 crore and offering a 1st prize of ₹24 lakh being 16% of the total prize money. It is the 20th event of the proposed 24 events of the pandemic-hit 2020-21 combined PGTI season. Local winner predicted amid perfect weather The Golf Club and course are all decked up with colourful flags, sponsors’ hoardings and night time celebration lights. The fairways are green and soft and the speed of the Bermuda may reach 10-11 on the stimpmeter by day four provided they are polished with the roller. The bunkers are soft with some new sand and the rough is fair and about 2-3 inches high at places. The tournament director has decided not to invoke the preferred lie rule as many pros were expecting due to the early morning dew which keeps the fairways soft till around 10am and alongside the cooler temperature make for the holes to play longer as the ball flies shorter in the cold and has little roll due to the dew factor. A local winner is predicted and a winning score of 15-20 under par will be easily achievable as the weather is perfect with negligible wind and the fairways and greens soft with short irons into the par 4s and 2 of the par 5s are easily reachable. Excellent opportunity for tricity’s golf fraternity It is an excellent opportunity for the almost 10,000-strong tricity golf fraternity of Chandigarh Golf Club, Panchkula Golf Club, CGA Golf Range, Mohali Golf Range, SEPTA, Chandimandir, and Forest Hills Golf Resort to watch the finest Indian golf players in action, including Jeev Milkha Singh, defending champ and order of merit leader Karandeep Kochhar, Jyoti Randhawa, Gaganjeet Bhullar, Shiv Kapur, Ajeetesh Sandhu, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, Jairaj Singh Sandhu, Viraj Madappa, and Adil Bedi, and support the 25 local participants, comprising a staggering 22 pros and three amateurs who play out of Chandigarh. It will be especially beneficial for aspiring tricity golf juniors, amateurs and children to learn from the top golf professionals who will pull off some of the most amazing drives, chips and putts over the next four days. They can learn a lot from seeing in person their swings, short game, putting, equipment, fitness and course management. Carnival-like atmosphere on course The Golf Club has planned to have a carnival-like atmosphere for its members during the week on the sidelines with daily lawn lunches, a Club Nite concluding with a gala complimentary lunch followed by the prize distribution on Sunday. For me, it is always a pleasure to play on my home course and I’m grateful to my childhood golfing partner, Jeev, and the sponsors TAKE Sports for inviting me to participate. I spent the Pro Am day fine tuning various aspects of my game and taking advice from experienced CGA-based coach Jesse Grewal, who has been guiding me over the past six months. I prefer to take it a bit easy on the day before the event and especially on a course where I have spent 45 years. My game and fitness is getting better by the day and I’ve undertaken good physical work and restarted mobility exercises and proper nutrition as I look forwad to teeing off at 11.40am from tee no 1 with Indian Open Champion Firoz Ali of Royal Calcutta Golf Club and maverick Ashok Kumar of Delhi Golf Club. We will miss the presence of the legends and Jeev’s parents, Mr and Mrs Milkha Singh, and the successful conduct of this prestigious tournament will be a fitting tribute to them. kahlontrio@gmail.com The writer is an Asian Tour winner and Arjuna Awardee in golf||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finest-indian-golf-players-tee-off-at-jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-2021-101636552581590.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: Third non-bailable warrant issued against Param Bir Singh||A city magistrate court on Wednesday issued a non-bailable warrant against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in the Marine Drive police’s ₹20 crore extortion case, presently being probed by the state criminal investigation department (CID).This is the third non-bailable warrant issued against Singh.Last month the courts in Thane and Mumbai had issued non-bailable warrants (NBW) against Singh in two other criminal matters involving charges of extortion.Special public prosecutor for CID Shekhar Jagtap said that on Wednesday afternoon eighth additional chief metropolitan magistrate court issued NBW against Singh.Singh, five other policemen and developer Sanjay Punamiya, Sunil Jain, and others are accused in the case. Punamiya and Jain were earlier arrested and granted bail in the matter. On Monday night, the CID had arrested two serving police inspectors Nandkumar Gopale and Asha Korke. They are presently in police custody till November 16. Singh is wanted in the case along with many others. The CID is probing at least three of the five first information reports (FIR) filed against him.A look-out circular (LoC) is already in force against Singh. Apart from this, two open inquiries have been initiated against the 1988-batch senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) over the corruption allegations made against him by two serving inspectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-third-non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-param-bir-singh-101636551920962.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||‘Will not follow DDMA order. No one can stop us from performing Chhath rituals’: BJP MP Manoj Tiwari||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Manoj Tiwari reached Yamuna ghat to perform Chhath Puja on Wednesday, despite a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order prohibiting the rituals at public places, including on the banks of Yamuna."We will not follow the DDMA order” Tiwari told reporters.“No one can stop us from performing our rituals. DDMA's work is to clean the Yamuna and not to ban people from going there," he added.Tiwari also hit out at the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for “stopping people from celebrating Chhath” on the banks of Yamuna. He urged the apex court to look into the ban imposed by DDMA."Instead of preventing flow of drains such as Najafgarh nullah, the Kejriwal government is stopping people from celebrating Chhath at the banks of the river. The Supreme Court should take note of the situation and the Kejriwal government should be treated like a criminal for playing with the health of the people," Tiwari said at a press conference earlier in the day.DDMA had released an order on September 30 prohibiting Chhath celebrations in public but amended its order a month later after serious backlash from BJP. The amended order released by DDMA on October 28 allowed Chhath celebrations to be held in designated spaces with proper Covid-19 protocols in place but banned celebrations along the Yamuna.Following in Tiwari’s footsteps, BJP MP from West Delhi Parvesh Verma reached Yamuna ghat at ITO, claiming that Delhi Police was not allowing entry of devotees, adding that “We came here and allowed their entry. We arranged clean water here. I am happy that people are performing their rituals.”Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia countered BJP’s claims, alleging that the AAP government has increased the number of ghats to 800 for devotees.“Before 2015, Chhath Puja was organised only at 80-90 ghats, only a select few from BJP-Congress could use these ghats. Once the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power in Delhi, the number of ghats were increased exponentially because the AAP cares for the Purvanchali population of the city. This time, despite Covid-19, the Delhi government has made grand arrangements for Chhath Puja at more than 800 ghats,” Sisodia said during a press briefing.Yamuna is also currently reeling under layers of toxic foam causing the Delhi government to resort to measures like setting up bamboo barricades and sprinkling water. AAP leader and Delhi Jal Board chairman Raghav Chadha alleged that the toxic foam in Yamuna was a gift to Delhi from the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-not-follow-ddma-order-no-one-can-stop-us-from-performing-chhath-rituals-bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-101636550528056.html
10-11-2021||Ranchi||BJP slams state order for teachers to sell jute bags used in midday meal scheme||BJP in Jharkhand has slammed an order by the state's Midday Meal Authority under which district education superintendents have been asked to make arrangements to sell jute bags that have been used under the scheme.The BJP has alleged that the Jharkhand government is forcing school teachers to sell jute bags that were used in the scheme.Jharkhand Midday Meal Authority issued an order last month to the district education superintendents, to make arrangements to sell jute bags used in the scheme.The amount from selling the bags is to be deposited into the account of Saraswati Vahini Sanchalan Samiti.Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratuk Shahdeo alleged that the state government "is forcing school teachers to sell jute bags which were used in mid-day meal scheme". He said this will affect their focus on teaching."There are many schools where there is only one or two para teachers and no supporting staff. The teachers would be forced to sell the jute bags. The Education Minister should have thought twice before passing an order like this," Shahdeo told ANI.Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahato, however, said there will be no disturbance in teaching due to the order and the government is also willing to review it."It is not like that they are going to sell it (jute bag) in the market. We are reviewing it. If teaching or study is disturbed by this, we will stop this. Practically there will be no disturbance. There is no issue. There's nothing like teachers being forced to sell (jute bags)," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-slams-state-order-for-teachers-to-sell-jute-bags-used-in-midday-meal-scheme-101636547954852.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Suspended policeman, his colleague arrested in Jammu shooting case||A suspended policeman and his former colleague, who were wanted in connection with last week’s shooting incident on the outskirts of Jammu, were arrested from Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, a police officer said. Three people, including a history-sheeter and his brother, were killed and another critically injured in a shooting incident following a brawl over some issue in Salehar village of Arnia in R S Pura on Friday. Jammu senior superintendent of police (SSP) Chandan Kohli had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident and bring the culprits to book. After initial investigation, constable Bhopinder Singh emerged as the main accused who had fired indiscriminately from his rifle on the four people. He was accompanied by his former colleague constable Sadeeq. “Both the accused were arrested by the SIT from Kathua district,” the officer said, without divulging further details. The accused were on the run since the shooting and on November 8, police detained the wife of Sadeeq for questioning and also recovered the service rifle of the suspended cop from a field. Babar Chowdhary, a history-sheeter, his brother Sabar Chowdhary and Arif Chowdhary were killed, and their associate Parveen Kumar was critically injured in the incident. While Sabar and Arif died on the spot, Babar succumbed to injuries when he was being shifted to a hospital in Punjab for specialised treatment on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspended-policeman-his-colleague-arrested-in-jammu-shooting-case-101636548740529.html
10-11-2021||Indore||BJP MLA in MP stages sit-in, says collector not meeting him for being dalit||BJP MLA Rajesh Prajapati sat on a dharna outside the residence of the District Collector in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur on Tuesday night alleging that the latter is not meeting him as he is a Dalit.According to the BJP MLA, he was waiting to meet the collectorate since 5pm."I want to meet him regarding some issues of my constituency but he is avoiding me. He is meeting others but not me. Why a Dalit MLA is not being heard," Prajapati said.Rajesh Prajapati represents the Chandla Assembly constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/bjp-mla-in-mp-stages-sit-in-says-collector-not-meeting-him-for-being-dalit-101636547412168.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||16th Tibetan cabinet: Three ministers take oath||Three Kalons (ministers) of the 16th Kashag (cabinet), nominated by Sikyong (president) Penpa Tsering and approved by the 17th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile, were officially sworn-in at a ceremony at the Tibetan government’s headquarters in Dharamshala on Wednesday. They are Dolma Gyari, Tharlam Dolma, and Norzin Dolma.Sonam Norbu Dagpo, the chief justice commissioner of the Tibetan Supreme Justice Commission, administered the oath of office to the new Kalons.The oath-taking ceremony was attended by Sikyong Penpa Tsering, members of the 17th Tibetan Parliament, justice commissioners, heads of the autonomous bodies and secretaries of various departments of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA).Three positions of Kalons are still vacant. Dolma Gyari, a former four-term member of Tibetan Parliament-in-exile, has earlier served as deputy speaker for two consecutive terms and later as Kalon of Home from 2011-2016.Tharlam Dolma, a teacher-turned-politician, has served on various key positions within the government-in-exile.Since 2011, she is a member of the department of education council and advisory committee and is also a governing council member of the Dalai Lama institute based in Bengaluru. Norzin Dolma previously worked as a research officer, senior programme officer, acting executive director, and board of directors at the Tibetan Center for Human Rights and Democracy (TCHRD). She also served as the head of United Nations, European Union & human rights desk at CTA’s department of information and international relations (DIIR). She later worked as a development officer at The Tibet Fund (TTF), New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16th-tibetan-cabinet-three-ministers-take-oath-101636547360619.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport gears up to handle 660 daily flights for its winter schedule||With air travel witnessing a steady revival, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is gearing up to handle about 660 daily flights during the winter season, when the frequency of flights is expected to go up.“With a planned average of 660 daily flight movements, arrival and departure movements will have equal distribution - 330 average daily flight movements each,” a CSMIA spokesperson said. “Destinations including New Delhi, Goa, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai, which were on the top in terms of the highest flight frequency during the 2020 and 2019 winter schedules,” the CSMIA spokesperson said.According to the ratings agency ICRA, a strong year-on-year growth for domestic and international traffic for Indian carriers is expected in FY2022.Some of the leading airlines that are expected to have a high number of weekly flight operations include IndiGo (240), SpiceJet (120) and Go First (90), an airport official said.The winter schedule of 2020 had witnessed average daily passenger traffic as follows: IndiGo (21,035), Air India (6,774), SpiceJet (5,855), Vistara (4,911) and Go First (4,645).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-gears-up-to-handle-660-daily-flights-for-its-winter-schedule-101636545500371.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal HC rejects plea to declare Pahari as state’s official language||The Himachal Pradesh high court has rejected a public interest litigation seeking a direction to the state government to declare Pahari (Himachali) as one of the state’s official languages on the ground that it lacks its own script and the dialect differs from one district to another and even within a district. Also read: Punjab politics: Day after quitting AAP, Rupinder Kaur Ruby joins CongressIn its November 8 order on the PIL by Jwalamukhi resident Arsh Dhanotia, the division bench, comprising chief justice Mohammad Rafiq and justice Sabina, observed that such directions cannot be issued to the state government until it is established on record that Pahari (Himachali) language has its own script and that a common Pahari dialect is spoken throughout the state. The petitioner urged the court to direct the government to promote research towards a long-term formal Pahari nuclear language structure and Tankri script to promote local languages as the medium of instruction in primary and middle schools, according to the New Education Policy, 2020. He sought to include Pahari as a separate category for the 2021 Census and simultaneously undertake a campaign to create awareness among the masses, particularly the youth, to get Pahari marked as their mother tongue in the Census. The court said that in response to the query, the counsel for the petitioner did not dispute that Pahari dialect differs from area to area. Advocate general Ashok Sharma also submitted that not only would the Pahari dialects differ from one district to another but even in a single district. “We, however, set the petitioner at liberty to approach the department of language art and culture with his demand for undertaking research to promote a common Pahari nuclear language structure and Tankri script,” said the court. It would be for the authority concerned to consider the same in accordance with law, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-hc-rejects-plea-to-declare-pahari-as-state-s-official-language-101636544240330.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Third non-bailable warrant issued against ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||A fresh non-bailable warrant was issued against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with extortion cases registered against him.  Last month, the state home department proposed to declare the former top police officer as an absconder and also sought the Intelligence Bureau's help to trace him. According to officials in the home department, the legal process of declaring Singh an absconder has begun.An ANI report said the latest warrant is the third one against Singh and has been issued in connection with an extortion case registered at the Marine Drive police station. Two serving police inspectors -- Nandkumar Gopale and Asha Korke -- were arrested in the same case following hours of investigation by the state investigation department on Monday.Non-bailable warrant issued against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with extortion cases registered against him. pic.twitter.com/4ij0CFHxbcOn July 23, the extortion case was registered against Singh, dismissed officer Sachin Waze and others at Goregaon police station, whose investigation was later handed over to the Mumbai Crime Branch. It was the second case of extortion in which Singh has been named.The Enforcement Directorate had earlier summoned the former top officer to record a statement in connection with the ₹100 crore money laundering case against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Singh had also alleged that Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked Waze and other officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from restaurants and bars in the country's financial capital.Earlier, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had taken a jibe at Singh’s absconding status. He said that while the Supreme Court was talking about a case pending in Maharashtra since 1958 as the accused was absconding, at present, there was case where the complainant himself was missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/third-non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-101636543195737.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab politics: Day after quitting AAP, Rupinder Kaur Ruby joins Congress||A day after Rupinder Kaur Ruby, the Bathinda Rural MLA quit the Aam Aadmi Party, she was inducted into the Congress in the presence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh. Also read: Punjab AG issue: Congress MP Manish Tewari takes dig at SidhuBesides Channi and Sidhu, the Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who is the Bathinda Urban Congress MLA, were among those present at the induction ceremony on Wednesday. In her first remarks after joining the party, Ruby said: “The Congress is the asli aam aadmi (real common man’s) party and is headed by a woman leader.” Ruby’s exit is being seen as a setback for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. Tweeted resignation to Kejriwal, Bhagwant Mann In a tweet on Tuesday night, the 33-year-old first-time MLA addressed her resignation to AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab unit head Bhagwant Mann. “This is to inform u that I am resigning with immediate effect from the membership of Aam Aadmi Party. Please accept my resignation. Thx Rupinder Kaur Ruby. (MLA Bti.rural),” her tweet read. Last month, Ruby had backed Mann for the party’s chief minister face and was said to be cut up with the leadership over the delay in making the announcement. Faceoff with Harpal Cheema over exit Though Ruby did not cite any reason for her decision to quit the party, AAP legislature party leader Harpal Singh Cheema said that Ruby was not going to get the AAP ticket and, therefore, joining the Congress. “Rupinder Ruby is our younger sister, be happy wherever you go. This time, she had no chance of getting a ticket from the AAP so she is joining the Congress. The Congress is requested not to cheat Ruby and should give her the ticket from Bathinda Rural,” Cheema tweeted. Hitting back at Cheema, Ruby accused him of not raising his voice for the party leaders or the people of Punjab. “When it was time for you to speak, you did not say anything. You neither raised your voice for the people of Punjab nor for Bhagwant Mann. As for the ticket, you can contest against me,” she tweeted, throwing a challenge to the legislature party chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-politics-day-after-quitting-aap-rupinder-kaur-ruby-joins-congress-101636543460112.html
10-11-2021||Pune||In my opinion: Only Face to Book on -ve Insta impact is mine||I have not used the Meta-owned Facebook in a little over a decade. I am not on Instagram.Yet, Frances Haugen’s “Facebook Papers” impacted my Meta-sheltered existence as much, if not more than it did the select cabal of journalists who attempted to form that exclusive coterie that would bear the responsibility of releasing insights into the “real” Facebook to the world.A media feeding frenzy left that “for-the-greater-good” attempt in a mess of embargoes not adhered to. (Ping! A chance for media to introspect on how profit drives motives).The key Haugen reveal that slapped me awake is: Facebook knew about the “dangers” Instagram posed to 14-year-old girls and did nothing about it.Facebook’s research, based on surveys, as per Ms Haugen’s papers, claims: “Thirty-two per cent of teen girls said that when they felt bad about their bodies, Instagram made them feel worse”.The inference: Meta-owned Instagram feeds on the insecurities of adolescent girls (13-14-year-olds specifically was the age group that surfaced), as a source of eventual, if not immediate revenue.I have a daughter who is 14. She is on Instagram.In fact, post the Haugen expose I have begun to have active conversations with her on her “smartphone” life. The Meta-fetus that she is, her ’verse is increasingly multi-woke and less uni.When she logs on to her phone, this is the order she accesses her apps: Instagram, Twitter, Discord, Pinterest, and Reddit. (I have her permission to share this; always take permission from a 14-year-old).I have no idea what Discord is.Of those five I only access Twitter. So, I attempted to have multiple talks with my 14-year-old Miss Woke-ness (who has missed the post on keeping her clothes/cupboard/room clean), about the “danger” Instagram is to her.She is fully aware. She, with no confusion or “sense of self-realisation dawning”, outlined for me exactly why Instagram is “bad for teens”.She knows. Yet she lives on Instagram.Her friend’s circle, her entire online messaging and “staying in the loop” system, her life inputs, all Instagram.Apps like WhatsApp, Facebook, and even email do not exist for her at this point in time. Not unless her dad is trying to share “something amazing” his Twitter feed led him to.Fourteen-year-old girls are insecure and Instagram feeds on that insecurity to put my daughter at the risk of going into a dangerous, never-ending loop of “how can I fit in?” “How can I be sexier?” “Am I good enough?”There is money to be made from any human insecurity. Global sales for the beauty industry are $500 billion, as per Lindsay Grouse of the New York Times.The question my wife and I am dealing with is: whose responsibility is it to safeguard my 14-year-old daughter from the dangers of Instagram?Is it, can it, must it be Meta’s (FB)? Or Mr Zuckerberg’s? Or the government? Or an online army of Judge Dredds (a dated pop reference that should tell you how old I am)?Or, is it mine? The father of a 14-year-old girl who is on Instagram.Insta did not force my girl to get on. Insta is free. Just like every good, bad or dangerous reality out there in the real (or metaverse) – it’s free, and the choice to make is yours, mine and my 14-year-old daughter’s.As long as my daughter is under my care that responsibility is mine, and mine alone.I am bemused by the governments of the world and especially the US consistently trying to bring the Face to Book. Perhaps they have to. If 1.93 billion netizens are active users of anything, the government has to get involved. For the greater good, of course.The fact of the matter is, for the good of my 14-year-old daughter (and my peace of mind) I have to get involved; not in how the ’Gram is run or not run; not in what Facebook can or cannot influence; not in the Meta world when it does finally dawn.I have to get involved in my 14-year-old daughter’s life.Get involved using my non-woke, traditional Gen-X values and hard-as-nails experiences of my own life, to give my daughter the set of emotional, mental and, ahem… spiritual tools she needs to survive and thrive in a world I do not fully relate to.Instagram is free, but it is my job to ensure my daughter does not pay the price.Roopesh Raj can be contacted at roopesh.raj@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-my-opinion-only-face-to-book-on-ve-insta-impact-is-mine-101636541720552.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt installs bamboo barricades, sprinkles water to remove Yamuna froth||To address the problem of toxic foam found floating on the Yamuna River, the Delhi government on Wednesday resorted to measures ranging from sprinkling of water at high speed at various locations to dissipate the foam and set up bamboo barricades near Kalindi Kunj to stop such foam from floating towards the riverbank in the Capital.The Delhi government’s efforts coincide with the day of Chhat Puja celebrations, even though the Yamuna remains out of bounds under an order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which has led to the government setting up Chhat Puja venues at 800 spots within the city.Government deployed boats were also seen on Wednesday cleaning up toxic foam that has been floating on the Yamuna for the past few days in parts of Delhi. An official said the government had put 15 boats to work to remove the foam that was forming in the Yamuna due to rising pollution.The official said a decision had been taken jointly by the irrigation and flood control department, revenue department and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee. A strong cloth was being tied between two boats with the help of which the foam was being brought to the banks. The hazardous foam floating on the Yamuna river is the result of increased ammonia levels and high phosphate content caused by the discharge of industrial pollutants, including detergents, into the river.A major blame-game among various political parties is continuing in the capital over the appalling crisis.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday that the toxic foam found floating on the Yamuna was a gift to Delhi from the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Chadha, who is also the vice chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB), said about 105 million gallons per day (MGD) wastewater from the Yamuna in Haryana and about 50 MGD wastewater from the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh merged into Okhla Barrage and this water had industrial waste, untreated detergents and ammonia that led to formation of the dirty foam. He further said the foam in the Yamuna was formed in the Okhla Barrage area and it fell under the UP irrigation department, and that the AAP government had been writing to its counterpart in Uttar Pradesh to use irrigation technology and bioculture method, but nothing much had been done to address the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-puts-up-barricades-sprinkles-water-to-curb-toxic-foam-floating-on-yamuna-101636541480926.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||'Allegations serious': Cong's Nana Patole wants CM Uddhav to probe Malik-Fadnavis row||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on demanded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray institute an investigation into allegations and counter-allegations levelled against each other by minister Nawab Malik and leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis.The Shiv Sena supremo heads a coalition government Maha Vikas Aghadi in which the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) are partners. Malik is a veteran leader of the Sharad Pawar-led NCP, while Fadnavis, a former chief minister, is a senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Describing the current political situation in Maharashtra as terrible, Patole said, “Leaders are making allegations against each other. It is bringing shame to the state. The allegations made by the former chief minister and the state minister against each other are serious,” the Congress leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | 'Never to wrestle with a pig', says Fadnavis as Nawab Malik speaks of underworld, fake currenciesEarlier in the day, Malik accused Fadnavis of patronising a fake currency racket and shielding people with underworld links during the latter’s tenure as chief minister.This came a day after Fadnavis said the NCP leader made property dealings with convicts of the 1993 Mumbai blasts accused.Malik also accused Fadnavis of shielding the Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Sameer Wankhede, against whom the minister has levelled several serious allegations, including extortion and fraudulent use of caste card to obtain the government job.Also read | Sameer Wankhede’s father meets Maharashtra governor with wife and daughter in towThe latest round of war of words is an aftermath of the Wankhede-led sensational drugs bust case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan is an accused and arrested last month. He was granted bail by the Bombay high court after spending more than 20 days in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail.Malik has said Wankhede and BJP leader Mohit Kamboj were part of a plot to kidnap Aryan and demand ransom from the Bollywood superstar. Wankhede has been removed the case and a team from the NCB's Delhi unit has taken over the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-serious-cong-s-nana-patole-wants-uddhav-to-probe-malik-fadnavis-row-101636541083691.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Security tightened at railway stations across 9 Uttar Pradesh districts over bomb threat||The Uttar Pradesh police have tightened security at many railway stations after receiving a letter threatening bomb blasts at railway stations and temples in nine districts across the state. The threat letter, received by the superintendent of Meerut City railway station, came ahead of chief minister Yogi Adityanath's planned visit on November 11, according to a report carried by news agency PTI on Wednesday.The security was upgraded at all railway stations in nine districts even as the police believed the letter to be a hoax. The letter threatened bomb blasts at many temples and railway stations in nine districts, including Meerut, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh, Khurja, Kanpur, Lucknow and Shahjahanpur.The letter was received on Tuesday, PTI quoted Railway Police DSP Sudesh Kumar Gupta as saying. Gupta said prima facie, it seems to be a hoax.The police have registered a case against unidentified persons under relevant sections at the GRP police station.The latest letter follows a similar note which was received by the Hapur railway station superintendent's office on October 30, leading to a thorough checking of the station premises.In view of the proposed visit of the chief minister to Meerut on Thursday, the police have increased vigil, superintendent of police (city) Vineet Bhatnagar told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-tightened-at-railway-stations-across-9-uttar-pradesh-districts-over-bomb-threat-101636536982836.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Online shopping from Lajpat Nagar, Khan Market? Delhiites divided, worry about bargaining||If you get a chance to explore online versions of Delhi’s iconic markets such as Lajpat Nagar, Khan Market, Janpath and Sarojini Nagar, would you e-shop or visit these spots physically? This is the dilemma denizens are in currently! The Delhi government has decided to come up with an online portal, Dilli Bazaar, where people can shop from each store in these markets from the comfort of their homes, offices, etc. And, the proposal has met with a mixed bag of reactions. Some markets, such as Sarojini Nagar and Janpath, already have an online presence on individual portals, and these models “have worked well”, according to their founders, as long as vendors are compensated adequately. “Even when the lockdown was lifted, our orders didn’t stop as people were hesitant to go out. We have a loyal customer base, mostly from NCR, who don’t want to travel all the way, yet get what a typical market offers,” shares Sheetal Munshi, co-founder, Janpath Online.Social media has also driven demand on these portals. “We have got so many orders from YouTube influencers. During the lockdown, whatever we used to put out would get sold instantly. We’ve now started delivering outside Delhi, too. Some people love the ambience of the market, but it’s also true that many hate crowds,” says Vandit Chawla, founder of Sarojini Market Online. Anupriya Khanna, a social media manager from Paschim Vihar says, “In this Covid era, going to markets can be risky. So, if local shops are present on these portals, there can be nothing better than that... Anything to avoid crowds! Punam Arora, a teacher from Rajouri Garden adds, “This would be so good once it starts, especially for those professional who have to maintain work-life balance, like me. I barely get the time to go to the markets and mostly end up shopping online. But once this portal goes live, this way I’ll be able to buy things from the street shops and also help locals; which I often miss on many e-commerce websites.”Can’t always shop onlineDivya Arora, a content writer from Rajouri Garden says, “Delhi markets mein jaake shopping karne ka mazaa hi kuch aur hai! Maximum I can do is check out stores on the website, shortlist and go there. But I can’t always shop online.”“Kisiko discount pasand nahi hai kya?” laughs Rahul Saha, a businessman from Safdarjung Enclave, adding, “Bargaining is a big part of shopping at these markets. Only when you bargain, you get the satisfaction of having shelled out the correct prices. And that can only happen when one goes to the market, physically, to shop. Also, at times, a product looks outstanding online all thanks to photography; but that’s not how it really is offline.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/online-shopping-from-lajpat-nagar-khan-market-delhiites-divided-worry-about-bargaining-101636532789617.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Barricades, cops keep Chhath devotees away from polluted Yamuna, BJP MP wants his way||Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma, the West Delhi MP of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday entered a ghat of the polluted Yamuna river at ITO in Delhi despite barricades in place to stop Chhath puja devotees from taking dips and performing rituals in the frothy water. Personnel of the Delhi Police were seen also dispersing devotees from Yamuna banks due to the restrictions in place.Verma who poured water at the Yamuna ghat, also known as Chhath Puja ghat for being one of the oldest banks of the river for Chhath rituals, wanted to know why the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government was stopping devotees to celebrate the festival at the bank.BJP West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh enters Chhath Puja (Yamuna) Ghat in ITO despite barricading. pic.twitter.com/pin40Xw4TSHe said the Municipal Corporation of Delhi and the Delhi Development Authority had, however, given their nod to go ahead with the Chhath celebrations. The BJP MP also asked devotees to come to the ghat and promised to take care of their safety.Also read | Toxic foam: Boats, sprinklers at work as devotees take a dip in polluted Yamuna“The MCD, DDA have given permission to celebrate Chhath... Why is the Delhi government not permitting to celebrate Chhath at ITO, which is the oldest ghat in Delhi. Why are we being stopped? I urge everyone to come here, we will look after their safety,” the MP was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Monday, he had vowed to set up a ‘ghat’ at the place and take part in celebrations on the main day of Chhath festivities. He also said that while Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party came to power with the votes of people from Purvanchal, the CM was now refusing to allow them to celebrate their festival.Also read | BJP MPs visit Yamuna river ghats to assess Chhath Puja arrangements A major political slugfest was underway in the national capital over Chhath celebrations in the toxic foam-filled Yamuna. While the AAP has blamed BJP-led governments in neighbouring Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for the crisis, the saffron camp has slammed the Kejriwal government for not doing enough and failing devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/barricades-cops-stop-chhath-devotees-from-frothy-yamuna-bjp-mp-wants-his-way-101636529759377.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi University professor arrested for wife’s murder in Burari||A Delhi University (DU) assistant professor, identified as Virender Kumar, has been arrested along with his cousin, yet to be named, in connection with the murder his wife Pinky Singh in Burari on Monday. Police arrested the duo after questioning the DU faculty member’s former driver, identified as Rakesh. Rakesh was arrested on Monday evening after he told the police that he killed the DU assistant professor’s wife. On Tuesay, Delhi police said Rakesh, 31, allegedly strangled and electrocuted Pinky,32, at her house in Sant Nagar in Burari. Rakesh claimed, according to police, that he committed the murder because he had a grudge against Pinky for having been sacked as the driver and also for being evicted from the house. Pinky’s husband Kumar is an assistant professor at the DU’s Ramjas College. The couple had got married in February. Also Read: Driver, sacked, confesses to killing DU professor’s wifeWhile police had arrested Rakesh over the murder case on Monday, a separate team was probing Kumar’s role. Police had detained Kumar and was questioning him since Pinky’s murder came to light on Monday evening. Kumar had claimed he was not at home at the time of the murder, but police began probing his role after his murdered wife’s family members said they suspected he was behind the killing, said an investigating officer who wished not to be named. “The couple regularly fought. It prompted Virender to rope in Rakesh for the murder. We are probing how the woman was electrocuted,” the officer said. Delhi police were expected to brief journalists later on Wednesday on further details of the case. Pinky’s family members on Tuesday told HT that they had filed a complaint at Burari police station in August, seeking police protection for her as they feared her in-laws and Rakesh could have been plotting to kill her.Her brother Manvir Singh told HT on Tuesday, “My sister had been living in fear for the past few days and had suspected that her in-laws were plotting to kill her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-professor-arrested-for-wife-s-murder-in-burari-101636528999550.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||'Great transport service': Yogi Adityanath flags off Kanpur Metro trial run||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday flagged off the trial run of Kanpur Metro on Wednesday. Addressing a gathering on the occasion, Adityanath said that Kanpur has now become a metro city."The residents of Kanpur will have a great transportation service in the next six-eight weeks, I congratulate all of you in advance," the chief minister said, adding that the project is running ahead of schedule."Kanpur is now a metro city in itself, not just in terms of population but also because of the transport facility it is getting," he added.In the first phase, the metro will run for nine kilometres, between IIT-Kanpur and Motijheel and help in checking the pollution in the city. Two metro corridors of about 32.5 km long are proposed under the Kanpur Metro project.First corridor will run from IIT to Naubasta which is 23.8 km. The second is an 8.6 km long corridor from Chandrashekhar Azad Agricultural University to Barra.The services of Kanpur Metro are expected to be opened for the public on December 31.The inauguration event of metro was held at the Metro depot in Government Polytechnic. Adityanath inspected the facilities available at the platform and also undertook a trip through the metro train to check the facilities available inside it.The chief minister will be in Kanpur for three hours, during which he will also review the Zika virus situation in the district.He will also visit areas affected by the outbreak of Zika virus. He will meet the family members of those infected by the Zika virus to take stock of the health facilities being provided to them and the cleanliness drive in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/great-transport-service-yogi-adityanath-flags-off-kanpur-metro-trial-run-101636528113363.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||72 liquor bottles stolen from Delhi Gymkhana Club during lockdown; FIR filed||The Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has registered a First Information Report (FIR) over the alleged theft of 72 liquor bottles worth over ₹2 lakh from the Delhi Gymkhana Club during the nationwide lockdown imposed in March last year to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. No arrests have yet been made in the case that was lodged on November 6.The Delhi government in October 2020 suspended the bar licence of the club for “misappropriation of liquor”. The action was taken after the excise department found the club was allegedly involved in the sale of liquor during the lockdown.The EOW, which probes financial fraud and white-collar crimes, registered the FIR on the basis of a complaint by Lt Col Vikram Kapoor (retired), the club’s officiating secretary. Kapoor has accused three former club officials of allegedly misappropriating the liquor bottles when bars and restaurants were shut. The FIR alleges that the bottles were stolen between March 19 and June 6, 2020.Also Read: Bar licence of Delhi Gymkhana Club suspendedBars in hotels, clubs and restaurants reopened in Delhi on September 10, 2020, after being closed for over 170 days as the Centre eased the first Covid-19 induced lockdown.In his complaint, Kapoor said when the manager of the club’s bar took stock of the bottles on June 6, 2020, he found 72 bottles of different brands missing. Kapoor told police that the manager had last taken the stock of the inventory on March 19, 2020, before restaurants and bars were shut.In his complaint, Kapoor alleged a club official, who had a cottage within the premises, took the liquor during the lockdown also for his friends. He accused two others of inaction when the manager brought the matter to their notice.EOW officers were unavailable for any comments despite repeated calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/72-liquor-bottles-stolen-from-delhi-gymkhana-club-during-lockdown-fir-filed-101636526301105.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Singlehood to sisterhood: Building new bond||Bound by a common status — of being single — a group of women across the country are finding strength in each other’s tales of courage and survival. Having interacted digitally for years, the members of the community, Status Single, finally got together for an offline meet recently.“We had our meetup on Karwa Chauth in Delhi. It was symbolic as anyone can pray for the long life of their loves ones, and doesn’t have to be only for your husband,” says author Sreemoyee Piu Kundu, who is the founder of this community. She informs, “The Delhi members of the group met and shared their experiences. Though they have known each other for long, this was the first time they met in person. It was like a blind date among friends, who got together to discuss the vision of their community.It was in October, when one of the members in Kolkata asked ‘Why are we not meeting’. With members in so many cities across the world, we then decided to build this community into an actual, visible, offline support group for single women. We realised that these women were not interested to just do a kitty party, but become a collective of women like a support group. Since then, this idea spread like wild fire, and we’ve already had meetups in Kolkata, Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Chennai, Lucknow, and Mumbai.” Sangeeta Das, an artist and graphic designer from Mayur Vihar, attended the Delhi meet and terms it a magical moment. “Everyone decided on what should be the purpose of the meet. And it was not a meet to party, but to establish a kind of city-based community group,” she points.Another attendee, Vrinda Vats, a Haryana-based teacher, shares how meeting everyone gave her positive vibes. “This helped me to strengthen my decision of staying single by choice!” says Vats.While the physical meetups could happen only now, the community kept in touch virtually during the pandemic and offered support to members. “We would talk about loneliness and mental health issues. We conducted a survey to figure out the financial situation of the members and were shocked to see that many of them didn’t have savings. We then organised talks to connect them with HR leads,” Kundu concludes.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/singlehood-to-sisterhood-building-new-bond-101636526239721.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik's fake notes allegations baseless, says Sameer Wankhede||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zonal director, on Wednesday refuted Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik’s allegations that counterfeit notes worth face value of over ₹14 crore were seized during a raid in 2017 and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had helped suppress the matter.Wankhede said the face value of the seized counterfeit notes was about ₹10 lakh and not ₹14.56 crore as claimed by the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader. Also, three persons were arrested in the case.Officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had approached the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over the case, but the latter did not do so, the NCB officer further said.“Nawab Malik's allegations are baseless. Face value of counterfeit notes seized in 2017 was around ₹10 lakh not around 14 crore. Three persons were arrested in the matter. At that time, the DRI had approached the NIA to probe the matter, but the NIA did not take over the case,” Wankhede was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.His response came soon after Malik addressed a press conference stating he was fighting against a man who is framing innocent people in fake cases, but Fadnavis was trying to defend him. “He is not only diverting my issue, but also trying to defend one officer,” the NCP leader said.Malik has levelled a number of serious allegations against Wankhede ever since the NCB raided a Goa-bound cruise and arrested among others Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan in the case. Among other charges, the NCP leader has said Wankhede was involved in an extortion attempt in the case and had also fraudulently used the caste card to obtain his job.A vigilance probe is underway against the extortion allegations and a team from the NCB’s Delhi unit has taken over six cases, including one in which Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan is an accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-s-fake-notes-allegations-baseless-says-sameer-wankhede-101636525775654.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AG issue: Congress MP Manish Tewari takes dig at Sidhu||Anandpur Sahib Congress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday took a dig at the Punjab government’s decision to replace advocate general APS Deol, saying that politicising the AG’s office undermines the integrity of constitutional functionaries. Also read: Punjab politics: Bathinda Rural MLA Ruby quits AAP, set to join CongressIn three tweets, Tewari said that both previous advocate generals of Punjab became “punching bags in proxy political wars”. “Those who subvert the institution of the AG’s office need to remember a lawyer is neither wedded to a client or a brief,” he posted on Twitter without naming Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The Charanjit Singh Channi government on Tuesday accepted the resignation of AG APS Deol, who had put in his papers on November 1 amid repeated statements from Sidhu against him. Whose government is it anyway, asks JakharTaking a shot at Channi, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said that the AG’s ouster has exposed a compromised chief minister. “The ouster of a competent yet ‘allegedly’ compromised officer has exposed a ‘really’ compromised CM. Giving rise to a pertinent question - Whose government is it Anyway? (*Apologies to BBC’s radio drama - Whose line is it Anyway),” he tweeted. APS Deol had represented ex-DGP Saini in sacrilege casesAs a lawyer, Deol had represented former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police at the time of the sacrilege incidents in 2015 and the subsequent police firing on protesters. Sidhu was opposed to Deol’s appointment for this reason and kept pressing for his replacement. Channi finally gave in and agreed to appoint a new AG. In another tweet, Tewari said since @PunjabGovtIndia is going to appoint a new advocate general, they would be well advised to peruse rules of professional standards prescribed by @barcouncilindia. “An advocate is bound to accept any brief in the courts or tribunals or before any other authority in or before which he proposes to practise. He should levy fee which is at par with the fees collected by fellow advocates of his standing at the Bar and the nature of the case. Special circumstances may justify his refusal to accept a particular brief,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ag-issue-congress-mp-manish-tewari-takes-dig-at-sidhu-101636523958648.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Toxic foam: Boats, sprinklers at work as more Chhath devotees take a dip in polluted Yamuna||Government deployed boats were seen on Wednesday cleaning up toxic foam that has been floating on the Yamuna river for the past few days in parts of Delhi. The move came amid serious concerns being raised about Chhath puja devotees taking a dip in the polluted froth-filled river in the national capital.An official said the Delhi government put 15 boats to work to remove the foam that was forming in the Yamuna due to rising pollution.He said a decision in this regard was taken jointly by the irrigation and flood control department, revenue department and Delhi Pollution Control Committee. A strong cloth was being tied between two boats with the help of which the foam was being brought out to the banks.Also read | Froth in Yamuna: What causes it and why it is dangerous?Delhi Jal Board staff were also seen sprinkling water in the Yamuna to dissipate the frothing. Barricades were also placed in the river to stop the foam from floating towards the ghats. A few devotees were also asked to leave by police.#WATCH | "We are sprinkling water in the Yamuna to dissipate toxic foam," says Ashok Kumar, Delhi Jal Board employee pic.twitter.com/4waL2VsM7TThe hazardous foam floating on the Yamuna river is the result of increased ammonia levels and high phosphate content caused by the discharge of industrial pollutants, including detergents, into the river.A major blame-game among political parties was underway in the capital over the appalling crisis.Also read | Yamuna's toxic foam gift to Delhi from UP, Haryana govts: AAP's Raghav ChadhaWhile the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government has blamed Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for the crisis, the Opposition BJP has slammed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for not doing enough and barring devotees from going ahead with their rituals on the banks of the Yamuna.A large number of devotees are likely to take a dip in Yamuna and worship the Sun ahead of the Sandhya Arghya on the third day of the Chhath puja.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toxic-foam-boats-sprinklers-at-work-as-devotees-take-a-dip-in-polluted-yamuna-101636523051993.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Sameer Wankhede’s sister-in-law demands FIR against Nawab Malik||Hridaya Banerjee, also known as Harshada Dinanath Redkar, sister-in-law of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, submitted a letter at Mumbai’s Goregaon police station on Tuesday demanding that an FIR should be filed against political analyst Nishant Verma and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for criminal intimidation.In the letter, Banerjee wrote she was shocked to learn that her name was doing rounds on social media in connection with her alleged involvement in a case of trafficking and possession of drugs in 2008. While the website of e-court services shows Banerjee - referred to as Redkar - as an accused under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, a press release issued by the police in 2007 said she and two others were booked under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Banerjee said Verma and Malik repeatedly tweeted about her alleged involvement in the case in an effort to intimidate her brother-in-law Sameer Wankhede for his role in the drugs bust controversy involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan.Also Read: Sameer Wankhede father’s suit an attempt to hide illegalities: Nawab Malik to high courtBanerjee addressed her letter to the senior police inspector of the Goregaon police station, demanding that the accused should be booked under sections 354, 354 (d), 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code.Officers at the Goregaon police station confirmed receiving Banerjee’s letter and are investigating the matter. On Monday, Sameer Wankhede’s father Dnyandev Wankhede shot a complaint letter to Oshiwara police, seeking to register an FIR against Malik under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for making “false and derogatory” remarks against him and his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sameer-wankhede-s-sister-in-law-hridaya-banerjee-demands-fir-against-nawab-malik-101636523118758.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting Punjab farmer ends life at Delhi’s Singhu border||A 45-year-old farmer from Punjab, who was protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, died by suicide near Sushant City on the Kundli-Singhu border adjoining Delhi early on Wednesday, police said. Also read: Punjab politics: Bathinda Rural MLA Ruby quits AAP, set to join CongressThe farmer was from Fatehgarh Sahib district and hung himself from a tree. A spokesman of Kundli police said the victim had been staying alone in a tractor-trolley near Sushant City for the past 15 days. The body was sent to the civil hospital at Sonepat for post-mortem examination. According to Nirmal Singh, a friend of the farmer, he owned five acres of farm land. “He was associated with the Bharti Kisan Union’s Krantikari wing and had visited Singhu several times in the past 11 months,” he said. He said the victim’s family was under a debt of ₹6 lakh and was survived by two daughters, aged 21 and 19 years, besides a teenaged son. “We demand the government pay a compensation of ₹10 lakh and a government job to one of his children,” Nirmal Singh said. He said the reason for taking the extreme step was yet to be ascertained as the family was in shock.Farmers from Punjab have been camping at Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders since November last year in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. With inputs from Navrajdeep Singh in Patiala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-punjab-farmer-ends-life-at-delhi-s-singhu-border-101636522698847.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Security in J&K has deteriorated: Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said that security situation in J&K has deteriorated following the fresh killings in Srinagar in the last two days. On Monday evening, militants had gunned down a Kashmiri salesman in the old city area of Srinagar, the second targeted killing in Jammu and Kashmir. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said, “Security situation in J&K has deteriorated to an extent where not a week goes by when an innocent doesn’t lose his life.Unfortunate that despite repressive measures taken in name of security, people are being killed & have no sense of dignity or normalcy. Condolences to his family,” Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet.The police on Saturday night had said that unidentified gunmen fired on Mohammad Ibrahim Khan in the Bohri Kadal area of Srinagar. Khan, a resident of Bandipore, worked in the dry fruit shop of Roshan Lal Mawa, a Kashmiri Pandit businessman who returned to the Valley in 2018 and set up his business. On Sunday night, militants had killed a 29-year-old police constable, Tawseef Ahmad Wani, in the Batamaloo area .This is the 13th targeted killing in Kashmir since October 1, including those of five non-local labourers. Multiple gunfights broke out during operations by security forces to identify those responsible for the attacks. Of the 11 people killed in October, seven were in Srinagar. After the fresh two killings, the security around the city has been further beefed up. Fresh checking points have been established in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-in-j-k-has-deteriorated-mehbooba-101636519997950.html
10-11-2021||Patna||8 doctors from Bihar medical colleges among 112 shortlisted for ED post at 7 AIIMS||Eight doctors from medical institutions in Bihar, including the heads of Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), are among the 112 candidates shortlisted for the post of executive director at seven AIIMS across India. The new positions are meant to downgrade the post of directors to executive directors at all AIIMS across India except for the one in New Delhi, which is the oldest and the most reputed, people aware of the developments said. “The executive directors will head the institution. Their administrative powers will remain the same as of the present director, though the financial powers have been reduced. The pay scale, however, has been downgraded from level 17 to 15,” said a senior functionary at AIIMS-Patna. Most heads of medical institutions, including directors of AIIMS, are applying for the executive director’s post even though it is a notch lower than the pay scale they are already in, as they will get an extended tenure of five years, he added. Altogether four shortlisted candidates are from the IGIMS, three are from AIIMS Patna, both autonomous institutions of the government, and one from the Katihar Medical College, a private institute. The ministry of health and family welfare had advertised the post of executive director at each of the seven AIIMS at Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Rishikesh (Uttarakhand), Guwahati (Assam) and Awantipora (Jammu & Kashmir), Patna and Darbhanga (both in Bihar). Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh, director, AIIMS Patna, and Dr Nihar Ranjan Biswas, director, IGIMS, are among the shortlisted candidates. Dr Biswas is at the IGIMS on deputation from AIIMS-Delhi. Also Read | Chhath Puja 2021 Day 3: Devotees to offer Arghya to Surya Dev in eveningDr Umesh Kumar Bhadani, dean, professor and head of the department of anesthesiology, Dr Bindey Kumar, professor and head of paediatric surgery, both from AIIMS; Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, professor and chief of the state cancer institute, Dr Om Kumar, professor and head of department of nephrology and Dr Rajesh Kumar, professor and head of department of psychiatry, all from the IGIMS, and Dr Ratul Charan Deka, principal, Katihar Medical College, are among the other shortlisted candidates from Bihar. A total 112 candidates across India, including Dr Ravi Kant, director of AIIMS Rishikesh, Dr Gitanjali Batmanabane, director of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Dr Saurabh Varshney, executive director and chief executive officer of AIIMS Deoghar, Dr Sachidananda Mohanty, medical superintendent of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Dr Manisha Shrivastava, medical superintendent of AIIMS Bhopal, are also among the shortlisted candidates. As many as 108 out of the total 220 candidates who applied for the seven posts did not make the cut. Four among them were from AIIMS-Patna. “The government has also increased the maximum age ceiling of applicants for the post of executive director from 62 to 67 years. The term of the incumbent will be for a maximum five years or till one attains 70 years of age, whichever is earlier. Earlier, the maximum age ceiling was 62 years for the post of director, which was for five years or 65 years of age, whichever was earlier,” he added. Dr Singh completes his term as director of Patna’s AIIMS in December. Representations, if any, have to be submitted by November 15, said the notice on the Union health ministry portal, uploaded on November 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/8-doctors-from-bihar-medical-colleges-among-112-shortlisted-for-ed-post-at-7-aiims-101636519458908.html
10-11-2021||Kolkata||CBI files another case in connection with post-poll violence in West Bengal||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered one more case in connection with post-poll violence in West Bengal.According to the CBI, the new case pertains to the alleged murder of Biswajit Mahesh in Paschim Medinipur district in May this year.The CBI filed the case in compliance with the Calcutta High Court order passed on August 19 this year.The agency has so far registered 44 cases and Investigation is continuing in these cases.Several incidents of violence were reported at various places in West Bengal after the announcement of the state assembly poll results on May 2, after which a four-member team deputed by the ministry of home affairs also visited the violence-affected areas.Earlier in August this year, the Calcutta high court ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into incidents of post-poll violence in West Bengal. The high court also ordered to set up special investigation teams (SIT) for investigation of relatively less serious crimes.A seven-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had earlier looked into the incidents of violence following the assembly elections in the state and recommended a court-monitored CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-files-another-case-in-connection-with-post-poll-violence-in-west-bengal-101636516297051.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’; mild fog likely||New Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Wednesday morning with the air quality index (AQI) hovering in the “very poor” category as the Capital continued to be affected by stubble burning in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.The hourly air quality index (AQI) for New Delhi at 7am was 383, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 404, which was in the “severe” category. The AQI was above 400 for three consecutive days following Diwali last Thursday as emissions from fireworks and smoke from paddy stubble burning combined to form a toxic haze that has persisted since. The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”. On Tuesday, the union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said the AQI was likely to improve but still remain in the “very poor” category due to the added impact of partially cloudy conditions. Also Read: Cold, cough cases rising in Prayagraj due to weather changeOn the weather front, New Delhi was likely to witness mild fog on Wednesday morning as per the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday was likely to be 13 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was expected to go up to 29 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 13.5 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 28.6 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD forecast, the minimum temperature could drop to 10 degrees Celsius by November 15 as cold northwesterly winds continue to blow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-air-quality-improves-to-very-poor-from-severe-mild-fog-likely-101636512618094.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab politics: Bathinda Rural MLA Ruby quits AAP, set to join Congress||In a setback for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab, its legislator from Bathinda Rural (reserved) constituency Rupinder Kaur Ruby quit the party on Tuesday night and is set to join the Congress.In a tweet on Tuesday night, the 33-year-old first-time MLA addressed her resignation to AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab unit head Bhagwant Mann. “This is to inform u that I am resigning with immediate effect from the membership of Aam Aadmi Party. Please accept my resignation. Thx Rupinder Kaur Ruby. (MLA Bti.rural),” her tweet read. Also read: High court notice to Punjab on probe into fund misappropriation by Bathinda hospitalLast month, Ruby had backed Mann for the party’s chief minister face and was said to be cut up with the leadership over the delay in making the announcement. Will talk to Ruby and AAP high command: MannWhen contacted Mann, who is the Sangrur MP, said: “I will talk to our MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby and the AAP high command. We will discuss her grievances. Our party has no faction in the organisation. We are all party volunteers and working unitedly.”Though Ruby did not cite any reason for her decision to quit the party ahead of the assembly elections early next year, AAP legislature party leader Harpal Singh Cheema said that Ruby was not going to get the AAP ticket and, therefore, joining the Congress. “Rupinder Ruby is our younger sister, be happy wherever you go. This time, she had no chance of getting a ticket from the AAP so she is joining the Congress. The Congress is requested not to cheat Ruby and should give her the ticket from Bathinda Rural,” Cheema tweeted. Ruby hits back at Harpal Cheema for not backing MannHitting back at Cheema, Ruby accused him of not raising his voice for the party leaders or the people of Punjab. “When it was time for you to speak, you did not say anything. You neither raised your voice for the people of Punjab nor for Bhagwant Mann. As for the ticket, you can contest against me,” she tweeted, throwing a challenge to the legislature party chief. Ruby met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary earlier on Tuesday. Her ties with the AAP were strained over the past few weeks when she started social activities in the adjoining assembly segment of Bhucho Mandi. Ruby had to face embarrassment recently when a group of party volunteers from Bathinda Rural publicly complained to Cheema about her performance.Four of 20 AAP MLAs in Congress Of the 20 AAP MLAs, four – Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Pirmal Singh Khalsa and Nazar Singh Manshahia, are in the Congress now. While Khaira, Kamalu and Khalsa, joined the Congress in June this year, Manshahia jumped ship to the ruling party in April 2019, just days before the parliamentary elections. With inputs by Avtar Singh in Sangrur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-politics-bathinda-rural-mla-ruby-resigns-from-aap-101636511117942.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Adityanath to inaugurate 'Braj Raj Utsav' at Vrindavan today||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate "Braj Raj Utsav" and "Hunar Haat", "Kumbh of Kaushal Kuber" at Vrindavan on November 10.According to a statement issued by the ministry of minority affairs, Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, MP Hema Malini, Uttar Pradesh minister for power Shrikant Sharma, Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary, UP Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad Vice-Chairman Shailja Kant Misra and other dignitaries will also be present on the occasion of inauguration of 31st "Hunar Haat" at Vrindavan.Naqvi said that "Hunar Haat" is a perfect platform to promote, preserve and provide market and opportunities to centuries-old traditional and ancestral art and craft of India and it is strengthening the "Swadeshi" and "Vocal for Local" campaign."Hunar Haat" has also ensured the economic empowerment of indigenous artisans and craftsmen."Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad is organizing the 10-day Braj Raj Mahotsav from November 10 in Vrindavan to promote glorious Braj culture. Religious, traditional, folk dance, as well as cultural programmes related to Braj culture, will be organized during the event," the statement issued by the ministry said.Naqvi said that about 400 artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts are participating at 'Hunar Haat" in "Braj Raj Utsav"."Artisans and craftsmen from more than 30 States and Union Territories including Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu-Kashmir, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala will bring their indigenous products made with wood, brass, bamboo, glass, cloth, paper, clay etc. Traditional vegetarian foods from various parts of the country will also be available in the Hunar Haat," he said.The minister for minority affairs stated that more than 6 lakh artisans, craftsmen and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities through "Hunar Haat" in the last about 6 years. "Hunar Haat" is also available at virtual and online platforms http://hunarhaat.org and GeM portal.People of the country and abroad can buy "Hunar Haat" products digital and online also.The next "Hunar Haat" will be organised in Lucknow (12 to 21 November), Pragati Maidan in New Delhi (14 to 27 November), Hyderabad (26 November to 5 December), Surat (10 to 19 December), New Delhi (22 December 2021 to 2 January 2022)."Hunar Haat" will also be organised in Mysuru, Guwahati, Pune, Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Patna, Puducherry, Mumbai, Jammu, Chennai, Chandigarh, Agra, Prayagraj, Goa, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Kota, Sikkim, Srinagar, Leh, Shillong, Ranchi, Agartala and other places in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-adityanath-to-inaugurate-braj-raj-utsav-today-at-vrindavan-101636509462654.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh warns of protests over ‘missing’ names in UP voters’ list||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday alleged that 2.1 million new names have been added and over 1.6 million removed from voters lists ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, and warned of sit-in protests in Delhi and Lucknow, if their concerns were not addressed.Yadav said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has not given the lists to the political parties to cross-check, unlike until before the 2019 national elections. “ECI then gave lists to the political parties, then why not this time?” he asked at a press conference called on the fifth anniversary of the demonetisation of high-value currency notes in 2016.Yadav said SP’s state president Naresh Uttam Patel led a party delegation that met Uttar Pradesh’s chief election officer and gave him a memorandum over the matter. “We will give a memorandum in Delhi (to ECI) also and if needed sit on sit-ins.”Stating that “senior officials in EC are from UP”, Yadav said he hoped his party will be given a hearing and the poll body would act in an unbiased manner.Earlier in the day, Yadav celebrated the birthday of Khajanchi, who was born shortly after his mother queued up in Kanpur Dehat to get her demonetised currency notes exchanged on December 2, 2016.Yadav said the BJP should celebrate Khajanchi’s birthday. “Demonetisation was done deliberately to trouble people.”Later, Yadav also launched a specially made “Samajwadi perfume”, hoping to spread the “scent of socialism” in the state. “When you use it, you will feel the ‘sugandh of samajwad’, brotherhood, love and amity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-warns-of-protests-over-missing-names-in-up-voters-list-101636505956831.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath to flag off Kanpur Metro trial run, review Zika situation||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will flag off the trial run of Kanpur Metro on Wednesday. The services of Kanpur Metro are expected to be opened for the public on December 31.The chief minister will stay in Kanpur for three hours, during which he will also review the Zika virus situation in the district.The inauguration event of metro will be held at the Metro depot in Government Polytechnic, according to district magistrate Kanpur Vishakh G Iyer.As per the official release by the Uttar Pradesh government, Adityanath will inspect the facilities available at the platform and will take a trip through the metro to check the facilities available inside it."The construction work of Kanpur Metro Rail Project was started by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on November 15, 2019. The Project has been completed in less than two years. The trial run will begin on Wednesday on the 9-km-long primary section," the release further says.Two metro corridors of about 32.5 km long are proposed under the Kanpur Metro project.First corridor run from the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) to Naubasta which is 23.8 km. The second 8.6 km long corridor runs from Chandrashekhar Azad Agricultural University to Barra.After the inauguration ceremony, the chief minister will hold a meeting with the district and health officials to review the efforts to deal with Zika virus in Kanpur. He will also visit areas affected by the outbreak of Zika virus. He will meet the family members of those infected by the Zika virus to take stock of the health facilities being provided to them and the cleanliness drive in the area.Nine new Zika virus cases were reported in Kanpur on Tuesday taking the total number of cases reported in the city to 98.Dr Nepal Singh, chief medical officer, Kanpur City, said steps are being taken in full swing to check the rise in cases. He said designated teams have been deployed for various tasks including surveying nearby areas and sampling of symptomatic people.Hoardings and posters have been put up and streets are being sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-to-flag-off-kanpur-metro-trial-run-review-zika-situation-101636504328560.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The lonely man||His left hand has a ring on almost every finger. Some fingers have more than one ring.“These are for good luck,” says Mukesh Kumar. “And yet I’m alone, I’ve no friend.” A labourer, he is sitting on an abandoned cart, by a dump yard near Gurugram railway station. It is late morning. He has decided not to work until the afternoon “because I’m in tension.” He is yet to have his breakfast.Mr Kumar is mulling upon his life. “I’m in my 40s. My hair is growing white. I am without a wife. I don’t have friends.” He feels “there might soon come a time when I will no longer be able to work as much as I can now.” This will lead to various complications, he explains. “I will not be able to earn much.” He fears he has no one to fall back upon for support. “I have no friend,” he repeats this fact, speaking each word slowly and firmly, and then repeats it again.Why not make a friend then.“I’m unable to… may be because I haven’t stayed in one place for long.” Until some months ago, Mr Kumar was working in a warehouse in Chandni Chowk in Delhi, “loading and unloading the maal.” His decision to shift to Gurugram took place without any careful consideration, he admits. “I left Chandni Chowk after a panga (tiff).” He narrates the entire episode in precise details that are too convoluted to explain in a brief space. He eventually boarded a bus to Gurugram, which he considers just another part of Delhi, and not as a separate city in a neighbouring state. Every morning he drops by at a so-called Labour Chowk in Sector 6 to get freelance assignments each of which lasts no more than a few hours, or a couple of days at best. He eats his meals from the pavement carts near the station, and sleeps on a footpath near a temple. He, who never used to think of himself as lonely, now feels a sense of loneliness. Perhaps it is amplified by this shift to an unfamiliar place. “I left my village when I was very young. Never again visited my parents.” He worked in a series of places in Kashmir and Punjab before arriving in Delhi four years ago. Remarking on his solitary existence, he says, “If I fall ill, then who will take care of me?”Moments later, he wonders if he must try to find a wife, a search he has never attempted before. “How do you find a friend,” he asks, while responding to a query. He looks at his finger rings. After some time he decides to get up for an early lunch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-lonely-man-101636503457235.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||LG reviews security situation at high-level meeting in Jammu||Amid spike in targeted killings of civilians, terror attacks and infiltration bids, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday reviewed the security scenario prevailing across the UT at a high-level meeting here.Amid spike in targeted killings of civilians, terror attacks and infiltration bids, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday reviewed the security scenario prevailing across the UT at a high-level meeting here.|#+|The meeting was attended by DGP Dilbag Singh, IG Kashmir Vijay Kumar, ADG Jammu Mukesh Singh, special DG CRPF Daljeet Singh Choudhary, IG BSF DK Boora and other top officials of security and intelligence agencies at the civil secretariat.“Various measures being initiated to check killings of civilians in Kashmir, spike in terror attacks and situation on the borders were discussed,” said officials privy to the meeting.They further said that the LG directed security forces to take all possible steps to protect the lives of civilians. “In this context, five companies of the CRPF are being sent to Kashmir. Besides strengthening the security grid, the companies in tandem with police will work to smash the network of overground workers in the Valley. Such workers are being suspected behind the identification and killing of civilians in Kashmir,” they said.These companies will be deployed in Valley within a week. The CRPF had earlier sent 25 companies to J&K.A civilian was shot dead on Monday a day after Jammu and Kashmir policeman was killed by the terrorists.Apart from targeted killings of the civilians, situation on the LoC and international border vis-à-vis infiltration bids and spike in terror attacks, including Poonch encounter, also figured at the meeting, they said.According to intelligence agencies, 13 hybrid terrorists were still active in Srinagar.Hybrid terrorists are not listed with the security forces. They are radicalised people, who carry out sneak attacks and then get back to normal life.After the meeting, LG Sinha left for Delhi.On October 23, home minister Amit Shah had reviewed the security situation and steps taken to combat terrorism in Kashmir in the wake of a spate of attacks on civilians, particularly non-local labourers and minorities.Shah was briefed about the steps taken to eliminate terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and counter-infiltration measures taken by the forces.Shah’s visit to Kashmir, first after abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A, had come against the backdrop of 11 civilian killings in the Valley in October alone.A total of 112 terrorists have been killed in Jammu and Kashmir so far this year. And 135 ultras have been apprehended besides two others, who surrendered, during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lg-reviews-security-situation-at-high-level-meeting-in-jammu-101636501653158.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Targeted killings sinister design of Pakistan: Ravinder Raina||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Tuesday said the targeted killings of innocent civilians in the Valley were a sinister design of Pakistan to disturb peace in the UT. Talking to mediapersons here, he said Pakistan was the biggest enemy of Kashmiri Muslims and Islam. Raina strongly condemned the killing of a salesman in Srinagar on Monday evening. “Pakistani cowards have committed another grave sin by killing an innocent who was out to earn livelihood for his family. It was biggest sin they committed by brutally killing Ibrahim, who was earning two square meals for his family,” said Raina He said that the anti-terror operations of the security forces were in full throttle in the Valley. “Pakistani terrorists are frustrated by the successful counter-insurgency operations by our police, paramilitary forces and army and have hence resorted to the killings of unarmed civilians,” he said. Meanwhile, dozens of activists of the Shiv Sena Dogra Front led by their president Ashok Gupta staged a protest at Rani Park here against the civilian killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/targeted-killings-sinister-design-of-pakistan-ravinder-raina-101636501167201.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Maiden snow leopard population assessment launched in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir department of wildlife protection has formally launched the first-ever snow leopard assessment in J&K. A research team was flagged off by Suresh Kumar Gupta, principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden of J&K. The survey is a part of the nationwide population assessment of snow leopards, being carried out as per the protocols laid by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Snow leopard is one of the threatened species found in the rocky glaciated high mountains of Himalayas. Snow leopard is found only in Central Asia, South Asia, China and Russian countries. India had launched Project Snow Leopard in 2009 to save the elusive and vulnerable species. Unofficial estimates put the population of snow leopards in India around 500. It is believed that about 60% of the snow leopards in the country roam the snowy wilderness of the Himalayan region of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir at an altitude of about 3,000 metres. The rest are found in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.The present snow leopard population assessment in J&K covers potential areas in Kishtwar and adjoining forests in Jammu, Gurez, Thajwas and Overa Aru in Kashmir region. In both the regions, the survey team comprising project research fellows, project assistants, field assistants and departmental staff would carry out camera trapping, photography, transact walk and scat sampling in potential snow leopard habitats in a systematic manner. Suresh Gupta, while formally launching the project, emphasised on the importance of having a sound snow leopard conservation plan based on robust scientific data collected in collaboration with research institutions and NGOs. He also highlighted the importance of extending protection, conservation and management aspects to the potential snow leopard habitat on landscape approach, which not only ensures long-term survival of threatened snow leopards but also secures water and biodiversity of the northern states of India. Snow leopard habitats also have major permanent glaciers which are the main source of water to the Himalayan rivers. The department is planning to complete the survey in May-June next year to ensure inclusion of exact data of snow leopard population in J&K in the national database likely to be released by the central government in October, he added. The department is carrying out this survey in collaboration with Institute of Mountain Environment, Bhaderwah Campus (Jammu University), Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agriculture, Science & Technology, National Development Foundation, Wildlife Trust of India and Nature Conservation Foundation, Bangalore. (With inputs from Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maiden-snow-leopard-population-assessment-launched-in-jk-101636501034870.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pahalgam, Gulmarg shiver at sub-zero temperatures||Sub-zero temperatures continued to be recorded during the night in Pahalgam and Gulmarg resorts of Kashmir on Tuesday.Officials of the meteorological department in Srinagar said that the tourist resort of Pahalgam, in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, reported a night temperature of minus 3.3 degree Celsius on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, while it was minus 1 degree in the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district.“Gulmarg also recorded the maximum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius on Tuesday which was lowest of all the observatories in the Valley,” said an official of MeT department. The two places have been mostly witnessing chilly nights since the last week of October after snowfall and rains on October 23 and 24 across many parts of the UT.Srinagar recorded a maximum of 17.4 degrees Celsius, while it was warmer in Jammu at 28.4 degrees during the day.“The mercury dropped to a minimum of 1.6 degrees in Srinagar during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday,” the official said.He said that the weather is expected to remain dry for the time being after light snowfall early this month in some mountainous areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pahalgam-gulmarg-shiver-at-sub-zero-temperatures-101636500751065.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: 138 Covid cases, 2 deaths reported||Jammu and Kashmir reported 138 fresh Covid cases and two deaths on Tuesday, officials said.Of the total cases, 106 were reported in Kashmir with Srinagar, which is witnessing a spurt in cases, being responsible for 59 infections. The two deaths were also witnessed in the Kashmir, both in Srinagar district. The Jammu division saw 32 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 102 with active cases reaching 1,199. Officials said with 59 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 16 cases in Budgam and 14 cases each in Baramulla and Reasi and no or single-digit cases in the other 16 districts.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 597 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 155 and 95 active cases, respectively.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 77,682 vaccine doses were administered, taking overall vaccination tally in the UT to 1.53 crore. The number of people who have recovered reached 3,27,681, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.3%. Since the pandemic started, J&K has registered 3,33,325 and the death toll stands at 4,445.Officials said that 43,504 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-138-covid-cases-2-deaths-reported-101636500539002.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Protest outside chief wildlife warden office as leopard scare grips Shimla||With the mutilated body of a seven-year-old boy being found in woods in Down Dale locality of Shimla, leopard scare has again gripped the town, particularly the areas situated close to the forest. The leopard, which reportedly killed the boy on Diwali night, was spotted again on Monday, triggering panic among the residents of Ramnagar, Kanlog and Fagli localities. A citizens’ forum — Shimla Nagrik Sabha — on Tuesday staged a protest outside the office of the chief wildlife warden, demanding the government to either kill the leopard or nab it. The citizens’ body has blamed the Shimla municipal corporation and forest department for the Down Dale incident. It has demanded the state government to issue directions to the municipal corporation and forest department to immediately take steps to check such tragic incidents. It also sought a monetary compensation of ₹5 lakh for the family of the victim. “Leopards are attacking kids right in the heart of the city and when such an incident can happen in the middle of the town, then one can easily imagine the situation in peripheral areas,” said the forum’s secretary Vijender Mehra. “It is clear from this incident that no citizen is safe in Shimla. The most surprising thing is that leopards are roaming freely in the residential areas of the city like Down Dale, Nabha, Fagli and Kanlog and the forest department is not doing anything except issuing senseless statements,” he added. The forum also flayed the civic body over defunct streetlights in the own. Yog Raj had gone missing on Diwali night and his mutilated body was found 500 metres below his house in the forest area a couple of days later. The forest department has launched a manhunt to trace the animal that killed the boy and its wildlife wing has set up trap cameras to track prowling leopards. Cages have also been installed in Ram Nagar and Down Dale. Besides, it is also running an awareness campaign to alert the locals of the animal attack. “Detailed report has been sent to the wildlife warden. It’s his discretion to invoke section 11 of the Wildlife Protection Act,” said Shimla divisional forest officer. The forest department is also awaiting the forensic reports to declare the feline as a maneater. The leopard attacks in Himachal are more frequent in the rural areas, but such incidents have often been reported in Shimla, particularly during the winter months. As many as 53 leopards attacks have been reported across the state in the last six years wherein seven persons were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protest-outside-chief-wildlife-warden-office-as-leopard-scare-grips-shimla-101636500333833.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||HP education department issues guidelines as schools reopen today||With the schools in Himachal Pradesh set to reopen for lower classes on Wednesday, the education department has laid down standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent the spread of Covid among the children. The Himachal Pradesh cabinet, in a meeting held on Monday, had allowed to reopen the schools for regular classes 3 to 7 from November 10 and classes 1 and 2 from November 15. Students of classes 8-10 are already attending regular classes since September 27. It would be after more than one-and-a-half-year that students of lower class will attend the school. As per the education department SOPs, classes will be held at 50% capacity. The remaining students will attend the class in a separate classroom. Only one student will be allowed to sit on one desk and there will be a ban on activities like sports and morning assemblies where crowding may take place. Arrival, lunch break and departure of the students will be in a staggered manner, the SOPs state. Director of higher education, Amarjeet Sharma, has directed the school principals to prepare a microplan as per the student strength and capacity of classrooms. Students will be allowed to enter the school only after thermal scanning and wearing masks would be mandatory for teachers and students, said Sharma. It is worth mentioning that the schools were closed in March 2020 after Covid outbreak in the state. The schools reopened for board classes in October 2020 and later in February 2021, but were closed due to the spurt in Covid cases. The annual exams in the schools were also cancelled as the second wave hit the state. After the Covid cases subsided, the government reopened the schools for classes 8 to 12 on September 27. Since then more than 700 school students have caught the infection and one student has died, the state government had announced week-long vacations on Diwali to break the chain. 130 more test positive for Covid in HPMeanwhile, Himachal’s Covid case count rose to 2,25,205 after 130 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The death toll mounted to 3,768 as one patient succumbed to the contagion.The highest 53 cases were reported from Kangra, followed by 25 from Hamirpur, 18 from Una, 14 from Shimla, nine each from Bilaspur and six from Kullu, three from Solan, two from Kinnaur and one from Sirmaur. The active case count came down to 1,083, while the recoveries reached 2,20,297 after 169 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 51,205 cases to date followed by 31,721 in Mandi and 27,626 in Shimla||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-education-department-issues-guidelines-as-schools-reopen-today-101636500198186.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Doorstep ration delivery plan to put migrants at risk: Centre||The Delhi government’s door-to-door ration scheme will create an “opaque” public distribution system (PDS) that will put at risk numerous beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, who are covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the national capital, the Union government has submitted in the Supreme Court.The move marks a new chapter in a long-running tussle between the Union and Delhi governments over the scheme that the former opposes for being a “violation” of rules, and the latter describes as a “pro people” policy.In its appeal against the Arvind Kejriwal government’s ambitious scheme, the Centre has told the top court that door-to-door ration scheme not only has “material deficiencies” but is also in stark contradiction to the NFSA, 2013.The scheme, claimed the Centre’s petition, would also have adverse implications in the implementation of the “one nation, one ration card scheme” of the central government, meant to safeguard the interests of migrant beneficiaries and giving freedom of choice to beneficiaries to get their entitlements through any fair price shop (FPS) of their choice through biometric authentication.The petition added that the central government has time and again requested to Delhi government against the implementation of the door-to-door ration scheme because it is against the provisions of the NFSA. “However, Respondent No.1 (Delhi government) is adamant on creating a parallel PDS scheme utilising the resources under the NFSA by completely diluting the purpose and purport of NFSA, 2013,” stated the plea.The Centre has appealed against the Delhi high court’s September 27 order, which allowed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government to stop supplying foodgrains to FPS for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.As the Delhi government claimed that “an overwhelming majority has opted for supply of rations at their doorstep” the high court said that authorities could supply only such quantities of ration to FPS that are required for those who want to collect it from shops, while the rest can be held back by the government for door-to-door delivery. The high court further asked the government to share the details of ration cardholders who have opted to receive their rations at doorsteps instead of collecting it from shops with the FPS owners.Challenging this order, the Union government has said that the high court erred in failing to consider that the Delhi government tried to create a parallel scheme without conforming to NFSA, besides not realising that the door-to-door scheme will create an “opaque parallel PDS scheme” while adversely impacting the beneficiaries under NFSA. The Centre has also pleaded for a stay on the high court order till the issue is finally settled.The Centre’s petition came up for a hearing on Tuesday before a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna. The case was, however, adjourned to Friday on a request made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the central government.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme was launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament. The term “mukhyamantri” was later dropped from the scheme’s name.Meanwhile, Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh -- a body of the fixed price shop owners, moved the high court in February challenging the tenders issued for the doorstep delivery scheme. Later, the petition was amended to challenge the ration delivery scheme with the association demanding that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond the scope of legal power).On March 22, the high court directed the Delhi government not to stop or curtail the supply of foodgrains or flour, to the members of the petitioner association, for operationalising the doorstep delivery. However, on September 27, the high court allowed the government to stop supplying foodgrains to FPS to the extent of food grains for those who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.The Delhi government maintained in the high court that the scheme does not violate NFSA, and that several states were already running similar programmes. It has further claimed that 6.9 million people out of the total 7.2 million registered beneficiaries opted for the scheme.In June, the government sent the file back to LG, contending that its provisions are in accordance with the NFS Act, and that it will simultaneously implement the Centre’s “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme.On October 5, after the high court’s order of September 27, the government sent the file again to the LG office. In a note on the file, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he sincerely hoped that Baijal will review his decision to stop implementation of the doorstep delivery scheme, so that the orders of the high court can be implemented and doorstep delivery of ration can be processed for the beneficiaries opting it.“People are asking if pizza, burger, smartphone and clothes can be home delivered then why cannot the poor citizens of Delhi get their share of ration home delivered,” Kejriwal wrote in the note.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food, including 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households, besides other food insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doorstep-ration-delivery-plan-to-put-migrants-at-risk-centre-101636498734603.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Early resolution of court cases: Jai Ram seeks better inter-department coordination||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday asked officials to ensure better inter-departmental coordination for early resolution of cases pending in various courts. He was presiding over a meeting of administrative secretaries and advocate general. The chief minister said that the state government has developed a litigation monitoring software and all court cases were being entered in this software. He said that special priority must be given to cases with high stakes and related to ambitious projects. He said the administrative secretaries must also keep a liaison and coordination with the office of advocate general so that cases in courts could be taken up at the earliest. Jai Ram said that court cases regarding JOA (IT) and JBT must be expedited as this would benefit thousands of youth. He said that efforts should be made to vacate the stay on these recruitments and requested the courts to settle the issues. He directed the officers to hold regular meetings to monitor the status of cases. Chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh assured the chief minister that officers would work with greater coordination and dedication to meet the aspirations and expectations of the state government. Principal secretary, home, Rajneesh welcomed the conducted the proceedings of the meeting. Advocate general Ashok Sharma, additional chief secretaries Prabodh Saxena and JC Sharma, principal secretary Subhashish Panda, secretaries Vikas Labroo, Rajeev Sharma and Amitabh Avasthi attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/early-resolution-of-court-cases-jai-ram-seeks-better-inter-department-coordination-101636498870095.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Smog in Ambala sky, as AQI remains ‘very poor’ three days after Diwali||Four days after Diwali , the Air Quality Index (AQI) levels remained in the ‘very poor’ category in Ambala till Monday, except for Saturday when it remained ‘poor’, data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) show.Due to such unhealthy levels, the sky remained covered with thick smog during nights and early morning, thus adding to the woes of sensitive groups. On Monday, the AQI levels touched 366 (average of the past 24 hours), the highest in the year after January 30 (398-Very Poor) as measured by the only device of the district at Patti Mehar near Polytechnic Chowk in the city.However, in the neighbouring cities, the levels remained ‘Moderate’ in Panchkula (127) and Chandigarh (122), ‘Poor’ in Yamunanagar (286) and ‘Very Poor’ in Patiala (326) and Kurukshetra (363). The AQI defines overall air quality like a thermometer that runs from 0 to 500 degrees with six remarks and color codes – Good/Dark Green (0-50), Satisfactory/Green (51-100), Moderate/Yellow (101-200), Poor/Orange (201-300), Very Poor/Red (301-400) and Severe (Above 401).As per CPCB, it is calculated only if data are available for a minimum of three pollutants out of which one should necessarily be either PM2.5 or PM10. In Ambala, the prominent pollutant remains ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) that is said to be the most harmful to human beings due to its far-reaching health risks. Experts believe that even after a decline of almost 80% in stubble burning cases as compared to last year in October and almost half of the wheat sowing is complete, the air quality has remained unhealthy primarily due to a decrease in temperature and atmospheric pressure, thus holding the dust particles in the air.Further, regular vehicular pollution, dust emission from road or construction sites and Diwali crackers added to the trouble, they said.At a review meeting recently, deputy commissioner Vikram, instructed the municipal corporation (MC) authorities to ensure sprinkling of water at construction sites and roadside, it has been learnt. MC Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said that the builders have been asked to ensure that there is no dust emission from their construction sites and dust sweeping activities on roads through MC machines and water sprinkling by fire engines are being carried out.However, Nitin Mehta, Regional Officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board, said that no such ATR (Action Taken Report) has been received on water sprinkling activities yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smog-in-ambala-sky-as-aqi-remains-very-poor-three-days-after-diwali-101636496170734.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases shoot up in Mohali again, 16 test positive in Chandigarh tricity area||With 11 fresh infections on Tuesday, Covid cases in Mohali shot up again. After a steady decline of cases last month, Mohali is witnessing an uptick in the cases since November 1. Meanwhile, five more people tested positive for Covid in Chandigarh while Panchkula reported no new case, taking the tricity count to 16, against nine cases on Monday. However, no Covid fatality was recorded in the tricity on the day.In Mohali, five cases were reported from Mohali city, three from Kharar, two from Dhakoli and one from Boothgarh. In Chandigarh, the cases were reported from Sector 8 and Ramdarbar.Tricity’s active cases also rose to 74 on Tuesday as compared to Monday’s tally of 65. As many as 42 patients are still infected in Mohali, followed by 26 in Chandigarh and only six in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,371 positive cases, of which 64,525 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,860. Among these, 67,749 patients have recovered and 1,069 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,777 includes 30, 392 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-shoot-up-in-mohali-again-16-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101636495029693.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 114 more infected with dengue in tricity||As many as 114 more dengue cases surfaced in the tricity on Tuesday, with Mohali alone reporting 75 of them. Chandigarh reported 23 new cases while Panchkula had 16 fresh infections. However, no fresh fatality was reported in the tricity on Tuesday. Chandigarh has so far recorded 1,107 dengue cases, of which 218 surfaced in November. Three persons have also succumbed to the disease here. In 2019 and 2020, UT had reported no deaths owing to the mosquito-borne disease. Of the fresh cases on Tuesday, maximum cases were reported from Manimajra, Hallomajra, and the rest from other rural and urban areas. Dengue cases highest in last five years in AmbalaMeanwhile, with 23 fresh cases of dengue, the total cases in Ambala crossed the 500-mark for this year. At 506, officials of the health department say this is the highest dengue count in five years. The previous high of 580 dengue cases was seen in 2016. The cases reported till Tuesday are also almost double reported in a fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-114-more-infected-with-dengue-in-tricity-101636494729934.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Eunuch head robbed of ₹70,000||The Zirakpur police have booked five eunuchs for allegedly injuring and robbing the head of eunuch’s community of ₹70, 000 and gold ornaments, which she was wearing, on late Monday evening. The injured mahant has been identified as Tamanna, a resident of Ramdasia Mohalla, Mubarikpur, Derabassi. On her complaint, Zirakpur police booked five eunuchs, identified as Simran Mahant, Saroj Mahant, Kajal alias Mannat Mahant, Spana Mahant and Vicky Khabri. According to the investigating officer, all the accused are absconding and raids are on to nab them. The complainant said that on Monday night, she was returning from Patiala in her car. When she reached the Chhat light point, the attackers, who came in a Scorpio car, overtook her and surrounded her car. She said they started abusing her without provocation. When she objected to it, all of them started assaulting her and fled after snatching about ₹70,000 cash, her gold ornaments and some important documents lying in her purse. The attackers also threatened to kill her before fleeing. The accused have been booked under Section 379-B (snatching), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-eunuch-head-robbed-of-rs-70000-101636494489753.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Ward 2 has VIP sectors, but is dogged by stray menace||Considered the “VIP” sectors, voters in Ward 2 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation have minimal complaints about provision of civic amenities. Their major disappointment over the last five years and key demands for the next five revolve around the stray dog and monkey menace, besides the ever-increasing parking woes. After the reorganisation of MC wards, Ward 2 comprises Sectors 1 to 10, all of which were earlier part of Ward 1. Sector 11, which was also part of Ward 1, has been excluded from the new Ward 2 constituents. The ward is the seat of power in the region, having Punjab and Haryana state assemblies, Punjab and Haryana high court, civil secretariats of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh UT. In addition to larger-sized private houses, the area also has vibrant internal markets and some educational institutions (mainly in Sector 10). Looking at the next five years, Capt GS Ghuman (retd), a resident of Sector 8 and vice-president of the Senior Citizens Association, said, “Parking is becoming a major headache in the area, particularly around the markets. Around the internal markets, which has become a “food court” of sorts, there is traffic chaos as people enjoy their snacks in their vehicles parked on the roads.” Ranvinder Singh Gill, president, Householder Welfare Association, Sector 8, said, “The problem of stray dogs has worsened even after assurances by the MC. Now, we also have the monkey menace. Repeated complaints on both issues have fallen on deaf ears.” In Sector 7, Ish Sharma, a local businessman and Congress officer-bearer, termed the condition of roads very poor. “Also, in several ward areas, the roads were dug up for laying different category of pipelines, and even after completion of the work, these have not been repaired.” During the previous elections, the area elected BJP’s Maheshinder Singh Sidhu over Congress candidate HS Lucky. Both are vying for their party’s ticket from the area this year too. Sidhu is also the incumbent senior deputy mayor. Lucky, who is Congress’ chief spokesperson and former deputy mayor, said, “These prime sectors of the city have seen a sharp decline in the last five years. No new project has come up here. Stray dogs and wild monkeys roam around the area, terrorising people. Road are crying for urgent repairs. Sanitation and cleanliness of the ward has gone down the drain. Entire lanes have been left dug up.” Sidhu defending his five-year record, listed his “achievements”, “In the last five years, two new green belts have been developed, 10 open air gyms installed, seven new public toilets constructed in green belts, new tertiary treated water lines laid, new walking tracks are coming up in nine neighbourhood parks, rear service lanes are being concretised in all sectors, high-mast lights installed in three green belts, parking behind Madhya Marg showrooms are being demolished and a new one made in Sector 7-C, sewerage, water supply lines laid in Sec 8, 9 and 10 markets.” -----KNOW YOUR WARD Ward no 2: Sector 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 General Ward 12,000 (approximate) KEY ISSUES Solution to stray dog and monkey menace Better management of the worsening parking problems, especially around markets Better maintenance of the ward in terms cleanliness, sanitation Quotes:Parking is becoming a major problem. In the evenings, there is no parking space in and around the markets. Low water pressure is also an issue.Capt GS Ghuman (retd), 71, Sector 8 resident, retired, vice-president, Senior Citizens Association----We need a permanent solution to the stray dog and monkey menace. Their population has been consistently increasing, creating major problems for the residents.Ranvinder Singh Gill, president, Householder Welfare Association, Sector 8----Sanitation and removal of horticulture waste from parks need to be improved by the MC.Sardara Singh Sidhu, 77, Sector 9 resident, retired earlier running business:We have no major civic problems, except for parking, which is becoming a major problem, particularly in the back lanes of the major markets. Shailendra Varma, Sector 7 resident, business||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ward-2-has-vip-sectors-but-is-dogged-by-stray-menace-101636494190560.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||PU murder: No breakthrough yet, police await forensic report||Struggling for a breakthrough in the murder of 60-year-old Seema Goyal, wife of Panjab University (PU) professor whose body was found in her residence on campus five days ago, Chandigarh police is awaiting the forensic report. Police are yet to ascertain whether the parts of two mesh doors in the house – one in the bedroom and the other in the kitchen -- were removed from inside or outside. The forensic report would shed light on this aspect. Even though police has so far ruled out forced entry into the house, a senior official said, the condition of the mesh doors suggests attempt of entry by opening the door bolts. Seema’s husband, Prof BB Goyal had said that he had found her body on the ground floor of the house on PU campus around 7:30 am on November 4. He had slept in another room upstairs the previous night. By the time police reached the spot, the body had been moved to the hospital. Preliminary post-mortem revealed Seema had been strangulation marks on her neck and some injuries on her head. Prof Goyal had claimed that when he found the body, Seema’s hands and legs were tied with a cloth and the house’s main door was bolted from outside. The CCTV footage of the area failed to give any clues. Police have been questioning Prof Goyal repeatedly to verify his claims. “We are still conducting investigations,” said superintendent of police Ketan Bansal, refusing to comment any further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-murder-no-breakthrough-yet-police-await-forensic-report-101636493529492.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Faux pas for AAP as it announces 6 candidates, then withdraws list||Shortly after announcing the names of six candidates for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) withdrew these names here on Tuesday.Citing a “mistake” in the formation of the list, AAP convener Prem Garg said the party would re-issue the names later. Some party leaders, on condition of anonymity, claimed that there was strong opposition to the list from some quarters of the party workers. AAP was the first to announce the list of candidates among the political parties contesting the MC elections. In “flawed” list, AAP had named Vandana Yadav from ward no. 9; Sandeep Dahiya from ward 12, Ramchandra Yadav from ward 15, Taruna Mehta from ward 18, Amardeep Singh from ward 27 and Sandeep Bhardwaj from ward 35 as its candidates.Withdrawing the names, another press statement later stated, “Please do not use this release as there is some error in details of candidates.” Though, the statement stated that a fresh list will soon be released, but till the filing of this report it wasn’t.On reason for withdrawal, a party insider said, “The party is likely to drop some names from the list after differences cropped up. Some party leaders are contesting that older party workers were left out, new entrants with little party work have been favoured.” Another senior party leader, said, “Some names were yet to be finalised but the list was still issued. Now, the party will issue a longer list of candidates.”Earlier, the party had sought applications of candidates from different wards. AAP is contesting the MC elections for the first and will put up candidates on all 35 seats. Previously, AAP had fought twice in the Lok Sabha election in the city. On both occasions it lost the election to BJP candidate. The party is pitted against BJP and Congress in a three-cornered fight for MC.The party in the last couple of weeks has been focusing on expanding its membership in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-faux-pas-for-aap-as-it-announces-6-candidates-then-withdraws-list-101636492929584.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: BJP to allocate tickets on ‘winnability’ factor, not policy against dynasty||It is going to be “winnability” factor and not its recent policy decision against “dynastic” politics, that will determine the allocation of tickets by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the forthcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation elections.In the recently concluded bypolls for Lok Sabha and state legislatures, the party had consciously denied tickets to family members of its serving legislatures whose death had led to seat vacancy and necessitated the bypolls.BJP state president Arun Sood, said, “Winnability will be the main criterion, along with commitment to party and spotless character. If a candidate has winnability factor in his favour, we cannot rule out his candidature only because he is a family member of a councillor.” Two surveys, to be conducted in all the wards, will measure the winnability of a candidate for the party.Bypoll results changed party policyNotably, party changed its stance in recent days on giving tickets to family members of its councillors.“Couple of weeks ago, in party workers’ meeting, a senior party leader had even declared that the party is against dynastic politics and so, councillors should not expect tickets for their family members. He said that it was in line with the national party policy,” said a BJP councillor requesting anonymity.Party loss in bypolls is being seen as the main reason for the changed party’ stand. Many in the party concede that not giving tickets to the family members of the its deceased legislatures played a key role in party losing ground in the just concluded bypolls.“Though several factors played role in the election results, but party went for a principled approach against dynastic politics in the process losing sight over winnability of the candidate. In the end, the party could retain only one of the six seats which had fallen vacant after its law-makers died earlier this year,” said a senior BJP officer bearer.Sood, though said, “Every region has it localized dynamics and require different election strategy. What works in Chandigarh may not work somewhere else.”Push for female relativesReservation of 12 wards for women has dramatically changed the political chessboard of the city. This is particularly so for the ruling party which has to placate the claims of its 20 existing councillors for party’s tickets, most of who lost their original wards either to ward re-arrangement or reservation.For instance, former mayor Rajesh Kalia, councillors Jagtar Singh Jagga, Anil Kumar Dube and Vinod Aggarwal’s wards have been reserved for women candidates.Many of the councillors are now pushing the party to select their female family members as their replacement for party ticket from reserved constituencies.Underplaying the role of dynastic politics in choosing its candidates, Sood, said, “We have a strong women wing in all wards. We will have very strong candidates from all wards reserved for women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-bjp-to-allocate-tickets-on-winnability-factor-not-policy-against-dynasty-101636492629464.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||High court notice to Punjab on probe into fund misappropriation by Bathinda hospital||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sought response from the Punjab government on a petition seeking investigation into the alleged misappropriation of funds under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana at a Bathinda hospital.The bench of Justice Vinod S Bhardwaj also sought response from the Punjab vigilance bureau on the allegations levelled against the Adesh Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Bathinda, on the petition of a city-based doctor.It was stated that an inquiry submitted by deputy medical commissioner, Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC), Bathinda, in August 2020 had held that the hospital created two files — one for actual treatment and another for availing benefit under the scheme for one patient. Also, it was alleged that in another case cash payment was taken and the amount was returned to the patient when an inquiry was ordered by the PHSC, which amounted to admission of guilt. The institute was let off by the government by mere de-empanelment under the scheme and only to be re-empanelled after some time, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-notice-to-punjab-on-probe-into-fund-misappropriation-by-bathinda-hospital-101636492389448.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly woman duped of gold jewellery in Chandigarh||Two persons duped a 72-year-old woman of her gold jewellery at Sector 49 in Chandigarh. In her complaint to the police, Sarla Kant Angra, a resident of Pushpac Complex, Sector 49, Chandigarh, told the police that on November 6 she was returning back from a temple in Sector 49 when a man stopped her near the boundary wall of Pushpac Society on the pretext of asking her an address. She said soon he was joined by a woman and the duo engaged her in conversation. Sarla claimed to be “hypnotised” by them into removing all her jewellery and keeping it on a handkerchief held by the man. She removed all the jewellery that she was wearing, gold bangles, ring, chain, diamond pendant and earrings. She said he handed over the handkerchief in which he had tied her jewellery and told her to open the same only after reaching home. She said after reaching home and “gaining senses” she opened the handkerchief, but found instead of gold jewellery there were iron bangles. A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 49 police station, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elderly-woman-duped-of-gold-jewellery-in-chandigarh-101636492029254.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Special assembly session ‘biggest fraud’ on people of Punjab: Bikram Majithia||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday termed the special assembly session convened by the Congress government as the “biggest fraud” on the people of Punjab as the ruling party wanted to deceive them by passing meaningless resolutions on three farm laws and BSF jurisdiction with no legal sanctity. He said this while talking to mediapersons after welcoming the return of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Balwinder Singh Kahlwan and other leaders, including sarpanches and panchayats members from Tarn Taran, who supported the Ranjit Singh Brahmpura group in the party fold. “Instead of indulging in a stage show, the Congress government should pass executive orders stopping the BSF from indulging in any policing activity beyond 15km of the international border and make the three laws null and void in Punjab,” the former minister said. Similarly, the government could cancel the power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private thermal plants instead of going through the “bogus drama” of passing a resolution on this issue, he added. He held chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi responsible for the extension of the BSF jurisdiction in the state. “Even Congress MP Manish Tewari questioned his own government as to why it had not challenged extension of central jurisdiction in Punjab till now. The assembly has already passed a resolution against the three farm laws, which was with the governor for approval,” he said. Akali leaders Harmeet Singh Sandhu and Virsa Singh Valtoha were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-assembly-session-biggest-fraud-on-people-of-punjab-bikram-majithia-101636491970928.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER’s former dean Prof Digambar Behera gets Padma Shri award||Professor Digambar Behera, former dean (research) and head of pulmonary medicine department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) was given the Padma Shri by President Ram Nath Kovind for his commendable contribution in the field of medicine at the civil investiture ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhawan on Monday. The award ceremony was also attended by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and several cabinet ministers. A recipient of 29 national and seven international awards, Prof Digambar Behera is a renowned specialist in respiratory medicine and was awarded the Padma Shri for his contribution in the field of medicine in 2020. Dr Behera has a clinical experience of over 40 years and was associated with the PGIMER, Chandigarh, till April this year. Presently, he is associated with the Fortis Hospital, Mohali. Hailing from Odisha, Dr Behera completed his graduation from SCB Medical College, Utkal University, in 1978. He then joined the department of medicine at the PGIMER as a junior resident in 1978. Dr Behera completed his MD from the PGIMER in 1980. He joined the department of pulmonary medicine as a faculty member in 1984 and was elevated to the post of professor in 2000. He also served as the director of the National Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases for a period of five years. Dr Behera is a pioneer of lung cancer chemotherapy and the founder president of the Indian Society for the Study of Lung Cancer. Currently, Dr Behera is the president of the Indian Chest Society and chairman of the National Task Force for National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme. Besides visiting more than 81 countries for academic purposes, Dr Behera is a member of various scientific societies and is on the editorial board of various scientific journals. He has over 500 publications to his name and has presented more than 580 papers in national and international conferences.Other stories in briefYouth should come forward as mediators: Rijiju 
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vegetable prices at apni mandi go down after fuel price cut||With cuts on the price of fuel, the prices of vegetables at the apni mandi in Chandigarh have also started falling. As per officials, a further drop in prices can also be expected.At the apni mandis, some depreciation can be seen in various vegetables. This comes even as mandi supervisor for the Punjab Mandi Board Satbir Singh maintains that prices are still on the higher side now. “There is a shortage in supply. The fuel cut has brought down prices, but once the supply of vegetables, especially cabbage, improves the price of other vegetables will stabilise as well.”Even as rates have started to fall in the apni mandis, they remain unchanged at the Sector 26 wholesale mandi. Officials of the UT market committee said, “Due to the festive season, farm labourers who mostly hail from other states, had gone back to their native villages. Due to this, farmers have issues loading the crop and getting it to the mandi, but in a few days, the normal supply will resume. Definitely, due to the cut in fuel rates, the price of vegetables will also fall.”The price of tomatoes at ₹70 per kg and onions at ₹40 per kg continues to remain unchanged ever since the cut in rates because of this. The price of potatoes fell by ₹5 per kg here. Vegetables like capsicum, which are grown in places like Himachal Pradesh and brought to the city, saw a big drop in prices. The price of fuel had been cut by over ₹10 per litre after the Central government and then the state governments reduced the VAT being charged on fuel. Currently, in the city petrol is for ₹94.23 per litre and diesel is for ₹80.90 per litre, the cheapest in the tricity. In Mohali petrol is for ₹95.99 per litre and diesel is for ₹84.76 per litre. In Panchkula, petrol is for ₹95.67 per litre and diesel is for ₹86.88 per litre.Price difference of vegetables in the apni mandis of the city between November 5 and November 9 (all prices in ₹per kg)Potato  ₹35 to ₹30Capsicum  ₹120 to ₹80Green chilli  ₹50 to ₹35Cucumber  ₹45 to ₹40Cabbage  ₹40 to ₹30Bitter gourd  ₹60 to ₹50Ladyfinger  ₹60 to ₹50||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-vegetable-prices-at-apni-mandi-go-down-after-fuel-price-cut-101636491909539.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Elected PU senators raise questions over appointment to key posts||Four former senators of Panjab University (PU), who have also been declared elected in the recent senate polls, have raised questions over the appointment to key administrative positions at the university.In a recent letter to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, they have said the university could not afford to run its day-to-day administration only through ad hoc/honorary appointments. Ronki Ram, Navdeep Goyal, Rajat Sandhir and Jatinder Grover in their letter said the slip in rankings was a result of no proper mechanism being followed for the appointments to key positions at the university that compromises work and affects performance.Last month Dr Subhash Sharma, state general secretary of the BJP and former senator of PU, also wrote to PU chancellor Venkaiah Naidu and said significant posts like registrar, dean college development council, controller of examination and others were being run on an ad hoc basis.Procedure not followedTerming it arbitrary, they have said that the university had a culture of inviting applications/nominations to various honorary positions and the applications received were screened and the most suitable candidate was recommended by the collegium having few senior professors. “No such procedure has been followed in the last three years. The idea of the collegium was to ensure that the person has qualifications and experience for the appointment so as to do justice to the position,” states the letter to the vice-chancellor.Principle of ‘one man, one post’ not followedThey have also raised concerns over some of the officials who are holding multiple important positions presently at the university. The letter also has a list of these positions as well. “The appointment of a single person to perform multiple responsibilities would result in compromising the work assigned to them besides denying the opportunities to other colleagues to shoulder work and gain experience,” they have said.Moreover, they have also alleged that many persons are continuing beyond the term of three years, which is against the democratic principle of rotation being followed at PU.They have urged the vice-chancellor to address their concerns and ensure all honorary appointments are strictly made by inviting applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elected-pu-senators-raise-questions-over-appointment-to-key-posts-101636491849924.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Barricades stolen, traffic cones, stools set on fire at Panchkula market parking||Unidentified miscreants stole 15 barricades and set ablaze 50 plastic traffic cones, five plastic stools and ropes used by the parking contractor at the Sector-14 market in Panchkula. The incident took place on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The parking contractor, Lal Chand, in his complaint, said, one of his staff members had an altercation with a youth over parking charges the day before, and he suspects that the youth and his accomplices may have been behind it.Closed-circuit television camera footage in the area showed two masked men taking the items and setting it on fire.In the FIR, Chand stated that he had placed the barricades and tied ropes at the exit point of the market. At night, they used to keep the plastic stoppers, stools and other items locked under the stairs of one of the SCOs. “On the morning of November 6, when our worker Sita Ram reached the spot, he found the barricades were missing, ropes cut and charred remains of the other items near the Vita booth. The shutter of the place where the stool and plastic stoppers had been kept, were broken,” he stated.He said around 8 pm on the previous night, a youth had threatened Sita Ram for “charging ₹12 parking fee from his boss”. “He asked Sita Ram to return the fees, and threatened him of dire consequences when he refused. The youth threatened Sita Ram that he won’t be able to charge fees from the next day,” said Chand. On the basis of his complaint, an FIR under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 435 (mischief caused by explosive substance with intent to cause damage to amount of 100 or more) and 457 (tress pass) has been registered against unknown persons.Lal Chand said: “Police have not informed me regarding any arrest or update in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barricades-stolen-traffic-cones-stools-set-on-fire-at-panchkula-market-parking-101636491791367.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||All eyes on city golfer Karandeep Kochhar at Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational at Chandigarh Golf Club||All eyes will be on defending champion Karandeep Kochhar when he takes the field during the fourth edition of the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational presented by TAKE Sports at the Chandigarh Golf Club greens on Thursday in the presence of top golfers like Gaganjeet Bhullar, SSP Chawrasia, Shiv Kapur, Jyoti Randhawa, Rashid Khan and not to forget 49-year-old Jeev Milkha Singh, who lost his parents Milkha Singh and Nirmal Singh to Covid in June. Putting the tragedy behind and being away from Chandigarh for two months in England, fresh looking Singh will be competing on his home course with 129 participants, including 126 professionals and three amateurs.“I had a good time in England with my family away from Chandigarh. My aunt could not come from Liverpool when my parents passed away. So my sisters and I went to her place and spent time with her. The only reason I am playing golf is because my dad introduced me to the sport. What I am today is because of my parents,” shared Singh, who will turn 50 in December. He would be playing two Asian Tour tournaments in Thailand in November and December before going full-throttle in 2022 for the senior tour.“Mom used to do Diwali puja and this time she was not there, so it was difficult to experience that feeling. We did it and all the memories came back, but life has to go on and I still have to win many tournaments,” said Singh, whose next season will start March-end onward with the Singapore Open and one in Morocco followed by senior tour tournaments in Japan and Europe. “I would like to play in a few tournaments before I take off for the senior tour. I hope to get some invites from the US as well,” added Singh, who would be having a travelling physiotherapist for the senior tour. He has the rare distinction of being the only Indian to have won the Asian Tour Order of Merit twice (in 2006 and 2008). He has won multiple titles on the European Tour, Japan Golf Tour and Asian Tour and has 14 Major appearances to his name. Jeev has also achieved a career-high world ranking of 28, an Indian record.Interestingly, all three editions of the Jeev Invitational have seen play-offs and Kochhar figured in two of them. Singh himself has missed the cut all three times.The main event will be preceded by the Pro-Am event on November 10.This year’s Pro-Am event has been dedicated to Indian sports legend Milkha Singh, Jeev Milkha Singh’s father, who passed away earlier this year. The Pro-Am event has been named Milkha Singh Pro-Am Day, a tribute to the Legend.The presence of defending champion and PGTI Order of Merit leader Kochhar and former champions Ajeetesh Sandhu (2019) and Chikkarangappa (2018), also adds to the strength of the field. The other big names include Udayan Mane, Khalin Joshi, Viraj Madappa, Honey Baisoya, Manu Gandas and Veer Ahlawat.The foreign challenge will be led by Sri Lankans Anura Rohana, Mithun Perera, N Thangaraja and K Prabagaran, as well as Bangladeshis Md Zamal Hossain Mollah, Badal Hossain, Md Sayum, Md Dulal Hossain and Md Akbar Hossain.The other prominent names from Chandigarh besides Jeev Milkha Singh, Ajeetesh Sandhu and Karandeep Kochhar, are Akshay Sharma, Aadil Bedi, Abhijit Singh Chadha, Sujjan Singh, Angad Cheema, Harendra Gupta, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, Harmeet Kahlon, Amandeep Johl, Gurbaaz Mann, Ranjit Singh and Amritinder Singh.Ravibir Singh, president, Chandigarh Golf Club, said, “The Chandigarh Golf Club is proud to host the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2021 Presented by TAKE Sports from November 10 to 14. Chandigarh will host the finest golfers from across the country and this tournament will not only encourage young golfers from the region to emulate these leading professionals but will also give an opportunity to sportsmen of the city to watch some fine golf on the hallowed greens of the Chandigarh Golf Club.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-eyes-on-city-golfer-karandeep-kochhar-at-jeev-milkha-singh-invitational-at-chandigarh-golf-club-101636491789877.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Moneylender booked for abetment to suicide in Ludhiana||A moneylender was booked for abetment of suicide after the victim’s kin found his last testimony, which the 33-year-old had filmed on his mobile phone before taking the extreme step. On October 27, the victim, a resident of Amarjit Colony, had locked himself in his room and hung himself from the ceiling fan after the accused, Parvinder Singh alias Johny of Mayapuri, allegedly created a ruckus in front of his house. The victim’s wife said that her husband had returned the cash he had borrowed from Parvinder with interest. However, he had demanded more money and had been harassing her husband for the same. She alleged that Parvinder, whose father Gurbahcan Singh Chhabra had unsuccessfully contested the municipal corporation polls, had also threatened to kidnap her, if her husband failed to pay the money. The victim’s wife had found the recording on November 2, while she was going through his mobile phone. In his statement, he had blamed Parvinder for forcing him to end his life. The victim is survived by his wife and four daughters.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moneylender-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-ludhiana-101636491729474.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Senior Punjab Congress leader Raman Bahl joins Aam Aadmi Party||A day after quitting as the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB) chairman, senior Congress leader Raman Bahl on Tuesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of its Punjab president Bhagwant Mann and state affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha in Gurdaspur.Bahl said three generations of his family were with the Congress but the party has been witnessing a huge decline at every level. “Taking Punjab forward with policies of the AAP and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s vision is the need of the hour. I joined the party as I was influenced by its anti-corruption and development model in Delhi,” he said. Mann said the Bahl family has contributed socially and politically to Punjab on every front. “But Punjab is sad today due to the misrule of successive governments of the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. The agriculture in the state has been thrown to the margins and farmers are committing suicide,” he added. Chadha said with Bahl’s joining of the AAP, people will definitely ensure the party’s victory from the Gurdaspur constituency. “Mr Bahl’s joining has strengthened the party further,” he claimed. Senior leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh said the AAP is doing the politics of providing a bright future to Punjab and not looting the people. The Congress and the Akali-BJP governments have forced Punjab to the brink of ruin, he said. Party general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat and other office-bearers were also present on the occasion. Bahl, son of former minister and four-time Gurdaspur MLA Khushal Bahl, remained president of the Gurdaspur municipal council twice and was a Panjab University senate member from 2008 to 2012. He also served as senate member of Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, from 2004 to 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senior-punjab-congress-leader-raman-bahl-joins-aam-aadmi-party-101636491669526.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal, other Punjab Akali Dal leaders pay obeisance at Salasar temples in Rajasthan||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other party leaders from Punjab on Tuesday paid obeisance at the Salasar Balaji Dham and the Mata Anjani temple in Churu district of Rajasthan. Sukhbir travelled to the shrine in a bus along with others and was honoured by the shrine trust. Later, he announced that if voted to power, the SAD-BSP alliance will re-start the ‘Mukh Mantri Teerath Yatra’ scheme launched by the previous government headed by Parkash Singh Badal. “The SAD respects all religions and therefore our party president decided to accompany leaders from Malwa to Salasar shrine that is visited by people in large numbers. During our government’s tenure, the shrine was covered under the Mukh Mantri Teerath Yatra scheme,” said party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema. The scheme was stopped after the Congress took over in 2017, he added. Under the scheme, our government used to help people to take pilgrimage to Mata Vaishno Devi, Mata Chintpurni, Ajmer Sharif, Hazoor Sahib and other places of worship, he added. The Akali leaders accompanying Sukhbir included Sikander Singh Maluka, Anil Joshi, NK Sharma, Sarup Chand Singla, Prem Arora, Parkash Chand Garg, Jeet Mohinder Sidhu, Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, Hans Raj Josan, Mantar Singh Brar, Tirath Singh Mahla, Barjinder Singh Makhan Brar and Dilraj Singh Bhundar. The visit by SAD leaders ahead of the 2022 assembly elections is being seen as an attempt to reach out to the Hindu community that forms nearly 40% of Punjab’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-other-punjab-akali-dal-leaders-pay-obeisance-at-salasar-temples-in-rajasthan-101636491429418.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Protesters block traffic in Ludhiana, injure commuter||The flow of traffic was crippled for the entire day on Tuesday after various Sikh organisations, seeking the arrest of one Anil Arora for hurting religious sentiments, blocked Samrala Chowk, one of the busiest crossroads of the city, for the fourth time in the fortnight. The protestors also allegedly thrashed and injured a commuter who was trying to cross the road with his family. When the commuter wheedled with the protesters, he was rapped on the head with a stick. However, the cops did not take action. While winding traffic jams were seen on all roads connected to Samrala Chowk, the police force posed as a mute spectator. Issuing an advisory, the traffic police diverted the traffic to other roads, but commuters remained a harried lot and many of them indulged in a spat with protesters. Around 50 protestors gathered at Samrala Chowk and blocked the traffic at around 9am, and only lifted the protest around 6.30pm. In the meantime, the protestors barricaded the crossroad and exhibited stunts on motorcycles.One of the protesters, Jaswant Singh Cheema, said, “Twenty days have passed since Anil Arora was booked, but the police has failed to arrest him. We will continue the protest till the accused have been arrested.” A commuter, Maninder Singh of Kundanpuri, said he was going to Fortis Hospital on Chandigarh Road to attend to a relative who was admitted there. However, he had been stuck in a jam. “Seizing the road is unjustified as hundreds of people suffered because of the protesters.” A road side vendor, who sells channa kulacha for a living also lost a day’s wages due to the protest. “I did not go to work because of the protest. The police are quick to fine an auto-driver stopping at the wrong spot to pick up passengers, but the protesters were given free rein.” Meanwhile, commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that seven of the accused, who had helped Arora escape, had been arrested and several teams had been formed to arrest of the accused.Arora had been booked for hurting religious sentiments on October 20. A cash reward of ₹1lakh has been announced for information about his whereabouts..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesters-block-traffic-in-ludhiana-injure-commuter-101636491250236.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Kaur slams Punjab Congress MLAs for not speaking up on government appointments||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife and former MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Tuesday targeted the 40 party MLAs, who had spoken against the then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, for not voicing their concern over senior government appointments. “Punjab has become infamous for drugs. The court is telling the state government that the report on drugs should be opened. The names of those mentioned in the report should be disclosed and punishment should be meted out to them. Why did we oust Captain Amarinder Singh if we were to do the same thing? Why are the 40 MLAs not speaking up now?” Kaur questioned after handing over 10 fogging machines in the Amritsar East constituency represented by her husband in the assembly. Her statement came hours before Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced that he had accepted the resignation of APS Deol as advocate general (AG). “A capable person should be appointed AG on the basis of merit. How can a person who secured bail for Sumedh Singh Saini (one of the accused in the Behbal Kalan firing incident) ensure punishment to the former director general of police? Legally, he is not allowed to appear in court in the case,” she said. She praised the Channi government for slashing electricity tariffs and bringing reforms in the transport department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-kaur-slams-punjab-congress-mlas-for-not-speaking-up-on-government-appointments-101636491069196.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab filed ‘untraced’ reports in FIRs against Sukhbir Badal among 18 politicians in 3 months, high court told||The Punjab Police filed untraced or cancellation reports in criminal cases against 18 politicians, including Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal and party leader Jagir Kaur among 18 other politicians from August to October . In an affidavit, inspector general of police (crime-3, Bureau of Investigation) Gursharan Singh Sandhu said only 29 cases are under investigation in the state while 53 are pending in trial courts. Cancelled/untraced reports have been filed in 14 cases of which 13 were filed in the past three months, the Punjab and Haryana high court was told. Unraced/cancelled reports have been filed in three FIRs against Sukhbir, one FIR each against Jagir Kaur, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Jasbir Singh Gill and Inderbir Singh Bolaria among others, it added. It was further claimed that probe is pending in two cases against former BJP minister Anil Joshi (now in SAD), five against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, two cases against Sukhbir and one each against Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Mann and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Sukhpal Singh Khaira among others. The high court is monitoring the probe in the matter. During the hearing on Tuesday, the court was miffed with Punjab, Haryana and central agencies for not filing their reports on time. “This conduct on part of the two states and the CBI is totally unacceptable. It is for the last time that the court is accommodating by taking these additional affidavits/reports on record today,” the bench said while posting the matter for hearing on November 11.The unraced/ cancelled reports were filed in three FIRs against Sukhbir (criminal intimidation, wrongful restraint, not obeying public servant’s order); one FIR against Jagir Kaur (under National Highways Act); one against Parminder Singh Dhindsa (wrongful restraint) and one each against MP Jasbir Singh Gill and MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia (under Representation of People Act). Others in whose cases cancellation reports/untraced reports were filed are former MLA Guriqbal Kaur (forgery, criminal conspiracy), MLA Simarjeet Bains (defacement of public property), MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu (under Disaster Management Act); former MLAs Upinderjit Kaur and Ravinder Singh Brahmpura, (under National Highways Act), former minister Nusrat Ikram Khan and former MLA Iqbal Singh Jhunda (wrongful restraint case); ex-legislator Tarlochan Singh Soondh (defacement of property), MLAs Baljinder Kaur, Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Gurmeet Singh (not following order promulgated by a public servant) and former MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi (not following order promulgated by a public servant).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-filed-untraced-reports-in-firs-against-sukhbir-badal-among-18-politicians-in-3-months-high-court-told-101636490950486.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Vinay Pratap Singh is new Chandigarh DC||Vinay Pratap Singh, a Haryana-cadre IAS officer, has been named the new deputy commissioner (DC) of Chandigarh. A 2011-batch officer, he is currently holding the charge of Panchkula DC. On Tuesday, the appointments committee of the cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Home Affairs for inter-cadre deputation of Vinay Pratap Singh from Haryana cadre to AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment) for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. Chandigarh administration had recommended the name of Singh for the post. Earlier, the Haryana government had sent a panel of three IAS officers to the administration - Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar. Notably, the administration had also sent a request to the MHA for three-month extension of incumbent deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar tenure. Though, the MHA didn’t extend his tenure, it had permitted the administration to not relieve him till further orders. The three-year term of Brar was to end on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vinay-pratap-singh-is-new-chandigarh-dc-101636490949182.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 241 new Covid cases, 2 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 241 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 19,973 deaths and 2,903 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 31,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 93 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 366,151 and the death toll went up to 6,919 as two more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 113 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 521,416 and the death toll remained at 9,202 and no more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 35 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 268,997 and the toll stood at 3,503 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 31,566 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 12,233,551. Of which 7,875,738 are first doses and 4,357,813 are second doses. A total of 614 sites saw vaccination of which 447 were government centres and 167 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-241-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-24-hours-101636490289336.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi LG told to decide on appointment of hospital staff||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to look into and take a decision at the earliest on the issue of giving approval for additional staff for setting up a dedicated Covid-19 facility at the 1,241-bed Indira Gandhi Hospital so that its functioning is not hampered.“We hope and expect that the L-G will look into the same to take a decision at the earliest considering the requirement of the hospital and so that its functioning is not hampered,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.It also said the government must endeavour to make the super speciality facilities functional at the hospital by March next year, instead of July.The court was hearing a plea by the Dwarka Court Bar Association, through advocate YP Singh, seeking to start the Indira Gandhi Hospital in Dwarka, which has been under construction for the past eight years.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi government, said of the 3,059 posts at the new hospital, the L-G has granted approval for 1,204 posts and a fresh proposal has been submitted to the L-G for 1,855 more posts. The matter will be next heard on February 1, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lg-told-to-decide-on-appointment-of-hospital-staff-101636489984222.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Punjabis are a large hearted people, says Rahul Bose||Actor Rahul Bose, who has carved a niche for himself in both mainstream and parallel cinema, was at his witty best as he enthralled women entrepreneurs and professionals in Ludhiana on Tuesday. Reminiscing about his Punjabi connect at an event organised by the FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO), which is the women’s wing of the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Bose said, “My mother was half-Punjabi and I still cherish the days of my childhood spent with my Punjabi relatives. It is always lovely to connect with people of the three cultures I grew up with -- Maharashtra, Bengal and Punjab.” “Till today, I sleep best when I hear women speaking Punjabi. My mother used to play cards, chew ‘paan’ and speak Punjabi with her friends in an air-conditioned room while I slept. I treasure those moments now,” he said. “Punjabis are a large hearted people.It is wonderful to see people here working so generously ” Bose said, commending the Ludhiana industry for their philanthropic work. Winning the ladies’ heart with his humbleness, Bose refused to sit on a special chair , saying it felt like a “throne” and insisted on sitting on an ordinary chair, the same as the audience. The Bulbbul actor has been actively involved with numerous charities. Speaking about the six children he had adopted way back in 2007, Bose glowed with a parent’s pride as he said, “They are all studying in reputed educational institutions across the country. The eldest one is now 26. In the end, one just feels lots and lots of love and bonding.” When FICCI chairperson Radhika Gupta asked him to choose between his two loves -- acting and direction -- Bose said, “I prefer direction any day of the year because you get an opportunity to show the people what is in your head. What could be more rewarding than when someone says ‘I totally got what you were trying to portray in that scene’,” he said, adding that he “absolutely loves acting”. Not just directing and acting, Bose’s talents also extend to the sports field. It may come as a surprise to some that in 1998, Bose was a part of India’s first national rugby team to play in an international event _- the Asian Rugby Football Union Championship. “Don’t do something because you are bloody good at it, do something to become bloody good at it,” he said to thunderous applause.He spoke about the practical principles of leadership that he had garnered through coaching, captaining a rugby team, helming an NGO and producing and directing films. At his candid best, he fielded his eager audience’s questions with aplomb. Asked if he could choose somebody else’s life whose life would he choose, pat came the response, “The life of a billionaire, so that I can do more philanthropic works.” “How to actually use that money to set something in motion is crucial. We need to work on climate change. We are gifting the next generation a broken planet. It is scary,” he said, sombrely. With whom would he like to be alone on an island? “Mahatama Gandhi so I can ask him lots and lots of questions,” he replied, admitting that it was certainly not the answer the ladies were looking for. “Okay, Scarlett Johansson, maybe,” he quipped, setting the women laughing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-punjabis-are-a-large-hearted-people-says-rahul-bose-101636490229336.html
10-11-2021||Pune||NCRA scientists unravel eclipses of millisecond pulsars using uGMRT||PUNE A group of scientists working at the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), Pune have for the first time unravelled the eclipse mechanisms for the millisecond pulsars in compact binary systems using the upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (uGMRT). Devojyoti Kansabanik a Ph.D. student at NCRA is the lead author of the paper, done under the guidance of Dr. Bhaswati Bhattacharyya.Millisecond pulsars (MSPs) are ultra-dense dead stars that act like celestial lighthouses sending periodic flashes of radio light as fast as a few hundred times in a second. Being extremely stable rotators, MSPs act as laboratories for the study of matter in extreme conditions. MSPs often have orbital companions.Devojyoti Kansabanik and team observed a spider MSP, J1544+4937, (which had been discovered earlier at the GMRT in 2013), using the upgraded uGMRT. The unique wide bandwidth sensitive observations allowed the authors to clearly measure how the eclipse depends on the radio frequency, particularly during the transitions as the pulsar went into and came out of eclipse. Talking about the discovery Dr Bhattchayya said, “We could study the eclipsing seamlessly and determine the starting frequency of the dependent eclipse with 20 times better accuracy than the previous estimations. This allowed us to study the cause of frequency dependent eclipsing for the first time by studying broadband radio spectrum, a crucial discriminator between different eclipse mechanisms.”Devojyoti Kansabanik said, “We could determine the mechanism of the eclipses for a spider MSP unambiguously for the first time. There are several possible mechanisms like refraction, scattering and different types of absorptions of radio emission from the pulsar by the materials ejected from the companion star. Our study could distinctively spot that the eclipse is caused due to absorption by the magnetised materials ejected from the companion star and ruled out other possible mechanisms.”“Interestingly, the eclipse properties depend on the frequency of the radio pulse, with low radio frequencies being eclipsed, while high radio frequencies are not. The exact mechanism by which this occurs has not been established earlier. Understanding the eclipse mechanism and physical properties of these spider MSPs will provide more insight about the evolutionary processes and the ultimate fate of these exotic systems,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncra-scientists-unravel-eclipses-of-millisecond-pulsars-using-ugmrt-101636490049444.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Hosps report acute shortage of blood supply in Pune||PUNE Post Diwali, with IT firms and colleges not having resumed operations, blood donation campaigns have also come to a halt, resulting in an acute shortage of blood in the city. As per doctors, the current stock in the city will last for only a day or two, as major non-Covid19 surgeries have resumed, which has increased the demand for blood. Dr Purnima Rao, secretary, Indian Society of Blood banks and Immunohaematology, who also works as a consultant with a private hospital, said, “As of now we are facing an acute shortage of blood and the current stock with us would last for only two days or so. The inflow of blood donation volunteers has come to a standstill as IT companies and colleges are shut and people are working from home. Earlier, these were the major institutes who conducted blood donation campaigns and we do not have volunteers in large numbers who come out to donate blood.”Dr Rao also adds that vaccinations would have impacted blood collection as the mandatory post-jab gap makes people ineligible to donate blood. She said, “Although it is true that the mandatory 14-day gap after the first or second dose is necessary, there are very few in a city like Pune who would be ineligible due to this particular criteria. There are many who can donate blood, but are not coming forward.” Dr Somnath Khedkar, head of the blood bank at Sassoon general hospital said, “We are facing an acute shortage of blood. Due to the festive season holidays, vaccination and offices being shut we are facing a crisis-like situation. While the demand for blood in the hospital has gone back to pre-Covid-19 times, the inflow has dropped. As of now we have only 60-70 units of blood and the demand is about 50 units of blood daily at our hospital, which is routine. This stock would suffice for only a day or two.” As of Tuesday Pune district has about 4500 units of blood in the 38 blood banks in the district, as per the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC), which is sufficient to meet the needs of the district says Dr Arun Thorat, assistant director of SBTC for Maharashtra. He said, “As per the standard requirements, a district or city would require 1% of the number of blood units of its population in the entire year, so if Pune’s population is about 10 million then the district would need anywhere around 400-500 units of blood daily. The current stock should be sufficient for another 10 days I believe. However, blood donation and collection should be a year-round activity since the collected blood has a shelf life and the requirement can shoot up at any given point of time in case of a major surgery like organ donation or any bone marrow surgery, where the patient would need a continuous supply of blood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hosps-report-acute-shortage-of-blood-supply-in-pune-101636489809266.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali gets health infra boost as CM lays stone for 350-bed civil hospital||Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of the 350-bed ultra-modern civil hospital in Sector-66, Mohali, which would be named Sahibzada Ajit Singh civil hospital. Speaking at the event, CM Channi said fulfilling the commitment of the Congress party, this new civil hospital would ensures that the best health-care services are provided to people of the area, besides those coming from far-flung areas of Punjab for treatment. He said this new hospital building will be constructed at a cost of ₹40 crore, and it would provide 24-hour emergency services besides OPDs and wards for all specialties. In June this year, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had allotted 8.72 acre land for the construction of the new civil hospital as the existing civil hospital in Phase 6 has been converted into a medical college-- Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences. The new hospital will be ready in two years. City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said the hospital can cater to the large majority of the local population right up to Dera Bassi. Mohali medical college to begin admissions this year With the National Medical Commission (NMC) issuing a letter of intent for 100 MBBS seats to Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in September this year, the admission will begin from this academic session. The college is affiliated to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Deputy chief minister OP Soni who also holds the charge of health department said, the medical college of Mohali will have 500 beds and admission will start soon with 250 seats. He said, “With this remarkable achievement, our capacity to produce doctors has increased to 1,500 a year.” The institute being set up under the aegis of an autonomous society — Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences Society — is the fourth government medical college in Punjab, and the first to come up in 48 years. Other announcements The CM also sanctioned ₹10 crore for an auditorium in Mohali and construction of 25,000 houses for the EWS section across the state. He said that SANADs (Proprietary Rights) were being provided under Basera scheme throughout the state. Accepting the demand of MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, the CM announced relaxations for booth owners to construct a second storey. He also announced ₹10 crore for holistic development of the city, ₹7 crore for laying of synthetic track at sports stadium, Sector-78, upgrade of dispensaries of Saneta and Gharaun as PHC and CHC respectively and bus stand for the city. Channi-Balbir Sidhu bury the hatchet, heap praises on each otherSulking since he lost the health ministry, Balbir Singh Sidhu, who was once considered to be close to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, appears to have mended fence with chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi. Channi had paid a visit to Sidhu’s residence on October 4 to mollify him. During the foundation laying ceremony of the civil hospital in Sector 66, on Tuesday, both CM and MLA Sidhu showered praises on each other. It is learnt that both Channi and Sidhu, who were having strained relations for the past two decades, decided to bury the hatchet and work together for the state’s development during the event. Acknowledging the efforts of Balbir Sidhu at developing his constituency, Channi said party wants to give him a bigger role at the state level. Earlier, Balbir Sidhu showered praises on Channi, saying a common man has become the chief minister of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-gets-health-infra-boost-as-cm-lays-stone-for-350-bed-civil-hospital-101636489689404.html
10-11-2021||Pune||PMC to spend ₹30 lakh on maintenance Swargate-Hadapsar BRTS||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will spend ₹30 lakh on maintenance of the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) on the Swargate-Hadapsar route, a decision that has raised eyebrows and drawn criticism.Rajendra Ardhapure, executive engineer of the road department said, “PMC plans to spend the ₹30 lakh on repairs, maintenance of dividers, repairing of cycle tracks and other related work. Due to the proposed PMRDA metro work on this route, we have taken the decision to only carry out maintenance.” The Swargate-Hadapsar stretch is part of the proposed Metro extension route under the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), who is developing the Metro rail line from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar. Pune district guardian minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had earlier given instructions to carry out a detailed project report (DPR). Now, a final decision is pending. Yogesh Sasane, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator said, “There is no BRTS on the Swargate-Hadapsar route. We had demolished the system two years back. Now, BRTS does not exist on this route. So, it is a waste of money that the PMC wants to spend on maintenance work. Besides that, there are Metro routes proposed here.”V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent of the road department said, “Actually, We wanted to revamp Swargate-Hadapsar BRTS route. However, due to the proposed PMRDA metro extension from Shivajinagar (civil court) to Phursungi, We have decided to carry out maintenance of the existing route. It will help to avoid wastage of money. There is need for maintenance on this route.”In the pilot BRTS project, the corporation had spent ₹127.48 crore in 2006-07. After that, PMC spent ₹85 crore revamping the entire stretch with cycle tracks, footpaths, and bus stops in the middle of the BRTS lanes. Vivek Kharvadkar, chief engineer of e PMRDA said, “We got the DPR for the Shivajinagar to Phursungi extension. A final decision will be taken after the report is tabled at the PMRDA meeting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-spend-rs-30-lakh-on-maintenance-swargate-hadapsar-brts-101636489569105.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Fake bank call costs man, daughter ₹6 lakh in Pune||PUNE A woman from Pune and her father were duped of ₹6 lakh by caller who claimed to be a bank employee. The case dates back to August.The complaint was lodged by a 45-year-old woman in the case. She told the police that she received a call on her number by a person who claimed to be an employee of the bank in which the complainant has a joint account with her father.The caller managed to get the complainant to give her father’s contact details. When the man called the father, he revealed confidential information as well as an OTP linked to the account.In three days between August 21 and August 24, the two lost ₹5,94,500 from their account through multiple online transactions.A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Bibwewadi police station. Police inspector Anita Hiwarkar of Bibwewadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fake-bank-call-costs-man-daughter-rs-6-lakh-in-pune-101636489213462.html
10-11-2021||Other||Prostitution den in Pune busted: 4 arrested||PUNE The Pune police arrested two men and found two women employed as sex workers in an apartment in a residential society in Bibwewadi on Monday night.The two men were identified as Mahendra Dnyanaram Prajapati (34) and Pandurang Lakshman Shinde (46), both residents of Upper Indiranagar.The four people were found in a flat on the third floor of a building in Bibwewadi. The police claimed that the information about the operation was gained by a source of assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar. Police sent a decoy customer to verify the information and upon verification, a raid was conducted in the late hours of Monday.The police found ₹4,000 in cash, three mobile phones, and condoms from the house.A case under relevant Sections 3, 4, and 5 of Immoral Trafficking Prevention Act and Sections 370, 370(a), and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prostitution-den-in-pune-busted-4-arrested-101636489212210.html
10-11-2021||Jaipur||Will have to reduce VAT on petrol, diesel, concedes Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who has been fronting the Congress counterattack on the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre to push for a larger cut in central excise duty, on Tuesday adopted a change in strategy acknowledging that the state government would have to give in to pressure to reduce value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel.“When all the states have reduced the prices, we also have to reduce it,” Gehlot said in Jodhpur on Tuesday, a remark that a sharp contrast to the letter that he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day to nudge the Centre to further reduce central taxes on petrol and diesel.Gehlot, however, has not indicated the extent of cut in taxes that he will go for.Also Read: Contextualising the debate on central and state taxes on petrol and dieselIn his letter, Gehlot reasoned that a reduction in central taxes will automatically lower the tax burden on account of state taxes as well, and added that though this will impact the state’s revenue, he was prepared to take the hit. Gehlot suggested that the Centre reduce the central taxes by ₹10 per litre on petrol and ₹15 on diesel.To be sure, the Centre’s tax relief on petrol and diesel Thursday last only rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices at the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic.Gehlot’s change of heart comes days after Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday decided to emulate BJP-ruled state governments which have reduced state taxes; even beat them at it.“Petrol in Punjab has become cheapest in the region. As compared to Delhi, petrol in Punjab is now ₹ 9 less,” Punjab chief minister Channi said.This decision appears to have made it that much difficult for Gehlot to hold on to his stand. Apart from public and political pressure, the Rajasthan government had been under attack from petrol and diesel stations complaining that pumps in border districts were losing business to those in neighouring states due to the high prices in Rajasthan.Rajasthan Petrol Pump and Dealer association president Sunnet Bagai earlier said the state government increased VAT on diesel from 16% to 26% and from 26% to 36% on petrol after the Congress came to power in the state and it was time to bring it on par with neighouring states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/will-have-to-reduce-vat-on-petrol-diesel-concedes-rajasthan-s-ashok-gehlot-101636488969068.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Man loses ₹3 lakh on false promise of ROI in Pune||PUNE The Pune police are on the lookout for a group of people who duped a marketing professional of ₹3 lakh, falsely promising huge returns on an investment (ROI) made in February.The company claimed to be in business with a global social media company and its video platform, according to the complainant.“They gave him some money initially - ₹2,000, ₹3,000 in a day and such. However, one fine day they stopped communicating completely. We have identified a few suspects and are investigating the case further,” said assistant police inspector Amit Shete of Faraskhana police station, who registered the case. Senior police inspector Rajendra Landge is investigating the case.The man works in the marketing department of a Kolkata-based plywood company for the past two years and downloaded an application called Digital Marketing Super Like. He told the police that the people who claimed to be working at the company, added his number to a texting group where members would get regular updates.The man told the police in his complaint that he was added to the group after paying ₹3,42,500 and there were multiple people in the group. However, after a few days, he was removed from the group.A case has been registered under Sections 419, 420, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act at the Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-loses-rs-3-lakh-on-false-promise-of-roi-in-pune-101636488729217.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Pune restaurant menus may see 10% price hike... but not for now||PUNE Against the backdrop of soaring prices of commercial liquified petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders, edible oil and vegetables, hoteliers in Pune hinted at an increase in rates of the restaurant dishes. However, the association clarified that no hike will be made immediately. “Vegetable prices are stabilising now. We will monitor the situation for the next 15-20 days and then a decision to increase charges will be taken. Even if a hike is there, it wouldn’t be more than 10%. The cost of raw materials has already increased. Because of the soaring diesel prices, the cost of grains has increased by 10-15%,” said Ganesh Shetty, president of the Pune hoteliers’ association. “Changing the menu card is itself a costly process. Also, the restaurant business is just getting back on its feet after the second lockdown. In our association, almost 80% of members run businesses for common people and for now they want to retain their customers. Charges have already been increased in high-end restaurants. There are two thought processes about increasing the prices. We have decided to observe the situation for now,” said Shetty. He pointed out that the hotel business model in Pune and Mumbai are different. “In Pune customers come and question you even if there is a hike of ₹20-25. So we cannot rush into such a decision,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-restaurant-menus-may-see-10-price-hike-but-not-for-now-101636488009198.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet meeting: Sand, gravel per cubic feet price cut from ₹9 to ₹5.50||In a major decision, the Punjab cabinet led by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday approved the Punjab State Sand and Gravel Mining Policy, 2021 to cap the sand and gravel price at ₹5.50 per cubic feet to make it available to people at affordable rates. The sand and gravel will be provided to the public at this rate at mining sites, including loading charges. As per the earlier policy, this rate was ₹9 cubic feet at the pit head. The royalty rate of ordinary clay and ordinary earth has been also been slashed from ₹10 per tonne to ₹2.5 per tonne in public interest, according to the new policy announced by the chief minister at his press conference after it was approved by the state cabinet. Channi had Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has repeatedly talked about illegal sand mining, by his side, besides several other ministers. Sidhu, whose relations with Channi have been tense ever since the latter took over the reins of the Congress government, congratulated him for the sand and gravel mining policy and rate, but also stressed the need to go further to augment the state’s resources. “I have been advocating that the rate of sand should be fixed. I have been saying that the day the rates are fixed, the mafia will die,” he said. The PPCC chief said he wanted to take it forward with stockyard (for sand and gravel). “There is nothing called the sand mafia. It is the transport mafia. Sand goes in trucks and if it goes in government trucks from the stockyard then it can be checked,” he said giving the example of a state where government corporations manage sand and liquor. He also assured his “110 per cent” cooperation to the CM and all others. According to the new mining policy, the land owner or possessor can dispose of ordinary earth extracted/ removed during the levelling of their agriculture fields up to three feet. “Removal of any minor mineral by the land owner/panchayat is allowed for meeting their land-filling requirements and for their bona-fide requirements, including religious and development activities,” according to an official release. It said these activities do not require any rent, royalty or permit fee and no permit is required. “These activities not to be hindered by the officials and contractors without any valid reason and disciplinary action will be initiated if any official or contractor is found guilty,” the chief minister said, promising prompt action in such instances. Dedicated toll-free number will be made available to the consumers to register their complaint regarding rates, if ever charged more than prescribed ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-meeting-sand-gravel-per-cubic-feet-price-cut-from-9-to-550-101636487769129.html
10-11-2021||Pune||All Pune schools to reopen on November 11||PUNE All schools in Pune district will reopen post the Diwali holidays from November 11. Earlier, there was a confusion among teachers and principals regarding the reopening of schools. However, other schools from the State are directed to remain shut from November 13 to November 22. Speaking about the issue, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district principals’ association, said that education department has directed all schools to reopen from November 11.“Ahead of the National Achievement Survey 2021 which is scheduled in some selected schools across Maharashtra and India, schools are redirected to reopen from November 11. The examination is on November 12. However, post the exam dates the education department may extend the Diwali vacations till November 22. The notification regarding that has not been issued in Pune district yet. It is likely to issued on November 11,” said Gaikwad.Speaking about the confusion, Medha Sinnarkar, principal, Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said that as the dates were announced last minute, teachers and schools were forced to change their schedules. “When the dates for the survey were announced, we were totally unprepared. Some schools were to reopen later next week. Many teachers and parents had planned vacations accordingly. However, due to the exam, schools now are reopening on November 10,” said Sinnarkar. She added that schools will be allowed to take three days leave later in the academic year. “Many schools are now planning to give three days leave during the Christmas holidays as many schools are also reopening from November 10,” said Sinnarkar. At least 123,000 schools will participate in the nationwide National Achievement Survey 2021. This test aims at assessing learning achievements of students as a sample-based survey. The test will be conducted by the Central Board of School Education (CBSE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-pune-schools-to-reopen-on-november-11-101636487589020.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Bhattu Kalan police station among India’s top three||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has recognised Bhattu Kalan police station of Fatehabad district in Haryana among the top three police stations in India in 2021.Congratulating the Bhattu Kalan police station’s team, director general of police (DGP) PK Agrawal said this award is the result of the “proactive efforts of the officers and the police personnel”.The DGP said this is not only a recognition of the hard work of the Haryana Police at the national-level but will also inspire the staff of other police stations in state to improve their performance at all levels of the parameters fixed by the Union ministry.The DGP said Union home minister Amit Shah will personally handover the trophy to the Bhattu Kalan police station SHO in a function to be held at the Uttar Pradesh police headquarters in Lucknow on November 19.“The Union government has adopted a uniform model of ranking police stations in country. The basic objective of the ranking is to improve the quality of policing and make it citizen-friendly,” the DGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-bhattu-kalan-police-station-among-india-s-top-three-101636487468880.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Coop banks in Maha ‘still preserving’ ₹112 crore in old currency notes||PUNE: Five years after demonetisation, eight district cooperative banks in Maharashtra continue to face the challenge of preserving ₹112 crore in old currency notes amid the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) refusal to accept them. The banks are awaiting the order of the Supreme Court even as it has become a headache for them to preserve this amount for the last five years.Pune District Cooperative Banks’ chief executive officer Pratapsinh Chavan said, “We have ₹22.55 crore in old currency. We challenged the RBI decision and the case is in the Supreme Court now. There is no option but to keep these old currency notes till the court gives its verdict. It is a tough job to preserve such a huge amount of cash for the past five years.”Appearing for Pune District Central Cooperative Bank Ltd. (PDCC) during the Supreme Court hearing, senior counsel P C Chidambaram earlier argued that at the beginning of the demonetisation exercise, cooperative banks were permitted to accept deposits in scrapped currency notes however the same was discontinued a week later.Apart from PDCC, Kolhapur, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Sangli, Nagpur and two other district central cooperative banks, too, have old currency notes lying with them.Kolhapur District Cooperative Banks’ chief executive officer A B Mane said, “We have ₹25.20 crore in old currency which has been rejected by the RBI. We have moved the Supreme Court and are awaiting the final decision but the notes are after all, paper. They need to be preserved in the strong room. We have to consider the atmosphere and other issues and we are not experts at preserving them. We cannot challenge the decision either. Our only petition is that the RBI should accept the old currency notes that were deposited with us.”Nashik District Cooperative Banks’ chief executive officer Shailesh Pingle said, “We have ₹21.32 crore in old currency which has been lying with us for the last five years. There is no option but to wait for the court’s decision. But it is really tough preserving the notes.”On November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi scrapped old ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes in a decision that impacted individuals and institutions across the country. Cooperative banks were allowed to accept old currency notes from their customers for a few days after demonetisation. After the NABARD report however, the RBI stopped accepting old currency notes from some district cooperative banks even though these financial institutions reasoned that the deposits had been accepted by them before demonetisation. Based on the RBI guidelines, NABARD in 2018 sent a letter to the eight district cooperative banks in Maharashtra, including PDCC, to destroy the old notes and show it to their loss account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coop-banks-in-maha-still-preserving-rs-112-crore-in-old-currency-notes-101636487348810.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu prevails, Channi cabinet accepts Punjab A-G Deol’s resignation||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had his way on Tuesday with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi declaring that the state cabinet has accepted the resignation of advocate general APS Deol with immediate effect. Channi made the announcement at his press conference after a meeting of the state cabinet, giving into the pressure mounted by the state unit chief for the advocate general’s removal. “The A-G had resigned a few days ago. The cabinet accepted it today. We will now send it to the state governor. Tomorrow, the new AG will be appointed,” he said, with Sidhu in tow. Deol was made the advocate general on September 27. On the appointment of new director general of police (DGP), the CM said the state government had sent the names of all (IPS) officers with more than 30 years of service and the central government would give a panel of names for the post. “We will appoint the DGP from that panel,” he said. There was a tense standoff between Sidhu and Channi for over a month over the appointment of Deol as the advocate general and IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the DGP. As a lawyer, Deol had represented former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police at the time of sacrilege incident and police firing on protesters six years ago. The Punjab Congress chief was opposed to Deol’s appointment for this reason and kept pressing for his replacement. Sidhu had resigned from his post six weeks ago and later indicated these senior appointments were part of the reason he quit. He, while withdrawing his resignation last week, put Deol’s removal as a precondition for resuming his duties. Though Deol had submitted his resignation to the chief minister on November 1, it was accepted only after Sidhu, at a press conference on Monday, again hit out at the AG and DGP, asking the state government to “(either) choose the compromised officers or the PPCC chief”. Congress’ Punjab affairs in-charge had to step in immediately to organise a meeting to placate the state unit president. After the meeting, cabinet minister Raj Kumar Verka had hinted at the government’s willingness to replace the advocate general by saying “if there is a need to replace any officer, it will be done”. Last week, Deol had also accused Sidhu of obstructing the functioning of the state government and AG’s office as well as spreading misinformation to gain advantage over his political colleagues. “Sidhu’s repeated utterances seek to derail the earnest efforts of the Punjab government to ensure justice in the “drugs matter and sacrilege case,” he had stated in a strongly-worded statement. With Deol’s exit, the PPCC chief has claimed his first scalp in the Channi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-prevails-channi-cabinet-accepts-punjab-advocate-general-deol-s-resignation-101636487289220.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest non-procurement of paddy at Karnal grain market||Alleging harassment and non-procurement of paddy, hundreds of farmers on Tuesday held a protest at the Karnal grain market.The protesting farmers alleged that they were lined up at the entrance of the grain market since the past couple of days as the mandi officials were not generating gate passes after Diwali.Following non-procurement of paddy, hundreds of tractor-trailers were lined up outside the main gate of the grain market affecting the movement of traffic on service lane of the NH-44 as the farmers alleged that they were not allowed to enter the mandi.“I have been waiting to sell my produce for the past two days but there is nobody to listen to us as the officials said the paddy belongs to UP farmers,” said protesting farmer Sandeep Kumar.On the other hand, officials of the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board said procurement was halted following reports that farmers from Uttar Pradesh were selling their produce in Haryana in connivance with the local farmers who have registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal.They said the produce coming to the mandi will be procured after verification of registration and farmers who have brought the produce in the mandi.“But the farmers will not face any problem selling their produce as procurement will continue till November 15,” the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-non-procurement-of-paddy-at-karnal-grain-market-101636486989443.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Amit Shah to visit Pune in role as cooperation minister on Nov 26||PUNE: Union minister Amit Shah will pay a visit to the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperation among other cooperative institutes in Maharashtra on November 26. This will be his first such visit after being appointed minister of cooperation. He is also likely to visit the Vasantdada Sugar Institute (VSI) on the same day.Shah’s tour has been finalised and its primary report has arrived, according to sources from the administration. Apart from the Vaikunth Mehta Institute, he is also likely to visit the VSI as Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar recently met him and invited him to visit the same. Preparation for the cooperation minister’s Pune visit has already started, and officers from his ministry are visiting the city on November 16 to review arrangements. Shah will be accompanied by the Union secretary for cooperation.For the first time, the cooperation ministry was set up at the Centre by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah was given charge of the ministry because he has good knowledge of the cooperative movement in Gujarat. As such, he is the first minister to lead the cooperation ministry at the Centre.With the Congress and NCP widely considered to have led the cooperative movement in Maharashtra, the Centre’s decision was criticised by both parties and Shah’s appointment was seen as a major political move. Sharad Pawar even commented on the move.Recently, senior BJP leaders Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and Harshwardhan Patil who were part of the cooperative movement in Maharashtra under Congress-NCP rule met Shah in Delhi. Given such a backdrop, Shah’s forthcoming visit has raised eyebrows among both the BJP and the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amit-shah-to-visit-pune-in-role-as-cooperation-minister-on-nov-26-101636486928952.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress MLAs accuses Haryana govt of trying to control academic institutions||The Haryana Congress on Tuesday accused the BJP-led state government of trying to control the academic institutions and imposing their party ideology.Three Congress MLAs, Bharat Bhushan Batra, Aftab Ahmed and Geeta Bhukkal, in a statement, said the state government’s decision to amend statutes and service rules of the universities to dilute their powers of recruitment will undermine the autonomy of the institutions.“Such authoritarian orders will defeat the purpose for which universities were developed to impart higher education. The universities have the ability and expertise to appoint teaching and non-teaching staff,” the Congress MLAs said.“But the recent decision is an attempt to control the academic institutions and impose the ideology of the ruling party. The BJP-led government wants to suppress every democratic voice of criticism by appointing inferior academicians,” they added.The Congress leaders said such measures were in contravention of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations and the National Education Policy.“While the National Education Policy 2020 advocated autonomy of educational institutions, such decisions of the state government will create hurdles in growth of the universities,” the MLAs said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-mlas-accuses-haryana-govt-of-trying-to-control-academic-institutions-101636486629603.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Ahmednagar hospital fire: Medical officer, three nurses arrested||Pune: Three days after 11 Covid-19 patients died in a fire at the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Ahmednagar civil hospital, the city police on Tuesday arrested a woman medical officer and three staff nurses on charges of causing death by negligence. The staff have been identified as medical officer Dr Vishakha Shinde and nurses Sapna Pathare, Asma Shaikh and Channa Anant who were arrested under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Manoj Patil, superintendent of police, Ahmednagar said, “The accused have been arrested and interrogation is on in the case. There is prima facie negligence charge against them which is investigated.” The state government had on Monday suspended Ahmednagar district civil surgeon Dr Sunil Pokharna, medical officers Dr Suresh Dhakne and Dr Vishakha, and staff nurse Sapna. Services of Asma and Channa were terminated. “Dr Vishakha Shinde was on duty in the Ahmednagar civil hospital on November 6 but she failed to report the incident. As far as the other three staff nurses are concerned, it has been revealed during the investigation that they were outside the ICU when the fire occurred,” the FIR stated. According to the police, the accused were not supposed to leave the ICU. A staff nurse’s primary job is to safeguard the patients in the event of a blaze at the ICU, said a senior police official. Relatives of the patients had to rush to the ICU to save their near and dear ones while all these staff nurses were waiting outside. The tragic deaths had prompted relatives to level serious allegations of unprofessional conduct and laxity by hospital administration. The government has formed a probe committee under divisional commissioner, Nashik range to look into why firefighting systems were not in place when the fire broke out. The fire audit carried out during March had recommended installation of equipment in the hospital to deal with fire incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahmednagar-hospital-fire-medical-officer-three-nurses-arrested-101636486628290.html
10-11-2021||Pune||Except extinguishers, other fire safety equipment was missing at A’nagar hosp||PUNE: Days after 11 elderly patients died and six others were injured in a blaze at the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Ahmednagar Civil hospital, the fire department of the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday conducted a re-audit of the building housing the ICU and submitted the report to the divisional commissioner and district collector. Further, the eight-member committee constituted by the state government to investigate the incident began recording the statements of the hospital and ICU staff as first respondents.AMC fire officer Shankar Misal said, “We conducted a re-audit of the ICU building of Ahmednagar Civil hospital on Tuesday and submitted the report to the divisional commissioner and district collector. Also, the eight-member committee began recording the statements of the hospital and ICU staff as first respondents. During the re-audit, we found anomalies related to the absence of firefighting equipment and carried out an analysis of the same. We are collecting information and recording the statements of the staff and also collecting electronic audit documents. ICU staffers who were first eyewitnesses or respondents have been called in for recording their statements. We have requested for a forensic certificate from the police department as well.”According to the fire department, there were oxygen pipes, electrical wires, and medical instruments inside the ICU ward and barring fire extinguishers, other recommended fire safety equipment was conspicuous by its absence when the fire broke out on Saturday. Whereas the fire safety audit conducted between the last week of February and the first week of March this year had recommended that a fire safety system complete with sprinklers and a pipeline be installed at the hospital. Notwithstanding the hospital administration did not comply with the recommendations due to a lack of funds, as highlighted by the Hindustan Times on Sunday.The committee constituted by the Maharashtra government to probe what led to the fire is helmed by the divisional commissioner Nashik, and comprises the joint director, department of health sciences (DHS); assistant director at DHS for health equipment maintenance; a representative of the director of the fire safety department Mumbai; district collector Ahmednagar; head of the AMC’s fire brigade department; a physician designated by the DHS; and deputy director health services Nashik circle as member-secretary.Earlier this year, there were a series of mishaps at various hospitals in the state. A fire broke out at the sick newborn care unit in Bhandara, claiming the lives of 10 newborn infants. In March, a fire broke out at a hospital dedicated to Covid-19 patients inside a mall in Bhandup, claiming 11 lives. In April when a severe oxygen crisis had hit the country, a tank supplying oxygen to Covid patients on ventilators at a Nagpur hospital leaked and claimed 24 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/except-extinguishers-other-fire-safety-equipment-was-missing-at-a-nagar-hosp-101636486568845.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship kicks off||The Punjab Open 3x3 Basketball Championship for Men and Women kicked off at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Tuesday. The tournament will continue till November 14.On the inaugural day, 60 matches were played in under-18 group. The winners will get a cash prize of ₹1 lakh, besides getting a chance to get selected into the state team. In Pool A, Hoopsters beat Muktars by 22-10, Multipurpose School 2 beat Drakes by 17-14, Hoopsters beat Multipurpose School 2 by 16-14, the Drakes beat Muktars by 14-13, Hoopsters beat the Drakes by 14-09 and Muktars beat Multipurpose School 2 by 15-11.In Pool B, Wespian Boys lost to Eagles Club by 05-22, Jain Club lost to PSPS stealers by 05-11, Wespian Boys lost to Jain Club by 03-04, Eagles Club bear NSPS stealers by 21-02, Wespian Boys lost to NSPS stealers by 08-15 and Eagles Club beat Jain Club by 21-02.In Pool C, Goshawrs beat Baseline SCPC by 21-17, the Kashi beat Buddha Dal Public school by 13-03, Gosshawrs bear the Kashi by 20-12, Baseline SCPC beat Buddha Dal Public School by 18-10, Goshawrs beat Buddha Dal Public School by 21-09 and Baseline SCPC lost to The Kashi by 11-12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-open-3x3-basketball-championship-kicks-off-101636486090259.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda loyalist accused of anti-party activities during Ellenabad bypoll||Accusing him of indulging in anti-party activities during the Ellenabad assembly bypoll, Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja has served a show-cause notice to party’s former Darba Kalan MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal asking him to explain his alleged misconduct.A loyalist of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Bharat had contested as Congress candidate and got about 35,000 votes to finish third in the 2019 assembly elections from Ellenabad assembly constituency.He was however ignored for a party ticket for the assembly bypoll and the Congress instead picked former BJP leader Pawan Beniwal for the bypoll.Pawan polled about 20,000 votes thus finishing a poor third and losing his security deposit. The former CM in fact, had pushed for Bharat Singh’s candidature for the bypoll. However, Selja, who was keen on fielding Pawan Beniwal, prevailed.The show-cause notice issued to Bharat Singh on November 1 said his role during the assembly bypoll was found to be negative.“A day before polling, you were also seen in a video saying that the Congress candidate will finish third. Your activities reflect an anti-party mindset and amounts to violation of the party constitution,” the notice said.The former MLA has been asked to respond in a week as to why disciplinary action should not be initiated against him for allegedly indulging in anti-party activities.“The state Congress committee will be forced to take action on its own if you do not respond to the show-cause notice,” the notice stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hooda-loyalist-accused-of-anti-party-activities-during-ellenabad-bypoll-101636486028702.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Viral songs give ‘brand Yogi’ a boost in poll-bound UP||LUCKNOW Ahead of the 2022 UP Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership is now busy building on ‘brand Yogi’, projecting the monk chief minister, who is hoping to buck the trend of no chief minister having won consecutive terms in the state. At least 20 campaign songs hailing Yogi Adityanath have gone viral. One of them is a six-minute song ‘Aayenge to Yogi hi (Yogi will come for sure)’ sung by prominent Bhojpuri singer Dinesh Lal Yadav aka ‘Nirahua’. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on BJP ticket against Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav.This song has garnered millions of hits, which is being cited as proof of Yogi Adityanath’s popularity by his supporters. Several other videos have come up on similar lyrics while many other variations that promote Yogi have also been launched by supporters. ‘Yogi baba badey ladahiya, phir se CM diyo banaye (baba is a fighter, make him CM yet again)’ goes one of them that is rendered in a manner in which Aalha, a ballad of Bundelkhand narrating heroic deeds of two warrior brothers, is sung. Union home minister Amit Shah had recently urged people to help re-elect a BJP government under Yogi and had said Yogi Adityanath’s coronation was important to ensure that Narendra Modi is re-elected PM for a third consecutive term in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. ‘Yogi bahut zaroori hai (Yogi is quite necessary)’, starts one of the several songs that have come up. Yet another one hails Adityanath as a lion: ‘Ujiyara hai charon taraf andher na koi, Yogi jaisa UP mein sher na koi (It is all lit up everywhere and there is no darkness anywhere. Yogi ji is a lion and there is none like him).’ The BJP claims that many of these songs aren’t commissioned by the party or the government. “These are being put up spontaneously by singers who like Yogi ji,” said Chandramohan, UP BJP secretary. In 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, special songs focusing on Narendra Modi were played during the campaign that also hailed him as a ‘lion’. ‘Pradhan mantri Bharat ka jaanbaaz, diler dikhai de, bhajapa ke sheron mein yeh babbar sher dikhai de (India’s PM looks daring, brave, looks like a lion among BJP’s top guns),’ was one of the most popular songs that hailed Modi and his leadership during the Lok Sabha campaign. While Modi continues to be the charismatic leader whom the party looks up to in all situations, the BJP leadership is busy promoting ‘brand Yogi’ in the poll-bound state. The UP chief minister had piloted the political resolution during the party’s recent national executive in Delhi and BJP top leaders endorsed his style of functioning with Modi pointing out on more than one occasion how law and order had improved and criminals were on the run in UP. However, the Congress isn’t amused at such branding of Yogi. “It is all very nice to get party cadres sing songs in praise of anyone. But the point is what are the people saying? It is their message that alone matters. And, most of UP is singing what is widely being interpreted as BJP’s swansong,” said Zeeshan Haider, spokesman, Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/viral-songs-give-brand-yogi-a-boost-in-poll-bound-up-101636485908890.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers cannot force govt to take action against innocents: Khattar on Hisar impasse||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the protesting farmers cannot pressurise the government for action against innocent people.“This is a democratically elected government and cannot be forced to take action against innocent people,” the CM said reacting to farm leader Rakesh Tikait’s demand on registration of FIR against BJP MP Ramchander Jhangra and his security guards for an alleged attack on farmers at Narnaund in Hisar on Friday.“I have already made it clear that the law will take its course and nobody can force the government for action in either way,” said Khattar while reacting to the indefinite protest by farmers at SP office in Hansi against FIR registered against farmers.The CM has made an appeal to farm leaders to open the blockade from the Delhi borders for passage of vehicles, saying, “Following the court orders, the government made way for passage of two-wheelers but now, we request the farmers to widen the five-feet passage for four-wheelers as well.”On the second day of his visit to Karnal, the CM also inaugurated three development projects costing ₹225 crore in Karnal district. The projects include four-laning of the Karnal-Kaithal road at ₹175 crore and the Karnal-Ramba-Indri-Ladwa road at ₹50.28 crore, and an oxygen plant at Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital.The CM said these projects will give boost to infrastructure development in state as the Haryana government has got 17 national highways of 1,070km approved from the Centre and work on 11 highways and rest is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-cannot-force-govt-to-take-action-against-innocents-khattar-on-hisar-impasse-101636485853454.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rising prices of raw material: Ludhiana industrialists hold silent protest||Protesting over the rising prices of raw material, representatives of different industrial associations staged an hour-long silent protest on Day-8 of the stir on Tuesday. Standing outside the office of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) on Gill Road, the protesters put masks on their mouths during the agitation and later raised slogans.The industry is seeking the formation of a regulatory commission to control inflation. Representatives of different industrial sectors, including bicycle, hosiery, and textile, said, “The government has been acknowledging that the industry is the backbone of the economy, but no steps are being taken to bring relief at a time when the skyrocketing prices of raw material, especially that of steel, has brought several units to the brink of collapse.” Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president Gurmeet Singh Kular said they will rope in other industrial organisations and raise the agitation to the “next level” is their demand was not fulfilled.“Closure of units will also result in large-scale unemployment,” warned Kular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rising-prices-of-raw-material-ludhiana-industrialists-hold-silent-protest-101636485850369.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Nurses’ strike paralyses services at civil hospital||Patients were left in a lurch after 49 staff nurses at the Civil Hospital went on strike seeking fulfilment of their long-pending demands on Tuesday. Several medical services, including the emergency, were hit due the strike. Their demands include allowance for food, uniform, and nursing; pay parity; removal of ‘anomalies’ in recommendations of the sixth pay commission; introduction of old pension scheme for the regular employees recruited after 2004; regularisation of contractual staff and designation of nursing officers for staff nurses.The labour ward was the worst hit as pregnant patients visiting the hospital for normal deliveries were turned away and asked to come on Thursday.The patients visiting the OPD were also at the receiving end as there was no one to register their name, monitor their condition and refer them to the doctor concerned. A disgruntled patient, Harpreet Kaur,a resident of nearby Field Ganj, who has been visiting the hospital for two days said, “Yesterday, I was told to come today (Tuesday). However, I was turned away yet again and told to come after two days.” Chitranjan Kumar, who was attending to a relative, said no nurse was available to change his cousins’ intravenous glucose drip. “We asked the staff to tell us the timing of the medicine, but were given no help,” said Chitranjan.While admitting that services had suffered due to the nurses’ strike, senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjeet Kaur said, “We had hired nurses on contract basis to look after the ailing patients.” Members of the association said that senior and junior nursing staff had observed strikes and not performed their duties at the Civil Hospital, including emergency services. The protesting nurses said that the demands had been raised several times in the past, but the government had not fulfilled them.The nurses ended their strike in the afternoon and handed over a memorandum to the SMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nurses-strike-paralyses-services-at-civil-hospital-101636485608889.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sat Paul Mittal National Awards: Exemplary contributions towards betterment of society recognised||To felicitate residents and organisations from across India for their contributions towards the betterment of society, the Nehru Sidhant Kender Trust announced the Sat Paul Mittal National Awards- 2021 during a virtual event on Tuesday.President of the trust and vice-chairman of Bharti Enterprises, Rakesh Bharti Mittal, participated in the event and retired IPS officer and former lieutenant governor of Puducherry, Kiran Bedi, was the chief guest. The winners were presented with a total cash prize of ₹12 lakh and were felicitated with citations for the Sat Paul Mittal National Awards and the Sat Paul Mittal Appreciation Awards in individual and institutional categories.The award in the individual category was given to Chandrakali Markam from Madhya Pradesh and Karimul Haque from West Bengal. Chandrakali Markam was born in a poor Adivasi family and married off at the tender age of 11. She pulled her family out of poverty through her small self-help group (SHG) savings. She grew the turnover of her SHG’s federation to thousands of crores and encouraged women from landless families to think of businesses like mushroom cultivation and promote village ventures.Karimul Haque used the setback of losing his mother due to lack of ambulance facility, as a vow to not let anyone in his village suffer due to the same problem. Popularly known as bike-ambulance-dada, he has since 1998 provided ambulance facility to over 20 villages and has ferried thousands of patients in and around Dhalabri, free of cost. He is also a Padma Shri awardee.The award in the institutional category was conferred to Gram Vikas of Odisha, which was established as an NGO in 1979, with a mission to enable rural communities to lead a dignified life. It is working towards building capabilities of village communities, strengthening community institutions and mobilising resources with the aim to make communities self-sufficient.The appreciation award in the individual category was conferred on Dr Yoga Sreelesh Nambiar from Mumbai, who is India’s first transgender with a PhD in Mental Health, a classical dancer, social reformer and an orator. Nambiar vowed to work for the welfare of the transgender community and create an environment of respect and dignity.In the institutional category, the appreciation award was given to the LEPRA Society of Hyderabad, which is an NGO that promotes quality health care, initiates and fosters new developments and implementation. With operations across 10 states, its key focus areas include leprosy and lymphatic filariasis (LF) and also works with TB, HIV/AIDS, eye care and Covid 19 services.Mittal and Bedi congratulated the winners and applicants. Mittal said, “The Nehru Sidhant Kender Trust has been supporting the disadvantaged sections of society with a special focus on education. I congratulate all the winners and applicants and hope that they inspire others to diligently work towards upliftment of weaker sections of society. The transformational work done by these individuals and organisations will go a long way in promoting inclusive growth in communities across the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sat-paul-mittal-national-awards-exemplary-contributions-towards-betterment-of-society-recognised-101636485370099.html
10-11-2021||Pune||20 PMC hospitals do not have fire-safety clearance||PUNE Even as the fire at the Ahmednagar Civil Hospital on Saturday exposed a sorry state of government-run hospitals, especially when it comes to fire safety, Pune has 20 civic-run hospitals which are yet to get an official fire clearance. Although the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claims that these are minor irregularities and that the work has begun in most hospitals with tenders floated for the rest, the delay raises questions about the administration’s priorities. Besides the 20 civic-run hospitals, 15 maternity homes, five Covid-19 hospitals and 51 OPD clinics and health centres, have been found to be lacking basic fire safety systems being in place. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “From what I understand, based on the fire audit report, is that these are just minor irregularities. However, we have begun work in many hospitals and for others, tenders will be issued soon. We have expedited the process. During Covid-19 as well we had a fireman stationed at every ward 24x7 in case of any inadvertent incident. However, we are also now working on ensuring that all our hospitals are audited for fire safety and get clearance as per the act.” The Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act has certain provisions which are mandatory for each building based on the height of the structure and its purpose. A senior PMC official requesting anonymity said, “Of the five, three Covid-19 hospitals have a fire fighting system in place and for the remaining two tenders have been issued. The two tenders are valued at ₹1.5 crore, in total. In the case of maternity homes, all of them have fire extinguishers in place and we have estimated the work that needs to be done which would cost about ₹15-20 lakh at each centre. We will soon float a tender for that too. All the OPDs have extinguishers in place.” Some of the major hospitals that are yet to get clearance and a fire audit certificate are Naidu hospital, Dalvi hospital, Laigude Hospital and the Kamala Nehru Hospital. Another senior PMC official said, “Although the fire fighting system is in place there are minor irregularities, which is why these hospitals have not got the clearance as per the Act. The health department has got a letter from the fire department stating that these works need to be done urgently. Insufficient budgets have hampered the work. However, now tenders will be floated sooner. The minor irregularities could prove the entire system useless in case of a tragedy, so it is important that the civic body prioritises safety above all.” PMC-run hospitals with no fire safety clearance Dr Naidu Infection Control hospital Murlidhar Laigude hospital Vishnu Tharkude hospital Anandibai Gadgil hospital Matoshree Ramabai Ambedkar (maternity home) Sahdev Eknath Nimhan Kuti hospital (maternity home) Draupadabai Khedekar hospital Baburao Genba Shewale hospital Meenatai Thackeray (maternity home) Shivshankar Pote hospital Bindumadhav Thackeray hospital Jaywant Sutar (maternity home) Kamala Nehru hospital Dalvi Hospital (maternity home) Dr Kotnis health centre Janata hospital Rajmata Jijau (maternity home) Shantabai Khanderao Khadsare hospital Dashrath Baliram Bhangire hospital Kashinath Aanaji Dhankawade hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/20-pmc-hospitals-do-not-have-fire-safety-clearance-101636485368846.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhdev’s kin demand approach road to martyr’s ancestral house||Relatives of martyr Sukhdev Thapar and members of the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust have announced that they will go on a hunger strike outside the residence of chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi, if the process to acquire land for a direct approach road to the ancestral house of the martyr in Naughara Mohalla from Chaura Bazar is not completed in 15 days.The members of the trust stated that over three years have elapsed since former CM Captain Amarinder Singh announced ₹1 crore for beautification of the house for the direct approach. Around 90% of the official work has been completed, but the authorities are delaying the process of acquiring around 40 yards of land, which is becoming a hurdle.President of the trust and Sukhdev’s relative Ashok Thapar stated that the administration and the municipal corporation (MC) have been delaying the process to acquire the land, even after the local bodies department had directed them to do so in the past. “We have been making rounds of government offices, but the officials are not paying heed to the issue and the project is being delayed even when most of the paperwork has already been completed,” said Ashok.The trust’s secretary Tribhuvan Thapar said, “The MC has also failed to remove the encroachments around the house of the martyr, which is disrespectful. A team had visited the area to remove encroachments in November 2019, but did not take any action. Many of the residents are not able to reach the house as people have to move through narrow streets at present.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The work has been delegated to additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal to complete the formalities for providing a direct approach to the ancestral house and beautification of the surroundings. I had also conducted a meeting with the members of the trust in the past. I will check the status and directions will be issued to expedite the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhdevs-kin-demand-approach-road-to-martyr-s-ancestral-house-101636485129959.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||One held with 55kg opium in Jalandhar||Jalandhar rural police on Tuesday arrested a drug smuggler with 55kg of opium during a special checking near Kartarpur here.The accused has been identified as Yudhvir Singh, alias Yodha, of Devidaspur village in Jandiala Guru, Amritsar.Yudhvir is a proclaimed offender and is wanted in many cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The police also seized a Toyota Urban Cruiser SUV from him, said director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota in a release.The DGP said police had set up a “naka” (check barrier) on the Kartarpur-Kishanpura road as part of an ongoing special drive against drugs.The police team signalled the SUV being driven by Yudhvir to stop for checking, he said. Upon its search, 55kg of the contraband was recovered from his possession. Yudhvir’s accomplice, Palwinder Singh, alias Sunny, of Amritsar managed to flee, he said in a statement.During preliminary interrogation, Yudhvir revealed that he had received the consignment through a drug smuggler, Navpreet Singh, alias Nav, a native of Vajir Bhullar village in Beas, and is presently residing abroad, the DGP said.“Yudhvir revealed that Nav has been supplying large amounts of drugs, mainly opium and heroin, in Punjab through his aides. Pertinently, Nav was facing criminal cases under NDPS Act and is also wanted in a murder case in Phillaur. Recently, Nav’s name also appeared in the 300kg heroin consignment recovered by the special cell of Delhi Police,” he said. Jalandhar SSP (rural) Satinder Singh said investigations are on and more recoveries and arrests are expected to be made soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-held-with-55kg-opium-in-jalandhar-101636484889310.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Principals of govt schools trained for national survey||A training was conducted on Monday for principals of all the government schools in Ludhiana that will be participating in the Shalla Sidhi survey.It will be conducted by the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration, under the guidance of ministry of human resource development and aims to improve educational standards.As many as 27 schools in the district were trained through video conferencing while others were given the Youtube and Facebook links of the training videos.The online training was supervised by district MIS coordinator Vishal Mittal and conducted by MHRD officials. The school principals were trained on the process to enter and update data regarding infrastructure development in their schools, results and attendance of the students and future planning and goals of the schools.MIS coordinator Vishal Mittal said that the official dates for conducting the survey are yet to be announced by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-principals-of-govt-schools-trained-for-national-survey-101636484712995.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar jeweller ends life, Cong MLA’s aide, ASI among three booked||A 40-year-old jeweller committed suicide after consuming a poisonous substance at a hotel in Amritsar on Tuesday. The victim, Sukhwinder Singh, has also left a suicide note blaming one Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, who is reportedly a close aide of a Congress MLA, Harbhajan Singh, a jeweller, and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Narinder Singh, who is posted in Amritsar. Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the three persons named in the suicide note have been booked for abetment to suicide. Sukhwinder’s family members said there was a monetary dispute between Sukhwinder and Harbhajan. They said a few months ago, Harbhajan and his associates attacked Sukhwinder and his family members. They allege that instead of taking action against Harbhajan and the other accused, the police had lodged a case of assault against Sukhwinder and his family members. “Police acted at the instance of Paramjit Singh Pamma, who is personal assistant of a Congress MLA. Pamma and Harbhajan along with ASI Narinder Singh had been threatening Sukhwinder for sending him to jail, besides demanding money,” the family members alleged. Sukhwinder has also alleged in his purported suicide note that he was being harassed by Harbhajan, Pamma and Narinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-jeweller-ends-life-cong-mla-s-aide-asi-among-three-booked-101636484708842.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||DAP supply: Punjab govt deploys team for better coordination with Centre||The Punjab agriculture department on Tuesday constituted a team of officers who would sit in Delhi for better coordination with the Centre for meeting the demand of availability of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) in the state. Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha said the team of officers from the department would oversee the rakes allocation to Punjab while sitting in the control room made by the central government in New Delhi. “This would help us asking for more share allocation against our pending demand of the DAP,” he said after a meeting to review availability of DAP in the state via video conferencing with all the chief agriculture officers. The minister asked all chief agriculture officers of the districts to ensure that retailers, cooperative societies and even individual farmers, do not illegally hoard DAP unnecessarily, which may lead to panic buying and unrest amongst farmers of the state. The officials were also directed to start intensive checking regarding the hoarding or black marketing of the DAP. He also directed the officials in the field to immediately register FIR against those who are caught in this malpractice. Additional chief secretary (development) DK Tiwari asked officials to sensitise farmers to make use of alternative phosphatic fertilisers like NPK and SSP in place of DAP to fulfil requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dap-supply-punjab-govt-deploys-team-for-better-coordination-with-centre-101636484534815.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to conduct inter-zone checking of devp projects||The municipal corporation (MC) has decided to conduct inter-zone cross checking of ongoing development works and the respective records, especially of the road construction projects.As per the information, the MC has allotted development projects worth around ₹250 crores in the city to woo voters ahead of the assembly elections scheduled for next year. In this course, a large number of road construction works are being taken up and residents have raised concerns over their quality.Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal stated that officials of the bridges and roads (B and R) wing of MC at zonal offices will be deputed to check the works being taken up in other zones. Apart from checking the records, it will be ensured that physical checking is conducted and reports will be sought regularly. In the records, the officials will check measurement books, funds allocation, Contractor ledger record, staff attendance record etc. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that the local bodies department has also deputed a third party to keep a check on the quality of works, but no concrete action has been taken despite multiple complaints submitted in the past. Residents from areas like SBS Nagar, BRS nagar, Kitchlu Nagar and Haibowal had earlier raised concerns over the quality of development projects.Sabharwal said, “Apart from cross checking of work through the staff deputed in other zones of MC, I and other senior officials will also conduct inspections at ground level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-to-conduct-inter-zone-checking-of-devp-projects-101636484533511.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||Efforts to be made to get Bateshwar fair listed in state calendar: BJP leader||Agra Former minister, ex-MLA from Bah constituency of Agra and BJP leader Raja Aridaman Singh has assured to make efforts to get the renowned Bateshwar Mela listed in the state calendar of annual fairs. The proposal was forwarded by Agra divisional commissioner years ago but despite being a popular cattle fair organised on the banks of river Yamuna, Bateshwar fair awaits listing in the state calendar. Bateshwar, 70 km from Agra, is the ancestral village of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee and is also known for its heritage value: there are a number of Shiva temples – once believed to be 101. Near Bateshwar is a site related to Jain Tirthankar Neminath at Shoripur besides attractions like Chambal Safari and Crocodile Farm in river Chambal flowing through the area. Raja Aridaman Singh was at Bateshwar fair on Monday evening and inaugurated the horse show organised as part of the fair. President of Zila Panchayat Manju Bhadoria and former MLA Dr Rajendra Singh were also present. “Bateshwar Mela deserves to be listed as an event in state calendar of fairs. Efforts would be made to get the declaration at the earliest. The fair could not be organised in 2020 due to the pandemic but was organised this year, although on a limited scale,” he said. The highlight of the evening was horse show and horse race organised by Zila Panchayat, Agra. A quality horse Hero won after getting past another horse Badal in straight race. Chief guest Raja Aridaman Singh and Zila Panchayat president Manju Bhadoria gave away prizes to winners in the horse show. Tourism bodies have been pressing the demand to improve infrastructure in and around the religious spot of Bateshwar. This year on Diwali, the temples at Bateshwar was illuminated at night. Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath has also promised different schemes for the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/efforts-to-be-made-to-get-bateshwar-fair-listed-in-state-calendar-bjp-leader-101636483990767.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Assistant professors’ agitation against Punjab govt continues for 9th day||The Punjab Guest Faculty-Cum Assistant Professors’ Association continued to protest against the government’s advertisement seeking recruitment of new faculty for the nineth day on Tuesday. “Seeking regularisation of the jobs of around 906 guest faculty assistant professors, professor Harminder Singh Dimple Nabha, state president of the body, met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other Cabinet ministers in Chandigarh on November 8,” said Falwinder Verma, an assistant professor Professor Hukam Chand of Patiala said till a letter is issued securing the job of guest faculty, part time, and contract assistant professors unconditionally, the protest will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-assistant-professors-agitation-against-punjab-govt-continues-for-9th-day-101636483930687.html
10-11-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, Noida record ‘severe’ air 6th day in a row since Diwali||On Tuesday, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida recorded “severe” Air Quality Index (AQI) readings of 451, 412 and 426, respectively, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Both Ghaziabad and Noida have been recording “severe” air for six days since November 4, the day of the Diwali festival.An AQI reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. “The wind speed has failed to pick up, which is causing lesser dispersal of pollutants. Further, the northwesterly winds coming from the Rajasthan side are also bringing in dust,” Utsav Sharma, the regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), said.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), winds from the northwest have slowed down but are favourable for the transport of stubble-related pollutants towards Delhi.“Today’s share of crop residue burning is 27% in PM2.5 [which is the primary pollutant in this region]. AQI is likely to improve further but remain in ‘very poor’ category due to partially cloudy conditions and shallow mixing layer height,” the Safar forecast said on Tuesday.Meanwhile, on Monday, a sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the NCR and adjoining areas issued an order to implement steps to combat “severe” air pollution in the region. The steps include an increase in the frequency of road sweeping and identification of road patches with high dust-generation; closure of all brick kilns, hot-mix plants and stone crushers in Delhi-NCR. It also gave directions to intensify public transport services, while introducing differential rates (different rates for the same service) to encourage travel during non-peak times.A day after the sub-committee’s directives, the UPPCB, on Monday, levied environmental compensation cost (ECC) against the UP Jal Nigam on Monday in connection with the pending construction of the CISF-Road in Indirapuram.According to officials of the UPPCB, one side of the CISF-Road was dug up a year ago for laying pipes and the work was completed in January but the road restoration work is still pending and the billowing dust is causing major pollution in the area.“It is turning out to be a major source of air pollution. After several communications, the UP Jal Nigam failed to take corrective action and we decided to levy the ECC. The related documents have been sent to the district administration,” said Sharma.“We also found that water has not been sprinkled on the non-metalled road and a thick layer of dust has also accumulated on trees and green vegetation; besides, the construction work has not started yet,” he added.Officials of the UP Jal Nigam said that they made it clear to the contractor that any cost levied will have to be borne by the contractor.“The contractor started the work on the road before Diwali, but there were heavy spells of rain on different occasions. This hampered the construction work. The UP government has given a deadline for completing the road works by November 15 and we are expecting that the top layer of the road will be completed by the date. Water sprinkling is being done at the site,” said Sarvesh Kumar, chief engineer of UP Jal Nigam.“In another instance, we recommended levying of a total ₹25 lakh ECC against several (about 7-8 units) industrial units in Bulandshahr Road Industrial Area. There, a patch of green belt is filled with solid waste and industrial waste, which is suspected to be generated by the units in question,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-noida-record-severe-air-6th-day-in-a-row-since-diwali-101636483568469.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||One year of protest: SKM announces daily tractor march to Parliament during Winter Session||To observe one year of the movement against the Centre’s three agri laws, 500 farmers will participate in a peaceful tractor march to Parliament every day during the winter session starting November 29, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said on Tuesday.Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the laws, which were stayed by the Supreme Court in January, at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year.The SKM, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions leading the stir, announced the tractor march after it held a meeting here.Farmer leaders, who were present in the meeting, said that those participating in the tractor march will sit wherever the police will stop them.In a statement, the amalgam said that it will observe one year of the movement on and after November 26 in a massive way all over India.“The SKM decided that from November 29 until the end of this Parliament session, 500 selected farmer volunteers will move every day to Parliament in tractor-trailers peacefully and with full discipline, to assert their rights to protest in the national capital,” the statement said.This will be done to “’increase the pressure” on the central government “to force it to concede the demands for which farmers across the country have launched a historic struggle”, it said.Earlier in March too, farmers had taken out a foot march to Parliament to oppose the contentious three farm laws.On January 26, a tractor rally had turned violent with protesters breaking barricades, attacking security personnel and storming the Red Fort, where they hoisted a religious flag.Farmer leader and a representative of the Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sabha Abhimanyu Kohar said that farmers will sit in protest wherever the Delhi Police stops them on their way to Parliament.He said that any decision about the route finalisation and the police permission for the tractor march will be taken later.“In today’s meeting, only the tractor march was decided. Modalities about the route and permission will be decided in a few days. On our way to Parliament, if the police stop us we will sit wherever we will be stopped,” Kohar said.He said that the tractor march will be peaceful and taken out in a disciplined manner.“We believe in peace and non-violence. There will be no connection,” Kohar said.The SKM statement also said that on November 26, there will be huge mobilisations from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan at all the Delhi borders “All farm unions in the SKM will mobilise farmers in strength for this occasion. Huge public meetings will be held there (at borders) that day. Homage will be paid to more than 650 martyrs in this struggle so far,” it said.The SKM has also called for massive mahapanchayats in state capitals on November 26.The winter session of Parliament will begin on November 29 and go on till December 23rd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-year-of-protest-skm-announces-daily-tractor-march-to-parliament-during-winter-session-101636483510315.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||HC seeks responses from Delhi govt, North MCD over steps to control dengue||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought the response of the Delhi government and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to a plea seeking steps to control the dengue outbreak in the national Capital.According to the report on vector-borne diseases released on Monday, 2,708 dengue cases and nine deaths due to the disease have been recorded in Delhi this season till November 6, the highest count since 2017 for the same period.Justice Rekha Palli issued a notice to the authorities ordering regular fogging, forming inspection teams to check growth of mosquito larvae and imposing penalties on violations.The petitioner, a resident of Model Town in north Delhi, who is suffering from dengue, said the area is facing an onslaught of dengue, like the rest of the city, and alleged that due to the authorities’ inaction in controlling the vector-borne disease, many cases are reported every day and hospital beds are being occupied fast.Petitioner Ananya Kumar sought a direction to authorities to take proper measures to control the dengue outbreak in the area around her residence and to conduct “regular fogging of the area, door-to-door awareness campaigns, form teams to inspect dengue larvae on the premises/area, to invite penalty for violation and issue dengue helpline numbers”.The Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal said the authorities are taking necessary steps so that the dengue outbreak in the city is curtailed.The plea said the petitioner is living in fear that children and senior citizens of her family may also suffer from dengue fever which could be fatal at their age.The court granted the authorities one week’s time to file their status reports in the matter and listed the plea for hearing on November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-responses-from-delhi-govt-north-mcd-over-steps-to-control-dengue-101636483508930.html
10-11-2021||Other||Son of Odisha cop robs bank with his father’s pistol, arrested||The 23-year-old son of a serving assistant sub-inspector of Odisha police, who looted ₹15 lakh from a private bank with the service pistol of his father, was arrested on Tuesday afternoon following an exchange of fire with a team of police who intercepted him, officials said.Police officials said Jaydev Nayak, son of an assistant sub-inspector of police in Sundargarh district, arrived at the Axis Bank under Sundargarh town police station around 2 pm in a bike on Tuesday.“After entering the bank with a bag, he first pointed out the pistol at the head of the cashier and then manager Lankeswar Maharana asking them to fill up the bag with all the cash at the counter. After leaving the bank, he put the gun on the head of a bike rider and asked him to give his bike, he then sped away on that motorcycle when our police team intercepted him at Shankara,” said Sundargarh SP Sagarika Nath.When Nayak opened fire at police, they fired back injuring him on his left leg. The police later recovered all the cash, the gun and admitted him to a hospital. Nayak is a graduate and has been unemployed for the last 2-3 years.The SP said Nayak’s father, who is posted at Sundargarh Sadar police station, would be probed to find out if he was complicit in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/son-of-odisha-cop-robs-bank-with-his-father-s-pistol-arrested-101636483449270.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi University to start classes for new undergraduate students from Nov 22||The Delhi University will start the academic session for the new batch of undergraduate students on November 22 and for postgraduate students from December 1, the university announced on Tuesday. However, the academic calendar released by DU does not mention anything about the mode of classes — whether they would be held in-person or online.But DU’s dean of colleges Balaram Pani said the semester will kick off in the online mode for now. “Students will be coming from different states whenever in-person classes are resumed. The (Covid-19) situation is different in different states right now. We will have to wait and watch as to how things will pan out over the next one or two months. Until then, classes will take place in the online mode,’ said PaniThe online process of admission to undergraduate courses at DU colleges is currently underway. So far, five cutoff lists have been released by the varsity. The special drive cutoff for vacant seats will be released on November 13 and candidates can apply against the special drive list from November 14 to November 15, 2021. The DU, which stopped all in-person classes in March last year, resumed on-campus practical sessions in February, but the sessions were called off in March amid the onset of the fourth Covid-19 wave in Delhi. In September, the varsity allowed final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students to return to campus for practical and laboratory work, as part of its plan to reopen in a phased manner. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said the new academic session was delayed this year due to Covid and it was important to welcome the new students at the earliest. “Covid has already delayed the (first) semester. It’s good that the new session will start soon so that we can catch up with the academic cycle,” said Khanna. Sanjay, who goes only by his first name, will be pursuing his bachelors in political science at DU. He said he was looking forward to college life and making new friends. “I am satisfied with my course and college and look forward to attending classes. So far, we have not heard anything from the college but I am sure more details will be shared as the first-day inches closer,” he said. Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House, said the college will be holding an online orientation for students like it did the past year. “Usually, we conduct the orientation on the first day of the session itself. This time too, we will be holding a session with the first-year students as they start their college journey,” said Nanda. She said the college was yet to receive any directions regarding the mode of holding classes. “We have not received any information so far. The notice doesn’t say anything about online or offline classes. We will wait for more information to be released,” said Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-to-start-classes-for-new-undergraduate-students-from-nov-22-101636483329863.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 5 Rohini jail officers arrested for helping conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar||Five jail officers, which include two superintendents of Delhi’s Rohini jail, were arrested for allegedly helping con Sukesh Chandrashekhar in duping Aditi Singh, wife of former Religare promoter Shivinder Singh to the tune of crores of rupees, Delhi Police said on Tuesday.RK Singh, additional commissioner of police (economic offences wing) identified the five Rohini jail officers as superintendents Sunil Kumar and Surinder Chandra, deputy superintendents Mahendra Prasad and Laxmi Dutt and assistant superintendent Prakash Chand. The officers said that the five were “actively involved” in the racket. All the five were posted in Delhi’s Rohini jail, where Chandrashekhar was lodged. Chandrashekhar had allegedly conned Aditi by posing as a law ministry official and received at leastRs 4 crore by promising to get her husband released on bail.Shivinder Singh, former promoter of Religare Enterprises, was arrested in October 2019 in a case pertaining to the alleged misappropriation of funds at its subsidiary Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL). Police had in June 2020 registered a case on Aditi’s complaint that some people who posed as officials from the ministry of law, took money from her by offering to bail her husband.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said these five officers from Rohini jail directly helped Chandrashekhar run his crime network from inside the prison.There are three prisons in Delhi - -Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli. The three prison complexes have 16 sub jails. Each sub jail is headed by a jail superintendent, who is assisted by junior officers such as deputy and assistant superintendents, head warder and warders.“The two superintendents were posted as the head of the Rohini jail between 2019, 2020 and 2021. It was on their instructions that Chandrashekhar was lodged alone in a barrack. Normally, around 20-25 prisoners are lodged in the barrack. We have confessional statements of the arrested persons, who have claimed that the jail officers were paid about ₹15-60 lakh a month. This disclosure statement is part of our record, which will be submitted in court,” said an investigating officer, who asked not to be named.To be sure, a disclosure made by an arrested person in custody is not admissible evidence in court.A second officer, who asked not to be named, said, “The fraud started after phones were smuggled inside the jail. Chandrashekhar was guiding the superintendents on the people who should be posted in the jail. It was on his demands that many junior jail officers were assigned to him by the superintendents. One charge sheet has already been filed in the case against the people who were arrested before. We will question the recently arrested people, gather evidence, and file a supplementary charge sheet against them.”On August 17, police arrested deputy superintendent Dharam Singh Meena and assistant superintendent Subash Bhatra in the case. Additional CP Singh, said the two men collected the money from Aditi and helped Chandrashekhar send messages to his other contacts for laundering it.In the fraud case, until Tuesday, police have arrested 14 people, including Chandrashekhar, two jail officials, a branch manager of a private bank in Connaught Place and Chandrashekhar’s partner, actor Leena Maria Paul. Paul was arrested on September 5 for helping Chandrashekhar pull off the scam.Of the arrested persons, at least 10 have been booked and charged under the stringent MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act). Apart from Delhi police, the Enforcement Directorate is independently probing allegations of money laundering against Chandrashekhar.Chandrashekar was arrested in 2017 by Delhi Police for allegedly duping an AIADMK leader of ₹2 crore on the pretext of helping his party retain its two leaves symbol by bribing Election Commission officials.The prison’s director-general, Sandeep Goel was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-5-rohini-jail-officers-arrested-for-helping-conman-sukesh-chandrashekhar-101636483328539.html
10-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to inaugurate Purvanchal expressway on Nov 16||Lucknow: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Purvanchal Expressway on November 16, according to Satish Mahana, industrial development minister in the state government. This inauguration ceremony will take place in Sultanpur stretch of the 340.824 km-long expressway. The expressway will start from the state capital and end in Ghazipur, eastern Uttar Pradesh. Several ROBs are also coming up along this expressway. The expressway would traverse through nine districts of the state, including Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. Apart from this, the expressway would also connect important cities like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Allahabad through link roads. The expressway will also have a three-km long runway at Kudebhar in Sultanpur district. This runway has been proposed for landing and take-off of fighter jets of Indian Air Force during an emergency situation. Counted among the most prestigious projects of the state government, the project cost of Purvanchal Expressway is around ₹22,494.66 crore, including cost of land. The project was divided into eight packages to ensure its timely completion. It may be pointed out that at present five expressways are being constructed in the state. Apart from Purvanchal Expressway, construction work has been started on Bundelkhand Expressway and Gorakhpur Link Expressway. The Ganga Expressway and Ballia Link Expressway are also set to come up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-purvanchal-expressway-on-nov-16-101636483213795.html
10-11-2021||Other||Kinnar Akhada takes out voter awareness rally in Sangam city||PRAYAGRAJ: Kinnar Akhada, a monastic order of transgender seers, took out a voter awareness rally in Civil Lines locality of Sangam city on Tuesday. The rally, led by state president of Kinnar Akhada, Mahamandleshwar Swami Kaushalya Nand Giri (Tina Mai), started from Hanuman temple and concluded at Subhash crossing on MG Marg. It was participated by transgender seers, artistes and social workers of Prayagraj. Through the rally, Tina Mai appealed to the youths, who have completed 18 years of age, to use their power and right to vote. On this occasion, she also administered the oath of voting to the people who attended the rally. She said, for strengthening democracy, it is necessary for eligible citizens to vote at all costs. “Voting in a democracy is the most powerful tool and the voters must vote to strengthen the nation without discrimination of caste and religion so that the nation can become strong and stay united. Several social workers of the city also participated in this,” she said. The Mahamandaleshwar of the Kinnar Akhada informed that soon a rally would be taken out in the city to make people aware about traffic rules as the death toll in road accidents are increasing with each passing day. Naina, Pari, Manisha, Radhe, besides world famous mustache dancer Dukanji, senior social worker Nazim Ansari, senior social worker Kalpana, Kajal Kaithvas along with Rashmi Jaiswal, Jatin Kumar and many others also joined the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnar-akhada-takes-out-voter-awareness-rally-in-sangam-city-101636483212565.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cops sacked for aiding drug peddlers||The Moga senior superintendent of police has dismissed two assistant sub-inspectors from service for their alleged connivance with drug peddlers at Baghapurana town in the district.The two cops, identified as Angrej Singh and Gurmej Singh, were threatening a teenager who had complained against two drug peddlers trying to push him into the illegal trade, said police.According to the 16-year-old victim, Dilpreet Singh, alias Kala, and Kuldeep Singh, alias Keepa, of Sangatpura village had forcibly made him consume heroin last year and took his pictures. The duo had been allegedly using these pictures to blackmail him and make him take more drugs and work as a courier for them.After the teenager approached police, the two ASIs posted at the Baghapurana police station allegedly started threatening him with dire consequences instead of taking action against the drug peddlers.Later, the boy got himself admitted to a drug de-addiction centre at the civil hospital in Moga, and his plight came into the SSP’s notice.“These two ASIs are black sheep in our force. I personally visited the boy at the civil hospital, and he narrated the entire episode of drug abuse. He also apprised me of threats that he was receiving from the ASIs. It clarifies that they are in cahoots with the drug peddlers,” said SSP SS Mand. Mand said that an SP-rank officer was also with the victim when he received a threatening call from one of the ASIs. “Any kind of laxity cannot be tolerated when it comes to drug menace. Therefore, I have dismissed the two cops from service after verifying the facts,” he said.Meanwhile, a case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act has also been registered against the two drug peddlers. “They are absconding. We are conducting raids at their possible hideouts and will arrest them soon,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cops-sacked-for-aiding-drug-peddlers-101636483155881.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Negotiate land swap with Pak for Kartarpur shrine: Harsimrat to PM||Former Union minister and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday demanded re-opening of Kartarpur Corridor. She urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and take up the proposal for a land swap between India and Pakistan for merger of the holy shrine at Kartarpur Sahib with India in exchange for a suitable chunk of land elsewhere on the lines of Hussainiwala village. She urged the PM to take the diplomatic initiative for the creation of a “permanent peace corridor” to link the sacred shrines in Pakistan to the border. In her two-page letter, the member of Parliament from Bathinda recalled that a proposal for the land swap to merge Kartarpur Sahib with India was mooted by the SAD in 1948. “In 1969, the then prime minister agreed to formally approach the Pakistan government for exchange of land on the pattern that the two countries had earlier done for martyrdom place of Shaheed Bhagat Singh as well as between India and Bangladesh with regard to the Farakka Dam,” she said in the letter. However, the proposal was turned down by both the Pakistan government and the then Congress government in Punjab. She said the issue came up for discussion again during Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Lahore bus trip and his meetings with his Pak counterpart, Nawaz Sharif. She adds that the proposal was initiated at the behest of the then Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/negotiate-land-swap-with-pak-for-kartarpur-shrine-harsimrat-to-pm-101636483106327.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||Smog has reduced sunshine by an hour in Punjab: PAU study||Stubble burning has reduced the duration of sunshine by over an hour during the kharif season in Punjab.This unscientific disposal of paddy stubble is leading to photochemical smog that is not just injurious to the human health but also affects the growth of crops. These are the findings of a study conducted at the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana.Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, who heads the climate change and agricultural meteorology department at the varsity, said the study spanning over three decades has revealed that sunshine hours have been reduced significantly during the kharif season.“Now, crop residue burning has compounded the problem. Due to the thick layer of smoke, sunlight is not reaching the surface and we are witnessing reduced sunshine by 1 hour and 6 minutes,” she said. Explaining the phenomenon, which is called photochemical smog, Dr Sidhu said that it is a type of smog produced when ultraviolet rays from the sun react with nitrogen oxide in the atmosphere. “It is visible as a brown haze, and is most prominent in the morning and afternoon. It used to be witnessed especially in densely populated cities with high-emission levels, but nowadays it is being witnessed in villages of Malwa region as well,” she said.Dr Sidhu said that Barnala and Moga districts in Malwa, which are witnessing a high number of farm fires, are also recording close to zero wind speed that is compounding the problem. “The wind speed in Barnala was just 1 kilometre per hour on Tuesday. It creates a closed room atmosphere, where nothing goes in or out,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smog-has-reduced-sunshine-by-an-hour-in-punjab-pau-study-101636483089721.html
10-11-2021||Chandigarh||South Malwa chokes as farm fires rage in Punjab||The seven districts in southern Malwa belt of Punjab have contributed over 40% cases of paddy stubble burning reported across the state this kharif season. The number of farm fires across Ferozepur, Moga, Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa and Fazilka has climbed to 19,383, with as many as 15,537 recorded in November, according to figures available with the Punjab Pollution Control Board. Meanwhile, the state has recorded 47,409 incidents of stubble burning, of which 5,079 (10%) were reported on November 9 alone. The south Malwa belt accounted for 2,276 (45%) of them.These farm fires have been choking the region, with hazy conditions persisting throughout the day. At the continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) in Bathinda, which is the lone centre to assess air pollution in the region, the air quality index (AQI) was rated “poor” (231) on Tuesday. According to the Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the regional research centre in Bathinda, even bright sunshine hours have been reduced by 50% due to the haze.“An average bright day in winter lasts for 8-10 hours, but due to ongoing smog conditions, sunshine hours have dropped drastically in the last few days. Hazy conditions are expected to continue for a few more days,” said Raj Kumar, an agrometeorology scientist at PAU.No means to monitor air pollutionDespite stubble burning being an annual affair, Punjab has no CAAQMS in 16 out of its 23 districts. Such centres to record air pollution have been set up at only eight places in six districts — three in Ludhiana (Khanna, Mandi Gobindgarh and Ludhiana City) and one each in Bathinda, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala and Rupnagar.Meanwhile, districts such as Ferozepur and Moga in south Malwa, which are reporting a high number of farm fires, have no means to know the extent of air pollution being caused by the unscientific disposal of crop residue.This season, Ferozepur has reported 4,505 farm fires, the highest in the belt, followed by 4,008 in Moga and 2,841 in Bathinda. Fazilka, where the maximum land is under cotton cultivation, has reported 855 cases of paddy stubble burning, lowest in the region.Officials attribute a sharp spike in fire incidents to the delayed paddy harvesting in south Punjab. “Untimely rains last month forced farmers to suspend harvesting of paddy. Incidents of farm fires are likely to continue for another two weeks,” said an official of the agriculture department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/south-malwa-chokes-as-farm-fires-rage-in-punjab-101636483029784.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s high pollution levels pose health risk, experts suggest precautions||The continued bad air run in the capital entails health hazards for its citizens, doctors and health experts said on Tuesday, suggesting a series of precautions such as not venturing out early in the morning, wearing a mask and avoid construction sites.Doctors with at least three city hospitals said they have been getting more patients with exacerbation of respiratory conditions such as asthma, respiratory infections, heart attacks and stroke.Delhi’s air quality has stayed in the poor or worse zone since October 27. It stayed in the severe zone for three consecutive days since November 5, improved slightly to very poor on Monday, but worsened to return into the severe category on Tuesday.Experts say long term exposure to the toxic air can lead to several health problems to people of all age groups, including increase in blood pressure, under-development of lungs in infants, chronic lung conditions in adults, cancers, low immunity, and depression.Air pollution was the top risk factor for death in India in 2019, killing an estimated 1.67 million people, according to the Global Burden of Disease report.Over half the cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in India is attributable to ambient and household air pollution, according to a 2018 Lancet Global Health research paper. In developed countries, 80% of COPD is caused by smoking.“I don’t think there is exact data for Delhi, but it appears reasonably certain that this level of exposure for this duration is associated with significant damage. There will be earlier onset of COPD, more asthma exacerbations, and more lung fibrosis. Ageing will be faster,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology who has worked on asthma and lung health. He is himself an asthmatic.A study from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) shows that there is a nearly 20% increase in the number of patients seeking emergency care for acute respiratory symptoms even when the air quality is slightly bad with PM2.5 levels recorded between 50 and 100 micrograms. At its peak -- between October and January when Delhi records a PM2.5 levels of around 400 micrograms – this number goes up to 40%, according to the study.High-risk groupThe highest risk from air pollution is to those whose lungs are already compromised, and people in jobs such as the traffic police, street vendors, and delivery personnel who have very high level of exposure. High levels of pollution have also been linked to pre-mature births and deaths due to pneumonia in children.Over 116,000 infants in India died within a month after birth in 2019 because of exposure to high levels of pollution, estimates the State of Global Air report. When it comes to the death of children below the age of five, pneumonia is the most common cause after malnutrition, killing an estimated 126, 535 children in India in 2017. Of this, 27% of the deaths were attributable to outdoor air pollution and 22% to indoor air pollution, according to the report titled Fighting for Breath – Call to Action.How to keep yourself safeNot only might those with chronic conditions, even seemingly healthy people start experiencing symptoms when the pollution levels shoot up, experts say.“Even those without any history of chronic condition may experience symptoms such as dryness of throat, itching in the eyes, cough, feeling tired and disturbed sleep with such high levels of pollution. Those who already have lung disease may land up in the emergency department. Some of them in our experience, respond to only cortico-steroids,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care.“Everybody should take precautions. Healthy people should not go for walks or jogs early in the morning; the pollutants are at the breathable height at this time. Go for an exercise only when there is bright sunlight, when the temperature goes up, the pollutants also rise up. The masks that we use for Covid-19, has little or no value against Covid-19. If at all, people have to use an N95 mask,” he said.Dr Khilnani added, “Those who already have a history of respiratory conditions should avoid going out at all. They should also ensure that they take their medicine regularly to avoid emergency episodes. Those with severe asthma or COPD may consider the use of air purifiers; there is no conclusive evidence that they help but they do reduce the levels of PM2.5 etc.”He said that people should consult their doctor if they get fever, start coughing up phlegm, get breathless, or experience moderate to severe chest pain.Pollution and Covid-19Doctors said the high levels of pollution can be bad news for those who have recently recovered from Covid-19.“If we see the post-Covid-19 scenario, there is a large proportion of people who have post-pneumonic pulmonary fibrosis and long Covid-19. These people are more likely to get cough, breathlessness, chest discomfort, lung infection just like those with other chronic respiratory conditions when the pollution levels shoot up,” said Dr Khilnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-high-pollution-levels-pose-health-risk-experts-suggest-precautions-101636482970994.html
10-11-2021||Other||₹38 lakh cash seized from crorepati deputy manager of Odisha police||The anti-corruption sleuths of Odisha on Tuesday seized currency notes worth ₹38 lakh from a deputy manager of Odisha State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited while he was trying to dump part of it in a carton to his neighbour’s roof during the raid, officials said.Pratap Kumar Samal, deputy manager of the OSPHWC, the government body that constructs residential and non-residential buildings of police personnel, was throwing ₹20 lakh currency notes kept in a carton to his neighbour’s roof in Bhubaneswar’s IRC village when the vigilance officials caught him red-handed. Another ₹18 lakh cash was recovered from his residence, said a senior vigilance official who was part of the raiding team.Though the vigilance officials could not give a final figure to the total disproportionate assets owned by Samal and his wife, they said he was found to be owning a five-storeyed building in Bhubaneswar valued at ₹3.89 crore among others.A total of 25 immovable properties, including 5 patches of land and a 4-storeyed building in Bhadrak district, 17 plots and 2 buildings in Bhubaneswar and Khordha were found from his possession. As many as 10 teams of Odisha Vigilance conducted the searches following search warrants issued by the Court of Special Judge, Vigilance, Bhubaneswar.The 53-year-old joined Odisha Police as a junior engineer in 1988 and worked as an estimator till he was promoted to the rank of deputy manager in 2013. He was transferred to Bhubaneswar in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-38-lakh-cash-seized-from-crorepati-deputy-manager-of-odisha-police-101636482969779.html
10-11-2021||Other||Prayagraj: 8 cops suspended for implicating witness in fake rape case||PRAYAGRAJ: At least eight policemen, including two inspectors, have been suspended after they allegedly framed a witness in a fake rape case and sent him to jail. Investigations carried out by senior officials revealed that in a bid to mount pressure on the rape victim to withdraw her case, a fake case of rape was lodged against her brother and the witness while the victim was running from pillar to post for justice. According to reports, a 30-year-old woman of Ghazipur district lodged an FIR against Madan Yadav, an assistant professor at CMP Degree College, at Colonelganj police station in February 2019, alleging that he exploited her sexually on pretext of marriage. Police arrested Madan and sent him to jail. Madan was released on bail after he gave an affidavit in the court with a promise to marry the complainant. However, Madan hatched a conspiracy with the help of some cops to pressurize the victim to withdraw her case. First, he lodged a case of rape against her brother and witness at Phulpur police station. Later, he lodged an FIR against the woman and her kin in a fake fraud case and also a fake rape case against the witness at Handia police station. Then, on January 2, 2021 the rape victim went to CMP Degree College where Madan Yadav and some of his aides assaulted her. Both reached Georgetown police station where police registered a case against the woman for obstructing government work on the complaint of Madan Yadav, but they did not take any action on her complaint. The incident came to light after ADG Zone Prem Prakash initiated an inquiry when the woman met him with her complaint. The investigation in the case was handed over to SP trans-Ganga, Abhishek Agarwal, following which the SHO of Handia police station Brajesh Yadav, surveillance in-charge Sanjay Singh, head constable Pannalal Yadav and constables Krishna Kumar Yadav and Ajay Yadav were suspended while two others were transferred from their posts four days back. Meanwhile, on Monday officials also suspended former SHO Georgetown Shishupal Sharma, sub inspectors Balwant Yadav and Mahesh Chandra for negligence in taking action on the complaint of the rape victim. SSP Sarvashreshth Tripathi said, “An action has been taken against eight policemen for implicating the witness in a fake rape case and negligence. A departmental enquiry has also been initiated against eight cops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-8-cops-suspended-for-implicating-witness-in-fake-rape-case-101636482909331.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||AQI ‘severe’ again as farm fires hit record||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) slipped back into the “severe” category on Tuesday after relenting to “very poor” a day before, coinciding with a spike in farm fires in Punjab and Haryana that has not been seen this late in the month of November since at least 2012.The AQI on Tuesday, according to the 4pm health bulletin, was 404, worse than the 390 on Monday. The number was above 400 for three consecutive days following Diwali, as emissions from fireworks and smoke from paddy stubble burning combined to create a toxic haze that has persisted since.At 5,382 and 4,859, instances of fire detected by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Suomi-National Polar-orbiting Partnership (Suomi-NPP) mission were at their highest for November 8 and 9 since the satellite began recording this data in 2012.“We have been demanding a bonus of ₹200 per quintal to enable farmers for disposal of crop residue. Most farmers in Punjab have landholdings of up to three acres and they are not in a position to invest in stubble management. They are left with no alternative than to burn residue,” said senior vice president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Jhanda Singh Jethuke, while adding that farmers were sensitive to the environmental impact but have been left with little choice.The average of fire instances recorded between the November 7-9 period was over 5,000 – highest since the 5,481 recorded in 2016, when the Capital faced its worst spell of toxic smog.A high number of farm fires in the second week of November is noteworthy since, by this time, farmers should have cleared their fields and begun sowing winter crops. Monsoon has been delayed this year, pushing back summer harvest, and reducing the window that farmers have to clear the fields for the next cycle.Another possible reason for the delay in harvest could be that the central government had postponed paddy procurement from October 1 to 11.The improvement in AQI seen on Monday was merely numerical, with conditions outside as hazy as they have been since the day of Diwali. Wind speeds picked up to 8-10 km/hr on Monday during the afternoon but began to drop by late evening and had become “calm” in the early hours of Tuesday.This pattern is likely to be repeated for the next 4-5 days, which will mean the air quality will range between “very poor” and “severe”, a subcommittee of the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR warned.According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), the share of farm fires in Delhi’s air was 27%, down three percentage points from Monday’s 30%.Safar’s estimation of farm fires based on satellite data varies marginally to the Fire Information for Resource Management System (FIRMS) data accessed by HT.Delhi recorded the season’s lowest minimum temperature of 13.5°C on Tuesday, and IMD forecasts show the minimum could drop to 10 degrees by November 15 as cold northwesterly winds continue to blow. This means a pollution double whammy for the Capital -- not only does particulate matter settle near the ground when the temperature falls, northwesterly winds carry smoke from stubble fires towards the city from Punjab and Haryana while the more favourable easterly winds carry it away.Hourly PM 2.5 data from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) shows peak pollution levels occurring between 3am and 5am at most stations in Delhi, crossing 500 micrograms per cubic metre in concentration – eight to nine times the national safe limit of 60 micrograms per cubic metre.Dr Pratima Singh, who leads the Air Pollution Studies at the Center for Study of Science, Technology & Policy (CSTEP), said as the temperature starts to drop at night, the air becomes cold, and restricts movement of pollutants. “The mixing layer comes down and traps pollutants closer to the surface and relief is only seen when the sun is out and temperatures increase, allowing this mixing layer to lift up,” said Singh, stating a peak in pollution levels can occur around 6-7 am, with a second peak generally observed after 9am, when emissions from vehicles are usually at their highest.“There is more accumulation of pollutants taking place than there is dispersal and this is building up, particularly in the early morning hours and late at night,” said Dipankar Saha, formed head of CPCB’s air laboratory.The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), in their own analysis of the spike in pollution, said on November 8 the wind speed was 13 km/hr at 5pm as PM 2.5 concentration dropped to 154 micrograms per cubic metre. However, when wind speeds dropped by 5am the next day, Delhi’s PM 2.5 concentration was at its peak of 352 micrograms per cubic meter.“Meteorological parameters like wind speed and direction significantly influence air quality. While faster surface winds as observed post-noon favour dispersion of pollution, lower wind speeds typically observed early in the morning prevent dispersion of pollution. This results in higher concentration of PM2.5 and PM10 in the early morning hours and declining values as we approach noon,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at CEEW.Dr JC Suri, senior pulmonologist and director, respiratory diseases at Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj, said pollution levels beyond “satisfactory” begin impacting high-risk groups such as children and those suffering from respiratory diseases; however, air between “very poor” and “severe” impacts all age-groups and puts even healthy people at risk. “High-risk people should particularly not venture out in such air quality and if one needs to, wearing a mask is a must. One can check out air quality and head out when pollution levels are at their lowest, with morning and evening time generally considered the worst,” he said.Suri also warns that, in the short term, exposure to such air can lead to irritation in the eyes and throat and if levels are particularly high, can even precipitate acute heart attacks. “In the long run, one can develop cancer, diabetes and polluted air also impacts brain development,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aqi-severe-again-as-farm-fires-hit-record-101636482847868.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Govt approves integrated flyover-Metro tracks in North Delhi||The Delhi government on Tuesday approved the construction of an integrated structure — comprising a flyover and a Metro track — to connect the proposed Metro stations of Yamuna Vihar and Bhajanpura in north-east Delhi and said the project, to be executed jointly by the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), will be completed in two years.A meeting of the expenditure finance committee (EFC), attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, also sanctioned ₹210.10 crore for the project and said the whole project would lead to overall savings of ₹180 crore of the taxpayers’ money.The EFC also approved the construction of a block comprising six new buildings at the Netaji Subhash University of Technology (NSUT) in Sector 4, Dwarka, at an estimated cost of ₹230.61 crore, and said the block will enable the university to add 3,900 more seats.“The Kejriwal-led government on Tuesday approved the construction of an integrated structure between the proposed Metro stations at Yamuna Vihar and Bhajanpura on the Maujpur-Majlis Park Corridor (Pink Line). With the PWD flyover in the lower deck and the Metro line in the upper deck, the Delhi MRTS Phase IV project was approved by sanctioning ₹220.10 crore,” said the government in a statement issued after the meeting.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the project will also save on social costs, in terms of minimising inconvenience to citizens, reducing environmental effects, and savings on land and commuting time. “The deputy chief minister shared that the structure will be a 1,457m long and 20m wide six-lane flyover covering the two crossings of Karawal Nagar (Yamuna Vihar/Bhajanpura) and Ghonda Chowk (Brijpuri). He said this project will be crucial in eliminating traffic issues in these places and increasing the capacity of the existing roads,” said the government statement.Sisodia said in the statement, “Joint effort of the DMRC and the PWD will save about ₹140 crore of the taxpayers’ money in the construction of the flyover, and ₹40 crore in the construction of the Metro line. This way, a total of ₹180 crore will be saved for the taxpayers of Delhi.”“The cost of the flyover, including shifting of utilities was ₹359.70 crore, but due to the composite structure, the cost was reduced by about ₹140 crore to ₹220.10 crore. Similarly the cost of the 1,457m Metro line was ₹105 crore, which has been reduced to ₹67 crore, saving about ₹40 crore. The project will use the land in this densely populated area more efficiently and the integrated model of flyover and Metro will also prove to be better environmentally,” Sisodia, who also hold the finance portfolio, said.The release further said, “In the EFC meeting, a project for the construction of a 6 block building in Netaji Subhash Technological University under Phase IV at Dwarka worth ₹230.61 crore was also approved on Tuesday.”“The number of students in the university has increased three times from 2,000 students in 2006-07 to 7,700 in 2020-23 session. After the construction of new building blocks, it will help in providing facilities to the increased number of students in the university,” Sisodia said.“After the construction of these new buildings, the capacity of the university would increase by 3900 students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-approves-integrated-structure-to-link-yamuna-vihar-and-bhajanpura-metro-stations-101636482791791.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Set up infra for hybrid hearings at the earliest, Delhi HC directs govt||The Delhi high court on Tuesday observed that the infrastructure for hybrid hearings (combining both in-person and virtual) in district courts and quasi judicial bodies must be in place as there was an apprehension of a rise in Cvoid-19 cases again.“Our anxiety is the same. Again there is an apprehension that there may be an increase in the number of (Covid) cases. The apprehension is...by that time, everything should be in place. It has to be done on a quicker footing. It can’t take so long,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said.The remarks came while hearing two pleas by lawyers Anil Kumar Hajelay and Manashwy Jha, seeking various facilities, including the conduct of hybrid hearings in district courts on in-person hearing days in light of the persisting threat of Covid-19.During the proceedings on Tuesday, Delhi government’s counsel Shadan Farasat submitted that a meeting of the IT (information technology) Department is scheduled for Tuesday or Wednesday on the issue of not approving the estimate for putting in the necessary infrastructure.He assured the court that the government will come up with a detailed report on the meetings. He further submitted that another meeting of the additional chief secretary of the Delhi government is also scheduled on Tuesday to discuss the issue of which quasi judicial bodies needed hybrid hearing facilities.The court granted time to the Delhi government to file a status report in compliance with its earlier order and listed the matter for further hearing to December 13.Earlier, the high court had sought to know the exact time when the infrastructure would be in place in trial courts, and said the purpose of the exercise was to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to advocates and litigants in case a third wave of Covid-19 strikes the country.The court also said that it was “rather curious” as to how a “revised estimate” of over ₹79 crore was arrived at by the public works department officials and then forwarded to the finance department of the Delhi government without the involvement of experts from the field of information technology (IT).It had noted that an earlier estimate of over ₹220 crore, submitted by the high court registry to the Delhi government, was brought down to ₹79.48 crore on account of lowered specifications of the infrastructure proposed to be installed for hybrid hearings.The court had directed the Delhi government to place on record its status report regarding the sanctioning of ₹79.48 crore for setting up infrastructure for the hybrid system in the subordinate courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/set-up-infra-for-hybrid-hearings-at-the-earliest-delhi-hc-directs-govt-101636482608561.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Stalker procured acid from friend to ‘clean toilet stains’||New Delhi: Three days after the Delhi Police arrested a 26-year-old man for allegedly tying up his 23-year-old neighbour and throwing acid on her at his home in outer Delhi’s Bawana, investigation has revealed that the suspect had procured the acid from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Police are still trying to ascertain the source from whom the suspect, who was arrested on Saturday from Buxar in Bihar, had arranged the country-made pistol, senior police officers privy to the development said.Meanwhile, the condition of the woman, who is undergoing treatment at a government hospital, continues to remain critical, even as she showed some signs of recovery on Tuesday. Officials said that three policemen donated blood to save her life on Monday.Police said the suspect, identified as Montu, was allegedly stalking his neighbour and pestering her for marriage, even though she was already married and living with her husband. He fled to his home town in Bihar’s Buxar after assaulting the woman but was arrested and brought to Delhi.Over-the-counter sale of acid is banned across the country, including in Delhi, following the Supreme Court’s order in 2013. “Montu told us that a person he knew from Shahjahanpur had brought a bottle of acid to Delhi from his home town. Montu had told that person that he needed ‘strong acid’ to clean stains from his toilet... We are now looking for that person,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav.Police said that Montu’s initial interrogation had revealed that he had planned to shoot the woman. To execute his murder plan, Montu also procured a country-made pistol, which he allegedly hid in a secluded place in Bawana.The police team took him to the spot he mentioned to recover the weapon, but when they reached there, Montu allegedly retrieved the gun from behind the bushes and fired at the police team. Stunned by the sudden attack, the policemen returned the fire and the bullet hit Montu in the leg, said DCP Yadav.“Since Montu was injured and is undergoing treatment at a hospital, we have not been able to grill him regarding the source of the illegal weapon. We will certainly look for the person who gave him the country-made gun,” he added.Police said that the woman’s husband, in his statement, told them that they initially lived in Samaypur Badli area, where Montu was their neighbour. Since both of them belonged to Bihar, Montu frequented their home and was very friendly. The husband told the police that when he learnt that Montu had been troubling his wife, he shifted with his wife to a new residential address in Bawana around two years ago. However, Montu followed them and shifted in their neighbourhood some months later.“Neither the woman nor her husband had ever informed the police about the stalking or filed any complaint against Montu. Apart from booking Montu in the acid attack case, we have registered a separate case of attempt to murder and attack on police personnel,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhistalker-procured-acid-from-friend-to-clean-toilet-stains-101636482429630.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Boost analytical thinking, computing skills at HT Code-a-thon||Aimed at boosting algorithmic thinking, mathematical and computing skills, and analytical thinking among youngsters and prepare them for careers of tomorrow in science and technology and beyond, the ongoing second edition of the India’s biggest coding Olympiad, Hindustan Times Code-a-thon, has seen several students from classes 4 to 9 sign up for a chance to learn coding, showcase their talents and win exciting prizes too.Launched on August 31, the Code-a-thon aims to foster creativity and problem-solving skills through coding and help in the overall development of students. Empowered with such skills, students can harnesses their abilities in fields beyond STEM as well, say expertsDuring the coding Olympiad, students get the chance to code and polish their computing and analytical skills, said organisers.HT Code-a-thon offers a platform to students to pick up basics of coding, and showcase their code writing skills at a national level. The four-month programme is divided into three rounds: the learning round is supposed to continue till the last week of November; this will be followed by the qualifier round that will take place in the last week of November and open the competition; the final, which holds the promise of a battle between whiz kids, is scheduled for the third week of December. Those interested in signing up for the Code-a-thon can visit https://htschool.hindustantimes.com/code-a-thon or scan the QR code below. Post-registration, the participants can access their age-appropriate modules and course materials. For the coding Olympiad, HT has partnered with IBM and SpeEdLabs, an AI-based practice and learning platform which boosts foundational concept-based learning. Vivek Varshney, founder, SpeEdLabs, said that coding has emerged as a fast-evolving approach to problem-solving that needs to be encouraged at every level of learning. He said that it is a skill that needed to reach young children while they were in school so that they can be developed at the right age. “In a tech-driven world, coding imparts critical thinking, making it easier for students to function, figure out solutions and organise thoughts. Once a skill that only distinct professionals could achieve, coding is now an ability that is mandatory in the current landscape. It offers a chance for children to become creators, and prepares them for their future endeavours. While automation and technology will continue to supersede manual processes, coding will help our current generation stay ahead of this curve and continue to lead innovation and further growth across all domains,” said Varshney.Tuhina Pandey, communications leader, IBM Global Digital Sales & India & South Asia CHQ, said that HT Code-a-thon had transformed into a movement that encouraged young minds to unlocks their potential in STEM fields. “IBM’s collaboration with HT Code-a-thon is a movement to empower young girls with STEM education that will help them break new grounds and grow. Code-a-thon Olympiad will elevate this cause to greater heights, inspire many more to join and grow the STEM education movement,” said Pandey. ​ The Code-a-thon will train participants as they chart their path towards a tech-enabled future. All participants will receive certificates and mentorship from technical experts, while the top three will also receive prizes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/boost-analytical-thinking-computing-skills-at-ht-codeathon-101636482368486.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ex-driver of DU assistant professor held for killing his wife||A 31-year-old man was arrested for allegedly strangling and electrocuting the wife of his former employer, a Delhi University assistant professor, in Burari’s West Sant Nagar, with police saying that he held a grudge against her for removing him from the job and evicting his family from their house.Police said they are also examining the role of the victim’s in-laws after her family expressed suspicions about their involvement.Police said the alleged accused, identified as Rakesh, used to work as a driver for the victim’s husband, Virender Kumar, who is an assistant professor teaching in Ramjas College.According to police, Rakesh, who used to lived with his wife in the couple’s house in West Sant Nagar before being evicted in August, was arrested from the locality after a police patrol team found him acting suspicious and questioned him. The victim, Pinky Singh, married Kumar in February this year, and moved to her in-laws’ house during the second wave of the Covid-19 in July.Police said Rakesh allegedly killed Singh because she had evicted his family from the house, and also asked him to return her husband’s Wagon R car that he was using as a taxi to earn his livelihood. Rakesh allegedly also told police that Kumar had owed him around ₹3 lakh.However, the victim’s family members said they also suspect the role of her in-laws in the murder, pointing out that they had filed a complaint at Burari police station in August, seeking police protection for her as they feared her in-laws and driver Rakesh may be plotting to kill her.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said, “Rakesh held the woman responsible for becoming unemployed and also for evicting him and his wife from the house. So he planned to take revenge. He killed her when her husband and mother-in-law had gone to a hospital. The [murdered] woman’s 84-year-old bed-ridden father-in-law was at home, but he didn’t hear anything as he’s hearing-impaired.”DCP Kalsi said that the murder came to light around 7pm on Monday when constable Bhim of Burari police station spotted Rakesh in the locality, on 100 Feet Road, acting suspicious and questioned him. He allegedly confessed to the murder, following which the constable brought him to the police station.Later, to verify Rakesh’s claims, some policemen accompanied him to the house, on the fourth floor a building, and found the victim woman lying unconscious on the bed. She was sent to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. A case of murder was registered and Rakesh was arrested, said the DCP.During questioning, DCP Kalsi said, Rakesh allegedly disclosed that he was set on revenge and came to the house around 5.30pm, nearly an hour-and-a-half after Kumar left for the hospital with his mother. The accused claimed that he gained entry to the house as the main door was slightly ajar, and found Singh sleeping on the bed.“Rakesh has revealed that he first strangled Singh and made her unconscious. Subsequently, he used a live wire to electrocute her... He was leaving the area when our constable caught him,” said Kalsi.Singh’s brother, Manvir Singh, said that her sister feared for her life and often told him that she should be considered dead or in deep trouble if she did not respond to phone calls or messages.“My sister was living in fear for the last few days and was suspecting that her in-laws were hatching a conspiracy to kill her. When she did not respond to our calls and messages for nearly three hours, we panicked and reached Burari to check on her. The presence of some police personnel outside the building confirmed that my sister was dead. The policemen did not allow us to go upstairs and see my sister’s body,” said Singh.The brother accused Kumar and his family of allegedly conniving with Rakesh to kill his sister. DCP Kalsi said, “We are probing the case from all aspects and all allegations will be looked into. Although Rakesh has confessed to killing the woman, we have not given a clean chit to other people associated with the victim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ex-driver-of-du-assistant-professor-held-for-killing-his-wife-101636481948804.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt comes up with five-point plan to combat local sources of pollution||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday announced a five-point plan to provide some relief from the high-pollution levels prevailing over the Capital. Government officials said that the five-point plan has been chalked out based on the four key sources of pollution affecting Delhi--dust, vehicular emissions, burning of waste and pollution from landfills, and stubble burning.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday announced a five-point plan to provide some relief from the high-pollution levels prevailing over the Capital. Government officials said that the five-point plan has been chalked out based on the four key sources of pollution affecting Delhi--dust, vehicular emissions, burning of waste and pollution from landfills, and stubble burning.|#+|Rai said an emergency meeting was held around 12 noon on Tuesday with government departments and agencies, including the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to discuss measures to control the four sources of pollution.“While we know it is not in our hands to control stubble burning, which is polluting Delhi, we can stop open burning within Delhi and for this, an anti-open burning campaign will be held for a month from November 11. This is a joint campaign in which ten different departments, including the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, three municipal corporations and the DDA, will form their respective teams and monitor open burning. So far, 550 teams have been formed, of which 246 will conduct patrolling at night,” said Rai asking people to report instances of open burning of waste through the Green Delhi app.The minister said to tackle dust, directions have been issued to all departments to start phase two of the anti-dust campaign, that will run from November 12 to December 12. All the departments have been asked to set up an anti-dust cell. “During the first phase of the anti-dust campaign that was held from October 7 to 29, DPCC teams inspected around 2,500 sites, of which 450 were fined ₹1.23 crore for not complying with norms. We are hoping that the second phase will be more successful with all departments joining in. We will also take daily reports from each anti-dust cell to keep a record of the work being done at the ground-level,” said Rai.While directions were earlier issued to deploy 114 water tankers to control dust pollution, Rai said the government’s water sprinkling drive will be intensified by deploying 400 water tankers. Earlier, while only the public works department was carrying out this exercise, now the three civic corporations, the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (DSIIDC) and the Delhi Cantonment board have also been asked to spray water on Delhi’s roads.The other measures include strict implementation of the directions mentioned in the graded response action plan (Grap), which includes a ban on diesel generator sets, stopping the use of coal-based tandoors at eateries and intensifying the use of public transport services.Directions have also been issued to spray bio-decomposer solution over 4,000 acres of farmland in Delhi. Rai added while the solution--prepared by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute-- has been sprayed on 2,300 acres of farmland, the remaining 1,700 acres will be sprayed with the solution by November 20.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) said the announcement shows that the government is taking measures to ensure better coordination between different agencies responsible for managing and regulating pollution from local sources. However, she said the government also needs to look at vehicular emissions.“Vehicular emissions constitute about 17-40% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 emissions. The government should not wait for the air quality to go beyond severe levels to impose restrictions. Reducing vehicular load will not only impact vehicular emissions but also reduce dust in the air,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-comes-up-with-five-point-plan-to-combat-local-sources-of-pollution-101636481588531.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up SDMC, police over concreting of trees in Vasant Vihar||The Delhi high court has sought the response of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and the Delhi Police on the concreting of hundreds of trees in Vasant Vihar and said the act of the authorities was “unmindful” of its earlier directions and those given by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).Justice Najmi Waziri said the municipal corporation must have noted that the concretisation of trees along the streets in the residential area, but for reasons best known to it, it has “allowed the callous affair to fester for years”.“The concretisation of the street is unmindful of the directions of this court and those of the NGT, it shows disregard for the law not only by the municipal corporation but also by the road maintaining agency – the public works department,” justice Waziri said in an order of October 29.The court was hearing a plea by a resident who had alleged inaction on the part of the authorities to preserve trees. The plea also cited non-compliance of earlier orders passed by the high court as well as the National Green Tribunal.After reviewing photographs of affected trees, the court said it was evident that the trees “have been victimised”.“The photographs shown by the standing counsel for SDMC depict that hundreds of trees have been concretised right up to the tree trunk and nails have been embedded in them and metallic wires have been strung along the trees, this is evident victimisation of trees. Surely, the municipal corporation which maintains the streets inside the residential colony would have noted it but has, for reasons best known to it, allowed the callous affair to fester for years”,” the court said in a 10-page order.It directed the deputy commissioner, SDMC, to file an affidavit explaining the state of affairs and posted the matter for further hearing to November 15.Appearing for the petitioner, the counsel had contended that a complaint was made under the Delhi Tree Preservation Act, 1994, to the tree officer in December 2020 regarding victimisation of trees and illegal activities, however, instead of taking any action, notice was issued to the president of the Vasant Vihar residents welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-response-from-south-civic-body-police-on-the-concreting-of-trees-in-vasant-vihar-101636481408417.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to intensify campaign against drugs and substance abuse||The Delhi government on Tuesday said it will intensify the campaign against drugs and substance abuse in the coming days.“Minister of women and child development Shri Rajendra Pal Gautam chaired a high-level meeting with department officials regarding the progress and implementation of the Suryodaya scheme. The scheme has been developed to curb drug abuse in the national capital, especially among the youth, through rehabilitation. The main concern of the minister was the effective roll-out and implementation of the scheme. The minister pressed upon officials the need to successfully rehabilitate victims of drug abuse and their families,” the government said in a press statement.Gautam said, “The youth of this country have become victims of drug abuse. Children as young as the age of 10 and 11 have become victims of drug abuse. This is the failure of society at large —from parents, schools to enforcement agencies — in preventing the child from falling into substance abuse. We will create a robust ecosystem for a drug-free childhood.” He also said it is important to effectively monitor, evaluate and implement the best programmes by all agencies to rehabilitate victims of drug abuse even as the campaign against drugs will be scaled up in the coming days.“All stakeholders from various departments, such as education, social justice, police and law enforcement support and child rights commission need to work in close coordination. All agencies should come together and work for a community-based implementation of the Suryodaya scheme. We not only need to rehabilitate the child who is a victim of drug abuse but also provide counselling to his/her family,” he said.In July 2021, the government launched Suryodaya Kendra, a one-stop centre for drug de-addiction in Delhi. The centre rehabilitates victims of drug abuse and also provide counselling to their families, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-intensify-campaign-against-drugs-and-substance-abuse-101636481288458.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: To combat pollution, EDMC bans use of coal, firewood in restaurants||Taking note of the increasing air pollution in the city, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday banned use of firewood and coal, including in tandoors, in hotels and eateries under its jurisdiction.The order issued by the EDMC however said electrical tandoors, with proper emission, channelisation and control system, can operate within the licensed premises.“Any violation of these will result in penal action and it is applicable to all the restaurants falling under the jurisdiction of EDMC,” the order stated.The sub-committee of the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the national capital had on October 28, 2021, asked agencies to implement measures falling under the ‘very poor’ category of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), which bars the use of coal and firewood in hotels and open eateries, owing to the deterioration in air quality.EDMC officials said that the civic body has so far issued 1,282 challans for illegal dumping of garbage and open burning. “Besides, another 79 challans have been issued for illegal dumping and dust control violation at construction sites. The EDMC has altogether deployed 128 teams, to check garbage dumping and burning. The list of these teams has also been uploaded on the official portal of the EDMC,” said an official, requesting anonymity.The official also informed that as many as 10 mechanical road sweepers, 40 water sprinklers and 12 jetting machines have also been deployed by the EDMC to tackle air pollution. “The civic body has already reduced 61 authorised sites to 17 for dumping debris and remaining sites have been closed and are being barricaded. Any unauthorised vehicle will be impounded if found dumping debris at these sites. Construction sites above 500 square metres are being registered with the DPCC portal for close monitoring,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-combat-pollution-edmc-bans-the-use-of-coal-firewood-in-restaurants-101636481229000.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: AAP MLAs to oversee arrangements for Chhath at 800 temporary venues||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government has prepared 800 temporary venues for Chhath celebrations in the city on Tuesday and entrusted MLAs to oversee the arrangements at each venue.The arrangements include tents, water, toilets, power connections, drainage, medical camps and safety provisions such as CCTV cameras, deployment of home guards, fire tenders and first responders, officials said.“Keeping in mind the importance of the Chhath Puja, the Kejriwal government ministers and AAP MLAs have taken charge of the preparations. On Tuesday, people saw AAP leaders conduct inspections across Delhi, making sure that there were no shortcomings in the preparations,” the party said in a press statement.AAP Delhi convener and state environment minister Gopal Rai inspected Chhath preparations at Bhalswa Lake. He said, “Top notch facilities from tents to CCTV cameras have been organised at the site. No other state government is making preparations like the Kejriwal government and Chhath is being held in true Delhi style. As many as 800 Chhath ghats have been prepared by the Kejriwal government with all necessary provisions for the Mahaparv.”Rai further said, “Our only wish is to help the people of Delhi and of Purvanchal to celebrate Chhath Puja without any obstacles. Amid the enthusiasm and the preparations, I’d also like to urge people to practise great caution and strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines, which were kept in mind while making the arrangements. The role of the BJP here is that of exercising and imposing its politics. While the responsibility of the Aam Aadmi Party is to help organise the Puja. So they’re doing their part, and we are doing ours.”On September 30, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) banned Chhath Puja celebrations in public spaces, even as it allowed Durga Puja and Dussehra festivities with restrictions. This led to protests by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which demanded that the government allow Chhath celebrations as well.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on October 12, urging the Centre to issue guidelines for the Chhath festival as soon as possible after consultations with health experts.He wrote that Chhath is celebrated especially by “people from Purvanchal” with “deep faith and sacrifice.”Later, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDMA chairperson, urging him to allow Chhath festivities but with Covid protocols. The DDMA on October 28 allowed Chhath Puja festivities in public places at designated sites, with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols. It, however, refused to allow celebrations along the river banks.In the past decade, Chhath has become a major festival in Delhi with Purvanchalis -- people belonging to areas in eastern Uttar Pradesh -- and Bihar accounting for over one-third of Delhi’s population of around 20 million, according to government estimates and migration data from the Census 2011.On November 5, the Delhi government declared November 10 as a public holiday this year on the account of Chhath Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiaapmlas-to-oversee-arrangements-for-chhath-at-800-temporary-venues-101636467547532.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||6 ‘raahgiri days’ in 3 months to promote sustainable mobility options in Delhi||The Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi on Tuesday announced six ‘Raahgiri Days’ -- an initiative to reclaim the city’s streets from vehicles and promote pedestrian and sustainable mobility options -- to be held in Delhi over the next three months, with the first one planned in Patparganj on Sunday.Organised in partnership with the Raahgiri Foundation and WRI India, under the theme of ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh’, the government has invited all residents, especially children, artists and fitness enthusiasts to take part in the events.The first such event will be held from 7am to 10am at Patparganj -- between BSES Yamuna Power Limited Office and Sarvodaya Kanya/Bal Vidyalaya in West Vinod Nagar -- on Children’s Day (November 14), with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia as the chief guest.Officials said a range of activities such as walking, running, cycling, skating, street games, music band, painting, dancing, performing arts, yoga, aerobics and zumba have been planned.The Raahgiri events is part of the Delhi’s government’s anti-pollution campaign, ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh’, which encourages citizens to take individual responsibility for reducing air pollution by reducing the use of their private vehicles by at least one day a week (‘Bas Ek Trip Kam’), among other measures.“It is our collective duty to come forward and reduce pollution on an individual and community level. We can together build a foundation for a healthier Delhi by taking small steps such as switching off vehicles at traffic signals and switching to public transport,” said Sisodia on Tuesday, stating that the government wanted to make Delhi’s roads safe and provide accessible public mobility.DDC vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah said, “Reducing pollution by promoting sustainable mobility is a core aspect of the ‘Yuddh Pradushan ke Viruddh’ campaign launched by the chief minister. Raahgiri Foundation has pioneered the model of bringing together communities around the issues of sustainable mobility, safe streets and reducing environmental footprint since 2013 and it is our pleasure at DDC to collaborate with them to take this message to different parts of Delhi through six events over the next three months.”The initiative will also see a citizen drive, ‘Neighbourhood Raahgiri’, to advocate for safe, accessible and inclusive public streets.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a co-founder and trustee of Raahgiri Foundation, said, “When people can truly get a feel for what it is like to reclaim and enjoy public spaces, they demand it more. This awareness and desire can play a big role in seeing changes on our streets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6-raahgiri-days-in-3-months-to-promote-sustainable-mobility-options-in-delhi-101636467307467.html
10-11-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis says Nawab Malik made land deal with ‘underworld’, NCP leader hits back||In a fresh bout between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra,leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis held a press conference on Tuesday alleging that state minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik and his family bought land parcels from people linked with the underworld.Hours later, Malik held a press conference in which he said that he would drop a “hydrogen bomb” on Wednesday and expose the “underworld links” of Fadnavis. Malik refuted the latter’s allegations and said that he has not bought any property from anyone linked to the underworld or who is a convict in a bomb blast case.Fadnavis on Tuesday alleged that Malik and his family members had purchased land in suburban Kurla from two persons — Saleem Ishaq Patel and Sardar Shah Wali Khan — using fictitious documents and by paying far less than the actual property rate. Fadnavis claimed the original value of the entire plot in Kurla, measuring around 2.80 acres was estimated to be ₹3 crore. “However, a company controlled by Malik’s family purchased this land for merely ₹20 lakh. The property deal began in 2003 and was completed by 2007,” Fadnavis said. The BJP leader further said that Malik’s son, Faraz signed the agreement documents which were in the name of Solidus Investment Pvt Ltd. “Saleem Ishaq Patel was working as the driver as well as the frontman of Dawood Ibrahim’s sister Haseena Parkar in Mumbai. He was also given the power of attorney of several properties purchased by Parkar. In the suspicious Kurla land deal, Patel had the power of attorney of the land and he signed the sale agreement which was purchased by Faraz Malik, son of Nawab Malik,” Fadnavis, the former CM of Maharshtra, said. Patel was arrested in 2007 with Parkar in a land grabbing and fraud case. Khan is serving a life sentence for his role in the 1993 bomb blasts masterminded by Ibrahim. The serial blasts, which ripped through Mumbai on March 12, 1993, killed 257 people and injured over 1,400. Ninety nine persons were convicted for the blasts under various sections of Terrorist and Disruptive Activities Prevention Act (TADA). “Why did you do business with the killers of Mumbaikars?” the BJP leader asked.Malik however accused Fadnavis of maligning his image by making “a mountain out of a molehill”. He said that all property deals and documents were “in accordance with the law.”Malik clarified that they had purchased the plot of land — Goawala compound in Kurla — which was owned by a certain Munira Plumber who had given the power of attorney to Patel. Malik denied having any knowledge of Patel’s antecedents. He further clarified that a certain portion of the compound (300m) was in the name of Sardar Shah Wali Khan, whose father was a watchman in the compound. Malik said they paid Khan to surrender his right to that plot.“Maybe Devendra ji’s informants did not tell him that Sardar Shah Wali Khan still has a house in the Goawala compound. His father worked there as a watchman. He managed to put his name on the property card of the said land. When we purchased the plot, Sardar Shah Wali Khan had a 300-metre plot in his name. We paid him to surrender his right. Your allegations are baseless,” Malik said.“Devendra Fadnavis is trying to malign my image by connecting me to a blast convict and the underworld. I don’t know Haseena Parkar. Salim Patel had the power of attorney of the family. I did not know Patel was connected to the underworld,” he said. “In my years in Mumbai, there have been no allegations that I had any connection or relation with the underworld. You can go to any agency, we are not scared. Devendra ji, you are mistaken to think that you can create a web of lies to malign my image,” the minister said.Responding to a query on why he didn’t reveal these land deals when he was chief minister of Maharashtra (from 2014 o 2019), the BJP leader said he would have exposed Malik had he found this information earlier. Fadnavis’ remarks came days after Malik sought to link the BJP with an alleged narcotics dealer by tweeting the latter’s photograph with the former chief minister and his wife Amruta Fadnavis.“Another question arises that why did these two accused persons sell their land to Malik? As per that legal provision, all the properties of convicts get attached and come under government control. Did Malik help them to avoid such land on prime location from getting attached?” Fadnavis asked.BJP leader Ashish Shelar requested Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to take cognisance of the issue and file an FIR to inquire into all the dealings. “We demand that the chief minister must file an FIR against his cabinet colleague and investigate all the deals. The minister has accepted all the allegations we made. The entire wrongdoing by the minister must be exposed,” Shelar said in a press conference.His party colleague Prasad Lad said that Thackeray should sack Malik from the cabinet. Wankhedes meet KoshiyariThe NCP leader has made a raft of allegations against a drug raid on Cordelia, a cruise ship, on October 2 in which 20 persons, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan, were arrested. Malik has claimed that the raid, led by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede was an attempt to kidnap Aryan and extort ransom.Wankhede’s wife Kranti Redkar and father Dnyandev Wankhede on Tuesday met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and submitted a complaint against state minister Nawab Malik. Speaking to reporters afterwards, Redkar, a former actor, said, “I met governor Koshyari with my father-in-law Dnyandev Wankhede and sister-in-law Yasmeen Wankhede. “We submitted a complaint about minister Nawab Malik’s constant attacks on us,” she said. They were “humble people” but “family reputation is at stake due to constant attacks,” she added.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-says-nawab-malik-made-land-deal-with-underworld-101636452306461.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||Three arrested after shootout at midnight near New Delhi’s AIIMS campus||Gunshots were fired at Kidwai Nagar area near the AIIMS campus in New Delhi during a shootout between police and three people shortly after midnight on Tuesday. Police arrested two men and a teenager after the shootout in which no one was reported killed. The three were arrested after one of the men was shot by the police in the leg during the exchange. The injured man has been admitted to the AIIMS trauma centre, police said. The shootout happened in a high security area of Kidwai Nagar, located a few kilometres away from a house where senior ministers reside.Also Read: Greater Noida: Man arrested for allegedly killing wife over domestic disputeRecalling the incident, Benita Mary Jaiker, the southern police district’s deputy commissioner of police (DCP), said that at around midnight, cops from the Kolta Mubarakpur police station were patrolling the Kidwai Nagar area when they spotted three suspicious people on a motorcycle.“Our police team signalled them to stop the bike, but the rider accelerated and tried to flee. Our team chased them. When they were near Kidwai Nagar east office block, the pillion rider took out a gun and fired at the police team. In self-defence, constable Kuldeep opened fire, resulting in an injury to the pillion rider’s right leg. All three were then successfully overpowered,” Jaiker said.None of the police personnel were injured in the shootout. Police identified the injured pillion rider as Abhi Saurav and another man as Gurudev Singh. Third person was a juvenile and police did not reveal the person’s identify. Cops recovered a country-made pistol from Saurav.Jaiker said the police have registered a case against them at the KM Pur police station and are checking if the trio had criminal records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-arrested-after-shootout-at-midnight-near-new-delhi-s-aiims-campus-101636439585395.html
10-11-2021||Delhi||For clockmakers in old Delhi, time is a friend and an enemy||Mohammad Ayaz Khan, a clock repairer, prefers to be called a craftsman. His workshop in Churiwalan in the walled city is a charming little museum of antique clocks -- mantel, wall, table-top and, cuckoo clocks -- many of them over a hundred years old. There are others packed in cardboard boxes that have come for repair from across the country through courier. “There are a few clockmakers like me who have survived in this age of quartz clocks,” says Khan as he examines, like a biologist, the clock plate of a century-old Smiths Enfield clock.“Its bushings have worn off. I will have to disassemble its entire mechanism and change its bushing to make it tick again. This British clock was once one of the most sought-after clocks brands all over the world,” says the affable Khan. The walls of his workshop have clocks of many top brands of yore such as Ansonia, Seth Thomas, Smith Enfield, and Seikosha.For the uninitiated, Ansonia is an American company that started making clocks in Ansonia, Connecticut, in 1851, and later moved to Brooklyn New York; Seth Thomas is another American company that was incorporated in 1853; Smiths Enfield was among the first companies in Britain to get into mass manufacturing of domestic mechanical wall clocks in the 1930s; and Seikosha is a Japanese company formed in 1892, better known today as Seiko.Spring-driven mechanical wall clocks, which harness the energy stored in a wound spring to keep the time, have a complex mechanism comprising a mainspring, several wheels, levers, and hammer, and a little maladjustment in any of the parts could result in inaccurate timekeeping or a jarring chime, says Khan.“These mechanical clocks need to be wound at least once a week and serviced at least once a year in Indian weather conditions. The most common problem these clocks develop over the decades is the corrosion in the bushing that affects the wheel movement. People come to us when they fail to get their antique clocks repaired anywhere else,” says Khan, whose desk has a table lamp, range of forceps, screwdrivers, brushes, tweezers, spring winders, pliers. “I get clocks for repair from bungalows in Greater Kailash, Vasant Vihar, Sunder Nagar, and Defence Colony,” says Khan. He learnt clock repairing from his father Mohd Ilyas Khan, who started the workshop in 1972.“My clients include top lawyers, including two former attorney generals and many industrialists, who often invite me to their houses or offices to fix their faulty mechanical clocks, some of which are over 200 years old. These wall clocks were once the preserve of the rich, the famous and the royals,” says Khan adding, “ A clockmaker is an artisan with the temperament of a scientist.”Indeed, historically, some of the early clockmakers also invented scientific instruments. Take for example John Harrison, the British clockmaker whose marine chronometers revolutionised seafaring in the 18th century.And how much could a repair cost? Anything between ₹300 to 10, 000, depending on how old the clock is and what the fault is, says Khan. “Sometimes it takes hours and sometimes it could take a week. And in some cases, we are unable to fix a clock. It happens when we are unable to get or fabricate a part.”Not far from the Ayaz Khan’s workshop is Suhail Watch Company, near Jama Masjid, run by Suhail Akhtar. Akhtar, 63, is a living encyclopedia on mechanical clocks and watches and nothing seems to perk him up more than a conversation about them.Before the industrial revolution, he tells you, clocks were handmade and bore the name of the individual clockmakers rather than the companies.“A clockmaker took care of the mechanism and then it would go to the case maker,” says Akhtar.By the 20th century, standardized designs and parts made it possible to assemble clocks in factories, and clockmakers now specialised in the repair of clocks. “But we still need to have all the skills of those early clockmakers to do our job well,” says Akhtar.Most of his clients, he adds, are people who want to get the clocks of their grandparents’ or great grandparents repaired to preserve their memories. “Otherwise, I do not have many clients these days. Mechanical clocks lost their popularity when Quartz watches arrived in the 1970s and became popular in India by the mid-1980s,” says Akhtar. It is 4pm and a grandfather clock in his workshop produces what sounds like a single Westminster chime.Quartz clocks that use an electronic oscillator regulated by a quartz crystal to keep time, Akhtar says, are slightly more accurate but they have depreciated the timepieces and his profession. “In Quartz clocks, all you need to do is replace the machinery or the battery. It takes a couple of minutes,” he says.Akhtar, a mechanical clock repairer for over 45 years, gets nostalgic as he talks about old clients that included the royals. “Many of them were zamindars and royals. A few years back, I was invited by a former royal in UP, who called me to repair the massive tower clock his family had installed in their city. But he said he was unable to pay the fee I demanded. They too, like us, have fallen on bad times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/for-clockmakers-in-old-delhi-time-is-a-friend-and-an-enemy-101636308833488.html
10-11-2021||World||China and US to make joint statement at COP26 climate summit||China and the United States, the world's two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, will make a joint statement later on Wednesday at the COP26 climate summit, a spokesperson for the Chinese delegation said.The statement was expected at 1800 GMT on the "China-U.S. Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s," the Chinese delegation said.Britain has organised the COP26 meeting in Glasgow, Scotland which aims to secure net zero carbon emissions pledges and keep the Paris Agreement target of a 1.5 degrees Celsius temperature rise within reach in order to curb the impact of global warming.Chinese President Xi Jinping is not attending the United Nations meeting in person. Instead, last week he delivered a written statement to the opening section of the summit when leaders usually give speeches.In it, he offered no additional pledges, while urging countries to keep their promises and "strengthen mutual trust and cooperation".Xi pledged at the U.N. General Assembly in September that China will achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-and-us-to-make-joint-statement-at-cop26-climate-summit-101636566679065.html
10-11-2021||World||Amid collapsing system, UN pays $8 million in salaries to Afghan health workers||Amid collapsing administrative system in Afghanistan after the Taliban taking control of the war-torn nation, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Global Fund have said that they have paid USD 8 million for 23,500 health workers in 31 provinces in the country over the past month.The payment comes as the UN has been struggling to provide the people of Afghanistan with humanitarian aid who are on the brink of famine so that they prevent the collapse of the economy, health, education services, reported Khaama Press.UNDP's Regional Director for Asia and the Pacific, Kanni Wignaraja has said that someone had to step in and added that they were confronted just with a health system collapsing, but also a financial system that was collapsing."Global Fund took the financial risk; we took the implementation risk to make these payments happen. We have shown it's possible, it can work, it goes a huge long way to save at least the people's economy in the country," said Wignaraja.In the meantime, UN International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) has announced to be directly funding Afghan teachers across the country.The total amount of money provided by the Global Fund amounts to USD 15 million, from the money USD 8 million were paid for the health workers and the remaining money was allocated for supplying medical equipment and essential drugs, reported Khaama Press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-collapsing-system-un-pays-8-million-in-salaries-to-afghan-health-workers-101636565671620.html
10-11-2021||World||UK researchers identify T-cell targets for future Covid-19 vaccines||British researchers said on Wednesday they had identified proteins in the coronavirus that are recognised by T-cells of people who are exposed to the virus but resist infection, possibly providing a new target for vaccine developers.Immunity against Covid-19 is a complex picture, and while there is evidence of waning antibody levels six months after vaccination, T-cells are also believed to play a vital role in providing protection.The University College London (UCL) researchers examined 731 health workers in two London hospitals during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and found that many had not tested positive despite likely exposure to the original coronavirus.They found that, while a subset of the workers did not generate antibodies or test positive with PCR tests, they had still generated a large and broad T-cell response following possible exposure.This suggests that rather than the workers avoiding exposure to the coronavirus altogether, the T-cells had cleared the virus before there were any symptoms or positive test result - a so-called "abortive infection", the researchers said."We know that some individuals remain uninfected despite having likely exposure to the virus," said Leo Swadling, lead author of the study, which was published in science journal Nature."What is really informative is that the T-cells detected in these individuals, where the virus failed to establish a successful infection, preferentially target different regions of the virus to those seen after infection."Current vaccines, which provide high protection against severe disease but do not fully stop transmission or re-infection, target the spike protein of the coronavirus.In contrast, the T-cell responses that led to abortive infections in the UCL study recognised and targeted instead "replication proteins".The researchers said that while such T-cells were associated with protection from detectable infection, they were not necessarily sufficient for protection alone, and the study did not look at whether people had protection on re-exposure.They added that the replication proteins are among the least changed by mutations to coronaviruses, and exposure to other coronaviruses may be one reason why some of the health workers were able to mount such quick T cell responses.It also means that a vaccine which targeted these proteins in addition to the spike protein should work against a broad range of coronaviruses including the currently dominant Delta variant, the researchers said."This is a strong rationale for including these proteins to supplement spike in next-generation vaccines," Swadling told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-researchers-identify-t-cell-targets-for-future-covid-19-vaccines-101636562150468.html
10-11-2021||World||Croatia logs highest daily new Covid cases with since pandemic outbreak||Croatia recorded 7,315 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the highest daily number since the start of the pandemic, and 50 related deaths, the national Covid-19 response team said in a statement on Wednesday.The number of active cases in Croatia now is 34,296, among whom 1,940 are in hospital and 254 on respirators, the statement said.Since the outbreak of the pandemic in Croatia, a total of 514,850 people have been infected with Covid-19 and 9,655 have died.The low vaccination rate has been blamed for the main reason of the climbing Covid-19 cases and deaths. In Croatia, only 53.71 percent of the adult population have been vaccinated. (ANI/Xinhua)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/croatia-logs-highest-daily-new-covid-cases-with-since-pandemic-outbreak-101636559505913.html
10-11-2021||World||Facebook's work app Workplace to integrate with Microsoft Teams: Report||Facebook said on Wednesday it is integrating Workplace, the work-focused version of its social app, with Microsoft's collaboration app Teams, so users can better share information between the two platforms.The changes will allow users to share content from Workplace's newsfeed and from its groups into Microsoft's Teams platform. Soon, it said, users will be able to livestream video from Teams into Workplace groups.Remote-working tools have become key fixtures for companies during the Covid-19 pandemic."You have to meet employees where they directly are, wherever they're doing their work, whatever platforms they're most using," said Ujjwal Singh, head of Workplace, in an interview. He said the integration was largely aimed at customers of both products.Workplace, which the Silicon Valley company uses as its internal messaging board, was launched outside of the company five years ago. Former Facebook employee and whistleblower Frances Haugen recently leaked internal presentations and discussions shared on the service.The software is also used by companies including Walmart and Deliveroo. Facebook says it has 7 million paid subscribers on Workplace.Microsoft and Facebook, which recently changed its name to Meta to signal its refocus on the metaverse, are also both building out virtual reality solutions for remote working.Microsoft last week announced it would bring its virtual platform Mesh into Microsoft Teams next year. Facebook recently launched a beta test of Horizon Workrooms, a remote work app for users of its VR headsets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebooks-work-app-workplace-to-integrate-with-microsoft-teams-101636560072441.html
10-11-2021||World||US becomes 101st member country of International Solar Alliance||The US on Wednesday became the 101st member of the International Solar Alliance (ISA), an inter-governmental organisation formed by India and France to accelerate the global adoption of solar power. The US special envoy for climate, John Kerry, announced at the COP26 in Glasgow that the US has joined the ISA as a member country after signing the framework agreement. “It has long been coming and we are happy to join the International Solar Alliance, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the lead in making. We worked out the details and this is a process we are pleased to be a part of. This will be an important contribution to more rapid deployment of solar globally,” Kerry said. Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav welcomed the US as the 101st member of ISA. “This move will strengthen the ISA and propel future action on providing a clean source of energy to the world,” he said. The ISA’s framework, which was first circulated in 2016 to obtain backing from other countries, emphasises on delivering local benefits to all countries through collaborations. The ISA’s key interventions focus on enabling activities, risk mitigation and innovative financing instruments to facilitate the deployment of solar technologies. ISA is building a solar project pipeline of nearly 5 GW installed capacity in order to achieve a vision of interconnected global grids, which was jointly launched as the “Green Grids Initiative – One Sun One World One Grid” during the world leaders’ summit of COP26 in Glasgow on November 2 by the UK and India. Earlier at COP26, the US joined the steering committee of the “One Sun One World One Grid” initiative that includes Australia, France, the UK and India. ISA director general Ajay Mathur described the US endorsement of ISA’s framework as a heartening development which demonstrates that nations around the world are recognising the economic and climate mitigating value of solar energy. “We hope remaining nations and economies will follow suit, and align with us to achieve swift, affordable and effective climate action, while also achieving their respective economic growth and long-term development priorities,” Mathur said. The launch of ISA was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then French president Francois Hollande on November 30, 2015, at COP21 in Paris. ISA has a global mandate to catalyse solar growth by helping reduce the cost of financing and technology. It helps large nations scale global commitments while assisting economically vulnerable nations to establish a self-sustaining energy alternative that reduces trade dependency and drives job creation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-becomes-101st-member-country-of-international-solar-alliance-101636559961458.html
10-11-2021||World||'Mr Prime Minister, we are not a small country': Pakistan Supreme Court grills Imran Khan on talks with TTP||Pakistan Supreme Court on Wednesday grilled Prime Minister Imran Khan during the hearing on the 2014 terror attack on a school which was carried out by Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) from whom Imran Khan has recently removed the ban. "You are in power. The government is also yours. What did you do? You brought those guilty to the negotiating table," Chief Justice of Pakistan Gulzar Ahmed said.In the 2014 massacre, 147 people, 132 of them children, were martyred when TTP militants stormed the APS-Warsak School, in Peshawar. Imran Khan was summoned by the apex court for Wednesday's hearing. "Are we going to surrender once again?" Justice Qazi Mohammad Amin Ahmed asked the PM as the premier appeared before the bench. Imran Khan told the bench that the 2014 attack was very painful and his party was in power in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa when the attack took place. "Find out why 80,000 people were killed. Also, find out who is responsible for 480 drone attacks taking place in Pakistan," Imran Khan said.In reply, the chief justice said, "Finding out about these things is your job, you are the prime minister. As the prime minister, you should have the answer to these questions…You are the prime minister, you should have answers.""Mr Prime Minister, we are not a small country. We have the sixth largest army in the world," said Justice Amin.The attorney general, on behalf of the government, accepted the mistakes. “FIR could not be registered against higher-ups,” the attorney general said. "Where do the intelligence [agencies] disappear when it comes to the protection of their own citizens? "Was a case registered against the former army chief and others responsible?" the chief justice asked. The attorney general replied that the inquiry report did not find anything related to the former army chief and former director-general of the Inter-Services Intelligence.“There is such a huge intelligence system in the country. Billions of rupees are spent on it. There is also a claim that we are the best intelligence agency in the world. So much is being spent on intelligence but the results are zero,” the chief justice said. "We could have simply said the PML-N was in power at that time and accused then-PM Nawaz Sharif and the former interior minister of failure. But we realise this war is beyond individuals," information minister Fawad Chaudhry said later outside the court. The government is in talks with the TTP over a "reconciliation process" and Chaudhry announced on Monday that a "complete ceasefire" had been reached with the banned outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mr-prime-minister-we-are-not-a-small-country-pakistan-supreme-court-grills-imran-khan-on-talks-with-ttp-101636542705376.html
10-11-2021||World||China to join Pakistan’s ‘Troika Plus’ meeting on Afghanistan||China will join an extended “troika” meeting on Afghanistan to be hosted by Pakistan on Thursday, which will be attended by senior diplomats from the US and Russia, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Wednesday.China’s decision to join the meet in Islamabad comes 24 hours after Beijing said it was unable to attend the India-convened security dialogue on Afghanistan on Wednesday because of “scheduling reasons”, joining ally Pakistan in skipping the meet.“China supports Pakistan in hosting the extended troika meeting. We support all efforts conducive for stability in Afghanistan to building up consensus in the world,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin said at the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday.“China’s special envoy to Afghanistan will attend the meeting,” Wang said without giving more details.China’s special envoy for Afghan Affairs Yue Xiaoyong will lead a delegation to the meeting, Chinese state media reported.China and Pakistan have been working closely in dealing with the new Taliban government in Kabul, which came to power in August, following a chaotic withdrawal of US troops from the war-torn country.China’s snub to India on Wednesday’s security dialogue in New Delhi comes at a time when Sino-India bilateral ties are fraught over the ongoing military standoff in eastern Ladakh.“Due to scheduling reasons, it is inconvenient for China to attend the meeting,” foreign ministry spokesperson Wang had said on Tuesday.Reports from Islamabad said Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and national security advisor Moeed Yusuf will chair the ‘Troika Plus’ meeting on Thursday.The representative of the four countries will also meet Afghanistan’s acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, Dawn newspaper reported.Muttaqi is set to arrive in Islamabad on Wednesday.It is the first visit to Pakistan by an Afghan minister since the Taliban seized control of Kabul in August, the Dawn report said.In September, China’s special envoy Yue along with envoys from Russia and Pakistan, visited Kabul to hold talks with senior officials from the Afghan interim government.Russian, Chinese and Pakistani special envoys to Afghanistan held another meeting in Moscow in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-join-pakistan-s-troika-plus-meeting-on-afghanistan-101636540100426.html
10-11-2021||World||Tackling climate change: New draft deal released at COP26||The draft of an agreement - also called “cover decision” - that chalks out all important elements of the climate negotiations including how countries will cut emissions to avoid temperature rises of above 1.5°C was published early on Wednesday on the sidelines of the COP26 climate talks in Glasgow, Scotland.Two drafts were released. One was released by the CMA, which is basically the group of nations that signed and ratified the Paris Agreement. The group is also called “Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement”. The other draft was released by the COP, which is the Conference of the Parties. It is the CMA’s draft that mainly deals with the important decisions.The text of the newly released draft on combating climate change had several changes over the previous version, making it appear weaker on certain fronts.The draft, proposed by COP26 president Alok Sharma, underlines the Paris Agreement temperature goal of capping the rise in the average global temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and it also calls for pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.However, the text says the impact of climate change will be much lesser at the temperature increase of 1.5°C as compared to 2°C.Also Read: New climate pledges not enough: StudiesThe draft recognises that keeping global warming to under 1.5°C requires meaningful and effective action by all parties, reflecting common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities in the light of different national circumstances.“The text doesn’t crisply, clearly articulate the 1.5-degree goal. It’s still a bit fuzzy,” said David Waskow, international climate director at the World Resources Institute (WRI).Meeting the 1.5°C goal would require reducing global CO2 emissions by 45% by 2030 relative to the 2010 level and to reach net zero by around mid-century. But the aggregate greenhouse gas emission level, taking into account implementation of all nationally determined contributions (NDCs) submitted, is estimated to be 13.7% above the 2010 level in 2030, the draft says.Waskow said a positive development in the draft was that the parties have been urged to come forward by 2022 with revisited, improved NDCs. It also has language on phasing out of coal and fossil fuel subsidies, which have been named specifically in the text.On climate finance, the draft urges developed countries to provide financial resources to developing nations with respect to both mitigation and adaptation, in continuation of their existing obligations under the convention. It also encourages all parties to provide such support voluntarily.The draft only recognises that discussions on a new post 2025 quantified finance goal has started. It has no other details.On loss and damage, the draft urges developed nations operating entities of the financial mechanism, the UN, intergovernmental organisations, and bilateral and multilateral institutions including NGOs and private parties, to provide enhanced support for activities addressing the impact of climate change.On adaptation finance, the draft calls upon the private sector, multilateral development banks and other financial institutions to enhance finance mobilisation in order to be able to deliver the scale of resources needed. There are a lot of gaps, bracketed areas which still need to be addressed.“There is a placeholder on how we will move towards a global goal for adaptation. There is no date by which adaptation finance will be doubled and baseline is not mentioned. This is weak. But there may be a trade-off between this and other elements. We have to see how developing countries respond,” said Yamide Dagnet, director of climate negotiations at the WRI.HT has reported that developing countries have expressed frustration over the lack of credibility and failure to deliver promised climate finance of $100 billion.Developed and developing countries are divided on a new quantified finance goal for the post-2025 period.India will not update its NDC to reflect the pledges made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Climate Leader’s Summit at Glasgow on November 1 and 2, which was part of the ongoing COP26 talks, until there is clarity on climate finance, a top member of the Indian delegation said on condition of anonymity.Waskow said these texts are significant international agreements. They have consequence and an important part of international law being under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. “The parties take them seriously, so they negotiate very hard on these,” he said.“What’s in #COP26 cover decision draft? Call for stronger NDCs next year. Call for coal phase-out, FF subsidy phase-out. Annual ambition push, progress report. Call for loss and damage finance. Loose words on finance,” tweeted Simon Evans, policy editor at Carbon Brief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tackling-climate-change-new-draft-deal-released-at-cop26-101636535359765.html
10-11-2021||World||Federal judge refuses Trump's request to block January 6 records||A federal judge on Tuesday rejected former US president Donald Trump's request to block the release of documents to the House committee investigating the January 6 Capitol riot.In denying a preliminary injunction, US district judge Tanya Chutkan said Congress had a strong public interest in obtaining records that could shed light on a violent insurrection mounted by the former president's supporters. She added that president Joe Biden had the authority to waive executive privilege over the documents despite Trump's assertions otherwise.Barring a court order, the National Archives plans to turn over Trump's records to the committee by Friday. But Trump's lawyers swiftly promised an appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the district of Columbia Circuit. The case will likely eventually head to the US Supreme Court.“At the bottom, this is a dispute between a former and incumbent president,” Chutkan wrote. “And the Supreme Court has already made clear that in such circumstances, the incumbent's view is accorded greater weight.”Trump “does not acknowledge the deference owed” to Biden's judgment as to the current president, Chutkan said. She noted examples of past presidents declining to assert executive privilege and rejected what she said was Trump's claim that executive privilege “exists in perpetuity.”“Presidents are not kings, and Plaintiff is not President,” she said.According to an earlier court filing from the archives, the records include call logs, drafts of remarks and speeches, and handwritten notes from Trump's then-chief of staff, Mark Meadows. There are also copies of talking points from then-press secretary Kayleigh McEnany and “a draft Executive Order on the topic of election integrity,” the National Archives has said.Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., who chairs the House committee, said in a statement after the ruling that the records are crucial for understanding the attack and “in my view, there couldn't be a more compelling public interest than getting answers about an attack on our democracy.”On CNN, Thompson said Trump should stop behaving like a “spoiled brat.”The nine-member House committee is investigating not just Trump's conduct on January 6 — when he told a rally to “fight like hell” shortly before rioters overran law enforcement — but his efforts in the months before the riot to challenge election results or obstruct a peaceful transfer of power.The committee has interviewed more than 150 witnesses and issued more than 30 subpoenas, including ones announced Tuesday to McEnany and former top adviser Stephen Miller. It is unclear, so far, whether the lawmakers will eventually call Trump to testify.Trump has repeatedly attacked the committee's work and continued to promote unfounded conspiracy theories about widespread fraud in the election, despite the fact that Biden's win was certified by all 50 states and his claims have been rebuked by courts across the country.In suing to block the National Archives from turning over documents, Trump called the House panel's request a “vexatious, illegal fishing expedition” that was “untethered from any legitimate legislative purpose." Allowing the House to get access to his records would also damage executive privilege for future presidents, Trump's lawyers argued.But Chutkan said the "the public interest lies in permitting — not enjoining — the combined will of the legislative and executive branches to study the events that led to and occurred on January 6, and to consider legislation to prevent such events from ever occurring again.”Trump spokesperson Taylor Budowich tweeted late Tuesday that the case “was destined to be decided by the Appellate Courts.” He added that “Trump remains committed to defending the Constitution & the Office of the Presidency, & will be seeing this process through.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/federal-judge-refuses-trump-s-request-to-block-january-6-records-101636532118861.html
10-11-2021||World||Canada authorises Pfizer Covid vaccine booster for adults||Canada on Tuesday authorised the use of the booster dose of the Covid vaccine co-developed by Pfizer and BioNTech for those aged 18 years and above.The decision from the Canadian health authorities makes Pfizer/BioNTech’s application for its booster the first to get clearance in Canada.The booster, according to Health Canada, can be administered to those who completed the full “primary series” of two doses at least six months earlier.“Booster doses are designed to help people maintain their immunity longer. Health Canada authorized the booster dose after a thorough, independent review of the evidence,” Health Canada said in a tweet.Last month, the National Advisory Committee on Immunization (NACI) recommended that those at risk, including seniors above 70, could be given a booster of a Covid vaccine, while also stating it could be given to those who had two doses of the Astra Zeneca jab.The announcement from Health Canada came as the country recorded a slight increase in Covid infections. Chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam tweeted there was a “little bump” in cases with nationally, the seven-day moving average of daily cases was up 4% compared to last week.“Though not unexpected as more activities move indoors, it’s a reminder we need those layers of protection.” Tam said.Canada reported 2,380 Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 1737,389. An additional Covid 24 deaths were also reported, taking the overall death toll from the pandemic to 29,217.Over 84% of those eligible for Covid vaccination (aged 12 and over) have been fully jabbed, making for 74% of the total population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-authorises-pfizer-covid-vaccine-booster-for-adults-101636526959254.html
10-11-2021||World||Top Chinese virologist hits out at govt's Covid Zero push||A top Chinese virologist warned the country risks economic collapse if local officials continue to try to wipe out all traces of Covid-19, marking the most vocal criticism of China’s so-called Covid Zero approach by one of its own experts.Guan Yi, a virologist at the University of Hong Kong, disparaged China’s effort to eliminate sporadic flareups of the virus through mass testing and lengthy quarantines. In the wide-ranging interview with Hong Kong-based Phoenix Satellite TV, he urged a reality-check on how well an extensive vaccination drive helped the world’s most populous country build immunity to Covid. “We don’t stand a chance if we pursue a target of zero Covid,” said Guan, who’s been dubbed the “virus hunter” by the Chinese media for his work on identifying the animal origins of the coronaviruses that caused SARS and MERS. “The virus is here today, just like flu. That’s a fact, whether people like it or not.”The ability to break away from Covid Zero hinges on the effectiveness of the vaccines and the cost of controlling the virus, Guan said. It’s crucial for China to figure out how much protection its mass vaccination program has afforded the population, he said.“Let’s not roll out nucleic acid testing for everyone at every turn,” he said. “I think it’s testing antibodies that matters. Everybody should know where their immunity is at.”Guan’s comments are a rare, high-profile criticism from within the country’s elite of its lingering adherence to Covid Zero, which other adherents like Singapore and Australia have abandoned as the more transmissible delta variant makes it almost impossible to maintain. The criticism follows on the heels of an emotional plea for support made by the former vice mayor of a border town called Ruili in southwestern China, where repetitive lockdowns after Covid incursions from Myanmar are threatening livelihoods and exhausting local officials.Isolated China is cracking under the strain of keeping Covid outOfficials in China have said they still consider squashing domestic flareups with aggressive curbs a better option for people’s safety and the economy’s health than reopening borders and easing restrictions. The country will maintain stringent curbs at least through spring given the outbreaks beyond its borders, health officials said in Beijing on Saturday. It’s also doubling-down on vaccinations. More than 75% of the country is fully protected and authorities are rolling out booster shots to all adults. Immunizations are now available to children as young as three years old. This is how long experts think China will stick with Covid ZeroStill, Guan questioned the impact of vaccination in China when local governments won’t relent on controls such as quarantine and temperature screening. While taking temperatures is ubiquitous across the country, the virologist said that’s a “lagging defense” because infected people can spread the virus without showing any symptoms. “Don’t blame the virus for being stealthy,” he said. “We just consider ourselves smarter than we really are.” Instead, Guan said the country must develop a clearer understanding about how the homegrown vaccines are working against new variants of the virus. It should “kick out vaccines that have become ineffective,” he said. China’s leading shots, from state-backed Sinopharm and Sinovac Biotech Ltd., use traditional vaccine technology. While clinical trials show them to be effective at preventing severe cases of Covid, hospitalizations and deaths, they are less reliable than Western mRNA shots at stopping transmission and reducing overall case counts. “One can tell what’s good or bad through comparison,” Guan said. “If we fail to recognize our shortcomings, we lack the incentive to make progress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-chinese-virologist-hits-out-at-govt-s-covid-zero-push-101636523115155.html
10-11-2021||World||Dalai Lama was asked if he wants to visit Taiwan. Here's his answer||The Dalai Lama said on Wednesday that he prefers to stay in India since relations between Taiwan and mainland China are “quite delicate”. The Tibetan spiritual leader, who has time and again expressed his gratitude to the Indian government for providing him and followers refuge in the country, was asked during an online news conference about visiting Taiwan, to which he replied by saying that he prefers to stay in India.According to the Reuters news agency, the Dalai Lama also said that he has no particular plans to meet China's president Xi Jinping.Notably, China claims the democratic island of Taiwan as its own territory and says it should be taken by force if necessary. Taiwan resists, saying it is an independent country and will defend its freedoms and democracy in the face of China's aggression. Beijing seems to have aggravated its hostile policies in recent days, with a record number of Chinese military aircraft repeatedly flying over Taiwan's air defence identification zone. Taiwan's radars spotted as many as 150 Chinese air force aircraft entering its air defence zone early last month, part of a pattern of what Taipei calls Beijing's continued harassment of the island.The Dalai Lama, a supremely important figure in the Tibetan Buddhist tradition, has been living a life of a refugee in India ever since he had to flee Tibet in the wake of a revolt in 1959. He advocates for the welfare of Tibetans while continuing to call for diplomatic approaches to negotiations with China for the autonomy of Tibet and the protection of Tibetan culture, including the religious rights of Tibetans. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dalai-lama-was-asked-if-he-wants-to-visit-taiwan-here-s-his-answer-101636521624751.html
10-11-2021||World||In France, people above 65 yrs will need booster jab for Covid-19 pass||People over 65 in France will need to show proof of a Covid-19 booster jab to be able to visit restaurants, attend cultural events and take intercity trains, President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday.The pass has become a routine part of life for many people in France since August, with a complete course of vaccinations generating a QR code that is shown on entry to gain access to venues."From December 15, you (over-65s) will need to provide proof of a booster jab to extend the validity of your health pass," Macron said in an address to the nation warning that Covid-19 infection rates are climbing again in France.Due to the rebound, masks will also again be compulsory for all students at elementary schools from next Monday, the education ministry announced after Macron's speech.The new rule for over-65s will further tighten what is one of the strictest such regimes in Europe. There were protests in France when the measures were first introduced over the summer but they have since diminished."We have not finished with the pandemic," Macron said, explaining that while France is currently in a better position than either Germany or the UK, infection rates have gone up 40 percent over the past week.Macron noted that "all the studies show" that six months after getting the vaccine, "immunity decreases and therefore the risk of developing a serious form (of Covid) increases"."The solution to this decrease in immunity is an additional vaccine shot," he said.'Responsible and united'Macron also urged the six million people eligible for the vaccine in France who have not yet even received a first dose to come forward and get the jab."This is an appeal to responsibility -- get vaccinated," he said.Macron said more than 80 percent of the people in intensive care in France with Covid were aged over 50 and announced the government would launch a campaign in December for 50-64-year-olds to have booster shots.He said that the booster campaign for the over 65s now had to be "accelerated".The president appears eager to make a successful fight against coronavirus one of his key boasts in April presidential elections, where he is expected to stand for a second term even though he has yet to declare his candidacy.Many analysts had warned he would face stiff opposition to the Covid pass plan in the summer but the strategy helped force a significant surge in vaccine take-up."To be free in a nation like France means being responsible and united. So I'm counting on you," Macron said.The French leader added that the "vaccine alone is not enough" and mask-wearing rules needed to stay in place."Any relaxations that have been considered will be put off in order to keep the rules currently in force," he said.Health pass checks will also be stepped up, he added.Macron said France was "one of the most protected countries in the world" due to its vaccine rollout but warned that "we will have to live with this virus until the whole global population is immunised."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-france-people-above-65-yrs-will-need-booster-jab-for-covid-19-pass-101636518355352.html
10-11-2021||World||Pakistan to host ‘Troika summit’ to discuss Afghanistan situation||Pakistan will host senior diplomats from the United States, China and Russia in Islamabad to discuss the situation in Afghanistan on Thursday.Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and its National Security Advisor Moeed Yusuf will chair the 'Troika Plus' meeting.The representative of the four countries will also meet Afghanistan's acting Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, Dawn reported.Muttaqi is set to arrive in Islamabad on Wednesday. It is the first visit to Pakistan by an Afghan minister since the Taliban seized control of Kabul in August."Troika Plus at SRs (special representatives level) will meet with Muttaqi," the Pakistani official said.The dialogue is taking place at a time when the Taliban is seeking international recognition. However, the international community is not in hurry to give legitimacy to the Taliban interim government unless they fulfil their promises."Troika Plus has become an important forum for engagement with Afghan authorities. It will express support for an inclusive government, discuss ways to prevent a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan as well as the protection of human rights, particularly women's rights," he said.This is the first full-fledged meeting of the Troika Plus after the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan.The last of this format was held in August in Doha, in which the US was represented by the former special envoy for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad.Another meeting was convened by Russia in Moscow on October 19, but the US did not participate citing "logistics".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-to-host-troika-summit-to-discuss-afghanistan-situation-101636515058611.html
10-11-2021||World||Covid-19: WHO looking forward to ‘2nd gen’ vaccines in form of nasal, oral shots||The World Health Organization's chief scientist said Tuesday she was looking forward to the "second generation" of Covid-19 vaccines, which could include nasal sprays and oral versions.Soumya Swaminathan said such vaccines could have advantages over the current crop as they would be easier to deliver than injections and could even be self-administered.Swaminathan said there were 129 different candidate vaccines that have got as far as clinical trials – being tested on humans – while a further 194 are not yet that advanced in their development and are still being worked on in laboratories."This covers the entire range of technologies," she told a live interaction on WHO social media channels."They're still in development. I'm sure some of them will prove to be very safe and efficacious and others may not."There could be advantages to some of the second-generation vaccines... clearly if you have an oral vaccine or an intra-nasal vaccine this is easier to deliver than an injectable."Ultimately we'll be able to choose the ones that are most appropriate."If not for Covid, we're going to use these platforms for other infections in the future."Swaminathan explained the advantages of a vaccine being sprayed into the nose, as happens in some countries with influenza vaccines."If there's a local immune response then it will take care of the virus before it even goes and establishes itself in the lungs and starts causing a problem," she said.The WHO has only given emergency use authorisation to seven Covid-19 vaccines: those created by Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Sinopharm, Sinovac, and last week Bharat Biotech."None of the vaccines are 100 percent. Nobody has ever claimed that the vaccines are going to be 100 percent protective. But 90 percent is a wonderful amount of protection to have, compared to zero," Swaminathan said."Till now, with the vaccines that we have approved, there has not been any signal which has been so worrying that we need to say, well, we need to re-think this vaccine."More than 7.25 billion vaccine doses have been administered around the world, according to an AFP count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-who-looking-forward-to-2nd-gen-vaccines-in-form-of-nasal-oral-shots-101636514620064.html
10-11-2021||World||'A precious day in my life': Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai gets married||Nobel laureate and female education activist Malala Yousafzai got married on Tuesday in a small ceremony in central England's Birmingham.She announced on Twitter that she tied the knot with Asser Malik in a small nikkah ceremony organised at home.“Please send us your prayers. We are excited to walk together for the journey ahead,” Yousafzai tweeted. The 24-year-old activist from Pakistan was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-precious-day-in-my-life-nobel-laureate-malala-yousafzai-gets-married-101636512986841.html
10-11-2021||World||Fully vaccinated 16 times less likely to die: Study||People who are fully vaccinated are 16 times less likely to end up in intensive care units (ICU) or to die from Covid-19 than those who aren’t immunised, an Australian study found, the latest evidence showing how the shots prevent the most dreaded outcomes.Nearly 16 out of 100,000 people who had yet to receive a Covid vaccine landed in intensive care or died after contracting the virus, compared to fewer than 1 in every 100,000 who were fully vaccinated, according to data compiled by health authorities in New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state.Separately, data collected in Texas, United States, showed unvaccinated people were 20 times more likely to perish from the virus than those who were fully protected. The data was the result of a four-week, in-state study. The risk of death was 48 times higher for unvaccinated people in their 30s and 63 times higher for those in their 40s, the study found.Life expectancy affectedThe pandemic’s effects on mortality have been uneven. Life expectancy dipped in most places last year, shaving 28.1 million years off the cumulative longevity in 31 countries. But residents of a handful of places that successfully kept Covid-19 at bay actually lived longer.A study of 37 countries and territories in the journal BMJ found the pandemic was a killing field in most places. More than 28 million years of life were lost in 2020 across 31 of them, with Russia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, the US, and Poland recording the heaviest toll.Years of life lost in 2020 were higher than expected everywhere except Taiwan, New Zealand, Norway, Iceland, Denmark, and South Korea.Singapore is rolling back some curbs, with five people from the same residence allowed to dine at restaurants starting from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fully-vaccinated-16-times-less-likely-to-die-study-101636511950339.html
10-11-2021||World||From 2023, Virgin Galactic planning 3 space flights a month||Virgin Galactic expects to be flying paying passengers three times monthly in 2023, signalling it’s on track to ramp up commercial flights after delays this year pushed back its space tourism debut timeline.The company plans to offer as many as three flights a month after it completes upgrades to its carrier airplane and introduces a second spaceship, chief executive officer Michael Colglazier said on Monday on a call with analysts.Virgin Galactic told investors last month it would push back the start of commercial flights to the fourth quarter of 2022 as it completes an overhaul of its carrier plane, VMS Eve, which requires new horizontal stabilisers and a redesigned pylon to carry the spaceships to their drop altitude. The company’s spacecraft are dropped from the carrier at about 50,000 feet before igniting a rocket motor and continuing to space.The startup’s new VSS Imagine spaceship is to begin flight tests in early 2023 and will be flying twice monthly later that year, joining the current VSS Unity ship, which will fly about once per month, Colglazier said.The company has sold around 100 tickets since flying its founder Richard Branson to space last summer, the company said in its financial results on Monday. The current price of the fare is $450,000 per seat, well above the $200,000-$250,000 paid by some 600 customers from 2005 to 2014. In total, the company has now sold 700 tickets, a spokesperson told AFP.SpaceX brings four astronauts back to EarthFour astronauts returned to Earth Monday in a SpaceX craft after spending six months on the International Space Station.The international crew conducted thousands of experiments in orbit and helped upgrade the solar panels on the ISS during their “Crew-2” mission.Its descent slowed by four huge parachutes, their Dragon spacecraft - dubbed “Endeavour” - splashed down in the Gulf of Mexico at 10:30pm before it was lifted onto a recovery ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-2023-virgin-galactic-planning-3-space-flights-a-month-101636510387804.html
10-11-2021||World||New climate pledges not enough: Studies||Two different analyses have concluded that the new nationally determined contributions (NDCs) announced at Glasgow climate change conference last week and the statements about raising of ambitions may lead to little concrete outcomes, and global climate is still headed for a catastrophic warming of around 2.4 to 2.7°C over pre-industrial levels.The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) released an update to their emissions gap report 2021 on Tuesday, considering 33 new mitigation pledges for 2030 (31 in NDCs and 2 in other announcements as of 4 November 2021) made since September.The total number of mitigation pledges for 2030 considered is now 152, covering 88% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Since the report released on October 26, 25 additional countries have announced net-zero emissions pledges, implying that 76% of global domestic emissions are now covered by net-zero announcements.When the latest unconditional and conditional NDCs are considered, warming is projected to be limited to 2.7°C (range: 2.2°C–3.1°C) over pre-industrial levels. This means that there is no change in warming impact compared to UNEP’s assessment released on October 26. When the full implementation of all net-zero pledges are considered in addition to the updated unconditional and conditional NDCs, warming is projected to be limited to 2.1°C (range: 1.9°C–2.3°C).“Great to see countries submit stretched NDCs. But the reality is that the sum total of our #climate efforts thus far is like an elephant giving birth to a mouse. When we gavel #COP26, we need to close the leadership gap,” tweeted Inger Andersen, executive director, UNEP.During a press conference to release the updated findings Andersen flagged that most net zero pledges are vague, untransparent and hard to hold to account. She highlighted some were for GHG emissions while some only for CO2 emissions. “There is a very large credibility gap. Glasgow was the first real test of Paris Agreement’s ratcheting up mechanism. But the ambition gap is massive and unlikely to be addressed in next few days,” Andersen said.The unconditional pledges made between the September cut-off date of the Emissions Gap Report 2021 and 4 November 2021 have narrowed the gap with respect to 2°C and 1.5°C by about 0.5 GtCO2e (gigatonnes of CO2 equivalent); if the conditional pledges are also fully implemented the gap has been narrowed by about 1.5 GtCO2e.“These changes do not affect the conclusion of the Emissions Gap Report 2021 that a significant increase in 2030 mitigation pledge ambition and acceleration of action is required to get the world on a path consistent with the Paris Agreement temperature goal.Even considering the recent updated pledges for 2030, annual global GHG emissions would need to be roughly halved by 2030 to become consistent with a 1.5°C pathway,” a UNEP statement said.“Glasgow has a massive credibility, action and commitment gap as the world is heading to at least 2.4°C of warming, if not more,” the Climate Action Tracker, a scientific analysis organisation also warned at a press conference at COP26 on Tuesday.With all target pledges, including those made in Glasgow, global greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 will still be around twice as high as necessary for the 1.5°C limit, CAT states, adding that with 2030 pledges alone (without longer term net zero targets) there is likely to be warming of 2.4°C.The projected warming from current policies – what countries are actually doing – is even higher, at 2.7°C, CAT flagged. In CAT’s best case scenario when all net zero pledges are implemented, warming can be limited to around 1.8°C.A separate modelling showed one billion people will be at risk of extreme heat stress if global warming causes the world’s temperature to rise by 2°C.A study by the Met Office, the UK’s national meteorological service, warned that a 2°C rise could lead to a 15-fold increase of a potentially fatal cocktail of heat and humidity across the planet.A 4°C rise would mean that nearly half of the world’s population could be living in affected areas, according to the research.COP26 President Alok Sharma told reporters that there’s a “mountain still to climb” in the coming days and time is running out. There’s been some progress, but it’s still not enough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-climate-pledges-not-enoughstudies-101636509238734.html
10-11-2021||World||Original Apple computer hand-built by Jobs and Wozniak sells for $400k||An original Apple computer, hand-built by company founders Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak 45 years ago, sold for $400,000 at auction in the United States on Tuesday.The functioning Apple-1, the great-great-grandfather of today's sleek chrome-and-glass Macbooks, had been expected to fetch up to $600,000 when it went under the hammer in California.The so-called "Chaffey College" Apple-1 is one of only 200 made by Jobs and Wozniak at the very start of the company's odyssey from garage start-up to megalith worth $2 trillion.What makes it even rarer is the fact the computer is encased in koa wood -- a richly patinated wood native to Hawaii. Only a handful of the original 200 were made in this way.Jobs and Wozniak mostly sold Apple-1s as component parts. One computer shop that took a delivery of around 50 units decided to encase some of them in wood, the auction house said."This is kind of the holy grail for vintage electronics and computer tech collectors," Apple-1 expert Corey Cohen told the Los Angeles Times ahead of the bidding. "That really makes it exciting for a lot of people."John Moran Auctioneers said the device, which was sold with a 1986 Panasonic video monitor, has only ever had two owners."It was originally purchased by an electronics professor at Chaffey College in Rancho Cucamonga, California, who then sold it to his student in 1977," a listing on the auction house's website said.The Los Angeles Times reported the student -- who has not been named -- paid just $650 for it at the time.While the $400,000 hammer price represents a healthy return on investment for that former student, it is a long way short of the record for such a device.A working Apple-1 that came to the market in 2014 was sold by Bonhams for more than $900,000."A lot of people just want to know what kind of a person collects Apple-1 computers and it's not just people in the tech industry," Cohen said.Apple raced to success in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but foundered after the departure of Jobs and Wozniak.The company was reinvigorated in the late 1990s, and Jobs was brought back into the fold as the chief executive.He oversaw the launch of the iPod, and later the world-changing iPhone, before his death in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/original-apple-computer-hand-built-by-jobs-and-wozniak-sells-for-400k-101636508254986.html
10-11-2021||World||Nasa pushes back timeframe for next human moon landing to 2025||Nasa is extending its target date for sending astronauts back to the moon to 2025 at the earliest, the US space agency's chief said on Tuesday, stretching out by at least a year the timeline pronounced under former President Donald Trump.\Trump's administration had set the aggressive goal of returning humans to the lunar surface by 2024, an initiative named Artemis intended as a stepping stone toward the even-more-ambitious objective of sending astronauts to Mars.Nasa administrator Bill Nelson cited delays from legal wrangling over the SpaceX contract to build the Artemis lunar landing vehicle as a major reason for extending the target date."We lost nearly seven months in litigation, and that likely has pushed the first human landing likely to no earlier than 2025," Nelson told a news conference. "We are estimating no earlier than 2025 for Artemis 3, which would be the human lander on the first demonstration landing."A federal judge last Thursday rejected a lawsuit by Jeff Bezos' space company Blue Origin against the US government challenging Nasa's decision to award a $2.9 billion lunar lander contract to rival billionaire Elon Musk's SpaceX.The ruling allows the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to resume its collaboration with SpaceX on the lander contract, though Nelson said that Musk's company had continued development work on its own in the meantime.Citing additional factors for the new timeline, Nelson said Congress had previously approved too little money for the program and that the Trump administration's "target of a 2024 human landing was not grounded in technical feasibility."Nelson, a former astronaut and US senator appointed by President Joe Biden to lead the space agency, said delays caused by the Covid-19 pandemic also played a role.Nasa had previously aimed to return crewed spacecraft to the lunar surface by 2028, after putting a "Gateway" space station into orbit around the moon by 2024.But the Trump administration, in a surprise 2019 pronouncement from then-Vice President Mike Pence, set a deadline for putting Americans back on the moon within five years "by any means necessary."At the time, Pence said the United States was in a new "space race," borrowing vocabulary from the 1960s Cold War era, to counter the potential space weaponry capabilities of Russia and China.Competing with ChinaNelson said China's space program, which has included robotic exploration https://www.reuters.com/article/space-exploration-china-moon/china-calls-launch-a-success-as-robotic-spacecraft-heads-to-moon-idUSKBN2831C5 of the lunar surface and Mars, remains an impetus for the Artemis project."We're going to be as aggressive as we can be in a safe and technically feasible way to beat out competitors with boots on the moon," he said.Since 2020, Nasa has launched three astronaut crews aboard SpaceX rocketships to the International Space Station, with a fourth such mission expected in orbit as early as this week.The US Apollo program sent six human missions to the moon from 1969 to 1972, the only crewed spaceflights yet to reach the lunar surface. The Artemis program, named for the twin sister of Apollo and goddess of the hunt and moon in Greek mythology, is aimed at eventually establishing a long-term human colony on the moon as a precursor to sending astronauts to Mars.Under the latest frame outlined by Nelson, the very first Artemis mission, an uncrewed test flight of the Orion capsule and the new heavy-lift Space Launch System (SLS) rocket that will send it aloft, is targeted for liftoff in February 2022.The first crewed flight of the SLS-Orion spacecraft would come no later than May 2024, a mission that would take astronauts some 40,000 miles beyond the moon - farther than humans have ever flown - and return them to Earth, Nelson said.He said the initial human Artemis landing, now expected no sooner than 2025, would also be preceded at some unspecified date by an uncrewed landing. Nasa has said the first Artemis crewed moon landing will include at least one woman, with a person of color on either that mission or the next. Both would be firsts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-pushes-back-timeframe-for-next-human-moon-landing-to-2025-101636507028589.html
10-11-2021||World||Nasa's delayed SpaceX Crew-3 mission set for liftoff, will replace ISS crew||SpaceX will launch its Crew-3 mission to the International Space Station (ISS) on Wednesday morning, with the Falcon-9 rocket all set to take in its Dragon capsule the agency's third long-duration crew to the station in outer space. The launch was originally scheduled for Tuesday, as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) had planned to have a change of guard with the Crew-2 astronauts greeting the Crew-3 team before the former departed, but Nasa switched the order in view of the weather concerns and an astronaut's undisclosed medical condition.Four astronauts from the second team were already brought back on Monday and the task of welcoming the third crew now falls to the lone American and two Russians left behind at the space station.Also Read | NASA, SpaceX delay sending 4 astronauts to ISS due to bad weatherIn a tweet, SpaceX informed that launch conditions for the Crew-3 mission are mostly advantageous on Wednesday, with the weather forecast being 80 per cent favourable for lift-off. “Following Crew-2's return to Earth, Falcon 9 will launch Dragon’s third long-duration crew mission to the @Space_Station as soon as Wednesday, November 10; weather forecast is 80% favorable for liftoff,” posted SpaceX from its official handle on Twitter, earlier this week.Following Crew-2’s return to Earth, Falcon 9 will launch Dragon’s third long-duration crew mission to the @Space_Station as soon as Wednesday, November 10; weather forecast is 80% favorable for liftoff pic.twitter.com/xOFGVw3fOPElon Musk's SpaceX, as part of Nasa's commercial crew programme, has been sending out operational crewed flights to outer space to bring astronauts to and from the ISS. Crew-3 is the third of such operational crewed flight for SpaceX; the agency had first sent two Nasa astronauts to the ISS back in May 2020.Meanwhile, the four astronauts from the Crew-2 mission returned to Earth on Monday, riding home with SpaceX to end a 200-day space station mission that began last spring. Their homecoming — coming just eight hours after leaving the International Space Station — paved the way for SpaceX's launch of their four replacements.This next crew will also spend six months up there in space, welcoming back-to-back groups of tourists. A Japanese tycoon and his personal assistant will get a lift from the Russian Space Agency in December, followed by three businessmen arriving via SpaceX in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-delayed-spacex-crew-3-mission-set-for-liftoff-will-replace-iss-crew-101636503238516.html
10-11-2021||World||Malala Yousafzai, activist and Nobel laureate, gets married in Birmingham||Activist and Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai has announced that she is now a married woman. The 24-year-old posted the pictures of her nikah ceremony on her Twitter handle on Tuesday. The ceremony was held in the city of Birmingham in the United Kingdom."Today marks a precious day in my life. Asser and I tied the knot to be partners for life. We celebrated a small nikkah ceremony at home in Birmingham with our families. Please send us your prayers. We are excited to walk together for the journey ahead," Yousafzai said in her tweet.Today marks a precious day in my life. Asser and I tied the knot to be partners for life. We celebrated a small nikkah ceremony at home in Birmingham with our families. Please send us your prayers. We are excited to walk together for the journey ahead. 📸: @malinfezehai pic.twitter.com/SNRgm3ufWPYousafzai gave no other information about her husband apart from his first name. Many social media users have identified him as Asser Malik, general manager of the Pakistan Cricket Board's high performance centre, from the city of Lahore.The campaigner for girls' education gained international attention for her personal courage and eloquence in advocating for the rights of girls and women. She even stood against the Taliban, who were opposed to girls attending schools.In 2012, she survived being shot in the head by a Taliban gunman for campaigning against its attempts to deny women education.In 2014, she became the youngest-ever Nobel Peace Prize laureate at age 17. In 2018, she launched Assembly, a digital publication for girls and young women available on Apple News. She graduated from Oxford University in June last year with a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mala-yousafzai-activist-and-nobel-laureate-gets-married-in-birmingham-101636503284554.html
10-11-2021||World||16 UN national staff detained in Ethiopia, six others released||The United Nations said Tuesday that 16 staff members have been detained in Ethiopia’s capital while six others held earlier have been released, as the conflict in the East African nation worsens.“There has been no explanation” for the detention, UN Spokesman Stephane Dujarric told reporters in New York. “Our staff on the ground is working with the national authorities,” he said, noting the detentions occurred “over the last few days.”Ethiopia recently declared a state of emergency as rebel fighters advanced toward the capital, Addis Ababa. Fighting in the yearlong conflict between the federal army and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front has escalated since the start of October, with the rebels advancing steadily south.The Ethiopian Human Rights Commission said on Nov. 8 that the government was detaining people “in a manner that appeared to be based on identity and ethnicity,” following widespread arrests after the state of emergency was declared.UN security officers “have visited the detained colleagues,” Farhan Haq, another UN spokesman, said earlier on Tuesday. Formal requests have “also been sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs” seeking “the immediate release of the detained personnel.”A U.S. special envoy, diplomat Jeffrey Feltman, is in Ethiopia to try to advance talks on ending the civil war. The African Union earlier warned that the window of opportunity for a political solution to the conflict is narrowing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16-un-national-staff-detained-in-ethiopia-six-others-released-101636479739097.html
10-11-2021||World||Pakistan authority cancels land allotment for Hindu temple in Islamabad||In yet another case of discrimination against religious minorities, the City Development Authority (CDA) in Pakistan's national capital Islamabad has cancelled the allotment of land for a temple.Earlier, a plot had been allotted to the Hindu Community for the construction of a temple, a community centre and a crematorium, according to vernacular media reports.A citizen had appealed against the construction of the temple and Advocate Javed Iqbal argued that the city authority had cancelled the allotment on the instruction of the Federal Cabinet.The federal cabinet had instructed the CDA to cancel all allotments in 'Green Areas' if construction has not been done.This comes as reports of discrimination and attacks on religious minorities have surged in the country.Last month, unidentified persons ransacked a Hindu temple at Kotri in Pakistan's Sindh province, creating a wave of resentment amongst local Hindus.After breaking idols, the persons ran away with lakhs in cash and other precious goods, according to vernacular media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-authority-cancels-land-allotment-for-hindu-temple-in-islamabad-101636475635280.html
10-11-2021||World||China: Homes of 200,000 residents in Haiyang now fully heated by nuclear power||The urban area of a city in eastern China on Tuesday became the country’s first to be fully heated by nuclear power, making it the only “zero carbon” Chinese city, state media reported.More than 200,000 residents of Haiyang city in the eastern coastal province of Shandong have begun to receive nuclear power-generated central heating for winter, the report said, adding that the clean heating was switched on six days ahead of schedule.It is China’s first commercial nuclear heating project.The development comes in the backdrop of crippling energy shortages that China faced in September and October, partly triggered by coal companies cutting production to meet Beijing’s climate change pledges - peak carbon emission by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060.Trials to generate nuclear power for winter heating in Haiyang had begun earlier.As part of the trial, the Haiyang nuclear power plant in Shandong province officially started providing district heating to the surrounding area in November, 2020.A trial of the project was also carried out in 2019, providing heat to 700,000sq m of housing, including the plant’s dormitory and some local residents, according to the World Nuclear News (WNN) website.“Consisting of two AP1000 units capable of heating a total of 700,000 square metres, the pilot project began operating at Haiyang nuclear power plant recently and is expected to eventually provide heating for more than 200 million sq m of housing,” Shandong Nuclear Power Co, a subsidiary of State Power Investment Corporation told state media earlier this year.After the project was fully implemented on Tuesday, the Haiyang Nuclear Power Unit 1 became the world’s largest cogeneration unit, replacing 12 local coal-fired boilers.A cogeneration unit, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency, is one where the heat generated by the nuclear power plants can be used to produce a vast range of products such as cooling, heating, process heat, desalination and hydrogen.The new project “...is expected to save 100,000 tons of raw coal and reduce 180,000 tons of carbon dioxide and smoke during each heating season,” a report by thepaper.cn said.Analysts told state media that “…compared to traditional thermal sources, nuclear reactors generate heat without carbon emissions and are considered a green replacement for coal-based heat, especially during winter heating seasons”.“The Haiyang plant has a heating system connected to two traditional nuclear power units, making it the first commercial attempt in China to supply heat from traditional nuclear power,” Wei Hanyang, a power market analyst at Bloomberg New Energy told state-run China Daily.By the end of September, 2020 China had 48 nuclear facilities in operation with an installed capacity of 49.88 GW, ranking third worldwide. At least 14 nuclear units are under construction with installed capacity reaching 15.53 GW.Russia, several east European countries, Switzerland and Sweden have all had nuclear-fuelled district heating schemes, and heat from nuclear power plants has also been sent to industrial sites in several countries, the WNN report added.In June, Beijing said there had been no leak at the Taishan nuclear power station in southern China after CNN reported that Framatome, the French company that designed the reactors, had said that China’s nuclear safety regulator had raised limits on permissible levels of radiation outside the plant in Guangdong to avoid having to shut it down.The Chinese ecology and environment ministry said the allegation was “erroneous”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-homes-of-200-000-residents-in-haiyang-now-fully-heated-by-nuclear-power-101636467847549.html
10-11-2021||World||India largest source of foreign tourists in Sri Lanka; UK, Pakistan in top 5||Indians topped the list of holiday makers in Sri Lanka in the month of October, officials here said on Tuesday, as the island nation is showing a gradual revitalisation of leisure tourism after being impacted by the pandemic.“The total number of international tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka during October was 22,771. A modest improvement in the month of October can be noticed following the sharp contraction in arrivals after the month of April. This reflects the improvement in international arrivals owing to factors such as vaccination advances around the world,” Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority said.India, the UK, Pakistan, Russia and Germany were the top five international tourist generating markets during October, it said.“India was the largest source of tourist visits to Sri Lanka with 37 per cent of the total traffic received in October. The UK and Pakistan accounted for 10 per cent and 9 per cent of the total traffic respectively," the Tourism Development Authority said.The growth in arrivals from countries in the Americas, and Western, Central and Eastern Europe, suggests a slight revitalisation of leisure tourism, potentially enabled by factors such as the gradual improvement of traveller confidence, the lifting of travel restrictions, it said.As of October 31, a total number of 60,695 tourists had visited Sri Lanka, this year. It is a decline of 88 per cent over the last year when 507,311 tourists had visited the country from January to March 18.Sri Lanka's economy has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic which has led to a slump in the arrival of foreign tourists to the island nation. The country has so far reported 545,935 confirmed cases and 13,875 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-largest-source-of-foreign-tourists-in-sri-lanka-uk-pakistan-in-top-5-101636462310500.html
10-11-2021||India||Depression over Bay of Bengal to cross Tamil Nadu by Nov 11 evening; extremely heavy rain likely: IMD||As Tamil Nadu copes with the aftermath of incessant rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its latest bulletin that the depression lying over southwest Bay of Bengal is expected to cross the coast of northern part of the state and south Andhra Pradesh by Thursday evening.The low-pressure area that lay over central parts of Bay of Bengal changed into a depression earlier in the day. “It is very likely to move west northwestwards and reach north Tamil Nadu coast by tomorrow (November 11) morning,” the bulletin read, adding that thereafter the depression will move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coast by November 11 evening.
10-11-2021||India||Afghanistan, bilateral security on NSA Doval’s agenda in meetings with regional counterparts||India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval discussed the situation in Afghanistan and bilateral security cooperation with his counterparts from Iran, Kazakhstan and Russia on the margins of a regional security meeting on Wednesday. Doval met Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov and Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev after the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan. The three bilateral meetings were substantive and there were detailed discussions on Afghanistan and on bilateral relations, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Doval and Patrushev discussed future high-level exchanges, defence cooperation and deepening interaction between the national security councils of India and Russia, the people said. This was Patrushev’s second visit to India since the Taliban assumed power in Afghanistan in mid-August. A statement issued by the Russian side said Doval and Patrushev had discussed plans for further India-Russia cooperation in security and touched upon a “number of regional problems”. It added, “Special attention was paid to cooperation on various information security issues.” At the meeting with Shamkhani, the two sides discussed the situation in Afghanistan, bilateral trade and the current state of India-Iran relations. Iran had hosted the two previous meetings of the regional security dialogue on Afghanistan and Doval and Shamkhani discussed ways to carry forward the process. Discussions between Doval and his Kazakh counterpart focused on Afghanistan, and practical steps for enhancing connectivity and trade routes between the two countries. The NSAs and security council chiefs of the seven countries that attended the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan had a “very substantive exchange” during a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The people said Modi shared India’s perspective on Afghanistan with the security officials. The people also said the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue had exceeded India’s expectations, as the foreign security officials easily arrived at a complete consensus that enabled the issuance of the joint Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan. The declaration said the eight countries were committed to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan. The foreign delegations appreciated the opportunity to engage in frank and open discussions on Afghanistan, the people said. Since this is the only dialogue at the level of NSAs, there was unanimity on the need to continue with this mechanism and have regular consultations, the people added. The people also said there was an “extraordinary degree of convergence” in assessments of the situation in Afghanistan by the eight countries and the principal challenges in the war-torn country and the region. These challenges include the security situation, heightened risk of terrorism and an impending humanitarian crisis. The security officials pointed to the need to provide humanitarian aid and emphasised that land and air routes should be made available and no one should impede the process of providing assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-bilateral-security-on-nsa-doval-s-agenda-in-meetings-with-regional-counterparts-101636566321539.html
10-11-2021||India||'Sorry state of affairs in Tihar jail, murder happening in prison': Supreme Court||It is a "sorry state of affairs in Tihar Jail", observed the Supreme court on Wednesday, as it highlighted the need for prison reforms and enhanced prison management. The court expressed the concern while hearing a case regarding the alleged collusion of prison officials with the realty firm Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra.Referring to reports in newspapers, a bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice MR Shah said murder is happening inside Tihar, adding the jail has become a "den of criminals", according to news agency ANI."It is a sorry state of affairs in Tihar Jail. We have read in newspapers two to three days back that murder is happening in the jail. It has become a den for criminals," the court observed.Also read | Two more Tihar jail staff suspended over links to ex-Unitech promotersThe bench also issued directions to the concerned secretary in the Union ministry of Home Affairs to file an affidavit indicating the steps taken with regards to the implementation of reforms, based on the suggestions given by the Delhi commissioner of police Rakesh Asthana, within three weeks."Having regards to the urgent need for prison reforms and enhanced prison management, comprehensive suggestion are contained in the report submitted by the Commissioner. We direct the Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs, to take necessary steps in pursuance of para 3 and 4 dated of the previous order of this court dated October 6, 2021. An affidavit indicating the steps taken shall be filed by the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs within a period of three weeks," the bench said.With regards to collusion with the Chandra brothers, the Delhi Police informed the court that it has registered an FIR under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against 37 persons.On October 6, the Supreme court directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, registration of a case against them and full-fledged probe into their collusion with Chandra brothers, based on Asthana's report. Both Sanjay and Ajay who are in jail since August 2017 are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorry-state-of-affairs-in-tihar-jail-murder-happening-in-prison-supreme-court-101636561877142.html
10-11-2021||India||10 infants evacuated after ventilator in Assam’s Dibrugarh hospital catches fire||Swift action by doctors and other staff helped avert a tragedy after a ventilator of an intensive care unit (ICU) of a paediatric ward in Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh, caught fire on Wednesday. According to hospital authorities, the incident happened around 6:30 pm when a ventilator unit caught fire due to a short circuit. The baby in the unit was immediately moved out and as a safety measure other new-born children were also shifted to another part of the hospital. “As it was an ICU unit, doctors and staff took immediate action and the fire was doused. The baby in the particular unit and all other babies of the ICU are safe and there’s no cause for worry,” Dr Sanjeev Kakati, principal-cum-chief superintendent of AMCH told HT over phone. On being questioned whether the ventilator unit that caught fire was part of supplies from the PM Cares Fund, Dr Kakati mentioned that since the hospital had received several such units over the course of the past one-and-half years from various sources it would be difficult to verify its origin. “There’s no certainty whether the short circuit took place due to a problem in the machine or due to some issues in wiring. As a safety measure, we have ordered an electrical audit of the entire hospital, which will be conducted on Thursday,” Dr Kakati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-infants-evacuated-after-ventilator-in-assam-s-dibrugarh-hospital-catches-fire-101636564101775.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Not election Hindus’: Goa BJP chief hits out at Arvind Kejriwal over temple run ahead of polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit in Goa hit out at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, alleging that the BJP is “not election Hindu” and questioned why he was visiting temples after claiming that a hospital should be built in Ayodhya instead of a temple.“Today he's visiting every temple. Earlier he used to say that a hospital, instead of Ram temple (in Ayodhya) should be built. We're not election Hindus. We don't do drama. We don't change our colours during polls. BJP works for welfare of people in Goa,” BJP's Goa incharge, CT Ravi, told news agency ANI.Ravi also criticised Kejriwal over his handling of pollution and flooding in Delhi. “Kejriwal ji is speaking a lot on Goa. I would like to ask him what did he do about the pollution in Delhi? People in Delhi suffer a lot every year due to pollution. Delhi gets flooded. What has he done? What is his planning?” he asked.Kejriwal, the national convener of Aam Aadmi Party, has been campaigning in the coastal state of Goa before the assembly elections are held next year. He also already promised the people of development and state sponsored pilgrimages for all religions.He has been accused of resorting to “soft Hindutva” tactics by the opposition for offering state sponsor pilgrimage to Ayodhya. Kejriwal has defended his party’s position by claiming that this was just a replication of a program that is already in motion in Delhi.Adding that his party is also“Making a whole plan for the development of Goa. But here they (other political parties) are talking about alliances. In the morning they say they will ally with one party. In the evening it is someone else. Is anyone even thinking about Goa? Every time I come to Goa I talk about mining, about land rights, about health, education, women programmes, industry, trade. We are making a plan for every sector that affects the people of Goa. Is anybody else doing this? Nobody is worried about Goa.”(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-election-hindus-goa-bjp-chief-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-over-temple-run-ahead-of-polls-101636563151859.html
10-11-2021||India||Two persons injured as terrorists throw grenade in Srinagar’s old city Eidgah||Two persons were injured in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday after terrorists launched a grenade attack in Srinagar’s old city Eidgah. According to news agency ANI, one of the two persons was a policeman.This is the third attack by terrorists in the Valley in only four days, with the previous two ones resulting in the death of two civilians. Moreover, this is the second attack since Sunday’s attack on constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani (29) in which a policeman was targeted.Notably, Wani was shot outside his residence at around 8pm after terrorists opened fire on him. Despite rushing him to a nearby hospital, he succumbed to his bullet injuries. Apart from a case lodged against the suspects, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police have also formed a team to investigate the matter that led to the murder of Wani, who joined the force two years ago.His attack was closely succeeded by the killing of a salesman, identified as Ibrahim Khan, on Monday. Khan, who hailed from Jammu and Kashmir’s Bandipore district, worked for Kashmiri pandit businessman Roshan Lal Mawa.The attack is believed to have been targeted at Sandeep Mawa, the son of Roshan Lal, who has vowed not to leave the Valley. “There is fear and the family including my father is saying let us go. But how is running away a solution?” he told Hindustan Times.The Mawas relocated to Jammu and Kashmir only in 2019 from Delhi after fleeing to the national capital in the 1990s following Roshan Lal being shot in the abdomen four times. After their return two years before, they restarted their wholesale dry fruit business.Meanwhile, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday reviewed the security scenario in the Valley as recent incidents of civilian killings have caused terror in the region.As many as 11 civilians, mostly belonging to Bihar and from minority communities, were gunned down by terrorists last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-persons-injured-as-terrorists-throw-grenade-in-srinagar-s-old-city-eidgah-101636562652095.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Telangana techie taken into custody for rape threat to cricketer’s baby and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A 23-year-old software engineer in Telangana has been detained on suspicion that he posted a disgusting online rape threat targetting an Indian cricketer’s baby daughter after the infant’s father stood up to Twitter trolls for his teammate. Read moreUnion minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Thursday with his counterparts from all states and Union territories (UTs) on the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ mega-vaccination campaign against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreThere were a few surprise call-ups and some expected snubs as India's 15-member squad for the three T20I series against New Zealand was announced on Tuesday. Read moreActor Farhan Akhtar has expressed his relief at the detainment of the person who had made threats to an actor's daughter. After it was reported that the man was caught by the Mumbai Police, Farhan wrote in a tweet that he was glad at the quick action. Read morePandemic restrictions have made our bond with all things digital stronger. While things are slowly crawling back to normal, our screen time refuses to come down with most of the schools still operating in digital mode and offices encouraging work from home. Read moreThe top security officials of seven countries released a consensus document on the issue of Afghanistan on Wednesday afternoon. The document was released after a regional security dialogue chaired by National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-telangana-techie-taken-into-custody-for-rape-threat-to-cricketer-s-baby-and-all-the-latest-news-101636557216345.html
10-11-2021||India||Like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid: Chidambaram at Salman Khurshid's book launch event||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said things took a predictable course after Supreme Court's verdict on Ram Janmabhoomi and like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid. The former finance minister made these comments at the launch event of Salman Khurshid's book Sunrise over Ayodhya, which is on the Ayodhya verdict."Whatever happened on December 6, 1992, was terribly wrong. It debased our constitution. After the SC judgement, things took a predictable course, within a year or so everyone who was accused was acquitted. So like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid," Chidambaram said."That conclusion will forever haunt us that in this country of Jawaharlal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi, APJ Abdul Kalam... and after 75 years of Independence, we are not ashamed to say that nobody demolished Babri Masjid," Chidambaram added.Both sides accepted the Ayodhya verdict and as both sides have accepted the verdict, it became the 'right judgment', not the other way round, he said. "It's not a right judgment which both sides have accepted," Chidambaram said.Before Chidambaram, Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh said it is unfortunate that Hindutva and Hinduism have become synonymous. "Savarkar wasn't religious. He even asked why the cow is considered 'maata' and he had no problem in consuming beef. He brought 'Hindutva' word to establish Hindu identity which caused confusion in people," Digvijaya Singh said. Congress’s Salman Khurshid in his new book writes that Hindutva is similar to the jihadist Islamist groups like ISIS and Biko Haram.What else can we expect from someone whose party coined the term Saffron terror just to draw equivalence with Islamic jihad, to get Muslim votes? pic.twitter.com/3OikNQJ3qtSunrise over Ayodhya, the book by Salman Khurshid has created a flutter on social media as BJP's Amit Malviya shared a portion from the book where Khurshid reportedly wrote Hindutva is similar to jihadist Islamist groups like ISIS and Boko Haram. "What else can we expect from someone whose party coined the term Saffron terror just to draw equivalence with Islamic jihad, to get Muslim votes?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-no-one-killed-jessica-nobody-demolished-babri-masjid-chidambaram-at-salman-khurshid-s-book-launch-event-101636557505458.html
10-11-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states, UTs on ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign tomorrow||Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Thursday with his counterparts from all states and Union territories (UTs) on the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ mega-vaccination campaign against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 3 with a focus on administering the doses to those who are yet to receive the first shot and also maximise the second dose of vaccination. The announcement of the campaign was made after PM Modi held a meeting with the officials of 45 districts in 11 states and Union territories with low first-dose vaccination coverage. Chief ministers of these states were also present at the review meetings.Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Jharkhand and Maharashtra, among others, were some of the states and Union territories from where the districts hailed.During the launch of the campaign, PM Modi directed officials to not show any laxity in the speed of the Covid-19 vaccination in the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ drive. He also asked officials to keep micro-strategies in mind, even take help of local religious leaders to create awareness among people and also to tackle rumours around Covid-19 vaccination.According to the health ministry data, as of Wednesday, India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed 109 crore. Of this figure, 52,69,137 doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-meet-health-ministers-of-states-uts-on-har-ghar-dastak-campaign-101636556338014.html
10-11-2021||India||In Odisha, offline classes for students of VI and VII to resume from Nov 15||Offline classes for students of classes VI and VII studying in Odisha schools will begin from November 15, state school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said on Wednesday.The minister said physical classes will be conducted while strictly following all Covid-19 protocols. “The teaching hours for class 6 and class 7 students will be between 9.30 a.m. and 1.00 p.m excluding Sundays and public holidays. The students will be allowed to attend classes either through the online mode or offline mode in consultation with their parents,” Dash said.Classroom teaching for students of classes XI and VIII began on October 21 and October 25 respectively. Classes for students of X and XII had resumed earlier from July 26. For students of class IX, the schools reopened on August 16.The minister said the Odisha government is yet to take a decision regarding reopening of schools for classes I to V.“Discussion on resumption of physical classes for primary students is underway with the deliberation of every aspect including the Covid-19 situation at present. Reopening schools in a phased manner is a judicious process and a final decision in this regard will be taken soon,” he said.The resumption of offline classes in Odisha comes in the wake of a report by an NGO that the pandemic had not only slowed down the learning process among children but also created a digital disparity among students in urban and rural parts of the state. The survey titled ‘Paused Classrooms’, carried out by Save the Children and Odisha RTE Forum, said that only about 6 lakh students from among the 60 lakh students in the age group of 6 to 14 years pursuing elementary education in Odisha, attended online classes.The survey pointed out that the School and Mass Education department did not take into consideration the infrastructure and connectivity issues in rural parts of the state before launching the online education programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-offline-classes-for-students-of-vi-and-vii-to-resume-from-nov-15-101636557262845.html
10-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet restores MPLAD Scheme after Covid-induced suspension||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to restore the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) and an MP will get ₹2 crore for development activities for the remainder of 2021-22 and annually ₹5 crore thereafter.The MPLAD Scheme was suspended temporarily in April 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and its funds went into the Consolidated Fund of India.Announcing the decision at a press conference, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to restore the scheme for the remaining part of financial year 2021-22. The scheme will continue till 2025-26.While ₹2 crore to each MP will be released in one instalment for the remaining period of 2021-22, from 2022-23 to 2025-26 funds will be released under the scheme at the rate of ₹5 crore per annum to them in two instalments of ₹2.5 crore each, he said."During Covid-19, a decision had been taken by the cabinet that for two years, 2020-21 to 2021-22, MPLAD Scheme money will be used in the fight against the pandemic. And all parliamentarians had also enthusiastically given their consent to contribute in the fight against Covid."I am glad to share with you that in view of the improvement in economic scenario, the way economic recovery has taken place and we have seen growth in various sectors as well, a decision has been taken to restore MPLAD Scheme for the remainder period of the fiscal 2021-22," Thakur told reporters at a cabinet briefing.He said instalments of ₹5 crore each will be given to parliamentarians for the development of their respective constituencies for the remaining three years - 2022-23 to 2025-26.In April last year, the government had suspended MPLADS for two years - 2020-21 and 2021-22, and said that the funds totalling about ₹7,900 crore would be used for improving health infrastructure and managing health services in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The government had also reduced the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent in April last.Under the MPLAD scheme, all the MPs can recommend development programmes involving expenditure of ₹5 crore every year in their constituencies.The decision had evoked sharp reactions from opposition parties which had criticised the government and had sought its restoration.While the Congress said the decision would undermine the role of an MP and had sought its review, the left parties and the Trinamool Congress had also slammed the government for the decision. The TMC had termed the step "whimsical" and "undemocratic", while the Shiv Sena said it was taken unilaterally and without consulting anyone.Several MPs had later written to the prime minister seeking restoration of the MPLADS funds.The restoration of the funds will help MPs carry out development works in their respective constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-restores-mplad-scheme-after-covid-induced-suspension-101636555802150.html
10-11-2021||India||'Partition would not have happened if Jinnah...' UP party stokes controversy||Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on Wednesday gave fuel to a controversy after he said there would have been "no partition" if Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, had been made the first prime minister of India. His remarks came days after his poll ally Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi party supremo, made headlines for speaking about Jinnah in the same breath as Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru as freedom fighters."Had Jinnah been made the first prime minister, the partition of the country would not have happened," news agency PTI quoted Rajbhar as telling reporters in Varanasi.Akhilesh Yadav's remarks on similar lines led many in the Bharatiya Janata Party to raise eyebrows a few days ago. Speaking on the criticism received by Yadav, Rajbhar suggested that former Deputy prime minister L K Advani too had similar views about Jinnah.Also read | Ahead of UP polls, SP chief Akhilesh's Jinnah remark triggers political rowReacting to Om Prakash Rajbhar's remarks, Union minister Anurag Thakur said, "Politics of appeasement start when polls come; some start chanting Jinnah's name. SP-BSP leaders were in closed rooms and traveling abroad for the past four-and-a-half years. The public remembers the Yogi government for its honesty, work and courage." The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are due early next year.Politics of appeasement start when polls come; some start chanting Jinnah's name. SP-BSP leaders were in closed rooms & traveling abroad for last 4.5 yrs. The public remembers Yogi govt for its honesty, work & courage: Union Min Anurag Thakur, on OP Rajbhar's statement on Jinnah pic.twitter.com/bwRSqYD94n"Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," Yadav said on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 146th birth anniversary on October 31.Reacting to Yadav’s statement on Jinnah, BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said Jinnah was considered a villain in the country and those who are trying to use his name will not get any benefit.Yadav announced a poll alliance with Rajbhar's party on October 27 for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/partition-would-not-have-happened-if-jinnah-up-party-stokes-controversy-101636554209240.html
10-11-2021||India||Rajnath Singh asks military to stay prepared to respond at short notice||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said the armed forces need to stay prepared to respond to any contingency at short notice, given the volatile situation on India’s borders. Singh’s comments came while addressing the Indian Air Force’s top brass at the opening day of the three-day bi-annual commanders’ conference. The remarks come at a time when India and China have hardened their stance on the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, and also in the eastern sector, with increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. The two countries have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh for over 18 months. Singh lauded IAF for its high level of preparedness and ability to respond to any situation at short notice. Addressing the commanders, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari stressed on the need to develop multi-domain capability to give a “swift and befitting response” to any misadventures by India’s adversaries. The air chief also highlighted the need for joint training with the army and the navy for synergised application of combat power in future conflicts. The minister said enhancing jointness was essential and joint structures should be evolved after closely examining various options. He said inputs from all stake holders would be taken into consideration. The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands, and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-asks-military-to-stay-prepared-to-respond-at-short-notice-101636553600984.html
10-11-2021||India||India, regional nations pledge to combat terror, call for inclusive Afghan govt||Eight regional countries, including India, Iran and Russia, pledged on Wednesday to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan and called for an open and inclusive government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society. In an apparent reference to Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban, a declaration issued at the conclusion of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan – which was attended by top security officials from the eight countries – emphasised respect for Afghanistan’s sovereignty and non-interference in its internal affairs. The security officials pitched for collective efforts to counter extremism, radicalisation, separatism and drug trafficking in the region. The meeting, chaired by India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, was attended by Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and the security council heads of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. “We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations amongst us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. This was the first regional meeting on Afghanistan convened by India since Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. However, the dialogue was the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meetings in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to the meeting but chose not to participate. Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf said last week he wouldn’t attend because India was being a “spoiler” in the region, while the Chinese side cited scheduling problems. The Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan, issued after the meeting, said the eight countries are committed to “combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including its financing, the dismantling of terrorist infrastructure and countering radicalisation, to ensure that Afghanistan would never become a safe haven for global terrorism”. It said that “Afghanistan’s territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts”. The declaration stressed the need to form “an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan and has representation from all sections of their society, including major ethno-political forces in the country”. The inclusion of all sections of Afghan society in the administrative and political structure is “imperative for the successful national reconciliation process”, it said. The eight countries said they backed a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan while emphasising “respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs”. They expressed concern at the suffering of the Afghan people because of the security situation and condemned terror attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. The declaration emphasised the protection of the rights of women, children and minorities, and expressed concern at the deteriorating socio-economic and humanitarian situation. In this context, the declaration highlighted the need to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. While pointing to the UN’s “central role” in Afghanistan, the eight countries said humanitarian assistance should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner”, and distributed in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society. The representatives of the eight countries, in brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan, and to provide humanitarian aid to Afghans before the onset of winter. Shamkhani referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis, and said: “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” Patrushev noted the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and Turkic Council, and said it was important that these forums do not duplicate work but complement each other. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” he added. Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda said his country is concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said. The security officials also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the dialogue. The meeting in Delhi coincided with the Taliban foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, beginning a three-day visit to Pakistan. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid expressed optimism over meetings on Afghanistan held in Islamabad, Moscow, Tehran and New Delhi. “We are optimistic because the whole region needs stability and security in Afghanistan...the meetings...pave the way to understanding, and they are hopefully in the benefit of Afghanistan,” Mujahid said. China’s special envoy for Afghanistan Yue Xiaoyong will attend a meeting of the “extended troika” to be hosted by Pakistan on November 11. The meet will also be attended by the senior envoys of the US and Russia. Muttaqi’s delegation is expected to meet senior officials of all four countries while in Islamabad. Pakistan’s security establishment, with its close ties to the Taliban and the Haqqani Network, has gained influence in Kabul since August. At the same time, the Taliban are looking towards China for investments following the withdrawal of Western assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-regional-nations-pledge-to-combat-terror-call-for-inclusive-afghan-govt-101636550721170.html
10-11-2021||India||Wrestler Nisha Dahiya issues video after death news, says she is fine||Wrestler Nisha Dahiya issued a video on Instagram and said the news that she and her brother were shot dead by unknown assailants was fake news. In the video, Nisha Dahiya introduced her and said she has come to Gonda to play senior nationals and the news of her being shot is fake. “This Nisha Dahiya (shot dead) and medalist wrestler Nisha Dahiya are two different people. The medalist wrestler belongs to Panipat and is at an event now,” Sonipat superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma said to ANI.  A post shared by Nisha Dahiya (@nisha_dahiya_07)On Wednesday evening, it was reported Nisha and her brother Suraj were shot dead in Haryana's Sonipat by unknown assailants as she was returning home from Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy in Sonipat's Halalpur. It was also reported that Nisha's mother was admitted to Rohtak's PGI Hospital in a critical condition. The wrestler has recently won medals at the Wrestling Championships in Belgrade in 65 kg wrestling under 23 for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted congratulating the wrestler along with the other winners of the event. "Congratulations to Shivani, Anju, Divya, Radhika and Nisha for winning medals at the Wrestling Championships in Belgrade. Their performance is special and will contribute to wrestling becoming even more popular across India," PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday.Soon after the ‘fake news’ started doing the rounds, people on social media expressed shock over the incident, minutes after which the video from Nisha Dahiya hit social media.News agency Press Trust of India clarified that the news of a wrestler by the name of Nisha Dahiya being shot dead by assailants in Sonipat is not fake. Quoting the coach, it reported that the wrestler who has been shot is a newcomer wrestler who is also Nisha Dahiya, not the under-13 world championship bronze medalistNisha Dahiya's wrestling career has gone through several ups and downs as she faced a ban in 2016 after she tested positive for meldonium, a drug banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency.An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported the wrestler’s death. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrestler-nisha-dahiya-says-she-is-in-gonda-news-of-her-death-fake-101636550380893.html
10-11-2021||India||Assam police stop road construction by Mizoram near inter-state border||SILCHAR: The Assam police stopped a group of residents from Mizoram from building a road in its border district of Cachar, insisting that the land on which they were building the road falls on its side of the border, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Monday.Mizoram police officer Vanlalfaka Ralte acknowledged that villagers on its side made a mistake and didn’t realise where the inter-state boundary was. Cachar district’s superintendent of police (SP) Ramandip Kaur said this wasn’t a first and there have been multiple such instances in recent months.Assam districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. The decades-old border dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception; Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a demarcation made in 1933. In July this year, the border dispute deteriorated, leading to a bloody clash that led to the death of six Assam police personnel.On Monday, an Assam police officer said, residents of Paglacherra and French Nagar under Dholai assembly constituency of Cachar district noticed that a road was being constructed on forest land by Mizo civilians and its India Reserve Batallion jawans.Cachar SP, Ramandip Kaur said they stopped the construction work because it was on Assam’s side of the border. “This is not the first time they were attempting to construct a road on Assam’s land. In past also, we stopped similar activities but this time they were doing it during the night,” she saidKaur also confirmed that this time, the Mizo civilians agreed to move back and didn’t argue. “In past, when we stopped such activities, Mizoram citizens argued with us. But this time they moved back peacefully because they understood that activities were wrong. I have spoken with the superintendent of police of Kolasib district about this,” she added.Also Read: Assam-Mizoram border dispute has origin in British era notificationsMizoram’s Kolasib district SP Vanlalfaka Ralte said, “People from a village panchayat of our district was involved in the construction. It was under their farming land and they didn’t understand the border. I have talked to the SP Cachar and assured her that the work will not resume for the time being.”Lailapur residents in Cachar district said the police aren’t always as prompt to intervene at their request. “For Mizoram, such attempts of construction and encroachment have become a regular affair. When their civilians do this, IR Batallion jawans patrol the area to protect. Our commandos just stand and watch,” said a local resident.A senior Assam official said a letter has been sent to Mizoram asking the neighouring state to ensure that its residents do not get involved in such activities. Mizoram chief secretary Renu Sharma’s office confirmed receiving the latter but did not make any comment.Monday’s aborted attempt to build the road comes days after an explosive, complete with a detonator, was found at a construction site in Assam near inter-state border. A special team of bomb squad travelled to the spot from Guwahati to defuse the explosive device on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-stop-road-construction-by-mizoram-near-inter-state-border-101636549040772.html
10-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Kapil Sibal tells SC message must be sent it's unacceptable||Senior advocate and Congress leader Kapil Sibal said on Wednesday that communal violence was like a lava erupting from a volcano that scared the ground it touched.Arguing on behalf of Zakia Jafri who has challenged a clean chit by the special investigating team (SIT) to 64 people, including Prime Minister Narendra Narendra Modi, the then Gujarat chief minister during the 2002 riots, Sibal told the Supreme Court that said a message must be sent to the world that this was "unacceptable" and "cannot be tolerated".According to a PTI report, he further said communal violence was a "fertile ground" for future revenge and he had lost his maternal grandparents in Pakistan in a similar way."Communal violence is like lava erupting from a volcano. It is institutionalised violence. Wherever that lava touches, it scars the earth. It is a fertile ground for future revenge," he told the bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar."I lost my maternal parents to it in Pakistan," a visibly emotional Sibal told the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar.The senior advocate said he was not accusing A or B, but this was a "historic matter" because the choice was between ensuring that rule of law will prevail or letting people run amok.Jafri is the wife of slain Congress leader Ehsan Jafri, who was killed at Gulberg society in Ahmedabad on February 28, 2002, during the riots.The former MP was among the 68 people killed in the violence, a day after a coach of the Sabarmati Express was burnt at Godhra killing 59 people and triggering riots in Gujarat.On October 26, the apex court had said it would like to peruse the closure report of the SIT giving the clean chit to 64 individuals and the justification given by the magisterial court while accepting it. The argument in the matter was underway in the top court.Sibal had earlier said Jafri's complaint was about “a larger conspiracy where there was bureaucratic inaction, police complicity, hate speeches and unleashing of violence".On February 8, 2012, the SIT had filed a closure report giving a clean chit to Modi and 63 others, including senior government officials, saying there was "no prosecutable evidence" against them.Zakia Jafri had filed a petition in the apex court in 2018 challenging the Gujarat high court's October 5, 2017, order rejecting her plea against the decision of the SIT.The plea also stated that after the SIT gave a clean chit in its closure report before a trial judge, she filed a protest petition which was dismissed by the magistrate without considering its "substantiated merits".(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-riots-kapil-sibal-tells-sc-message-must-be-sent-it-s-unacceptable-101636547734673.html
10-11-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for easing of air travel restrictions by GCC states||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday called for further easing of restrictions by the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states on air travel from India and mutual recognition of vaccination certificates.He raised the matter during a meeting with GCC secretary general Nayef Falah Mubarak Al-Hajraf. The two leaders also reviewed India-GCC ties and discussed trade and investment relations. Nayef Falah, a former finance minister of Kuwait, is on his first official visit to India during November 10-11. He was appointed secretary general of the GCC in February 2020. The GCC is a regional political and economic union that includes Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Millions of Indians live and work in the GCC states. India has been pushing the GCC to ease travel restrictions so that Indian citizens can return to their jobs in the region.Jaishankar and Nayef Falah carried out a detailed review of India-GCC relations and discussed ways to enhance them, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Jaishankar hoped there would be a further easing of restrictions by GCC states on air travel from India and mutual recognition of vaccination certificates. The two leaders discussed trade and investment ties and expressed satisfaction that essential trade between India and the GCC had continued even during the Covid-19 lockdowns. Both sides agreed on the need to further secure supply chains, including in the areas of energy security, food security and healthcare, the statement said. Jaishankar highlighted India as a destination for foreign direct investments, including for sovereign wealth funds of GCC states. Nayef Falah lauded the contribution of the Indian community to the Gulf countries and said the “GCC wants to be a partner of India in its economic growth”, the statement said. Jaishankar thanked the GCC countries for taking care of the large Indian diaspora during the pandemic and for the medical assistance provided during the second wave of infections in India in April-May. Both leaders expressed satisfaction at India-GCC cooperation in handling the challenges posed by the pandemic, and Jaishankar apprised Nayef Falah of India’s progress in its vaccination programme. The two leaders also exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual concern. Jaishankar congratulated Nayef Falah for the GCC’s constructive role in promoting stability and prosperity in the region. Both sides decided to hold the next India-GCC troika political dialogue at an early date. The last round of the dialogue was held virtually in November 2020. Both sides also agreed to further institutionalise the annual meetings between the external affairs minister and the GCC troika by signing a memorandum of understanding in the coming months. Nayef Falah will hold talks with commerce minister Piyush Goyal on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-calls-for-easing-of-air-travel-restrictions-by-gcc-states-101636546220667.html
10-11-2021||India||SRK's manager will be summoned again, say Mumbai Police as Pooja Dadlani skips questioning||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday said it will again summon Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case as Pooja has skipped the interrogation citing health reasons. SRK's manager who was often spotted outside the Narcotics Control Bureau office when Aryan Khan was in jail is significant for the investigation. "Her statement is important for SIT and in the time to come, we will summon her again for questioning," the Mumbai Police said.This is the special investigation team of the Mumbai Police conducting a parallel probe into the extortion allegations against the NCB team in teh Aryan Khan case. The SIT has also sought the CCTV footage of NCB's South Mumbai offices, reports said.According to various conflicting accounts given by Prabhakar Sail, Sam D'Souza, names which have surfaced in the past few days in connection with the Aryan Khan case, the extortion demand was made to SRK's manager Pooja Dadlani. Sam D'Souza claimed Pooja Dadlani even paid ₹50 lakh to KP Gosavi as she was promised that Gosavi could ensure Aryan Khan's release from NCB detention, before he was arrested on October 3. D'Souza claimed he returned the money to Pooja Dadlani after Aryan was arrested. While the drugs case is now under an SIT of the NCB, the Mumbai Police are looking into the extortion angle raised by Prabhakar Sail, a former aide of KP Gosavi. Sail claimed he overheard a conversation between Gosavi and D'Souza about a payoff of ₹18 crore from Shah Rukh Khan to secure Aryan Khan's release. Meanwhile, police claimed they have checked the CCTV footage of the Lower Parel area where Pooja Dadlani reportedly met Gosavi and D'Souza and found that Pooja's car was in that area. The Delhi team of the NCB is also looking into the pay-off allegation. On Monday, the team visited the spot outside the Indiana Hotel where Pooja apparently met Gosavi.The NCB special investigation team had summoned Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Achit Kumar; all three were arrested in the case and are now out on bail. While Arbaaz and Achit have met the NCB SIT, Aryan Khan cited health reasons and has skipped the first summons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srks-manager-will-be-summoned-again-say-mumbai-police-as-puja-dadlani-skips-questioning-101636545334056.html
10-11-2021||India||One person detained in Hyderabad for giving rape threats to Indian cricketer's daughter||The cyber cell of Mumbai police's crime branch detained one person from Hyderabad for allegedly giving online rape threats to the infant daughter of an Indian cricketer for supporting teammate Mohammed Shami, who was brutally trolled for his religion after Team India’s loss to Pakistan in the T20 World Cup. Senior Mumbai police officers said that the suspect works as a software engineer for a food delivery app in Hyderabad. They added that the suspect is being brought to Mumbai for further probe into the matter.According to news agency ANI, the suspect has been identified as 23-year-old Ramnagesh Srinivas Akubathini.Although the name of the cricketer has not been revealed, the news comes close on the heels of online rape threats meted out to Team India skipper Virat Kohli’s nine-month-old daughter Vamika whom he shares with Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma.The attack on Kohli’s daughter began soon after India’s loss to Pakistan, but strengthened after the captain threw his weight behind Shami. Notably, Shami is the only Muslim player in the Indian squad.Also Read | 'Nobody gives them any love’: Rahul Gandhi asks Virat Kohli to ‘forgive’ trollsA day before India’s second match in the T20 World Cup held in United Arab Emirates (UAE), Kohli targeted the trolls on social media and called them “a bunch of spineless people who have got no courage to speak to any individual in person.”“To me, attacking someone over their religion is the most pathetic thing that a human being can do,” Kohli had said in a virtual press meet.Several cricketers in the likes of Sachin Tendulkar, Virender Sehwag and Anil Kumble, among others, had also supported Shami.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) also took suo motu cognisance of media reports and issued a notice to Delhi police, even describing the matter of “serious concern.”“Our chairperson Swati Maliwal has called this ‘shameful,’ and called for immediate arrest of the accused,” the notice that was shared on Twitter, read.The commission mentioned a Twitter handle @Criccrazygirl that had posted a tweet giving online rape threats to Kohli and Anushka’s infant daughter. Soon after several netizens claimed that the account belonged to a Pakistani user. However, reports thereafter had refuted the same alleging that the tweet was made from an Indian after all.After Virat Kohli's support to Mohammed Shami, a Twitter user posted a rape threat to Kohli's daughter. Several people claimed the user is from Pakistani but this is false. The Twitter account belongs to an Indian user. #AltNewsFactCheckhttps://t.co/AOyveYpur4The commission had sought information on the matter pertaining to copy of he First Investigation Report (FIR) lodged, details of accused identified and held, and detailed steps taken to nab the accused if no arrest made thus far by November 8.(With inputs from the bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-person-detained-in-hyderabad-for-giving-rape-threats-to-indian-cricketer-101636544981578.html
10-11-2021||India||Eye on polls, Priyanka Gandhi promises ₹10,000 monthly honorarium for ASHA workers if voted to power in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi expressed solidarity with Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and anganwadi workers and announced that they will be provided with an honorarium of ₹10,000 per month if the party comes to power in Uttar Pradesh.“The Congress party is committed to the rights of honorarium of ASHA sisters and their respect and if the government is formed, ASHA sisters and Anganwadi workers will be given an honorarium of ₹10,000 per month,” Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday.Gandhi, the Congress general secretary, shared a video of ASHA workers being allegedly “assaulted” by police at Shahjahanpur, where they had gone to meet with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and present a list of demands. Hindustan Times could not independently verify the contents of the video."Every assault on the ASHA sisters by the UP government is an insult to the work done by them. My ASHA sisters have given their services diligently in coronavirus times and on other occasions. Honorarium is their right. It is the duty of the government to listen to them," she tweeted in support.All over the country ASHA and anganwadi workers have been protesting since September demanding risk allowance and insurance cover while on Covid duty, regularisation of appointments, and low wages. This all-female army of grassroot workers who have been at the forefront of rural India’s fight against coronavirus and are now shouldering the responsibility of immunisation.Centre contributes ₹4,500 per month towards their remuneration and many state governments contribute an additional amount. They were promised an extra honorarium of ₹1,000 but many states are yet to follow up on that promise.ASHA workers in Maharashtra had organised a similar strike in June of this year which was called off after the state government agreed to increase their honorarium by ₹1,500 a month. Even during the pandemic they have been assailed by various issues like unavailability of proper protective gears and PPE kits.Gandhi, whose party is fighting the upcoming assembly polls in UP, pledged her support to ASHA and anganwadi workers. "ASHA sisters deserve respect and I am with them in this fight," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-polls-priyanka-gandhi-promises-rs-10-000-monthly-honorarium-for-asha-workers-if-voted-to-power-in-up-101636542601260.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt sprinkles water, puts up barricades to remove Yamuna foam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi govt installs bamboo barricades, sprinkles water to remove Yamuna frothTo address the problem of toxic foam found floating on the Yamuna River, the Delhi government on Wednesday resorted to measures ranging from sprinkling of water at high speed at various locations. Read More'Allegations serious': Cong's Nana Patole wants CM Uddhav to probe Malik-Fadnavis rowMaharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on demanded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray institute an investigation into allegations and counter-allegations levelled against each. Read MoreChina to join Pakistan’s ‘Troika Plus’ meeting on AfghanistanChina will join an extended “troika” meeting on Afghanistan to be hosted by Pakistan on Thursday, which will be attended by senior diplomats from the US and Russia, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Wednesday. Read More'Sachin did the same playing under various captains': Sehwag opens up on Kohli's new role in Indian team after captaincyWith Virat Kohli stepping down as India's T20I captain and Rohit Sharma taking over the reins. Read MoreSpider-Man No Way Home: John Campea, who leaked viral pics, gets call from Marvel; has even 'juicier' onesCanadian film reviewer John Campea, who leaked the Spider-Man: No Way Home pictures, has shared details of what happened after he posted the images online. Read MoreAir pollution can play havoc with your eyes. Here’s howAs post Diwali air pollution continues to make news and raise concerns, it is important to safeguard ourselves from the side-effects of toxic pollutants that can cause respiratory disorders. Read MoreWatch: Mahindra XUV700 scores smashing five-star rating in Global NCAP testsMahindra XUV700 has become the latest Indian car to register a perfect crash test score for adult occupants in the recently-released Global NCAP safety report. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-sprinkles-water-puts-up-barricades-to-remove-yamuna-foam-and-all-the-latest-news-101636541808789.html
10-11-2021||India||Uphaar and the 25-year long battle for justice||The joy and relief were palpable in their voices for the first time in nearly 25 years. The Krishnamoorthys had never given up on being parents even though they lost both their children in June 1997.
10-11-2021||India||Over 16,000 villages in Gujarat inoculated 100% eligible population with 1st Covid vaccine dose||More than 16,000 villages and five municipal corporations in the state of Gujarat have vaccinated their entire eligible population with the first dose of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), state health minister Rushikesh Patel said on Wednesday.According to news agency PTI, the above 18 population in Gujarat which is eligible to get inoculated, stands at around 49.3 million.Speaking to reporters in Gandhinagar on Wednesday, health minister Patel said that nearly 45 million people have received the first dose while 27.1 million are fully vaccinated, i.e have received both doses.The entire eligible population in the cities of Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Surat, Junagadh and Rajkot have been administered the first jab of the vaccine, Patel said.He added that residents of 16,109 villages of a total 18,500 have received the first vaccine dose. On the other hand, Junagadh, Ahmedabad, Tapi and Mahisagar have also achieved 100 per cent coverage of the first dose till now, the health minister said, PTI reported.Since the beginning of the nationwide vaccination drive from January 16 this year, Gujarat has administered over 72 million doses, according to Patel.Last month, the state government announced that 90% of the eligible population across Gujarat had taken the first jab against Covid-19.Gujarat has so far recorded 826,784 Covid-19 cases, 816,485 recoveries, 209 active cases and 10,090 deaths. On Tuesday, the state recorded 20 new cases, 28 recoveries and no deaths due to the viral disease.According to the Union health ministry, India’s vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.096 billion with over 5.2 million doses administered in the last 24 hours.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16-000-villages-in-guj-inoculated-100-eligible-population-with-1st-dose-101636537137814.html
10-11-2021||India||INS Vela, India’s fourth Scorpene-class submarine, delivered to Indian Navy||INS Vela, the country’s fourth Scorpene-class submarine, was delivered to the Indian Navy on Tuesday after more than two years of sea trials. The delivery of the attack submarine, which underwent sea trials since May 2019, is seen as a major shot in the arm for the Indian Navy in terms of strength and capability.INS Vela is known to have advanced stealth and combat capabilities when it comes to engaging with the enemy.The diesel-electric submarine was built under Project 75 by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL) in Mumbai.The acceptance document for INS Vela’s delivery was signed by Vice Admiral Narayan Prasad (retired), chairman and managing director of MDL, and Rear Admiral KP Arvindan, chief staff officer (technical) of Western Naval Command. MDL directors and other navy personnel were also present on the occasion.Also Read: Indian Navy invites applications for trade apprenticeship at DAS, VisakhapatnamThe first submarine, INS Kalvari, was launched in October 2015 and was commissioned in December 2017 - five years behind schedule. The second one, INS Khanderi, was launched in January 2017 for trials and commissioned in September 2019. The third submarine, INS Karanj, was launched in January 2018 and commissioned on March 10, 2021.And then INS Vela, the fourth in the series, was launched in May 2019. The fifth one, INS Vagir, was launched in November 2020 and has commenced harbour trials. It is expected to go for its maiden surface sortie in December 2021. The sixth submarine, INS Vagsheer, is in the advanced stage of outfitting. “The delivery of four submarines - Kalvari, Khanderi, Karanj and now Vela - reaffirmed India’s membership in the exclusive group of submarine-building nations,” said Ashish Singh, PR manager at MDL.Scorpene-class submarines can undertake multifarious missions such as anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, intelligence gathering, mine laying, area surveillance, etc. The submarines are designed to operate in all theatres with means provided to ensure interoperability with other components of a naval task force. The state-of- the-art technology used in the construction of Scorpene-class submarines has ensured improved stealth features, such as advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydro-dynamically optimised shape and the ability to launch a crippling attack on the enemy using precision-guided weapons. Attacks can be carried out using both torpedoes as well as tube-launched anti-ship missiles at the same time, underwater or on surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-vela-india-s-fourth-scorpene-class-submarine-delivered-to-indian-navy-101636540700439.html
10-11-2021||India||Uttarakhand high court acquits former MP DP Yadav in 1992 murder case||Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday acquitted former Member of Parliament DP Yadav in the 1992 murder of Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Mahendra Singh Bhati in Uttar Pradesh’s Dadri, said Yadav’s lawyer SRS Gill. Bhati was shot dead in September 1992.Gill said a division bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma Yadav acquitted Yadav of all charges in the murder case.Sandeep Tandon, who represented the Central Bureau of Investigation in the case, said a special court in Dehradun sentenced Yadav and three others to life imprisonment in March 2015 for murdering Bhati. He added Yadav was convicted under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Yadav challenged the conviction in the high court in 2015.Also Read | Barmer accident: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of victims“Yadav has been acquitted under all these charges. He is currently on extended short-term bail on health grounds which was set to expire within a day or two. Earlier this year, he had been granted bail twice on health grounds,” said Tandon. He added they will go through the high court judgment and then take a decision on challenging the acquittal in Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-high-court-acquits-former-mp-dp-yadav-in-1992-murder-case-101636539502383.html
10-11-2021||India||Congress to launch campaign against price rise from November 14||The Congress will launch a mass agitation--Jan Jagran Abhiyan--from November 14 to 29 against price rise.In a statement, Congress leader KC Venugopal said “the run-away inflation and back-breaking price rise” has added to people’s woes caused by the “destruction of the economy, deepening recession, highest ever unemployment rate, farm distress and escalating levels of poverty and hunger.” It added the Congress workers will reach out to the maximum number of Indians to “strengthen the people’s voice against the unprecedented price rise in the CNG, cooking gas, diesel, petrol, cooking oil, pulses and other essential commodities.”The Congress is creating a logo for the Abhiyan, which will resemble the Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi during the national movement.Also Read : Punjab AG issue: Congress MP Manish Tewari takes dig at SidhuA social media campaign will also be launched on November 12. Top Congress leaders will go live on social media as part of the mass contact programmes. The party will also announce a toll-free number for people to register themselves for the campaign.The Abhiyan has been announced ahead of the Parliament’s Winter Session from November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-campaign-against-price-rise-from-november-14-101636538959868.html
10-11-2021||India||Delhi dialogue on Afghanistan calls for open and inclusive govt in Kabul||Top security officials of eight countries, including India, Iran and Russia, on Wednesday said Afghanistan’s soil shouldn’t be used for planning terrorist acts, and called for an open and inclusive government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society. The officials also pitched for collective cooperation to tackle radicalisation, extremism, separatism and drug trafficking in the region, according to the declaration issued at the conclusion of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan. The meeting, chaired by India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, was attended by Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and the security council heads of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Though this was the first such meeting on Afghanistan convened by India, the dialogue was the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meets in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to the meeting but opted not to participate. In his opening remarks, Doval said the time had come for closer consultations and greater coordination among regional countries to find solutions to recent developments in Afghanistan. Also Read: PM Modi speaks to security heads of 7 nations as Delhi calls meet on Afghanistan“We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations among us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. Shamkhani referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis, and said, “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” The Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan, issued at the conclusion of the dialogue, said that “Afghanistan’s territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts”. It stressed on the need to form “an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan and has representation from all sections of their society, including major ethno-political forces in the country”. The declaration contended that the inclusion of all sections of Afghan society in the “administrative and political structure is imperative for the successful national reconciliation process” in Afghanistan. The declaration strongly condemned all terrorist activities and reaffirmed the commitment of the eight countries to combat all forms terrorism, including its financing, to dismantle terrorist infrastructure and to counter radicalisation in order to ensure Afghanistan “would never become a safe haven for global terrorism”. The eight countries said they supported a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan while emphasising “respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs”. They also expressed concern at the suffering of the Afghan people because of the security situation and condemned terror attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. Also Read: Pakistan to host ‘Troika summit’ to discuss Afghanistan situationThe declaration further emphasised the importance of ensuring that fundamental rights of women, children and minorities are not violated, and expressed concern at the deteriorating socioeconomic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. In this context, the declaration pointed to the need to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. While pointing to the UN’s “central role” in Afghanistan, the eight countries said humanitarian assistance should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner to Afghanistan” and this aid should be distributed in a non-discriminatory manner across all sections of Afghan society. The NSAs and security council secretaries of all eight countries, in their brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan and to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people before the onset of winter. Patrushev noted the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and Turkic Council, and said it was important that these forums do not duplicate work but complement each other. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” he said. Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda said his country is concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indialed-summit-on-afghanistan-focuses-on-terrorism-and-inclusive-government-101636537879929.html
10-11-2021||India||Mumbai Police solves 50 auto rickshaw theft cases with 4 arrests||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested four members of a gang suspected to be involved in more than 50 cases of robbing auto rickshaws and reselling them at dirt cheap prices quickly.According to the officers at the Aarey sub police station, the accused, identified as Samad Shaikh (24), Sufiyan Khan (25), Rafiq Khan (24) and Amir Bhatt (25), were arrested from their houses in Powai. Police said they first scanned CCTV recordings of the parking lots after receiving more than six complaints of rickshaw theft in the area in one month and further zeroed on suspects by studying cell tower locations of people detected in the locality at the time of the thefts.Also Read | Mumbai coastline crisis: Urban flooding is a public health issueThe four arrested accused told police they had sold more than 50 stolen auto rickshaws to random people for ₹5,000 each. On further investigation, police found that the buyers had rented out the auto rickshaws for ₹300 a day. “We have recovered six rickshaws till now and are investigating further. The four have been arrested for theft and will be presented before the court,” said a police officer from Aarey Sub police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-solves-50-auto-rickshaw-theft-cases-with-4-arrests-101636537099913.html
10-11-2021||India||Barmer accident: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the families of victims who died in an accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured will be given ₹50,000 each.Eleven people died while 22 others sustained injuries after a truck collided with a bus in Barmer district. The accident occurred near the Bhandiyawas village on the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway.As per a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Modi expressed condolences to the bereaved families and said, "It is saddening that people have lost their lives due to a bus-tanker collision at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan.”“An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each,” the PMO said in a subsequent tweet.An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each: PM @narendramodiBoth vehicles caught fire after the collision. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames."Ten bodies have been recovered from the spot and one died at a hospital. Twenty-two others are injured. Eight critically injured persons have been referred to Jodhpur for treatment, "Barmer superintendent of police Deepak Bhargav told news agency PTI.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Wednesday that he has spoken to the district collector and has ordered him to ensure proper treatment for the injured.“I have directed the Barmer district collector for relief and rescue measures in the matter of an accident between a truck and bus. Proper treatment will be ensured for those injured in the accident,” Gehlot tweeted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barmer-accident-pm-modi-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-victims-101636534519485.html
10-11-2021||India||India and US hold DTTI group meeting, sign deal for air-launched UAVs||In a major boost for defence ties, India and the US have signed a deal to jointly develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) as the two countries held the 11th Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI) group meeting on Tuesday.The meeting was held virtually and focused on strengthening bilateral defence trade relations and creating opportunities to jointly develop and produce defence equipment.“The co-chairs were pleased to note that since the last DTTI group meeting in September 2020, the first project agreement for air-launched unmanned aerial vehicle under the joint working group air systems was signed, which is a major accomplishment for the DTTI,” the defence ministry said in a press statement.Watch: Should Xi Jinping’s plan to get unprecedented 3rd term worry Quad?The meeting was co-chaired by Raj Kumar, India’s secretary for defence production, and Gregory Kausner, the PTDO (performing the duties of) under secretary of defence for acquisition and sustainment at the US defence department.The defence ministry said that four joint working groups attended the meeting, which focused on land, naval, air and aircraft carrier technologies that were established under the DTTI to boost mutually agreed projects. “The groups reported to the co-chairs on ongoing activities and collaborative opportunities, including a number of near-term projects targeted for completion on priority,” the defence ministry said.Also, in a push for India and the US to jointly develop niche technology, the Defence Industry Collaboration Forum’s (DICF) virtual expo was held on Monday. It was convened by Anurag Bajpai, India’s joint secretary for defence industries, and Jesse Salazar, the US deputy assistant secretary of defence for industrial policy. “This forum offers an opportunity for Indian and US industries to be directly involved in the DTTI and it facilitates dialogue between government and industry on issues that impact industrial collaboration. The results of the discussion were briefed to the DTTI group co-chairs,” the defence ministry said in the press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-hold-dtti-group-meeting-sign-deal-for-air-launched-uavs-101636536559965.html
10-11-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to security heads of 7 nations as Delhi calls meet on Afghanistan||Senior security officials of seven nations, including Russia, Iran, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday following a meeting on Afghanistan chaired by National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval in the national capital.Speaking about Afghanistan, Doval said the recent developments, following the takeover of the war-torn nation by the Taliban, had important implications not only for the people of that country but also for its neighbours and the entire region.Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets NSAs of seven countries including 5 Central Asian countries and Russia and IranNational Security Adviser Ajit Doval today chaired the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan in Delhi pic.twitter.com/jh41gSQdAMAlso read | Delhi consensus seeks non-interference in Afghan affairs without naming PakSecretary of the Security Council of Russia, Nikolai Patrushev, said multilateral meetings of secretaries of the security council on the Afghan issue were an important format that would help discuss a range of issues linked to the developing situation in Afghanistan at the highest level."It also helps elaborate practical measures to counter challenges and threat emanation from Afghan territory," he said.Patrushev said the increased activity of international and regional stakeholders in the Afghan dimension and the creation of new formats.Meanwhile, the Taliban said it was optimistic about the meeting hosted by India. The outfit’s spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid, referred to the meeting on Afghanistan during a press conference and said the Islamic Emirate was optimistic about it, local media platform Tolo News reported.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-security-heads-of-7-nations-as-delhi-calls-meet-on-afghanistan-101636535554071.html
10-11-2021||India||Delhi Declaration seeks non-interference in Afghan affairs without naming Pak||The top security officials of seven countries released a consensus document on the issue of Afghanistan on Wednesday afternoon. The document was released after a regional security dialogue chaired by National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval.According to a consensus statement issued by the NSAs, discussions were held on the evolving situation in Afghanistan, especially the security situation and its regional and its global ramifications. What is significant is that the consensus was not critical of the Taliban regime in Kabul, barring suggestions to the Sunni Pashtun force that it should be an independent and an inclusive regime.That the consensus emphasised of maintaining the territorial integrity of Afghanistan and was against interference from outside powers is a clear hint to the Pakistani deep state, which seeks strategic space in Kabul. Since the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15, the Pakistani ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hamid, close confidante of Pak Prime Minister Imran Khan, has publicly visited Kabul twice and is seen the principal backer of Sirajuddin Haqqani, who heads the eponymous terrorist network.The NSAs and secretaries of the national security councils of respective countries said in the statement that Afghanistan's territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts.The NSAs also called for a collective cooperation against the menace of radicalisation, extremism, separatism and drug trafficking in the region and stressed on the necessity of forming an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan.They also condemned in the strongest terms all terrorist activities and reaffirmed their firm commitment to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.The NSAs expressed deep concern over the suffering of the people of Afghanistan arising from the security situation in the war-torn country and condemned the terrorist attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul reiterating strong support for a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan.National Security Advisers or Secretaries of the Security Council of five Central Asian countries - Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan besides Russia and Iran - attended the New Delhi meet on Afghanistan.Doval, who chaired the dialogue on Afghanistan, earlier called for greater cooperation and interaction and coordination amongst the regional countries over the issue of Afghanistan.According to ministry of external affairs (MEA), the dialogue will deliberate upon measures to address the relevant security challenges and support the people of Afghanistan in promoting peace, security and stability.According to MEA, the countries will review the security situation in the region arising from recent developments in Afghanistan during the meeting. It is a continuation of the format started by Tehran in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-consensus-seeks-non-interference-in-afghan-affairs-without-naming-pak-101636534919377.html
10-11-2021||India||Delhi Police arrests 3 for buying imported marijuana over dark net using bitcoin||The Delhi Police’s crime branch has arrested three persons for allegedly buying at least 1,873 grams of “imported marijuana” valued at ₹35 lakhs through the dark net using bitcoins, officers aware of the case details said. “The consignment was ordered on dark net. The chat for the transaction was done using an app in which the chat details were automatically deleted after three days. The payment for the same was done in bitcoins,” a police officer, aware of the case details, said.Delhi police have pegged the cost of the “imported marijuana” at ₹35 lakh. “This marijuana is expensive and costs about ₹40-50 thousand per ounce. Price for 28 grams is around ₹40-50 thousand,” the officer added.Police are yet to share details such as the place from where the marijuana was imported. A police spokesperson said they would reveal details in a press conference later on Wednesday afternoon.Darknet is a platform for secret networks that use an encrypted channel making it difficult for police and other enforcement agencies to track the users. Over the years, it is commonly used in smuggling drugs. Delhi police believe this is the first such case in which the darknet was used to smuggle marijuana.Marijuana is one of the most commonly smuggled drugs in Delhi. Last year, the police had seized over 600 kg of marijuana and about 60 kg heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-for-buying-imported-marijuana-over-dark-net-101636534699441.html
10-11-2021||India||'No need to panic': UP CM Adityanath as Zika virus tally in Kanpur breaches 100||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday reviewed the Zika virus situation in Kanpur by visiting the virus-hit areas and speaking to family members of the infected patients.The number of Zika virus cases in Kanpur has breached the 100-mark since the infection was first detected on October 25.Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “Of the total 105 positive cases detected, 17 are now negative for the virus. Five wards have been affected.”Adityanath said the district administration, health department and municipal council have strategically worked on increasing surveillance, sanitisation and investigation in Kanpur.“Our team is identifying symptomatic people and providing them with medicine kits by getting them hospitalised,” he said, adding that the remaining 88 patients will recover.We've increased the number of health teams. I have taken a review of the situation. There is no need to panic: UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Zika virus outbreak in KanpurThe chief minister also said that the number of health teams has increased and there is no need to panic.Zika virus is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquito, which bites during the day. The symptoms are mild fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache.District authorities said on Tuesday that steps are being taken to monitor the rise in cases."A hundred teams have been deployed in the Kanpur city for source reduction, 100 teams for home sampling, 50 teams for sampling and additional 15 rapid response teams (RRT) to check the spread of Zika virus," Dr Nepal Singh, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Kanpur, told news agency ANI.Dr Singh said that nearly 4,000 samples have been collected so far of which 193 samples were collected on Tuesday. “The source detection team visited 3,777 houses on Tuesday taking the cumulative tally to 40,238,” he further told ANI.The top official also said that friends and relatives of infected patients are also being monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-up-cm-adityanath-as-zika-virus-tally-in-kanpur-breaches-100-101636530288814.html
10-11-2021||India||No fuel, ration for unvaccinated people in Aurangabad||The district administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad has adopted a strict policy to increase the coverage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. According to a notification, the administration has said that residents who have not even received one dose of vaccine will not get petrol, gas or ration.The store and fuel station owners and operators have been asked to check vaccination certificate of people.Vaccination has also been made complusory for all workers at hotels, resorts and shops located in tourist places. The notification was issued on November 9 and has come into effect immediately.The district administration has taken the step after the vaccination figures in the region were found to be low, collector Sunil Chavan said.As per the order, at least one dose of vaccine is mandatory for people who wish to visit historic sites and monuments such as Bibi Ka Maqbara, Aurangabad, Ajanta, Ellora and Pitalkora caves.The government health agencies have been directed to undertake vaccination drives and establish vaccination booths at places where that footfall of tourists is high, the official said.Apart from this, the collector has written to the treasury officer instructing him to stop salaries and other fund sanctions for the month of November of employees who have not taken a single dose of vaccine and presented a certificate for the same.This comes a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed the Aurangabad administration to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination drive during an interaction with collectors of over 40 districts across the country.Eight districts in Maharashtra, including Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Buldhana, Hingoli, Nanded, Beed, Amravati and Akola, were identified as laggards with respect to the pace of inoculation drive.The immunisation rate of the district currently stands at 55.12 per cent and after the Prime Minister's appeal, the administration has set a target of taking it to 100 per cent by November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fuel-ration-for-unvaccinated-people-in-aurangabad-101636533293722.html
10-11-2021||India||11 burnt to death in bus-truck collision in Rajasthan’s Barmer, 22 injured||11 people were burnt to death and 22 others were injured in the fire triggered by a collision between a bus and a truck on Balotra (Barmer)-Jodhpur highway on Wednesday, Rajasthan Police said. The accident took place under Pachpadra police station of Rajasthan’s Barmer district at around 11 am when a truck crashed into a bus coming from the opposite direction with at least 28 passengers from Jodhpur. Both the vehicles caught fire after the accident, killing 10 people on the spot, said Deepak Bhargav, Barmer’s superintendent of police (SP). Also Read: Rare pink leopard sighted in Ranakpur hills of RajasthanThe deceased included the driver of the truck and the eleventh victim succumbed to injuries in a hospital. The 22 injured are being treated at Balotra hospital. Eight of these are critical and have been referred to Jodhpur, he said. The SP said it appeared that the truck was overtaking a vehicle and didn’t see the bus coming from the opposite direction, ramming into it. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed the district collector to ensure best treatment possible for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-burnt-to-death-in-bus-truck-collision-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-22-injured-101636533319513.html
10-11-2021||India||'Never to wrestle with a pig', says Fadnavis as Nawab Malik speaks of underworld, fake currencies||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday shared a quote by famous Irish playwright George Bernand Shaw moments after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik accused the former of patronising a fake currency racket and shielding people with underworld links during his tenure as chief minister. Fadnavis posted an image with a text that read "I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig, you get dirty. And Besides, The pig likes it".Thought of the day 👇🏼 pic.twitter.com/PkLiHS3GVWEarlier in the day, Malik accused Fadnavis of saving one Imran Aslam Shaikh after he was caught in a fake currency case and having links with Riyaz Bhati, an alleged aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. Malik also alleged that Fadnavis, who served as the chief minister of the state from 2014 to 2019, appointed a Nagpur criminal Munna Yadav and a "Bangladeshi extortionist" Haider Azam to statutory corporations of the state government to shield them.Addressing the conference, the NCP leader also spoke about "more bombs” that were to be dropped in the coming days and spilling more beans on the BJP leadership.He further said that while his fight was against someone who was framing innocent people in fake cases, Fadnavis was trying to defend him. This was in reference to the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede against whom Malik has levelled several allegations ever since the drugs bust case drew national attention.His accusations came a day after Fadnavis said Malik had business dealings with convicts of the 1993 Mumbai blasts case.Meanwhile, BJP leader Ashish Shelar rubbished Malik’s claims and said Fadnavis never shielded wrongdoers. "Munna Yadav had cases against him but there is Nationalist Congress Party link to them too. Fadnavis never shielded any fake currency case and Malik too has not given any proof while levelling allegations," said Shelar, a former state minister.Shelar also produced photographs of Bhati with many ruling party leaders, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, and said he was being protected by the NCP."Bhati was one of the recovery agents engaged by former police officer Sachin Vaze for the collection of the extortion money. The NCP has been shielding Bhati who is absconding to ensure that their links with him are not exposed," the BJP leader added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-to-wrestle-with-a-pig-says-fadnavis-as-nawab-malik-speaks-of-underworld-fake-currencies-101636531730162.html
10-11-2021||India||Rare pink leopard sighted in Ranakpur hills of Rajasthan||A rare pink female leopard has been sighted in the Ranakpur region in the Pali district of Rajasthan. Earlier sighting of the pink leopard was reported from South Africa. Experts believe that the different colour is perhaps due to mutation. The Indian leopard usually has its coat spotted on a pale yellow to yellowish-brown or golden background. But this pink leopard has reddish-brown skin and distinctly different spots. Such strawberry-coated leopards have been seen in South Africa more than once. Deputy conservator of forest, Fateh Singh said the pink coloured leopard was being sighted occasionally by locals in the Ranakpur region and in Kumbhalgarh area of Rajsamand district. “The colour seems to because of skin mutation,” he said. However, it was not clear if the same leopard had been sighted at both the places.Retired Indian Forest Officer (IFS) Sunayan Sharma said this strawberry coated leopard was a mature female with a cub and was an example of a rare mutation with pink colour. Usually, mutation occurs in black and white colours. “I haven’t come across a pink leopard,” he said. Wildlife Institute of India scientist Dr YV Jhala said, “The leopard seems to have a light coat colour and a natural variation but not an albino.” Albinism is a congenital absence of any pigmentation or colouration in an animal, plant or person. Also Read | Rajasthan: At least 11 dead, 22 injured after bus collides with truckUdaipur based wildlife conservationist and member Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Anil Rodgers said this is India’s first strawberry (leucistic) leopard. He said a black panther, which is a melanistic (an increase of dark pigment in the plumage) variant of leopard can be sighted, but pink colour is rare. Kumbhalgarh is a proposed tiger reserve and this leopard can add to tourism attractions. Expressing concern over her safety, Rodgers said she was not only vulnerable to poachers but also to unethical wildlife photographers who will disturb the habitat. The leopard was presently moving in an unprotected area and the forest department needs to increase its monitoring, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-pink-leopard-sighted-in-ranakpur-hills-of-rajasthan-101636531999359.html
10-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Hong Kong, Vietnam latest to approve Covaxin for emergency use||Hong Kong and Vietnam are the latest to approve India-made coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Covaxin for emergency use. The vaccine made by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has already received a nod from the World Health Organization (WHO).Covaxin is the ninth vaccine to be approved in Vietnam, the country's health ministry said on Wednesday. The Vietnam government had said in July that it was seeking to secure 15 million doses of the Covaxin vaccine.Hong Kong has approved 14 vaccines, including Covaxin.This comes a day after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that Covaxin and Covishield have been recognised by as many as 96 countries."WHO has included 8 vaccines in EUL (emergency use listing) so far. We are happy two out of these are Indian vaccines - Covaxin and Covishield. 96 countries of the world have recognised both these vaccines," Mandaviya told news agency ANI.Canada, the United States of America, Australia, Spain, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Russia and Switzerland are among the 96 countries.While the US approved travellers inoculated with Covaxin to enter the country from November 8, the UK announced the policy change will take effect from November 22.The move follows the WHO Emergency Use Listing for Covaxin, which is the second most used formulation in India.Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, was added to the UK's approved list last month.Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech's partner in the US and Canada has submitted a request to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of Covaxin for paediatric use.The submission is based on results of a Phase 2/3 paediatric clinical trial conducted by Bharat Biotech in India with 526 children 2-18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-hong-kong-vietnam-latest-to-approve-covaxin-for-emergency-use-101636530349366.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Army wants special radars along China border to track drones, planes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army wants new radar for threat detection along China borderThe Indian Army has sought to equip itself with a modern low-level light-weight radar (LLLWR) for threat detection and response along the China border where surveillance is restricted due to mountainous terrain, officials said on Monday. Read more72 liquor bottles stolen from Delhi Gymkhana Club during lockdown; FIR filedThe Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has registered a First Information Report (FIR) over the alleged theft of 72 liquor bottles worth over ₹2 lakh from the Delhi Gymkhana Club during the nationwide lockdown imposed in March last year to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read morePunjab AG issue: Congress MP Manish Tewari takes dig at SidhuAnandpur Sahib Congress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday took a dig at the Punjab government’s decision to replace advocate general APS Deol, saying that politicising the AG’s office undermines the integrity of constitutional functionaries. Read moreCanada authorises Pfizer Covid vaccine booster for adultsCanada on Tuesday authorised the use of the booster dose of the Covid vaccine co-developed by Pfizer and BioNTech for those aged 18 years and above. The decision from the Canadian health authorities makes Pfizer/BioNTech’s application for its booster the first to get clearance in Canada. Read moreOla Electric scooter test ride starts today, but with rider. Check details hereFor all those customers eagerly looking forward to test ride Ola Electric scooters, the wait is finally over. The Tamil Nadu-based EV-maker will start to offer test rides of its S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters today for the first time since its launch back on August 15 this year. Read moreDaughter shares heartwarming throwback video of dad proposing momA daughter recently took to Instagram to share a video of a sweet moment when her dad proposed her mom. The heartwarming clip is now making people happy. There is a chance that it will have the same effect on you too. Read moreDecoupled trailer: R Madhavan and Surveen Chawla in marriage of inconvenience. WatchNetflix has shared the trailer for their upcoming series, Decoupled. A romantic comedy, it stars R Madhavan in the lead with Surveen Chawla. The series will release on December 17. Read morePriyanka Chopra is a literal fairy queen in ₹72k white abaya for Dubai event, all pics and videosActor Priyanka Chopra is currently busy attending back-to-back events in Dubai for the luxury jewellery label Bulgari. However, that hasn't stopped the Desi Girl from serving breathtaking sartorial moments for her fans. Read more‘What’s the point of Ranji Trophy': Harbhajan slams selectors for not naming 2 batters in India and India A squadsVeteran India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh was not happy that Indian selection committee ignored Sheldon Jackson and Mandeep Singh. India's T20I squad for the home series against New Zealand and India A squad for the South Africa tour was announced on Tuesday but Jackson and Mandeep did not find a place in either of those, something which did not please Harbhajan at all. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-wants-special-radars-along-china-border-101636528504930.html
10-11-2021||India||How active Covid-19 cases have come down in last 20 days in India||The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to fall across India, and dropped to 1,39,683 on Wednesday, according to Union health ministry data. This is the lowest number of active cases in 264 days.The country reported 11,466 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 460 fresh fatalities int he last 24 hours, the ministry's data further showed. With this, India's overall tally of infections reached 3,43,88,579, and death toll at 4,61,849.The active cases, the number of people still considered to be infectious, have been falling steadily since October, in a sign that the spread of the infection is slowing down in the country. On October 17, the active cases came down to 2,00,000 for the first time.The number has dropped more than 95 per cent from the peak of India's brutal second wave of infections when it touched 3.75 million on May 9.Measurement of active cases offers a crucial metric in the country's battle against the disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the healthcare system in a region.Though the number of active cases is dropping, the central government has warned people against dropping their guards amidst fears of a third wave of infection. The Centre launched the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign against the disease on November 3 with special focus on second dose inoculations.India crossed a significant milestone of administering a billion doses on October 21 and since then, the government has been focusing on completing the vaccination of all eligible adults in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-active-covid-19-cases-have-come-down-in-last-20-days-in-india-101636529278865.html
10-11-2021||India||Rajasthan: At least 11 dead, 22 injured after bus collides with truck||At least 11 people were reported to have died and 22 others injured after a passenger bus collided with a truck at Pachpadra in Rajasthan's Barmer district on Wednesday, officials familiar with the development said. Earlier in the day, the news agency reported five deaths, citing the state police who confirmed the incident and also shared visuals from the accident site.Five people dead, several injured in collision between a passenger bus and a truck near Pachpadra in Rajasthan's Barmer district, say policeCM Ashok Gehlot directs District Collector regarding relief and rescue operations, asks him to ensure medical treatment for the injured pic.twitter.com/wLyd9ra0xtA few local media reports claimed that a resulting fire from the collision between the bus and the truck burned as many as 12 people alive; however, there is no official confirmation from authorities on this as of yet.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has taken stock of the situation and directed officials to conduct prompt relief and rescue operations at the earliest. The chief minister has also asked for immediate medical treatment of the injured.About 25 people were reportedly on board the bus when it met with the road accident on the Barmer-Jodhpur highway.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-at-least-5-dead-several-injured-after-bus-collides-with-truck-101636528156861.html
10-11-2021||India||Air India flight makes emergency landing in Silchar due to a 'technical glitch'||A Kolkata-bound Air India flight with 144 passengers on board made an emergency landing minutes after taking off from the Kumbirgram Airport in Assam’s Silchar due to a technical glitch on Wednesday morning.PK Gorai, the airport director, said the pilot detected the glitch along with a hydraulic leak. “...the pilot...landed the plane back at the Silchar airport. A full emergency was declared at the airport and the flight also suffered landing gear failure.” Gorai said they were trying to figure out what went wrong. “This is a huge plane and we have only one runway at our airport which is presently blocked. If this Air India flight does not fly, we have to cancel other flights for now.”Also Read: Prime Minister Modi to lay the foundation stone of Noida airport on November 25The defence airport in Silchar is partially being used for domestic purposes. A greenfield airport is proposed to be built in the region. An aviation ministry team recently visited Cachar to find land for the proposed airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-silchar-101636529001065.html
10-11-2021||India||India records 11,466 new Covid-19 cases, 13% higher than Tuesday’s tally||India on Wednesday registered 11,466 new Covid-19 cases, 13.23 per cent higher than Tuesday's jump in daily cases when 10,126 infections were recorded in a span of 24-hours.The cumulative tally of infections now stands at 3,43,88,579, according to updated data shared on the Union health ministry's website.The overall related fatalities rose by 460 and the death toll now stood at 4,61,849. The count of active Covid-19 cases in India was at 1,39,683, the lowest in 264 days, the health ministry further said. Currently, the active cases constitute 0.41 per cent of the country's total positive cases.Meanwhile, 11,961 patients were cured of the infection in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries to 3,37,87,047.The recovery rate of the country stood at 98.25 per cent. According to the health ministry’s data, it is the highest since the beginning of the pandemic.Meanwhile, the country has administered 1,09,63,59,208 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the provisional report of the health ministry. Of these, 52,69,137 were administered on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-11-466-new-covid-19-cases-13-higher-than-tuesday-s-tally-101636528393700.html
10-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to receive heavy rains, flood warning issued for Theni: Top updates||The regional meteorological department in Chennai said on Wednesday that parts of Tamil Nadu will continue to receive heavy rainfall for the next few days due to depression over the Bay of Bengal. Till now, five people have died due to rain-related incidents in the southern state.Issuing a bulletin, the meteorological department said, “Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood, a low-pressure area has formed over the same region. Associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 4.5 km above mean sea level. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Southwest and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 36 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach near the north Tamil Nadu coast by the early morning of November 11, 2021.”Earlier, because of heavy rainfall, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday declared a local holiday on Wednesday and Thursday in nine districts including Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur.Here are the latest updates:> All schools in Coimbatore remained closed on Wednesday due to heavy downpour in the city, which is likely to continue.> Heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in isolated places over Chennai, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu.> Several other districts in Tamil Nadu including Erode, Ranipettai, Salem and Vellore will also witness heavy rainfall.> Government authorities have issued a flood warning for the Theni district and adjourned low-lying areas.> Fishermen have been advised to not venture into the sea till Friday (November 12).> Chief minister MK Stalin has announced that free food will be distributed at all Amma Canteens till the current spell of rain ends.> In neighbouring Puducherry, all schools and colleges will remain closed till Thursday, education minister A Namassivayam said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-receive-heavy-rains-flood-warning-issued-for-theni-top-updates-101636524611071.html
10-11-2021||India||Malik:Fadnavis permitted fake currency racket after demonetisation||On Day 2 of the political slugfest between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik, the latter accused the former of allowing a fake currency racket to flourish in Maharashtra after the 2016 demonetisation, when currency notes of ₹500 and ₹1000 ceased to be legal tender.Malik on Wednesday also accused Fadnavis, who was the chief minister at the time, of shielding underworld criminals.On Tuesday, Fadnavis had accused Malik of buying property from two people, one of whom has links with the underworld while the other is convicted in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts that killed 257 people. Malik had responded stating that the property deals were above board and that he would reveal how Fadnavis “held the city hostage” during his tenure as CM of Maharshtra.In a press conference on Wednesday, Malik said that while fake notes were seized in other states after demonetisation , there was not a single such instance in Maharashtra.On October 8, 2017, the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized fake notes worth ₹14.56 crore from the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai, Malik said.“But Fadnavis helped sweep the case under the carpet. The seized amount was later shown with a value of ₹8.8 lakh,” Malik alleged, questioning why the case was not handed over to the National Investigation Agency.“Imran Alam Shaikh, an accused arrested from Mumbai got bail and no further probe was conducted. Shaikh is the younger brother of Haji Arafat Shaikh, a BJP leader, who was appointed chairman, state minorities commission by Fadnavis,” Malik said.“Incidentally, Sameer Wankhede (the Narcotics Control Bureau officer against whom Malik has levelled several allegations) was the DRI’s joint director at that time,” he added.Malik said that Fadnavis shielded Shaikh, who was caught in the fake currency case and who had links with Riyaz Bhati, an alleged aide of underworld don and ’93 serial blasts mastermind Dawood Ibrahim.Malik also alleged that a certain Munna Yadav from Nagpur, who faces serious criminal charges, was appointed as the head of the state construction workers welfare board. He said that Fadnavis put pressure on the police to not investigate BJP leader Haji Hyder Azam wife, who was found to be a citizen of Bangladesh. Azam was chairperson of the Maulana Azad Minorities Financial Development Corporation.The allegations came a day after Fadnavis said that a company owned by Malik and his family members hadbought a three-acre plot in Kurla at rate that was cheaper than the going market rate between 2003 and 2007. Fadnavis chose not to directly respond to the allegations. He tweeted a quote by British author George Bernard Shaw: “I learned long ago, Never to wrestle with a pig, You get dirty. And Besides, The pig likes it!”BJP leader and former state minister Ashish Shelar defended the appointments questioned by Malik.“It is true that Haji Arafat, Haji Hyder and Munna Yadav were appointed to some government boards...Haji Arafat and Haji Hyder’s appointments were cleared after the inquiry reports against them came out clean,” Shelar said.Munna Yadav claimed that the cases are of political in nature and he will be filing a defamation of Re 1 against Malik. Haji Arafat countered the allegations saying that Malik was running a drug racket through his son-in-law Sameer Khan.Sameer Khan was recently granted bail by a court here citing lack of evidence, months after the NCB arrested him in an alleged drugs caseMalik said that a nexus of fake currency run by ISI (Inter Services Intelligence), Pakistan and Ibrahim through Bangladesh and alleged it was allowed to flourish in Maharashtra with Fadnavis’ blessing.“Is Fadnavis making allegations against me to divert attention from cruise drugs bust case and allegations against Wankhede, who is facing serious charges and is being investigated by two SITs, is also a question?” Malik asked.Malik has made allegations against Sameer Wankhede, who led an NCB raid on a cruise ship on October 2, which led to the arrest of 20 persons including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23). Malik said last week that Wankhede plotted with some others to “kidnap” Aryan for ransom.Questioning Fadnavis alleged links with Bhati, Malik said a person arrested with two passports, and with links to Ibrahim was released within two days. “Why is Bhati seen in all events with you (Devendra Fadnavis) and on your dining table? How come he was allowed to attend the prime minister’s event in Mumbai and was allowed to click pictures with him? No person can attend a PM’s event without state and central intelligence agencies scanning that particular individual’s background. How come Bhati got a VIP pass?” Malik asked.BJP leader Ashish Shelar said Fadnavis never shielded any fake currency racket and that Malik offered no proof of his allegations.Shelar produced photographs of Riyaz Bhati with many ruling party leaders including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. “Bhati was one of the recovery agents engaged by former API Sachin Vaze for collection of the extortion money. The NCP has been shielding Bhati who is absconding to ensure that their links with him are not exposed,” he said.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said that the daily “mudslinging” needed to stop as it was against the culture of Maharashtra’s politics.“How are they not fed up with it? This needs to stop somewhere and [we must] look at other issues. The ones who started are now running away. Nawab Malik’s attacks are fierce. I wouldn’t get into whether they are political or personal. This is not the culture of Maharashtra and some senior leader must intervene in this and stop this,” Raut said in New Delhi.“This is not a matter of fun. Till yesterday, the people of the country that charas and ganja were being cultivated in the fields of Maharashtra. Now, they think that politicians are connected to goons and dons. Nawab Malik is doing this out of sheer annoyance. We have closely seen the situation he and his family faced,” he said.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the accusation were bringing disrepute to Maharashtra.Malik had last week sought to link the Fadnavis with an alleged narcotics dealer by tweeting the latter’s photograph with the former chief minister and his wife, Amruta.Amruta Fadnavis on Wednesday tweeted a verse in Hindi referring to “Bigade Nawab” (spoilt prince), an apparent swipe at Malik. “He held press conference after press conference but only spoke lies, and his sole objective is to save his “black wealth” and “son-in-law”, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-says-fadnavis-patronised-fake-currency-racket-shielded-underworld-links-101636527559047.html
10-11-2021||India||8 nations call for joint efforts to tackle terrorism emanating from Afghanistan||Top security officials of eight countries, including India, Iran and Russia, on Wednesday called for closer coordination and collective efforts to tackle threats such as terrorism emanating from Afghanistan and to address a looming humanitarian crisis. In his opening remarks at the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan being hosted by India, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval said the time has come for closer consultations and greater coordination among regional countries to find solutions to recent developments in the war-torn country. The NSAs and security council secretaries of Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, in their brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan and to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people before the onset of winter. Also Read: Don’t have time to attend Afghanistan summit: China tells India“We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in his televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations among us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. Though this is the first such meeting on Afghanistan to be convened by India, the dialogue is the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meets in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to Wednesday’s meeting but opted not to participate. Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani¸ secretary of Iran’s supreme national security council, referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis and said, “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” Nikolai Patrushev, secretary of Russia’s security council, called for practical measures to deal with threats and challenges emanating from Afghan territory. Noting the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and the Turkic Council, he said it was important that these forums should not duplicate work but complement each other. He also noted that the Moscow Format, which held its third meeting in the Russian capital on October 20, has important potential to coordinate efforts to settle the Afghanistan issue. “In Moscow, we laid a good foundation to determine the position of our countries regarding the development of the dialogue with the Taliban as well as to practically coordinate the efforts of all stakeholders of the region,” Patrushev said. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats and challenges coming from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” Massimov added. Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda, said his country was concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said, adding that Afghanistan may face a “humanitarian catastrophe” during the upcoming winter. “We need to find a solution to provide all the necessities for the population of Afghanistan,” Mahmudzoda said. India is looking to the dialogue to help forge a joint approach for tackling security threats emanating from Afghanistan. According to an Indian assessment, the five main threats and challenges following the Taliban takeover on August 15 are terrorism within Afghanistan and across its borders, radicalisation and extremism, cross-border movements, drug production and trafficking, and the danger posed by vast amounts of weapons and military gear left behind by US troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-nations-call-for-joint-efforts-to-tackle-terrorism-emanating-from-afghanistan-101636524919109.html
10-11-2021||India||Who is Padma Shri awardee and transgender folk artiste Manjamma Jogati||Transgender folk dancer Matha B Manjamma Jogati was honoured with a Padma Shri award for her contribution to arts by President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday at a ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan. In a clip tweeted by the news agency ANI, Manjamma Jogati is seen performing a unique gesture to greet the President at the ceremonial event. Many people on social media have said that it was to wish President Kovind luck.Vice President Venakaih Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were also present at the event along with other senior dignitaries. The Padma awards are conferred on civilians to honour their distinguished service in a field of activity.Born in Ballari district of Karnataka as Manjunatha Shetty, was part of a Jogappa ritual when she was 15 years old. In this, a devotee is believed to be married to a god or goddess. Following this, Manjunath became Manjamma Jogathi and was restricted from coming back home.Over the years, Manjamma faced extreme poverty and abuse before finding love for folk dance. She then mastered the art form of Jogathi Nrithya through Kallava Jogathi and began performing across the state.Manjamma also went on to become the first transgender president of Karnataka Jaanapada Academy, a government body for performing arts in Karnataka.This year's list of Padma Awards includes seven Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan, and 102 Padma Shri Awards, of which 29 awardees are women, 16 posthumous awardees, and one transgender awardee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-padma-shri-awardee-and-transgender-folk-artiste-manjamma-jogati-101636516806026.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Weapons of three accused were used during Lakhimpur Kheri violence’||A rifle, a repeater gun, and a pistol belonging to three key accused were used during the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which was triggered after a convoy of cars ran over a group of protesting farmers and left eight people dead on October 3, people aware of the matter said citing a Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report. HT has not seen the report. The people added the Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the violence, recovered the weapons from the accused - Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, and his private gunner Latif alias Kaale - days after the violence and subjected them to ballistic examination. Mishra is Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son.At least one vehicle in the convoy that ran over farmers protesting three farm laws belonged to Teni. Four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party workers, and a journalist were killed in the violence that followed. Ashish Mishra, who has maintained he was not present at the site of the violence, was arrested on October 9. Das and Latif were taken into custody five days later.Also Read: Lakhimpur Kheri: Family of journalist seeks FIR against Union minister, sonThe farmers maintained there was firing during the violence and that a farmer from Bahraich died of a bullet injury. But two post-mortem examinations of the farmer ruled out the bullet injuries.The post-mortem reports of the eight concluded they died of shock, excessive bleeding, and haemorrhage caused by anti-mortem injuries and that none of them received bullet injuries.No SIT official confirmed the use of firearms either.The details about the FSL report have surfaced days after the Supreme Court on Monday said the investigation into the violence appears to be favouring the “main accused” in the case. The court pushed for the appointment of a retired high court judge from outside Uttar Pradesh to oversee the probe and “infuse fairness, independence and faith” into it.Ashish Mishra was arrested after the court on October 9 criticised the kid-gloves treatment he seemed to be receiving from the police.On Monday, the state said it has “clinching evidence” of Mishra’s presence at the scene even as he and his father have consistently denied this and that forensic reports on the matter were awaited.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said if it is established that the weapons were used for firing, it may bring more trouble for the main accused, Ashish Mishra, who has denied his presence at the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weapons-of-three-accused-were-used-during-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101636522938826.html
10-11-2021||India||Nawab Malik drops 'hydrogen bomb' with fake currency racket claim against Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday morning held a press conference to drop a "hydrogen bomb" - reference to an alleged expose against former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday morning held a press conference to drop a "hydrogen bomb" - reference to an alleged expose against former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.|#+|He questioned the appointments done during Fadnavis' tenure and alleged that people with "dubious Pakistan connections" were appointed at key posts. Malik also said that the fake currency racket was going on in Maharashtra under Fadnavis' protection.“With the blessing of Fadnavis, the game of counterfeit notes started in Maharashtra. After demonetisation was declared by PM Narendra Modi and when fake currency was being seized in many states, no case was registered in Maharashtra for almost a year. On October 8, 2017, DRI conducted a raid and seized fake currency worth ₹14.56 crore but the case was weakened by Fadnavis, (the then chief minister) showing a seizure of only ₹8.80 lakh,” Malik claimed.“Imran Alam Shaikh, an accused arrested from Mumbai got bail and no probe was conducted. Shaikh is younger brother of Haji Arafat Shaikh, a BJP leader, who was appointed as state minorities commission chairman in the previous government,” the NCP leader further said.He added that there was "direct connection" of the counterfeit notes with Pakistan.Claiming the former chief minister had links with Dawood Ibrahim, the NCP leader alleged that Fadnavis started a recovery racket with the help of gangster's aide Riyaz Bhati, who has been named in an FIR registered in an extortion case.“Bhati was arrested in a 2015 fake passport case, but is absconding now,” said the NCP leader. And he once again targeted Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, alleging that Fadnavis took his help to save the criminals.Malik further said Munna Yadav, accused of murder, was made the chairman of construction workers' board by Fadnavis.He reiterated that he or his family members are not involved in black money trade.Today's press conference was in response to the claims made by Fadnavis on Tuesday, accusing Malik of having business dealings with 1993 Mumbai blasts convicts. The BJP leader said that Malik and his family members purchased land in suburban Kurla at a very cheap rate through fictitious documents from the two convicts.The NCP leader rubbished the "baseless" allegations, which he said have been levelled against him to malign his image and said he did not know underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's sister Haseena Parker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-s-hydrogen-bomb-fadnavis-started-fake-currency-racket-101636520557814.html
10-11-2021||India||Odisha: EC acquits 22 BJD MLAs over office-of-profit charges||The Election Commission has ruled that 22 Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLAs in Odisha, who were appointed as chairpersons of district planning committees and special development councils and who held minister-of-state status, have been acquitted of charges of holding of office of profit.The EC on Monday said on its website that under statutory law, 20 of the 22 MLAs were exempted from disqualification while two others had resigned from office before becoming lawmakers. The EC gave its ruling following a reference from Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal last month.In July, the Orissa high court had directed the governor to dispose of a plea seeking the disqualification of the 22 BJD MLAs for holding office of profit. A two-judge bench comprising chief justice S Muralidhar and justice SK Panigrahi, while adjudicating a plea by petitioner Samarendra Beura, had asked the Odisha governor to dispose the petition by November 8 in which it was alleged that the lawmakers were liable to be disqualified under Article 191(1)(a) of the Constitution.According to Article 191(1)(a), a person will be disqualified for being chosen as a member of the legislative assembly or legislative council if they hold any office of profit under the central government or the government of any state. Also Read: Political parties in Odisha demand 7 days ban during panchayat pollsTo get around it, the state government in 2016 enacted the Odisha Offices of Profit (Removal of Disqualifications) Amendment Act to declare that MLAs who are appointed as chairpersons of district planning committees, special development councils and the Western Odisha Development Council won’t be disqualified as MLAs.However, Beura, in his petition before the high court, argued that the 22 MLAs in question were given minister-of-state status, which allowed them to get monetary advantage. He alleged that the MLAs, by virtue of being ministers of state, drew sumptuary allowance, daily allowance, and travelling allowance, while also availing of accommodation and vehicles provided by the government.Beura cited the Brundaban Nayak vs Election Commission of India case in 1965, saying the Supreme Court had ruled that complaints under Article 192 of the Constitution seeking disqualification of MLAs must be disposed of as expeditiously as possible. According to the process, the governor has to obtain the opinion of the EC and dispose of his applications within a prescribed period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-ec-acquits-22-bjd-mlas-over-office-of-profit-charges-101636521498746.html
10-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh allows cinema halls to operate with full capacity in 4 districts||The Congress-led Chhattisgarh government has allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to operate with full capacity in the capital city of Raipur, Durg, Bilaspur and Kawardha districts amid an improvement in the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation.According to a government order issued on Tuesday, people visiting cinema halls and multiplexes will have to present a vaccination certificate. In containment and buffer zones, such facilities will remain closed.The order stated that cinema halls and multiplexes should maintain a temperature ranging between 24 to 30 degrees Celsius through air conditioning. All Covid-19 protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks, will have to be followed."The facility owners must ensure their staffers are fully vaccinated. Entry and exit points and common areas should have touch-free dispensers besides sanitisers," a public relations department official told news agency PTI.Those experiencing symptoms such as cold, fever or cough will not be allowed inside the premises, the official said. In order to avoid overcrowding, online and advance booking of shows will be allowed, he added.Previously, Chhattisgarh had reopened cinema halls and multiplexes in June this year with a 50% attendance cap. These facilities were shut during the more-infectious second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May.The state has reported 1,006,220 cases, 992,401 recoveries, 233 active cases and 13,586 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Tuesday, 22 new cases were reported while two more patients died and six recovered from the virus.Recently, the government allowed reopening of schools for all classes in Chhattisgarh. In September, schools reopened for classes 6, 7, 9 and 11 with 50% attendance||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-allows-cinema-halls-to-operate-with-full-capacity-in-4-districts-101636515547984.html
10-11-2021||India||Heavy rain, thunderstorm likely to batter Chennai on Wednesday: IMD||Several places in Tamil Nadu such as Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Tiruvannamalai along with Puducherry will see thunderstorm along with heavy to extremely heavy rainfalls on Wednesday under the influence of the low pressure area in south Bay of Bengal, according to the India Meteorological Department’s forecast. The thunderstorm and rains are likely to continue till Thursday as the low pressure area intensifies into a depression over the next 12 hours. Tamil Nadu witnessed extremely heavy rainfall on Tuesday as well, under the influence of the same system. IMD’s warning of extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20 cm in 24 hours in the region was spot on with Karaikal (Puducherry) recording 27 cm rainfall and Nagapattinam 24 cm, between 08:30 am on November 9 and 05:30 am on November 10. “Isolated extremely heavy falls (>20 cm) are very likely over different districts of Central and Northern parts of Coastal Tamil Nadu till 11th November,” IMD forecast had said. On November 7, Chennai received 21cm of rainfall, the highest recorded in a day in November since 2015, when floods in Chennai left people marooned for a week. Several areas of the state capital are inundated due to the recent spell of heavy rainfall. Also Read: High court pulls up Greater Chennai Corporation over waterloggingAccording to the latest forecast, light to moderate rainfall will also be seen over Kerala and south coastal Andhra Pradesh. The low pressure system will continue moving northwestward and is likely to reach the Tamil Nadu coast on November 11. Another low pressure area is likely to develop over the South Andaman Sea on November 13 and move northwestwards towards the mainland over the next 48 hours, the met department said. The low pressure system will lead to rough conditions in the Bay of Bengal and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the seal off Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh coast till November 11, according to the bulletin. IMD has also said that the rains under the influence of the system may reduce visibility, lead to traffic jams due to water-logging, and cause some damage to vulnerable structures. The met department has also suggested restricting recreational activities near the coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-thunderstorm-likely-to-batter-chennai-on-wednesday-imd-101636516098264.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Himachal Pradesh to reopen schools for classes 3-7 today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Himachal Pradesh: Students of classes 3 to 7 back to school from todaySchools in Himachal Pradesh will be reopening from Wednesday for students of classes 3 to 7, in view of the gradually normalising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Read more'Maharashtra crosses milestone of administering 100m Covid vaccine dosesMaharashtra on Tuesday crossed the milestone of administering 100 million anti-Covid vaccine doses, nearly ten months after the national vaccination programme began on January 16. It crossed the 50 million mark on August 17. Read moreNew Delhi’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’; mild fog likelyNew Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Wednesday morning with the air quality index (AQI) hovering in the “very poor” category as the Capital continued to be affected by stubble burning in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab. Read moreFrom 2023, Virgin Galactic planning 3 space flights a monthVirgin Galactic expects to be flying paying passengers three times monthly in 2023, signalling it’s on track to ramp up commercial flights after delays this year pushed back its space tourism debut timeline. Read moreKBC 13's third crorepati Geeta Singh Gour reveals how Amitabh Bachchan put her at ease, role her Rajputana dress playedThe popular game show Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, hosted by Amitabh Bachchan, found its third crorepati this year in Geeta Singh Gour from Madhya Pradesh. Tuesday’s episode showed her winning ₹1 crore on the show. Read moreOla Electric scooter test ride starts today, but with rider. Check details hereFor all those customers eagerly looking forward to test ride Ola Electric scooters, the wait is finally over. The Tamil Nadu-based EV-maker will start to offer test rides of its S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters today for the first time since its launch back on August 15 this year. Read more'He is a mix of MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli': Swann names India player who is 'captain in waiting for next 10 years'Rohit Sharma may have been appointed as the new T20I captain of the Indian team, but at 34, even the most successful IPL captain of all time, may not be a long-term solution for the Men in Blue. Read moreLady Gaga is a vision in sheer gown with Adam Driver, Jared Leto, Salma Hayek at House of Gucci premiereThe House Of Gucci stars - including 'Mrs Gucci' Lady Gaga and 'Mr Gucci' Adam Driver - walked the red carpet in London on Tuesday night. They all looked impressive in stunning ensembles at the world premiere of the film in the UK. Read moreWatch: Indian Army wants these special radars along China border | Explained||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-himachal-pradesh-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-3-7-today-101636514064877.html
10-11-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Purvanchal Expressway next week: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Purvanchal Expressway next week (on November 16), which will enhance road connectivity of Uttar Pradesh's eastern region to the state capital Lucknow. The 340.824 km-long expressway will start from the state capital and end in Ghazipur, in eastern UP.The expressway will also connect important cities like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Allahabad through link roads.It is one of the most prestigious projects of the Yogi Adityanath government. The total cost of the project is ₹22,494.66 crore, including cost of land.Here is everything you need to know about the Purvanchal Expressway:• The expressway would traverse through nine districts of the state, including Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur.• Uttar Pradesh government expects 15,000-20,000 vehicles to use the expressway every day in the initial days after its opening. The number is likely to increase.• Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has made elaborate security arrangements on the expressway for the safety of the passengers. It will have advanced traffic management system and fencing to stop stray animals. Teams will be present at different spots to catch these animals, if they come on the expressway.• To handle accidents and emergencies, ambulances with life support system will be kept ready, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan. Twenty patrol vehicles will also be deployed, Livehindustan further reported.• The government has also made provision for landing of fighter jets on the expressway. It has a three-km long runway at Kudebhar in Sultanpur district which can be used in emergency situation.• The access-controlled six-lane expressway is expandable up to eight lanes. It will provide a major boost to connectivity, by allowing a journey of 300 kilometres to be covered in three and a half hours.• The government will earn ₹202 crore every year through the Purvanchal Expressway. Initially, no toll will be collected from travellers using the expressway, according to Livehindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purvanchal-expressway-to-be-inaugurated-by-pm-modi-all-you-need-to-know-101636514456752.html
10-11-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Here are some issues Oppn parties plan to raise||Parliament’s winter session will be held from November 29 to December 23. Here are some of the issues Opposition parties plan to take up:* Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said his party will raise the issue of the alleged use of Pegasus spyware for surveillance of Indian citizens. In the monsoon session too, Congress raised the issue. Gandhi said the use of Pegasus is an attempt to crush Indian democracy. He expressed happiness over the Supreme Court’s move to set up a three-member expert to investigate the matter.Also Read: Farmers plan fresh protest near Parliament to mark one year of agitation* All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi has demanded a debate on the protracted India-China border standoff. “As the Central government is not saying anything on this issue… we demand that during the winter session, there should be a debate.”* The Trinamool Congress is expected to oppose the Centre’s decision to extend the area under the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in West Bengal, Punjab and Assam.* The opposition is also expected to raise the issue of the scrapping of three farm laws enacted last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issues-opposition-parties-plan-to-raise-during-parliament-session-101636514538283.html
10-11-2021||India||18,000 rural women from Karnataka undergo training for solid waste management||Around 18,000 rural women from Karnataka’s self-help groups are being trained to manage solid waste and utilise solar energy as part of the government’s push for clean energy and better waste management.The Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Rural Energy and Development (MGIRED) is conducting the training sessions in partnership with the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, the Department of Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation, and the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM). The women will be engaged as “swachh karmikas” by panchayats to handle solid waste management such as daily waste collection, waste segregation, and driving “swacch vahinis”, according to a statement from the Jal Sakti ministry.Also Read: Decade on, Punjab local bodies department scraps waste management project“The goal of the programme is to provide self-help group members with the knowledge and skills necessary to efficiently administer ‘swachh sankeerna’ as a business module and to make solid waste management self-sustaining, hence providing a source of financial assistance for self-help group members,” the ministry said.The five-day training programme includes travel and stay for three women from each gram panchayat in Karnataka.Apart from solid waste management, the self-help group members will also learn about renewable energy sources, composting technologies for wet waste, the idea of biogas for managing biodegradable waste, and the importance of menstrual health.The training spell includes a visit to a solid waste management unit at a nearby gram panchayat for practical understanding of primary segregation, secondary segregation and tendering. The trainees will also visit biogas-to-electricity plants and take a look at commercial vermicompost methods at an agriculture college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18000-rural-women-from-karnataka-undergo-training-for-solid-waste-management-101636514179894.html
10-11-2021||India||Maharashtra crosses milestone, administers 100 million Covid vaccine doses||Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the milestone of administering 100 million anti-Covid vaccine doses, nearly 10 months after the national vaccination programme began on January 16. It crossed the 50 million mark on August 17.100,137,366 vaccine doses had been administered in the state by 9pm on Tuesday including 68,057,912 first dose and 32,079,454 double doses. In terms of absolute numbers, Maharashtra has administered the second-highest vaccination doses after Uttar Pradesh. However, it lags behind the national average in terms of population covered with 39.3% and 35.1% of its adult population vaccinated partially and fully respectively, against the national average of 41.9% and 37.3% .Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope congratulated all district officers for achieving the milestone. Dr Rahul Pandit, director, critical care, Fortis Hospitals and a member of the national Covid-19 task force, too congratulated all stake holders. “This accomplishment is a fruition of tremendous hard work, strategic acumen and timely intervention by the state and civic authorities, governing bodies, healthcare workers, community caregivers and responsible citizens. However, we must not let our guards down,” he said.The festive season led to a sharp drop in inoculation in Mumbai with 39% less doses administered in October compared to September. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, around 95% of the city’s eligible population has been inoculated with the first dose and 56% have been fully vaccinated.According to civic body data, between September 1 and 29, over 2.6 million citizens were vaccinated, which dropped to 1.6 million until October 29. The data also shows that there has been no shortage of vaccine doses with the civic body receiving 1.6 million doses in October against 1.7 million doses in September, resulting in surplus stock.Also Read: Amit Shah to visit Pune in role as cooperation minister on Nov 26Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week set the target of completing 100% first dose vaccination of the state’s 91.44 million population by November 30. Currently, the state has inoculated 74.38% of its targeted beneficiaries with at least one vaccine dose.Mumbai led the inoculation drive among districts with 14,992,825 administered vaccine doses, followed by Pune (12,233,340) and Thane (8,437,825), while some districts like Nandurbar, Palghar, Hingoli, Gadchiroli and Solapur continued to lag. The government has launched Mission Kavach Kundal, a special campaign to boost the Covid-19 vaccination drive, on October 8 with the aim to vaccinate 1.5 million people a day.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 982 new Covid-19 cases and 27 related deaths. The case tally of the state stood at 6,619,329 on Tuesday, while the death toll touched 140,430. The state has 13,311 active cases currently. Mumbai recorded 274 new cases and one death on Tuesday, taking the city’s Covid-19 death toll to 16,282.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-crosses-milestone-of-administering-100m-covid-vaccine-doses-101636513998301.html
10-11-2021||India||Balan Putheri, visually challenged man who authored 211 books, gets Padma Shri||President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday presented the Padma Shri, the fourth-highest civilian award in the country, to Balan Putheri, a visually challenged literateur who, despite his very obvious difficulties, managed to author as many as 211 books on various subjects. In a post from his official handle on Twitter, the President informed that Balan Putheri has been conferred with the Padma Shri award for his contributions to literature and education.Also Read | President confers Padma Shri on 'Nanda Sir', gets blessings in return“President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Balan Putheri for Literature and Education,” President Kovind tweeted from his account. “In spite of being visually challenged, he authored 211 books on various subjects.”President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Balan Putheri for Literature and Education. In spite of being visually challenged, he authored 211 books on various subjects. pic.twitter.com/C2PWN27RCiThe news of Balan Putheri receiving the Padma Shri honour coincides with a heartbreaking development. A media report on Asianet informed that hours before receiving the civilian award, the literateur's wife, Shanta, passed away. The report elaborates on the matter, shedding light on the fact that Putheri's wife, who had been a huge inspiration behind his literary zeal, had been battling cancer for a while. Moments before he stepped onto the Rashtrapati Bhavan to receive one of the highest awards in the country, the author received the news that his life partner had passed away.Balan Putheri published his first book in 1983, and by 1997 (little more than a decade) he was found authoring his 50th book, Guruvayoor Ekadashi. The author lost his eyesight two years ago, yet he kept his literary zeal going, continuing to author more books with the help of his wife. That he would be conferred the Padma Shri was announced in January earlier this year.President Ram Nath Kovind presented the Padma Awards on Tuesday at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The Padma Awards are the highest civilian honours of India announced annually ahead of Republic Day. However, the award-giving ceremony was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year.The Padma Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher-order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The award seeks to recognise achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balan-putheri-visually-challenged-man-who-authored-211-books-gets-padma-shri-101636510783328.html
10-11-2021||India||President confers Padma Shri on 'Nanda Sir', gets blessings in return||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday handed over the Padma Shri, the fourth-highest civilian award in the country, to Nanda Prusty for his contributions in the field of education. The 102-year-old has been teaching children from free in Odisha's Jajpur for decades. His name was announced for the award on Republic Day this year.In a post on Twitter, the Rashtrapati Bhavan mentioned the award being given to Prusty, saying that the educationist in turn blessed the President. The photos of the award ceremony were also shared on the President of India's Twitter handle.Watch: Transgender dancer, tribal activist get 'people's Padma'"President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Nanda Prusty for Literature & Education. 102-yr-old “Nanda sir”, who provided free education to children and adults at Jajpur, Odisha for decades, raised his hands in a gesture of blessing the President," the tweet from Rashtrapati Bhavan said.President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Nanda Prusty for Literature & Education. 102-yr-old “Nanda sir”, who provided free education to children and adults at Jajpur, Odisha for decades, raised his hands in a gesture of blessing the President. pic.twitter.com/4kXPZz5NCJ“Nanda Mastre” (Nanda Master), as he is known in his village in chromite-rich Sukinda block of Jajpur district, is perhaps the last man who has kept the tradition of “chatashali” (a non-formal school for primary education in Odisha) alive.At the break of dawn, children gather around the modest home of the centenarian to learn Odia alphabets and a bit of mathematics. Elders who could not attend school during their childhood come to his home at 6 pm to learn how to sign their names.Nanda himself studied till Class 7 due to the financial condition of his family. But took it upon himself the job of spreading literacy.He told Hindustan Times on January 26 this year that he likes teaching children and wants them to become good human beings when they grow up. He claims to have taught at least three generations from the same family.Nanda Prusty's school runs seven days a week from a makeshift hut.The Padma Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher-order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The award seeks to recognise achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-confers-padma-shri-to-nanda-sir-gets-blessings-in-return-101636510498786.html
10-11-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Students of classes 3 to 7 back to school from today||Schools in Himachal Pradesh will be reopening from Wednesday for students of classes 3 to 7, in view of the gradually normalising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Issuing an official order in this regard earlier this week, the Jairam Thakur-led Himachal government additionally informed that students of first and second standards will also be able to attend physical classes from November 15 (next Monday) and that transport buses will be allowed to resume at full capacity instead of the earlier 50 per cent norms.An official release from the Himachal Pradesh department of information and public relations reads, “… the cabinet decided to re-open schools for students of classes 3 to 7 standard with effect from November 10 and classes 1-2 standards from November 15 at full capacity.”It is to be noted that physical classes for school students of standards eight and above have already reopened in the state.Following new directions to reopen schools in the state for classes one to seven, the Kangra district administration also issued an order stating that students of classes three and above can attend school from November 10. The order also stated that students of classes one and two will be allowed to attend physical classes from November 15, for the first time since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet has also decided to recommend the governor to convene the winter session of the Vidhan Sabha from December 10 to 15 at Dharamshala, district Kangra. “It would have five sittings,” the release said.The government also gave its nod to enhance the stipend of PG-MDS students at the government dental college in Shimla by ₹5,000 per month from April 1. Now the MDS students of 1st year would get ₹40,000 instead of ₹35,000, 2nd-year students would get ₹45,000 instead of Rs. 40,000 and 3rd-year students will get ₹50,000 per month instead of ₹45,000," the government said. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-students-of-classes-3-to-7-back-to-school-from-today-101636507568612.html
10-11-2021||India||IMD forecasts extremely heavy rainfall in parts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rainfall for some parts of Tamil Nadu and the adjoining Andhra Pradesh on November 10 and 11. As per the warning, the downpour is expected to inundate roads and may cause riverine flooding due to the depression forming over the Bay of Bengal."Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu on November 8 and 9 and heavy to very heavy rain at few places with isolated extremely heavy falls are very likely on November 10 and 11," the weather body said in a bulletin on Monday."Heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy falls at isolated places are also likely over south coastal Andhra Pradesh during the same period," it also warned.According to IMD norms, rainfall between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is heavy and between 115.6 and 204.4 is very heavy. Anything above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall.The IMD also warned fishermen to not venture into the seas ahead of the rains. There is also a possibility of localised landslides, minor damage to roads, vulnerable structures and to horticulture and standing crops in some areas, it also informed.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government has declared local holidays on November 10 and 11 for nine districts in view of the IMD warning. These districts are Chennai, Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, and Mayiladuthurai.The rains that are continuing for the last few days in the southern state has also led to the death of five people and the destruction of as many as 538 huts and four houses.With the onset of northeastern rains, Chennai received the heaviest rains in the past six years, recalling the 2015 floods. It resulted in flooding in the central and northern parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-extremely-heavy-rainfall-in-parts-of-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-101636509155907.html
10-11-2021||India||NHRC holds debate on if rights are ‘stumbling block’ in fighting terror||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday organised an annual debate competition for the central paramilitary forces on the topic “Are human rights a stumbling block in fighting evils like terrorism and Naxalism?”Addressing the annual debate competition in New Delhi, the commission chairperson Justice Arun Kumar Mishra said that the security forces need to observe a balance to ensure proportionate use of force during their operations. “A due process of law to punish the guilty should be observed,” Justice Mishra said .He said the armed forces cannot adopt the same methods as terrorists may do to defend themselves risking the lives of innocent civilians, adding that “there is no room for fake encounters and instant justice”.Referring to the topic of debate, the Chairperson said the arguments given by the security personnel for and against the motion in the debate “are of very high standard and indicate their sensibility and understanding of the respect human rights require to be given during their operations.”Mishra said the armed forces have rendered a yeoman’s service to the national security in adverse situations despite facing provocation, stone pelting, armed attack, etc.The Assam Rifles lifted the overall best team trophy winning the final round of debate – both in Hindi and English.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcholds-debate-on-if-rights-are-stumbling-block-in-fighting-terror-101636507032351.html
10-11-2021||India||India hosts NSA-level summit on Afghanistan; 7 nations in attendance||India on Wednesday hosted a regional summit to discuss the ongoing situation in neighbouring Afghanistan following the fall of the democratically-elected government and the subsequent Taliban takeover of the country. The conference is being chaired by India's National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and his counterparts from Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkemenistan and Tajikistan are at the attendance.The summit is being attended by Iran's secretary of Supreme National Security Council Admiral Ali Shamkhani; Kazakhstan's Karim Massimov, chairman of national security committee; Marat Mukanovich Imankulov, secretary of the security council of Kyrgyz Republic; Nikolai P Patrushev, secretary of the security of the Russian federation; Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda, secretary of security council of Tajikistan; and Charymyrat Kakalyyevvich Amavov, deputy chairman of cabinety of ministers of Turkemenistan. Uzbekistan's Victor Makhmudov, secretary of the security council is also there.India had formally invited the NSAs of Russia, Iran, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan for the meeting. However, China and Pakistan had already said that they will not be attending the conference. No delegation from Afghanistan was invited.This is the first time that all Central Asian countries – and not just Afghanistan’s immediate land neighbours, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – are participating in discussions in this format along with Kazakhstan and Kyrgyz Republic, according to people aware of the developments.The meeting is being seen as part of Indian efforts to remain relevant in addressing the fallout of the developments in Afghanistan.This is the third such meeting that is being held on the Afghan situation. The previous two regional meetings in this format were held in Iran in September 2018 and December 2019.Meanwhile, Kabul is seeing the conference as a hopeful step to "facilitate the provision of assistance to Afghanistan," as per local media reports.Taliban took over Afghanistan in August in a military offensive in the aftermath of troop withdrawal by the United States and its other Nato allies. The chaotic exit led to a major humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan.No country has formally recognised the Taliban government in Afghanistan and the country is on the verge of economic collapse as international aid has stopped. Afghanistan is also facing a threat from the Islamic State, which has ramped up attacks over the last few months.Since the Taliban takeover, the Indian government has cautioned the global community not to rush into any formal recognition of the setup created in Kabul. It has also urged the world leaders to ensure that the Taliban deliver on their commitments that Afghan soil will not be used by terror groups, especially Pakistan-based organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-nsa-level-regional-summit-on-afghanistan-today-101636506566586.html
10-11-2021||India||Farmers plan fresh protest near Parliament to mark one year of agitation||Farm unions will mark a year of their agitation against three agricultural laws passed by the Modi government on November 26 by converging on the national capital’s borders in large numbers, and holding demonstrations near Parliament for the entire duration of the forthcoming winter session beginning November 29, their leaders announced on Tuesday.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of farm unions, said it has decided to escalate protests across the country from November 26, which is a “historic” occasion. On November 28, they will organise a rally at Mumbai’s at Azad Maidan, the platform said.Tens of thousands of farmers are campaigning against the three laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise domestic agricultural trade. Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).On November 26, farmers from across northern states will troop into these sites, a farm leader said. “The day is also Constitution Day, when the Constitution of India was adopted by the Constituent Assembly in 1949. November 26 also marks one year of the all India strike by the working class last year,” a statement by the farm unions said.“The SKM has decided that on and from November 29 until the end of this Parliament session, 500 selected farmer volunteers will move every day to Parliament in tractor trollies peacefully and with full discipline, to assert their rights to protest in the national capital,” it added.Farmers say the new laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — will leave them at the mercy of big corporations who could dictate prices and wean them off state support.The government has argued the changes will not alter an existing state-backed system to give assured prices but would free up farm trade, boost investments and raise incomes.The laws aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will coexist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales, and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.On January 26, a planned Republic Day celebration by farmers who took out a tractor march in Delhi went awry when protestors turned violent and stormed Red Fort, a monument.During one of the protests on October 2, a convoy of vehicles belonging to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, allegedly ploughed through protesters in Lakhimpur, killing four farmers, and triggering violence that killed four other people. The minister’s son was later arrested.On January 13 this year, the Supreme Court temporarily suspended the three laws and formed a panel of experts to examine them. The panel has submitted its report to the court, which it is yet to take up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-plan-fresh-protest-near-parliament-to-mark-one-year-of-agitation-101636505117244.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Stop comedian’s show or we will’: VHP’s ultimatum to Chhattisgarh govt||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh’s right-wing outfits have opposed the show of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, scheduled for November 14 and threatened to stop the show if the local administration permits the programme.Leaders of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal met senior police officials, on Monday, and demanded that the show be cancelled or the outfits will step in.Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Santosh Chaudhary said Bajrang Dal and VHP submitted a written application to Raipur Collector and Superintendent of Police and demanded that the show should not be permitted in Raipur as Faruqui allegedly mocked Hindu deities in the past. “Faruqui mocked our Gods in past and such anti-Hindu people should not be permitted in the capital. And if the administration permits, it will be the administration’s responsibility because we will stop the programme in our own way,” said Chaudhary.Mohammad Inam, who has organised the programme in Raipur, said their application was pending with administration.Raipur collector Saurabh Kumar said the request was being processed.“We have received an application for permission for the show which is in process. The orgainsers have also asked for protection for the show which is scheduled to be held in a hotel… The application has been sent for police approval,” said Kumar said.In January this year, the Madhya Pradesh police booked Faruqui, who is from Gujarat’s Junagadh, and others performing at a New Year’s event at a café in Indore when a group of right-wing activists entered the venue and created a ruckus. He was arrested on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and violating the Covid-19 guidelines and released in February on the Supreme Court’s orders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-comedian-s-show-or-we-will-vhp-s-ultimatum-to-chhattisgarh-govt-101636490530216.html
10-11-2021||India||Karnataka CM announces ₹10 cr for Kannada Bhavan in Goa||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday announced ₹10 crore for the construction of ‘Kannada Bhavan’ in neighboring Goa.The Chief Minister gave this assurance to the office bearers of All Goa Kannada Maha Sangha, who met him at his home office ‘Krishna’ in Bengaluru. The delegation was led by BJP national general secretary and MLA C T Ravi.Noting that a large number of people from north Karnataka have settled in Goa, and they are promoting and safeguarding Kannada and its culture there, Bommai said, the government is committed to building Kannada Bhavan in Goa in the interests of Kannadigas.He directed officials to identify land and prepare a detailed project report for construction of the Kannada Bhavan in Goa, the CMO in a statement said.All Goa Kannada Maha Sangha honorary president Siddanna Meti, and other office-bearers expressed happiness about the Chief Minister’s announcement, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-announces-rs-10-cr-for-kannada-bhavan-in-goa-101636485668082.html
10-11-2021||India||89% administered first dose of Covid vaccine in Karnataka: Minister||Karnataka has achieved Covid-19 vaccination coverage of 89 per cent in the first dose and 48 per cent in the second, health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday as he urged the people to take both shots and not let their guard down.“People should not neglect to take a second dose within the prescribed time as both the doses are necessary to get maximum protection against the virus. We must not let our guard down until the pandemic is completely eradicated,” he said.Stating that the union government would soon start supplying vaccines for children, he said, “We will provide vaccination to children based on priority as we have already identified kids with vulnerabilities, through the Arogya Nandana program.” The state has already administered about 6.75 crore vaccine doses and the entire process has now been we streamlined, the minister added.The Minister was speaking at the 125th anniversary celebration of Minto Eye Hospital here.He said there is a need to create more awareness about Eye Donation and make it a people’s movement. State reports 293 fresh cases, 4 deaths Karnataka logged 293 fresh Covid cases and four deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,90,528 and the toll to 38,122. The day also saw 323 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,44,422, a health department bulletin said.Out of 293 new cases reported on Tuesday, 187 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 106 discharges and two deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is now 7,955.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.36 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.36 per cent.Out of the four deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada.Dakshina Kannada followed Bengaluru Urban in number of cases with 21, followed by Mysuru 18, Kolar 12, Hassan 10, while the rest were scattered in other areas.Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total 12,53,177, followed by Mysuru 1,79,330 and Tumakuru 1,20,903.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,30,380, followed by Mysuru 1,76,725 and Tumakuru 1,19,616.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/89-administered-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-karnataka-minister-101636485428711.html
10-11-2021||India||Karnataka BJP plans Jan Swaraj Yatra from next week||The BJP will launch a four-day ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ across Karnataka from November 18 with an eye on winning the coming taluk panchayat and district panchayat elections, the party’s state spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said here on Tuesday.“We are launching ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ for four days from November 18. Four teams will travel across the four corners of the state for four days with a focus on winning the Taluk and district Panchayat elections,” he said. Karnik was briefing reporters on the BJP state office bearers meeting on Tuesday.BJP national general secretaries Arun Singh, B L Santhosh and C T Ravi, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Karnataka BJP state general secretary Arun Kumar (organisation), Karnataka ministers, legislators and other state level office bearers attended the event, he added.Karnik said the objective of the ‘Yatra’ was to strengthen the party organisation at the booth level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-plans-jan-swaraj-yatra-from-next-week-101636485249123.html
10-11-2021||India||Victim's age in rape-and-murder cases not enough for death penalty: Supreme Court||Low age of victims in rape-and-murder cases has not been considered as the "only or sufficient factor by this court" for imposing the death penalty, the Supreme Court has said referring to its verdict that had analysed 67 similar cases dealt by it in the last 40 years.The apex court's crucial observation came on an appeal of Irappa Siddappa who was convicted and given the death penalty by a trial court. The Karnataka High Court confirmed the trial court's decision on March 6, 2017.He was convicted for kidnapping, rape and murder of a five-year old-girl in the village of Khanapur in Karnataka in 2010 and post the incident, he had put the body of the victim in a bag and thrown it into a stream, named Bennihalla.A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai confirmed the conviction of Siddappa for offences including rape, murder and destruction of evidence, but set aside the award of death penalty, which was handed down by courts below on grounds including the minor age of the victim, and commuted it to life imprisonment for a period of 30 years."We find sufficient mitigating factors to commute the sentence of death imposed by the Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court into imprisonment for life, with the direction that the appellant shall not be entitled to premature release/remission for the offence under Section 302 (murder) of the Code until he has undergone actual imprisonment for at least thirty years,” said the verdict penned by Justice Khanna for the bench.It also directed that the sentences shall run concurrently and not consecutively.The top court extensively dealt with arguments based on minor age of the victims in rape-and-murder cases and referred to the apex court's judgement in the Shatrughna Baban Meshram case in which 67 judgments of the Supreme Court in the previous 40 years were surveyed.In these judgements, death sentence had been imposed by the trial court or the High Court for the alleged offences under Sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) of the IPC, and where the age of victims was below 16 years, the apex court said."Out of these 67 cases, this Court affirmed the award of death sentence to the accused in 15 cases. In three, ... out of said 15 cases, the death sentence was commuted to life sentence by this Court in review petitions.“Out of the remaining 12 cases, in two cases..., the death sentence was confirmed by this Court and the review petitions were dismissed. Thus, as on date, the death sentence stands confirmed in 12 out of 67 cases where the principal offences allegedly committed were under Sections 376 and 302 IPC and where the victims were aged about 16 years or below,” it said.Out of these 67 cases, at least in 51, the victims were aged below 12 years, it said, adding that in three cases, the death penalty was commuted to life sentence in review.“It appears from the above data that the low age of the victim has not been considered as the only or sufficient factor by this Court for imposing a death sentence. If it were the case, then all, or almost all, 67 cases would have culminated in imposition of sentence of death on the accused,” the top court said.It referred to various verdicts and said that though such an offence was heinous and required condemnation, it was not “rarest of the rare, so as to require the elimination of the appellant from the society.”The state government has not shown anything to prove the likelihood that the convict would commit acts of violence as a continuing threat to society, and his conduct in the prison has been described as satisfactory, it said."There is no doubt that the appellant has committed an abhorrent crime, and for this we believe that incarceration for life will serve as sufficient punishment and penitence for his actions, in the absence of any material to believe that if allowed to live he poses a grave and serious threat to the society, and the imprisonment for life in our opinion would also ward off any such threat. We believe that there is hope for reformation, rehabilitation, and thus the option of imprisonment for life is certainly not foreclosed and therefore acceptable,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victims-age-in-rape-and-murder-cases-not-enough-for-death-penalty-supreme-court-101636483056356.html
10-11-2021||India||Karnataka HC extends relief to owners of Dream11 app in ‘violation’ of police act case||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday extended the stay on any possible coercive action by law enforcement authorities against the founders of online gaming app, Dream 11, in connection with alleged violation of the state’s new online gaming and gambling law. Dream11 founders Bhavit and Harsh Jain had prayed to quash a petition seeking their arrest.Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar observed that the investigation on the matter should continue, an advocate aware of the developments said on Tuesday. “Dream11 counsel noted that there is a Supreme Court judgment on the issue and amendments to the Karnataka Police Act will not apply to them. The judge said he will apply the SC judgment if it is applicable to them after hearing the matter and arguments,” the advocate cited above said requesting not to be named.The directions come over a month after Manjunath filed a complaint with the Annapoorneshwari Nagar police station on October 7 against the company for the alleged violation of the new act that was notified on October 5 by the state government.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government had tabled and passed the bill despite opposition during the monsoon session of the legislature between September 13-24. Home minister Araga Jnanendra has defended the law despite concerns being raised over the financial impact of the same on the state as well as the dent of Bengaluru’s image as the tech and startup capital of the country.The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which among other changes, has banned “any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill,” which has added to apprehensions as it proposes to include skill in what was earlier only on a game of chance.Forums like All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) and others have approached the court for securing a stay on the ban itself.Another bench of the HC is hearing a bunch of petitions from companies and other stakeholders challenging the constitutional validity of the amendments made to the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act 2021 that bans online gaming and gambling and imposes heavy fines of upto ₹1 lakh and maximum imprisonment of nearly three years. The counsel on record and the government advocate could not be reached for comment.Police in Bengaluru and other places continue to crack down on such companies and service providers especially during the just concluded Indian Premier League (IPL) season. The police have booked 20 cases against 27 persons during the 2021 IPL season with most of them with the old laws that bans gambling.There has been at least one case filed for violation of the new legislation, people aware of the developments said.The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during lockdown to battle Covid1-9, is slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by AIGF and EY.The report adds that 85% of these are mobile gamers. It also estimates that online real money game players are expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023.Estimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market. According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI) there are 92 gaming companies registered in Bengaluru which employ over 4,000 people and have, in the last three years alone, attracted ₹3000 crores in investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-extends-relief-to-owners-of-dream11-app-in-violation-of-police-act-case-101636485008826.html
10-11-2021||India||MLC polls for 25 seats in state on December 10||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced to hold polls for 25 seats for Karnataka’s legislative council on December 10. An ECI notification, followed up with another by the state election authorities, stated: “Term of office of 25 sitting members of Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies is going to expire on 5 January, 2022.”Among those whose terms expire in January include Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kota Srinivas Poojary, a cabinet minister in the Basavaraj Bommai-led government. The term of Congress’ leader of the opposition in the council, SR Patil also expires in January. The elections come close on the heels of the October 30 bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi in which the BJP suffered a defeat in the former constituency which adjoins Bommai’s home seat of Shiggaon in Haveri district. The BJP currently has 32 members in the upper house of the state legislature while the Congress accounts for 29 and the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) 12, according to information on legislative council site. All three parties are hoping to win big in the MLC elections to retain some control over the legislature. The BJP on Sunday said it would hold the “Janaswarajya Yatra” ahead of the elections for the upper house under four teams who would tour around seven districts each to mobilise support in the grass roots. The BJP is looking to gain control over the upper house as it plans to introduce more bills, considered contentious, and be passed without too many hurdles. The Congress too has intensified its groundwork for the MLC polls while the JD(S) is holding a seven-day meeting with all district office bearers of the regional outfit since Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlc-polls-for-25-seats-in-state-on-december-10-101636484948829.html
10-11-2021||India||Core committee meet: BJP will finalise MLC polls’ list in 2 days, says CM||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit will finalise the list of probable candidates for the upcoming election for the upper house of the state legislature in the next couple of days.“By tomorrow (Wednesday) or day after, we will finalise the list and send it to the parliamentary board,” Bommai said after the BJP’s core committee meeting in Bengaluru.He said there were two to three names coming up in each constituency which was discussed in the meeting but that the party would hold more consultations in the coming days.The chief minister said the party has already received a report from the districts which was discussed in the core committee meeting but more such consultations would be held with district officials, the respective Lok Sabha member and the BJP president among others before arriving at a final list.Bommai is scheduled to depart for Delhi on Wednesday and is expected to discuss the probable candidates with the national leadership of the party among other issues with central leaders.The statements come on the day the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced that the polls for the 25 seats that will become vacant on January 5 next year, will be held on December 10.There are several probable candidates who continue discussions with the saffron outfit to switch sides that lends to the trend of defections in Karnataka’s political landscape. “There have been discussions (on probables coming from other parties) but no final decision has been taken on it yet,” Bommai said.The term of 25 members of the upper house of the state legislature will end on January 5.The BJP is hoping to secure its position and increase its numbers from 32 to get a majority in the upper house to help key legislations pass without much opposition or hurdles in the process.The BJP has 32, the Congress has 29 and the JD(S) has 12 seats in the upper house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/core-committee-meet-bjp-will-finalise-mlc-polls-list-in-2-days-says-cm-101636484828632.html
10-11-2021||India||Bengaluru Tech Summit: State sharpens edge to attract investments ‘Beyond Bengaluru’||The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it will continue to hand-hold inventors and companies to look beyond Bengaluru as a measure to bridge the skill gap, equitable growth and development that continues to hover around India’s IT capital. Under the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), the state is looking to provide more employment by skilling graduates and creating a talent pool that often finds its way to Bengaluru where most of the opportunities are created at least until the Covid-19 pandemic.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education; IT & BT, science & technology; skill development, entrepreneurship & livelihood, said the pandemic induced migration has seen a considerable number of the workforce operate out of small towns as they utilise “work from home” policy. “Covid has played a big role in digitisation and the way forward,” Narayan told HT on Tuesday. However, there remains a huge gap between how many graduates, especially in engineering, the state produces and how many are actually employed or employable since a significant number of institutions do not provide necessary industry-relevant skills. To be sure, more than 100,000 engineering graduates pass out from 542 colleges in the state and of this at least 60% remain unemployed after campus placements, according to information shared by the state IT department. The Karnataka government will hold the 24th edition of the Bengaluru Tech Summit from November 17-19 with the theme “Driving the Next” to highlight the role of digital and technological innovations that continue to support the growth of various sectors in the post-pandemic world. While cities like Bengaluru continued to thrive on account of its established technology ecosystem and enabling “work from home”, other cities saw a reverse migration of sorts, that has emphasised the need to create similar infrastructure in these small towns and cities to attract investments. Narayana said “Beyond Bengaluru” initiatives will include fresh graduates to get 4-week free launch pad training in emerging technologies and that the department has identified over 2000 job opportunities. Successive governments in Karnataka have attempted to lure investors away from Bengaluru and set up shop in other regions of the state as a way to distribute growth and employment opportunities to less developed parts. However, this initiative has met with little success in the past as the same governments continue to fixate on development in Bengaluru than build better infrastructure and connectivity to other parts of the state. This has led to inequitable distribution of growth with better healthcare, education, opportunities in Bengaluru and neglecting other regions. The per-capita income of the region was ₹128,761 in 2018-19 as against Bengaluru which stands at ₹301,748. The Kalaburagi division, which covers the Kalyana-Karnataka region, home to six of the most backward districts in the country, at ₹114,133, according to the 2020-21 economic survey of Karnataka. The per capita income of the Mysuru division stands at ₹205,829 and ₹156,729 in Bengaluru rural (not including Bengaluru city), according to data provided in the economic survey. Narayan said though there was a push earlier, the government is now “hand-holding” to assure investors of moving to other regions. To be sure, more than 100,000 engineering graduates pass out from 542 colleges in the state and of this at least 60% remain unemployed after campus placements, according to information shared by the state IT department. S Gopalakrishnan (Kris), Co-Founder, Infosys, Chairman of Axilor Venture, and Chairman, Karnataka Vision Group on Information Technology said there was a significant amount of technology adoption during the pandemic. “The entire world increased its dependency on Indian IT during the crisis and the industry came out with flying colors. It is essential that industry and tech leaders come together to understand and strategize on the emerging opportunities in the IT field in the days to come,” he said. Bengaluru Tech Summit is expecting participation from over 30 countries, scheduled to have 300 speakers, over 20,000 exhibitors, over 5000 start ups, and expect an overall digital reach to over a half a million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-tech-summit-state-sharpens-edge-to-attract-investments-beyond-bengaluru-101636484768703.html
10-11-2021||India||BJP wins 112 out of 334 seats uncontested in Tripura civic polls||AGARTALA: Tripura’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won uncontested 112 out of 334 seats across 20 local civic bodies including the Agartala municipal corporation. Elections to the state’s municipal bodies are scheduled to be held on November 25, said an official of the state election commission. The votes will be counted on November 28.“After scrutiny and withdrawal of some nominations, 785 candidates from different political parties are in the fray. The BJP won 112 seats uncontested out of a total of 334 seats, “ said the official.Most of the seats won uncontested were in municipal councils of Mohanpur, Ranirbazar, Udaipur, Bishalgarh, Santirbazar and Jirania and Kamalpur town panchayats where the opposition Communist Party of India (Marxist) alleged their candidates could not file their nominations due to violence triggered by the ruling party cadres. Tripura’s CPM secretary Jitendra Chaudhury said, “The violence began much ahead of the announcement of schedule of the civic polls and the intensity increased after the announcement of the polls. Many of our party activists were attacked and our candidates in five municipal councils and two nagar panchayats could not file their nominations.”Election officials said over 5.94 lakh people including 3.7 lakh women are entitled to vote across the 20 municipal bodies.A total of 770 polling stations would be set up for the polls.November 3 was the last date for filing nominations. Later, 36 candidates withdrew their nomination papers.The civic polls were initially scheduled to be held in December last year but were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said his party didn’t want to win uncontested but “the opposition wasn’t accepted by the people”. He dismissed the CPM contention that its candidates were not allowed to file their nomination as a “baseless excuse”, insisting that the his party won a large number of seats as opposition parties did not find acceptance among people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-112-out-of-334-seats-uncontested-in-tripura-civic-polls-101636484648732.html
10-11-2021||India||Police begin fresh probe in Bitcoin scam as pressure mounts||More than 11 months after arresting Bengaluru-based hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki, city police have launched a fresh probe into theft of bitcoins by him by hacking cryptocurrency exchange Bitfinex in 2016. The fresh investigation comes after allegations have been made about a scam involving the hacker and cryptocurrency. Srikrishna was caught on November 18, 2020, after police arrested some drug dealers to whom he had allegedly sold drugs procured from the dark web. Srikrishna graduated in computer science from a college in Amsterdam in the Netherlands in 2017 and has good knowledge about computers and the internet. During his interrogation, police found that Srikrishna used encrypted data and demand payment from owners for the site to be unlocked by attacking the sites online. He had hacked Karnataka government portals as well. While in custody, he also confessed to having hacked into some bitcoin exchanges. One of them was Bitfinex. Around 120,000 bitcoins, which was about $72 million at the time, were stolen from Bitfinex in August 2016. “Early in the morning on August 2, 2016, hackers breached security systems of our exchange. As a result, 2072 unauthorized transactions were broadcast on the bitcoin network, involving 119,755 bitcoins in aggregate. We have learned valuable lessons from this painful episode, addressing the security issues and vulnerabilities associated with the theft,” read a statement issued by Bitfinex in August 2020. The company had also put a reward of 5% of total recovery for anyone who provides information about the hackers. This hacking was said to be one of the biggest breaches of security and theft involving cryptocurrency, and international enforcement agencies began an investigation into the case as well. Incidentally, in December 2020, Srikrishna had confessed to his role in the Bitfinex hacking to police during the interrogation. According to a statement he gave to police, which was later reproduced in the charge sheet, he confessed that he was part of a hacking group that broke into Bitfinex. According to a senior officer, some officers in the department especially officers of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) had come under scanner after the matter was raised by the central enforcement agencies. “Even though the hack into Bitfinex was being probed by international agencies, the CCB, which had information about this involvement in the Bitfinex hacking as early as November 2020 did not share this information with the investigating agencies,” said the officer, who didn’t want to be named. The officer said even though Bengaluru police had announced that they had seized ₹9 crore worth of bitcoins from the Srikrishna, the charge sheet or the evidence submitted before the court doesn’t talk about the bitcoins. “The CCB had claimed that they had created a new bitcoin account in the police department’s name and the ₹9 crore worth of bitcoins were transferred to this account to be presented as evidence,” said the officer. Although the case had gone under the radar, an Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe into the 11-month-old case had snowballed into a political controversy with the opposition Congress accusing the ruling BJP of a cover-up in the case. Congress leader Siddaramaiah told the media that two influential politicians were involved and there was an attempt to cover up their role in the case. A senior officer involved in the investigation denied the scandal and said allegations were baseless. “All the bitcoins that were stolen from the exchange in 2016 were blacklisted, which means they can’t be converted to currency. The exchange itself has claimed that, so there is no chance of any scam. If they are any other allegations, ED is looking at it,” said the officer of Bengaluru police. The officer, however, didn’t comment on the investigation into the transaction of bitcoins by Srikrishna. After being released on bail in January 2021, Srikrishna was arrested on charges of consumption of narcotics on Monday. Even though he was arrested by Jeevan Bhima Nagar police, he was interrogated by officials of the CCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-begin-fresh-probe-in-bitcoin-scam-as-pressure-mounts-101636484536084.html
10-11-2021||India||Schedule declared for polls to 12 and 11 MLC seats in Telangana, Andhra||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday announced a fresh election schedule for 12 more MLC seats in Telangana and 11 MLC seats in Andhra Pradesh under the local bodies’ quota.An official release from the EC said the nomination process for the MLC elections in both states will be issued on November 16 and the last date is November 23. The statement further said that scrutiny will take place a day after the deadline, while nominations can be withdrawn before November 26. The polling for the MLC seats will be held on December 10, and the counting of votes would take place on December 14, the EC said.The EC also declared that the model code of conduct has come into effect immediately. No public meetings or political rallies would be allowed in the poll-bound districts.As a result, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s proposed mega public rally Vijaya Garjana, scheduled for November 29 in Warangal, has been postponed. The proposed visit of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) to Warangal and Hanmakonda districts have also been cancelled due to the model code of conduct, the TRS said.Out of the 40 members in the Telangana state legislative council, 14 members are elected under the local bodies’ quota. In Andhra Pradesh, out of the 58 seats, 20 are elected in the legislative council under the quota.According to the EC release, in Telangana, there are two vacancies each from Karimnagar, Mahabubnagar and Ranga Reddy and one vacancy each from Adilabad, Warangal, Nalgonda, Medak, Nizamabad and Khammam. The term of the sitting MLCs will end on January 4.Among those outgoing next year is KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, who got elected from Nizamabad local bodies’ quota.In Andhra Pradesh, the elections to the council under the local bodies’ quota will be held for the vacancies in Anantapur, Krishna, East Godavari, Guntur, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Chittoor and Prakasam districts.Though the elections to these vacancies were supposed to be held in August this year, the EC deferred them after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier on Monday, Election Commission issued notification for the conduct of elections to six seats in Telangana and three in the Andhra Pradesh legislative council under the state legislature quota, likely to be conducted on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schedule-declared-for-polls-to-12-and-11-mlc-seats-in-telangana-andhra-101636484471014.html
10-11-2021||India||Madras high court raps Chennai civic body as IMD warns of more rainfall||The Madras high court on Tuesday pulled up the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) as several parts of the city continued to be inundated following rains since Saturday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rains in the city and neighbouring areas from Wednesday onwards. Though there has been a respite from rain on Tuesday, with Chennai registering 11 mm rainfall until 5.30 pm, parts of the city are still inundated from heavy rainfall over the weekend. Five people have lost their lives in rain-related incidents across the state on Monday, while 500 huts were damaged, said a statement from the revenue and disaster management. A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu warned of suo moto proceedings if the waterlogging was not brought under control. It criticised the corporation for its failure in taking up adequate measures to prevent the inundation. “Half the year, we are longing for water, and for the rest of the year, we are dying in water in Chennai,” the court said in its oral observations, reported news agencies. The court, while issuing orders on the PIL, that sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to maintain adequate width of roads in the state said that “It may not be out of context to record that the ongoing rains and the floods in and around Chennai and elsewhere in the State should be a lesson for the government officials to take immediate action against any person attempting to encroach into any water body or the path meant for flowing water during the rainy reason.” The bench made the observations while hearing public interest litigation on civic issues in the city. Overnight, from November 6 to November 7, Chennai had received rainfall of 21 cm, which is the highest single-day rainfall recorded for November since 2015. The heavy inundation and water being released from three reservoirs brought back haunting experiences of the December 2015 floods in Chennai, which killed around 400 people across state, and left people marooned for a week. As weathermen forecasted extremely heavy rainfall over the next 48 hours, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday announced holidays for schools and colleges in nine districts, including Chennai for the next two days. On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red warning for six districts which includes Chennai and its adjoining regions. “Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood, a low-pressure area has formed over the same region. Associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 4.5 km above mean sea level,” IMD’s bulletin read. “It is very likely to concentrate into a Depression over Southwest and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 36 hours.” This is likely to move west–northwestwards and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by the early morning of 11th November. “Yesterday’s trough now runs from the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood to Gulf of Mannar extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level,” their statement said. The weather agency has forecast thunderstorms and heavy rains in Chennai and delta districts. The state, having deployed SDRF, NDRF and fire and rescue teams in the vulnerable districts, is bracing for more rains, officials said, adding four helicopters in Sulur Airforce Station and two helicopters of the Navy are on standby. The coast guard will also be engaged in case of emergency, they said. As many as 2649 people have been moved to relief shelters across the state. The Greater Chennai Corporation brought 1343 people to stay in 169 shelters across the city. “We need to be very careful from November 9 to November 11 as there is an alert for very heavy rainfall. We are taking all precautionary steps across the state,” disaster management minister KSSR Ramachandran told reporters. “The efforts to drain the floodwater from the remaining are in full swing,” disaster management minister KSSR Ramachandran told reporters. Of the 16 underpasses that reported flooding, 14 have been cleared of water (in Chennai).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-raps-chennai-civic-body-as-imd-warns-of-more-rainfall-101636484468618.html
10-11-2021||India||TDP demands reduction in VAT on fuel, stages protest across Andhra Pradesh||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders and cadres on Tuesday staged hour-long demonstrations at several petrol stations across Andhra Pradesh demanding the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government to reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, as done in other states. The protests were staged in thousands from 12 pm to 1 pm.Holding banners and placards, the TDP workers raised slogans against the state government for being adamant about not reducing the VAT on fuel. The protesters kept on sounding the horns of their bikes to register their discontent at the high fuel prices in the state. At Kurnool and Kadapa, the state government resorted to preventive arrests of the TDP leaders and disallowed them from protesting. Several leaders were taken into custody and later released in the Kadapa district during the day. In Vijayawada, the party activists, led by former minister Kollu Ravindra, party general secretary Panchumarthi Anuradha and former Mayor Gadde Anuradha held protests at Dharna Chowk, Bhavanipuram, Benz Circle and other areas.“We shall continue our agitation till the state government gives up its adamant attitude on fuel prices,” Panchumarthi Anuradha told reporters.In some areas like Tirupati, the TDP leaders took up novel protests by garlanding and breaking coconuts in front of petrol pumps, praying that good sense prevailed on the chief minister to minimise the burden on the common public.Similar, hour-long protests were held at Gannavaram, Eluru, Gudivada, Rajahmundry, Tenali, Ponnur, Guntur and other places. MLA Gorantla Butchayya Chowdary, former MLAs Alapati Raja, Dhulipalla Narendra and other leaders protested in their respective constituencies.The ruling YSR Congress party leaders described the protests as high drama. “Why should we reduce the tax on petrol and diesel and lose revenue unnecessarily? Let these leaders protest before the Centre to withdraw the fuel cess,” state civil supplies minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao said.In Andhra Pradesh, the petrol prices on Tuesday ranged from ₹109.22 in Visakhapatnam to ₹110.87 in Nellore. The diesel prices range from ₹95.51 in Prakasam district to ₹96.91 in Krishna district per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdpdemands-reduction-in-vat-on-fuel-stages-protest-across-andhra-pradesh-101636484408710.html
10-11-2021||India||Mullaperiyar dam: Tamil Nadu releases Kerala order on tree felling||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday released a copy of the order which they received from Kerala’s forest department that granted the former permission to cut 15 trees on the downstream Baby dam at Mullaperiyar dam. This comes two days after the Kerala government revoked the felling order. Subsequently, the Kerala government on Tuesday made it clear that they are firm on their demand for a new reservoir considering the safety of the existing one and a chief minister-level meeting would be held next month to arrive at a consensus with Tamil Nadu over the issue.On Sunday, the Kerala government froze the order and decided to act against the officials who sanctioned it saying that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was not in the know of the development until Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin thanked him for granting the permission on Saturday. The LDF government on Tuesday made it clear that they are firm on their demand for a new reservoir considering the safety of the existing one and a Chief Minister level meeting would be held next month to arrive at a consensus with Tamil Nadu over the issue.The order, dated November 6, comes from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Bennichan Thomas of Kerala permitting the Executive Engineer of Water Resources Department, Cumbum, Tamil Nadu “As per Clause 5 of the Principal Deed, the Lessee, Tamil Nadu is permitted to fell the trees, underwoods and saplings within the leased areas for the maintenance works.” HT has seen a copy of the order.The order also shows that Tamil Nadu sought the removal of 23 trees to widen the base of the existing Baby Dam and earthen bund to strengthen the structure at Mullaperiyar Dam. But permission was granted for clearing 15 trees within an approximate area of 40 cents falling within the leased area of Tamil Nadu at the Mullaperiyar Dam site. Kerala’s four-page letter, dated November 6, lists the species of trees that can be felled.The order says Thomas permitted the Executive Engineer, WRD, Cumbum in the Theni district for cutting 15 trees. And following that it stated that the Deputy Director, Periyar Tiger Reserve would receive the forest produce from dam authorities after cutting the trees as it cannot be taken outside the sanctuary area.A copy of the order was submitted to the additional chief secretary, water resources department and principal secretary, forests and wildlife department, Kerala.In Tamil Nadu, the ruling DMK is also facing the heat from opposition parties AIADMK and BJP over matters related to the Mullaperiyar dam which is located in Kerala but is under the control of the Tamil Nadu government. AIADMK cadre on Tuesday protested in five districts--Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram-- accusing the DMK of succumbing to Kerala’s compulsions and failing to store water up to the permitted 142 feet level in the dam. The NDA alliance partners on Monday led a protest in Tamil Nadu’s Theni district and criticised the DMK government for giving up on the state’s rights over issues related to the water storage and release in the dam. State BJP chief K Annamalai accused the DMK government of not following the due procedure while opening the dam due to the heavy rains and landslides in Kerala last month. “Theni and Idukki collectors have to be present there (while opening the dam). Why were they not present?” Annamalai asked reporters. Annamalai also questioned Stalin’s silence over the controversy on the revoked order to fell trees. On Monday night, the water resources department minister S Duraimurugan responded that the dam was opened in the presence of officers of his department by following norms of the Rule Curve approved by the Central Water Commission (CWC). In a statement, Duraimurugan said that as per the Standard Operating Procedure, advance information has to be given to the officers of Kerala before opening the dam. Accordingly, Kerala officers were informed on October 27 at 6 pm that the spillway gates would be opened on October 29 at 7.29 am. “At that time, the Minister and officers of Kerala were also present,” Duraimurugan said. “Thus, the decision to open the gates were made by WRD (water resources department), TN, and opened by the officers of Tamil Nadu, who are regulating the dam.”On Monday, the Kerala Assembly witnessed noisy scenes over the Left government’s order granting permission to Tamil Nadu for felling 15 trees as the opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) demanded a judicial probe into the issue and staged a walkout.Power minister K Krishnankutty, who spoke on behalf of water resources minister Roshy Augustine in the assembly on Tuesday, said that Kerala has always put forward the suggestion for a new dam to ensure the safety of life and property of the people of the state. Water for Tamil Nadu and safety for Kerala was the state’s motto in this regard, he said during question hour.For the construction of a new dam, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study should be conducted and the union ministry of environmental and forests had given conditional clearance for the Terms of Reference submitted by the state in this regard on November 14, 2018.“Based on that, an environmental impact assessment study is progressing,” the minister said while answering a question raised by legislator Eldose P Kunnappillil (Congress). The minister admitted that the matter of the construction of a new dam was considered in various government and bureaucratic level meetings held between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “However, the meetings had failed to reach a consensus. A decision has been taken now to conduct a chief minister level meeting in December to resolve various issues regarding Mullaperiyar, including the construction of the new dam,” Krishnankutty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-dam-tamil-nadu-releases-kerala-order-on-tree-felling-101636484348672.html
10-11-2021||India||Telangana eyes increase in revenue via liquor sale||After refusing to slash the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, the Telangana government has decided to generate additional revenue through liquor sales, to fight its precarious financial condition this year.In a notification issued on Tuesday, the state government called for tenders for granting fresh licences to wine shops for a period of two years, beginning December 1, 2023. The applications for obtaining licences would be received till November 16 and the allotment of wine shops would be done through a draw of lots by district collectors on November 18.The provisional licences to run liquor shops would be issued on November 20 and the same would come into operation from December 1, the notification said. “The lockdown imposed across the state during the coronavirus pandemic period in 2020 and this year affected the liquor trade to a considerable extent. However, the revenue flow was not much affected as prices of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) were increased last year by 16 per cent, besides a flat increase of ₹30 on beer of all brands,” an excise department official familiar with the development said, seeking anonymity.Besides, the consumption of liquor also goes up steeply during the festive seasons, the official added. “As a result, the revenue from liquor sales continues to go up every year. In the first year of Telangana formation, the revenue from liquor was ₹10,833 crore and during 2020-21, it went up to ₹27,888 crore,” the official said.Liquor sales and VAT on petrol and diesel are the main source of revenue for the Telangana government. After the Centre reduced excise duty on fuel on November 3, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said the ruling TRS government had not increased VAT on petroleum products and therefore, the question of reduction did not arise.During 2020-21, the state government had earned ₹27,888 crore from liquor in the form of state excise and licence fee, and ₹10,000 crore through VAT on petrol and diesel.While refusing to reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel, the Telangana government said it will increase the number of retail wine shops in the state. With 2,216 retail wine shops already running, the government plans to add 404 more, taking the total to 2,620.According to the notification, the applicants for licences for wine shops would have to pay a non-refundable fee of ₹2 lakh, besides an annual retail excise tax of ₹5 lakh on allotment of the licence. This tax can be paid in six instalments every year. Unlike in the past, applicants can apply for more than one shop on payment of a separate application fee for each shop, it added.“If a retail wine shop dealer wants to convert the shop into walk-in stores (permit room to consume liquor), he will have to pay another ₹5 lakh per annum,” a government order issued by the excise department in this regard on Saturday said. The order also announced shop allocation reservation of 10 per cent for Scheduled Castes (SC), five per cent for Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 15 per cent for Goud community (an OBC category involved in liquor trade).The state government had issued permits to 159 bars across the state in January this year, in addition to the existing 800 bars and 27 clubs and pubs that serve liquor, to mop up additional revenues.According to state finance minister T Harish Rao, Telangana suffered a revenue loss of ₹4,100 crore due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic this year, prompting the government to request the Centre to relax rules for external borrowings. In the Telangana budget for 2021-22, the total outstanding public debt of the state was projected at ₹286,804.64 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-eyes-increase-in-revenue-via-liquor-sale-101636484288681.html
10-11-2021||India||Farm unions plan fresh protests near Parliament||New Delhi: Farm unions will mark a year of their agitation against three agricultural laws passed by the Modi government on November 26 by converging on the national capital’s borders in large numbers, and holding demonstrations near Parliament for the entire duration of the forthcoming winter session beginning November 29, their leaders announced on Tuesday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of farm unions, said it has decided to escalate protests across the country from November 26, which is a “historic” occasion. On November 28, they will organise a rally at Mumbai’s at Azad Maidan, the platform said. Tens of thousands of farmers are campaigning against the three laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise domestic agricultural trade. Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).On November 26, farmers from across northern states will troop into these sites, a farm leader said. “The day is also Constitution Day, when the Constitution of India was adopted by the Constituent Assembly in 1949. November 26 also marks one year of the all India strike by the working class last year,” a statement by the farm unions read. “The SKM has decided that on and from November 29 until the end of this Parliament session, 500 selected farmer volunteers will move every day to Parliament in tractor trollies peacefully and with full discipline, to assert their rights to protest in the national capital,” the statement read. Farmers say the new laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — will leave them at the mercy of big corporations who could dictate prices and wean them off state support. The government has argued the changes will not alter an existing state-backed system to give assured prices but would free up farm trade, boost investments in the farm economy and raise incomes. The laws aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will coexist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales, and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. On January 26, a planned Republic Day celebration by farmers who took out a tractor march in the Capital went awry when protestors turned violent and stormed Red Fort, a monument. Police slapped cases on a few individuals but farm unions accused the government of conspiring to implicate them. They claimed those who breached Red Fort were not farmers. During one of the protests on October 2, a convoy of vehicles belonging to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, allegedly ploughed through protesters in Lakhimpur, killing four farmers, and triggering violence that killed four other people. The minister’s son was later arrested. On January 13 this year, the Supreme Court temporarily suspended the three laws and formed a panel of experts to examine them. The panel has submitted its report to the court, which it is yet to take up. Despite 11 rounds of talks — the last one on January 22 this year — there has been no point of agreement between the government and the farmers. The government then offered to freeze the laws for 18 months, a proposal which the farmers rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-plan-fresh-protests-near-parliament-101636483105067.html
10-11-2021||India||96 nations agreed to accept Indian vaccine certificates, says Mandaviya||India and 96 countries have agreed to mutually recognise Covid-19 vaccination certificates, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, according to a statement on Tuesday.India and 96 countries have agreed to mutually recognise Covid-19 vaccination certificates, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, according to a statement on Tuesday.|#+|In addition to this, the United Kingdom government announced that India’s Covaxin will be added to its list of approved Covid-19 vaccines for entry of international passengers into the country without having to self-isolate on arrival. The changes will take effect at 4 am on November 22.The Union health ministry in a statement released on Tuesday, said, “At present, 96 countries have agreed to mutual recognition of vaccination certificates and also those who recognise Indian vaccination certificates of travellers fully vaccinated with COVISHIELD/WHO approved/nationally approved vaccines. Consecutively, persons travelling from these countries are provided certain relaxations as enunciated in Union Health Ministry’s Guidelines on International Arrivals…”“The Union Government continues to be in communication with the rest of the world so that beneficiaries of the world’s largest COVID vaccination program are accepted and recognized, thereby easing travel for education, business and tourism purposes,” the statement said.“Ministry of Health and Family Welfare along with the Ministry of External Affairs is in continuous communication with all countries for mutual recognition of vaccine certificate to facilitate hassle-free international travel across countries,” it said.Meanwhile, the countries that approve of India’s vaccination certificate are Canada, the United States of America, Bangladesh, Mali, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Angola, Nigeria, Benin, Chad, Hungary, Serbia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece, Finland, Estonia, Romania, Moldova, Albania, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Sweden, Austria, Montenegro, Iceland, Eswatini, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Malawi, Botswana, Namibia, Kyrgyz Republic, Belarus, Armenia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Georgia, The United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Spain, Andorra, Kuwait, Oman, UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Maldives, Comoros, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Peru, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Brazil, Guyana, Antigua & Barbuda, Mexico, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Columbia, Trinidad & Tobago, Commonwealth of Dominica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Nepal, Iran, Lebanon, State of Palestine, Syria, South Sudan, Tunisia, Sudan, Egypt, Australia, Mongolia, and Philippines.For those who wish to travel abroad, the international travel vaccination certificate can also be downloaded from the government’s CoWIN web portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-nations-agreed-to-accept-indian-vaccine-certificates-says-mandaviya-101636483098479.html
10-11-2021||India||Amid attacks on civilians,more CRPF troops set to reach Kashmir||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will send additional troops to Kashmir in the wake of fresh killings of civilians there, people familiar with the development said.Five companies – approximately 500 personnel – will be rushed to the Valley for deployment mainly in Srinagar city in addition to 25 companies of the force sent last month .Terrorists gunned down a Kashmiri salesman in the old city area of Srinagar on Monday evening, the second targeted killing since Sunday. A total of 13 targeted killings have taken place in Kashmir since October 1, including those of five non-local workers. These incidents, which have created a panic in the Valley, were also reviewed by union home minister Amit Shah last month during his visit there. Shah asked security forces to take steps to make sure civilians are not targeted and terrorism is wiped out from the Valley.The people cited above said the fresh five companies will move to Kashmir from Delhi as J&K police and CRPF both have increased the number of boots on the ground .“We are checking close to 8,000 vehicles and frisking 10,000-15,000 people every day apart from counter-terrorism operations being carried out by specialized units in coordination with the local police and Army,” said one person, a security force officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Apart from CRPF, the Border Security Force (BSF) has also sent close to two dozen companies to Kashmir in the last 45 days to assist other forces.The CRPF has about 60 battalions (a battalion has around 1,000 personnel) in Kashmir valley apart from very few units of other central armed police forces (CAPFs) or central paramilitary forces. The BSF mostly is deployed at the border near Jammu and is only called for additional law and order duties during major incidents.Experts termed the incidents of civilians’ killings as desperate attempts to show that they are relevant.Sameer Patil, Fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, said: “This is the last phase of militancy (in Kashmir) as militants are now desperate. The security forces, over past years, have been able to crackdown on their commanders as well as new recruits. By targeting common people like vendors and shopkeepers, they (militants) are trying to show that they are still relevant. I will also say that this violence will not continue for a long term as this doesn’t advances their cause as this will ultimately be condemned by locals”.Ajay Sahni, executive director of Institute of Conflict Management, also said that “civilians were soft targets who were being targeted in the absence of any effective target as the security establishments are now well guarded”.The Resistance Front (TRF), an arm of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks.The wave of violence began on October 2, when two civilians, Majid Guroo and Mohammad Shafi, were shot dead in Srinagar. On October 5, three civilians, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur; and Mohammad Shafi Lone, head of a taxi union in Bandipora district, were killed in terror attacks.On October 7, two teachers – Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school in Srinagar’s Eidgah area – were shot dead by gunmen inside the school.On October 16, a street vendor from Bihar, Arvind Kumar Sah, and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, Sagheer Ahmad, were gunned down in Srinagar and Pulwama, respectively. On October 17, two more non-local labourers from Bihar, Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi, were killed by terrorists in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-attacks-on-civilians-more-crpf-troops-set-to-reach-kashmir-101636483091312.html
10-11-2021||India||CBI looks to invoke Official Secrets Act in naval leak case, say officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the Centre for its approval to invoke the stringent Official Secrets Act (OSA) in a Naval leak case involving a serving Commander and two retired officers, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.They said the investigation has suggested that classified information was leaked by the accused, making it a fit case under OSA. In this particular case, the Union defence and law ministries are likely to examine the matter on the basis of available investigation details whether the navy officers can be charged under the Colonial-era law or not. OSA attracts imprisonment up to 14 years where the offence is committed in relation to any work of defence, arsenal, naval, military, or air force establishment or station.“Once the government gives a go-ahead, OSA will be invoked in the case,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.Last Tuesday, the central agency had a charge sheet against six accused in the case – including Randeep Singh, retired Commodore; Satwinder Jeet Singh, retired Commander; and serving Navy Commander Ajit Kumar Pandey posted at Western Naval Command headquarters, under prevention of corruption act and for criminal conspiracy. Randeep Singh and SJ Singh were arrested on September 3, when the espionage racket came to the light. The agency recovered ₹2 crore cash from Randeep Singh during a raid at that time.It was initially alleged that confidential information pertaining to upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo class submarines was leaked by the accused. However, as reported by HT last week, the CBI probe has revealed that information in at least three more Navy projects may have been compromised.A CBI document, reviewed by HT, claimed that retired and serving Navy officials conspired to share “secret information of internal files for processing and passing of tender related to procurement and maintenance in different Indian Naval offices with the favoured firms/companies”.It claimed that SJ Singh, who was previously posted at Directorate of Submarine Acquisition (DSMAQ), New Delhi, and took voluntary retirement from the Indian Navy on July 31 this year, “was leaking out internal information regarding operations/procurement from various navy offices to Randeep Singh”.CBI added that Randeep Singh acted as a middleman in the case.According to the CBI document, in August this year, “Randeep Singh asked for the main report of a meeting held in Navy office regarding procurement of three Hulls”, to which S J Singh affirmed to contact concerned navy official and asked for illegal gratification.The accused are currently in prison. HT could not locate their legal representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-looks-to-invoke-official-secrets-act-in-naval-leak-case-say-officials-101636483031160.html
10-11-2021||India||Probe ordered after 4 infants killed in Bhopal hospital fire||Four newborns died as a fire swept through the neonatal care unit of the Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal on Monday night, prompting chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to order a probe into the cause of the fire.At the time of the incident, there were 40 newborn babies in the ward.As allegations of poor facilities surface a day after the fire, the state fire department said that the hospital authorities never sought a clearance from the department.The blaze started in the neonatal ward of the hospital at around 8.30pm after a short circuit in one of the ventilators, a nurse said, asking not to be named.“Someone controlled the fire with the help of fire extinguishers, but due to power cut and smoke, there was zero visibility in the ward,” she said.In the chaos, she said, people could be heard crying and running out of the ward.The hospital administration on Tuesday said that the four newborns died while they were being shifted from the neo-natal care unit to the paediatric care unit.Three other children died hours before the fire, but their parents hadn’t collected the bodies till the fire broke, the hospital said.The Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital is part of the Hamidia Hospital and is affiliated with Gandhi Medical College.State medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “We safely shifted the children from the hospital but we couldn’t save critically ill four newborn babies of age group 12 days to one day. The three others died naturally due to certain medical complications before the fire.”Families of the children who were admitted at the hospital have accused the hospital staff of negligence, alleging that the staff ran to safety leaving the newborns behind.“I requested them to enter the ward to save my baby but they shut the door. I had to break the window panes to let the smoke out,” said Ramesh Dangi, whose five-day-old child was also in the ward. Dangi’s child survived the fire, but is reportedly in a serious condition.The hospital administration has also been accused of inadequate medical and fire safety equipment.A senior paediatrician, who attended to the children after the fire, said, “In PICU, there was hardly any arrangement of ventilators or warmers. We needed warmers for at least 30 newborns but we had only three. After the fire, most of the children were suffering from hypothermia. We could only provide oxygen support. Later, biomedical engineers and the other staff brought warmers from the special neonatal care unit.” The doctor requested anonymity.Fire department officials said that the fire could have been controlled easily if there were adequate safety equipment, including fire hydrants, at the hospital.“When we reached there, the situation was chaotic. Nobody knew what to do which resulted in delay in taking control of the situation,” said Bhopal Municipal Corporation fire officer Rameshwar Neil.“No fire audit was conducted at the hospital in the last 15 years. The hospital administration didn’t even apply for no objection certificate from the fire department for having enough fire safety arrangements. Even we conducted a mock drill at Hamidia hospital for imparting training of health officers,” he said.“We wrote to the health department at least five times for fire audit of all the government hospitals in Bhopal, including Kamla Nehru. But they did not reply to our letters,” he said.Health department officials did not respond to HT’s request for comment on the allegations.The fire department official further alleged that there was excessive load on the power cables at the hospital, which led to a short circuit, he said. “There was no safety audit done and there was no fire safety officer appointed,” he said.A similar fire was reported at the hospital on October 7. No casualties were reported from the incident.While hospital superintendent Lokendra Dave refused to comment, Jitendra Shukla, dean of Gandhi Medical College, denied the allegations. “There were enough safety arrangements at the hospital,” Shukla said.“We have all the arrangements of fire safety. I don’t know about fire safety audit but it was an accident. We saved 36 critically ill newborn babies,” he said.The state government has announced an ex gratia of ₹4 lakh each to the families of the four newborns who died due to the fire. “It is an unfortunate incident. A probe has been ordered into the incident. This is a case of criminal negligence. Stringent action will be taken against those found guilty,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted.The government has constituted a panel, headed by additional chief secretary Mohammad Suleman, to probe the incident, the CM said. The panel has been directed to submit a report within a week, he added.Former chief minister Kamal Nath accused the hospital administration of negligence and sought criminal action against them. “Police action should be taken against the hospital administration and a high-level inquiry should be conducted in the matter to check the number of deaths,” the Congress leader said.Bhopal gas tragedy activist Rachna Dhingra said the hospital is ill-equipped to handle the high number of patients it treats. “Last year, three Covid-19 patients died due to interruption in oxygen supply because of sudden power cut. That time too, no action was taken against the administration of Hamidia hospital,” Dhingra, who has raised the issue of poor facilities at the hospital in the past, said.An inquiry into the deaths of three Covid-19 patients at the hospital, conducted by then Bhopal divisional commissioner Kavindra Kiyawat, could not confirm that oxygen shortage as the cause of death.The 850-bed Hamidia hospital gets nearly 2,000 patients every day, Shukla said.Several leaders, including state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang and BJP MP Pragya Thakur, visited the hospital on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-4-infants-killed-in-bhopal-hospital-fire-101636482907870.html
10-11-2021||India||Legal profession about service to society, not maximising profit: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Tuesday underscored the importance of legal services authorities in India to achieve the “constitutional goal of access to justice” for all.Speaking at an event to commemorate Legal Services Day, the CJI recounted the history of the legal aid movement in the country, pointing out that several legal stalwarts offered their pro bono legal services to the freedom fighters and fought against the might of colonial power. The inclusion of the expression “Justice: Social, Economic and Political” in the Preamble of the Constitution, justice Ramana said, reflects the seriousness of the members of the constituent assembly about the notion of justice and its ambit.The CJI also expressed happiness over the fact that the legal services authorities have broken the traditional notions of legal aid in the last 26 years, and have given an expanded meaning to access to justice. “Today, the role of legal services authorities is not constrained merely to the provision of court-based legal representation. They also work towards legal awareness, legal literacy, social action litigation, settlement of disputes through alternate dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms, among others,” he said. Addressing law students present at the occasion, the CJI said that it is their duty to remain alert about the social realities, and act upon them, because young students are essential for expanding the outreach of legal services to every corner of the country.“Your decision to join the legal aid movement will pave the path for a great career. This will help you inculcate empathy, understanding, and a sense of selflessness. Remember, unlike other professions, the legal profession is not about profit maximization, but about service to the society,” justice Ramana told the students.Justice Uday U Lalit, executive chairman of the National Legal Services Authority (Nalsa), emphasised on the need to spread the awareness in every nook and corner of the nation to make certain people can avail of free legal aid in exercise of their rights. “Out of all the matters in the courts, legal aid is given in just 1% of the matters. A major reason behind this is lack of knowledge with the people that they are entitled to legal aid...that there are agencies to give legal aid to them,” rued justice Lalit. The judge added that he has suggested to the Bar Council of India for asking every law college to adopt at least three talukas where law students spread the awareness about legal aid. Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, who was also present at the event, praised the role played by the national, state and district legal services authorities in giving legal aid. The minister also talked about the massive pendency of around 40 million cases across the courts, adding a combined effort by all the stakeholders is required to improve the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-profession-about-service-to-society-not-maximising-profit-cji-ramana-101636482670241.html
10-11-2021||India||NGOs misusing foreign funds, support changes to FCRA: NCPCR||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has supported the Centre’s concerns over misuse of foreign funds by non-government organizations (NGO) that prompted the Parliament to carry out amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA). These amendments are under challenge in a set of petitions filed before the Supreme Court on which orders were reserved on Tuesday.In an affidavit filed before the Court on November 6, the NCPCR highlighted the names of certain NGOs, including social activist Harsh Mander’s Centre for Equity Studies, where funds had allegedly been diverted or were received from suspicious sources. The cases have since been referred by the Commission to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) for further probe.The Commission, in its affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, said, “There are NGOs which have FCRA registration and there are some NGOs where violations of statutory provisions have been found….To stop the misuse of foreign funds by various NGOs, the NCPCR is continuously inspecting child care institutions (CCI) and taking various steps against NGOs who violate provisions of law.”About Harsh Mander’s NGO Centre for Equity Studies which is facing a probe by the Enforcement Directorate and Delhi Police Economic Offences Wing for allegedly misappropriating funds and laundering of money, the Commission said, “The NCPCR has sent letters dated November 30, 2020, and June 24, 2021, to the MHA to look into the foreign funds being received by Centre for Equity Studies and ‘ARUN’ and further utilization of the same fund.”Though the Centre for Equity Studies has FCRA registration and is entitled to receive foreign funding, the Commission found that the NGO gave funds to another NGO, namely Rainbow Foundation India which does not have FCRA registration but runs CCIs in various cities across the country. On inspection of these children’s homes, the Commission found them to be running in violation of various provisions under the Juvenile Justice Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar concluded hearing arguments in three petitions filed by one Noel Harper and NGO Jeevan Jyothi Charitable Trust and a separate one by one Vinay Vinayak Joshi which is supporting the amendments.The amendments require mandatory registration by NGOs for receiving foreign funds and disclose the purpose – such as social, religious, cultural, economic, etc for receiving funds. The NGOs are further required to open an account with the State Bank of India which alone could receive foreign funds and the same could then be transferred to the local banks where NGOs have their accounts. Other significant features of these amendments include the prohibition to transfer funds from a registered NGO to an unregistered NGO, diverting funds for purposes other than those specified during registration and a cap on spending funds for administrative expenses.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre argued that these amendments cannot be objected to by NGOs which have nothing to hide. He cited examples of NGOs where funds are being received from suspicious sources and being utilized to fund subversive activities. “There are intelligence inputs that most of the time, money is received for development works but is used to train Naxalites,” Mehta said.The NCPCR affidavit cited one such example where inspection of five children homes in Assam and one in Manipur revealed how the children were kept in these homes without being produced before the Child Welfare Committees and with no registration as mandated under the Juvenile Justice Act 2015. These homes were being run under the aegis of Markaz-ul-Maarif and one of the homes in Dhubri was receiving funds from a suspect Turkish organization called IHH since 2016 for a project named ‘Akika’.On a deeper probe, the Commission found that IHH had been interrogated by the Turkish law enforcement officers for their alleged links with international organizations which prima facie points towards suspicious activities of this NGO. “There is apprehension based on some documents received by NCPCR during the inspection that details of children could be shared by the CCI with the international organization,” the Commission stated in its affidavit.In addition, the Commission also named other NGOs that were found to operate in violation of provisions of the JJ Act and were found to engage in maltreatment of children and religious conversion, which were not part of their avowed purposes of the establishment.Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan appearing for one of the petitioners told the court that they were willing to work under the framework of law but some of these amendments will prohibit NGOs from carrying out genuine work.Before enacting the amendments, the Centre noted that foreign contributions had doubled during the years 2010-19 and several recipients of foreign funding had not utilized the funds for the purposes specified for receiving donations.The Court allowed Centre and petitioners to submit notes of their submissions within this week as it reserved the matter for pronouncing judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngos-misusing-foreign-funds-support-changes-to-fcrancpcr-101636482609981.html
10-11-2021||India||Row erupts over photo of ‘Sare Jahan Se Accha’ writer in BHU||Varanasi: A photo of poet Mohammad “Allama” Iqbal, famous for his 1904 song Sare Jahan Se Accha, on a departmental poster sparked a controversy at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Tuesday with authorities ordering an inquiry and student protests against the 20th century figure.The Urdu department of the university used a photo of Iqbal for a webinar on Urdu Day, which is celebrated on the poet’s birthday on November 9. But many students objected to this and questioned why photos of Madan Mohan Malviya, the founder of the university, were missing. They also held protests.“The picture of Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya is put up on e-posters of every programme in BHU, including Urdu Day. But this time, the picture of Allama Iqbal was printed on the e-poster in place of Mahamana ji,” said Patanjali Pandey, a research scholar. Students also alleged that the “kulgeet” (anthem) of BHU was also not sung at the beginning of the event. They submitted a memorandum saying that glorification of a Pakistani leader in BHU was unfortunate. Iqbal, one of the proponents of the two-nation theory, died in 1938, before Pakistan was formed in 1947. After the controversy, the department replaced the picture of Iqbal with Malviya. Dean of the faculty of arts, Vijay Bahadur Singh, apologised for the “mistake”. He said that a probe will be initiated into the matter and action taken accordingly. BHU public relation officer Dr Rajesh Singh said a notice was issued to the head of Urdu department and an inquiry committee constituted under M Pandey, head of the English department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-erupts-over-photo-of-sare-jahan-se-accha-writer-in-bhu-101636482550507.html
10-11-2021||India||COVAX supply likely to resume this month||India is likely to resume Covid-19 vaccine supplies to the COVAX facility this month, according to people familiar with the development.India halted the export of vaccines against Covid-19 in April this year after a severe second wave hit the country that impacted the COVAX facility, a global risk-sharing mechanism for pooled procurement and equitable distribution of anti-Covid-19 vaccines.India’s requirement for vaccine doses increased as it decided to open up the vaccination drive for everyone 45 years of age and above from April 1, irrespective of the comorbidities. The move was aimed at curbing the transmission cycle as India is likely experiencing the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak.“Since supplies constraint is no longer there, there will be enough surplus doses that could be shipped out to help other countries in need,” said a central government official aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.India has begun getting close to 300 million vaccine doses in a month; last month, the two companies that contributed towards the national immunisation programme, together provided 280 million doses. The supplies are going to increase further with the manufacturers ramping up production.A senior government functionary, last month, also said, “Since we are producing in excess now, the remaining surplus doses will be exported most likely from next month. About 4 million doses have already been given to some countries.”Indian has given the first dose to nearly 78% of the eligible population, and around 38% are fully vaccinated.In October, India provided one million Covid-19 vaccine doses to four countries: Iran, Nepal, Bangladesh, and Myanmar.COVAX facility has two categories – one is self-financing countries, and the other is those needing support. There are a total of 190 countries, of which 92 low and middle-income countries will be financed by the rich countries.For India, there has been a more tailored arrangement because of the huge numbers involved owing to India’s large population. With India, the arrangement included 20% of Gavi’s total support that comes to about 200 million vaccine doses and monetary support for technical assistance.Arrangement with India is also different because the country contributes to the COVAX facility as their vaccine manufacturing base is solid and appropriate for use in lower and middle-income countries. It suits the settings of these countries in terms of cold chain management, training of workers etc., and India provides products that are cost-effective, easy to use and easy to administer.Despite the impact, the COVAX facility is still likely to manage about 1.4 billion of the 2 billion expected doses by 2021.According to Gavi Deputy CEO Anuradha Gupta, COVAX has managed to deliver nearly 400 million doses across the world so far.“…lack of timely supply from SII has severely impacted the ability of COVAX to rapidly deliver doses to lower-income countries. We are looking forward to the resumption of supplies from SII..,” said Gupta in an interview with HT on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covax-supply-likely-to-resume-this-month-101636482308594.html
10-11-2021||India||Vice Admiral Hari Kumar to take charge as India’s next navy chief||The Central government on Tuesday announced that Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar will take over as India’s next navy chief on November 30, replacing Admiral Karambir Singh who retires on that day, the Ministry of Defence announced on Tuesday.Kumar is currently heading the Mumbai-based Western Naval Command. The 59-year-old officer was commissioned into the navy in January 1983.Before taking over the Western Naval Command, Kumar was Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee, the ministry said in a statement. In that capacity, he was involved in the ongoing theaterisation drive for optimal use of the military’s resources.The warships commanded by Kumar include aircraft carrier INS Viraat (no longer in service), INS Ranvir, INS Nishank and INS Kora, the statement said. He has undergone courses at the Naval War College, US, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies, UK.Kumar will take over the navy’s reins at a time when the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months.The setting of an April 2022 deadline for the submission of the studies focusing on finalising the joint structures seeks to give new impetus to theaterisation, a long-awaited military reform. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations - two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-admiral-hari-kumar-to-take-charge-as-india-s-next-navy-chief-101636479969741.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Foot stuck between pedals’: Raj bizman seen on video ramming 2 wheelers; 1 dies||JAIPUR: One person died and eight others were injured in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur town on Tuesday when a speeding luxury car rammed into two-wheelers in front of the vehicle before going off the road and crashing into roadside hutments, police said.The accident was captured on a close circuit television camera. A 15-second clip that emerged later shows a white car ramming two-wheelers, some of the riders were flung a few feet, as the car drove off the road into the hutments.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Jodhpur West), Noor Mohammad said the incident involving a speeding Audi car took place near the town’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences at about noon on Tuesday. The car was coming from Pal Road and moving towards AIIMS.⚠️Horrific Video : At least 3 people dead and 8 injured in a car accident in #Jodhpur near AIIMS.Audi Driver Hits Scooty and Bike Rider pic.twitter.com/qYjBbWWkHkPolice said the person driving the car was identified as Amit Nagar. A case for culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been registered under the Indian Penal Code.“The driver is a businessman from Jodhpur and he recently bought the car. The accused has claimed that his feet got stuck between the accelerator and the brake and therefore, he was not able to control the car,” said station house officer of Choupasni Housing Board police station, Likhma Ram.Nagar surrendered to the police soon after. His medical test did not show any presence of alcohol in his blood, he added.Noor Mohammad said the man who died in the accident was identified as Mukesh. Of the eight injured, three were commuters and rest were those people who were in the hutments, he added. The injured have been admitted to AIIMS.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who was in Jodhpur, visited the injured and announced ₹2 lakh for the family of those killed, ₹1 lakh for seriously injured and ₹50,000 for other injured.On October 16, a 30-year-old man was killed and three others sustained injuries when a speeding car, allegedly driven by the 17-year-old son of a circle inspector in Jodhpur, hit multiple vehicles in Jodhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foot-stuck-between-pedals-raj-bizman-seen-on-video-ramming-2-wheelers-1-dies-101636477448144.html
10-11-2021||India||CBI moves Centre to invoke Official Secrets Act in Naval leak case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the Centre for its approval on invoking stringent Official Secrets Act (OSA) in the Naval leak case involving a serving Commander and two retired Navy officers, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.They said the investigation has suggested that certain classified information was leaked by the accused persons, which makes it a fit case under OSA.In this particular case, Union defence and law ministries are likely to examine the matter based on the available investigation details whether the Navy officers can be charged under the Colonial-era law or not. The OSA attracts imprisonment up to 14 years where the offence is committed in relation to any work of defence, arsenal, naval, military or air force establishment or station.“Once the government gives a go-ahead, OSA will be invoked in the case,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.Last Tuesday, the central agency had filed a charge sheet against six accused in the case – including Randeep Singh, retired Commodore; Satwinder Jeet Singh, retired Commander and serving Navy Commander, Ajit Kumar Pandey, posted at Western Naval Command headquarters, under prevention of corruption act and criminal conspiracy.Randeep Singh and SJ Singh were arrested on September 3, when the espionage racket came to the light. The agency had recovered ₹2 crore cash from Randeep Singh during a raid at that time.It was initially alleged that confidential information about the upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo-class submarines was leaked by accused persons. However, as reported by HT last week, the CBI probe has revealed that information in at least three more Navy projects may have been compromised.A CBI document, reviewed by HT, has claimed that retired and serving Navy officials conspired to share “secret information of internal files for processing and passing of tender related to procurement and maintenance in different Indian Naval offices with the favoured firms/companies”.It claims that SJ Singh, who was previously posted at the Directorate of Submarine Acquisition (DSMAQ), New Delhi, and took voluntary retirement from Navy on July 31 this year, “was leaking out internal information regarding operations/procurement from various Navy offices to Randeep Singh”.CBI adds that Randeep Singh acted as a middleman in the case.According to the CBI document, in August this year, “Randeep Singh asked for the main report of a meeting held in Navy office regarding the procurement of three Hulls”, to which SJ Singh affirmed to contact concerned Navy official and asked for illegal gratification.It adds that a hard copy of the screenshot of the main report of the meeting held at the Navy office was handed over by SJ Singh to Randeep Singh at the latter’s residence.The agency has already questioned several persons in the case and further investigation into the leak of information on other projects is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-moves-centre-to-invoke-official-secrets-act-in-naval-leak-case-101636476129543.html
10-11-2021||India||'Will also reduce VAT charged on fuel', Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot announces||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced on Tuesday that his government will follow in on the footsteps of many other states and reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) levied on fuel.While addressing a programme at a village in Jodhpur, Gehlot told reporters that "When all states have reduced the prices, we would also have to reduce it.""Our government will also provide relief to people by reducing VAT on petrol and diesel in the state," he added.The Gehlot administration had been under intense pressure to reduce VAT charged on fuel after it came under repeated attacks of the opposition after Punjab, another Congress-ruled state, had done so.Punjab government’s advertisement claiming fuel prices in the state were lower than the neighbouring states of Delhi, Haryana, and Rajasthan had added to the criticism, reported PTI.The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government had announced a reduction in petrol and diesel prices by ₹10 per litre and ₹5 per litre respectively, effective from November 7 midnight.Gehlot’s announcement comes hours after the Congress veteran urged Centre to further slash excise duty, citing fund crunch caused by the Covid pandemic. "Now, they have provided a meagre relief," he said, adding that the Centre should further reduce excise duty by ₹10 on petrol and ₹15 on diesel.Gehlot also accused the Centre of "looting" people by levying massive taxes on fuel. "Increasing excise duty excessively first and then reducing it and simultaneously creating a competitive environment among states to reduce VAT is against the spirit of cooperative federalism," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-also-reduce-vat-charged-on-fuel-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-announces-101636475288183.html
10-11-2021||India||NSA Doval and counterparts from Tajikistan, Uzbekistan discuss Afghanistan||National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and his counterparts from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan on Tuesday assessed the situation in Afghanistan, including the threat of terrorism and the need for humanitarian aid, ahead of a meeting of top regional security officials.On Wednesday, Doval will chair the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, which will be attended by the NSAs and secretaries of security councils of seven regional countries, including Iran and Russia. India is looking to the meeting to help forge a joint approach for tackling security threats emanating from Afghanistan in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover. At his bilateral meeting with Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda, secretary of Tajikistan’s security council, Doval had a detailed exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan and both sides expressed concern at a sharp increase in terrorist threats, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.There was a “significant convergence” in assessments by India and Tajikistan, and the Tajik side highlighted the gravity of the situation in Afghanistan. The two sides also discussed the looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, the people said.Doval and Mahmudzoda also discussed bilateral matters such as deepening cooperation in defence, border management and border infrastructure development.Afghanistan was the focus of discussions at a subsequent bilateral meeting between Doval and Victor Makhmudov, secretary of Uzbekistan’s security council, and both sides agreed the future of the war-torn country must be decided by the Afghan people.The two sides felt the legitimacy of any government in Afghanistan was important for its international recognition, the people said.The Indian and Uzbek sides emphasised the need for Afghanistan’s neighbours to ensure unhindered access for humanitarian aid meant for the Afghan people. In an apparent reference to the role being played by Pakistan, the two sides further agreed that neighbouring countries must play a constructive role in Afghanistan, the people said.Tajikistan has taken a tougher stance towards the Taliban set up in Kabul and pushed for the creation of an inclusive government with representation for Afghanistan’s Tajik minority, while the political leadership of Uzbekistan has shown a greater willingness to work with the Taliban, albeit without recognising the interim administration formed by the militant group.The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue, the first such meeting on Afghanistan to be chaired by India, is being attended by Iran’s Supreme National Security Council secretary Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s Security Council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and NSAs or security council secretaries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Doval will also hold bilateral meetings on Wednesday with Patrushev, Shamkhani and Karim Massimov, chairman of Kazakhstan’s National Security Committee.The dialogue is expected to focus on tackling threats and challenges such as terrorism within Afghanistan and across its borders, radicalisation, cross-border movements, drug trafficking, and the danger posed by vast amounts of military gear left behind in Afghanistan by US troops. The security officials will also discuss the issue of providing humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. Though Pakistan and China were invited to the dialogue, both countries decided to skip the meeting. Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf said he wouldn’t attend the meet because of differences with India, while the Chinese side attributed its decision to “scheduling reasons”.In a separate development, the Taliban acting foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, will travel to Pakistan with a high-level delegation on Wednesday. Muttaqi is set to meet Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, and Taliban spokesman Abdul Qahar Balkhi said the delegation will discuss enhancing ties, economic matters, transit issues, refugees and expanding facilities for the movement of people.On November 6, Muttaqi met Wang Yu, the Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan, and discussed bilateral ties and trade. In response to a request from Muttaqi, Wang pledged to facilitate visa services for Afghan traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-doval-and-counterparts-from-tajikistan-uzbekistan-discuss-afghanistan-situation-101636473250108.html
10-11-2021||India||Taliban must seek legitimacy within Afghanistan before international recognition||On the eve of the Delhi Afghanistan conference, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval met his Tajik and Uzbek counterparts and concurred that the Taliban regime in Kabul should first seek internal legitimacy within the country before international recognition.While China and Pakistan have decided to stay away from the Delhi dialogue so that India is kept out of Afghanistan affairs, the NSA dialogue today clearly indicates that Central Asian Republics also want the Taliban to seek recognition from Loya Jirga (tribal council) and the religious council in Afghanistan before getting recognised by the international community. The Delhi conference is not against the Taliban as it recognises the Sunni Pashtun force as a contender of power in Kabul but it must have the trust of the people of Afghanistanncluding Shia Hazaras, Uzbeks, Tajiks, and most importantly the women of the country.Pakistan is not attending the Delhi conference as it sees India as a spoiler, China has “scheduling issues” but the fact is Pakistan is hosting a troika conference on Afghanistan with China, Russia, the US, Taliban participating in it. It is quite evident that Pakistan and its principal backer China do not want India, which has been part of the humongous humanitarian effort in that country for the past two decades, anywhere in the picture as it eats into their “strategic space.”Doval exchanged views with the Tajik counterpart on Afghanistan, with significant convergence of assessments.They also expressed concerns regarding the sharp rise in terrorist threats emanating from Afghanistan after the Taliban took over the war-torn country in mid-August and announced an interim government in early September. The Tajik side, which has been witnessing the influx of refugees and officials in the previous Afghan government, highlighted the gravity of the situation in Afghanistan.The looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan was also discussed.Apart from the crisis within Afghanistan, discussions on deepening cooperation in areas like defence, border management and border infrastructure development also took place.During the meeting with the Uzbek NSA Victor Makhmudov, Afghanistan remained the major focus of discussion and both sides agreed that the future of Afghanistan must be decided by the people of Afghanistan themselves. The two top security advisers shared the view that the legitimacy of any Afghan government within Afghanistan was “important before the issue of its international recognition.”As Pakistan has been acting as a major impediment in humanitarian access to Afghanistan, they stressed the need for Afghanistan’s neighbours to ensure unhindered access to humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. They agreed that neighbouring states must play a constructive role in Afghanistan. During the bilateral meet, the NSA highlighted the need for long term economic development of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-must-seek-legitimacy-within-afghanistan-before-international-recognition-101636471623535.html
10-11-2021||India||China built village in area held by PLA for decades, say officials||A new Chinese village, which has emerged as a symbol of Beijing’s assertiveness in disputed border areas with India in the eastern sector, has been built in an area held by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for more than six decades, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.The Indian Army has been aware of the village’s existence in a disputed border area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh for more than a year, but the village was thrust into the limelight again after being cited in a US defence department report last week.It is located along the disputed border in upper Subansiri district.“It has been built by China in an area that was occupied by the PLA after overrunning an Assam Rifles post in 1959 in an operation known as Longju incident along the frontier in Arunachal Pradesh,” said one of the officials cited above.The incident took place a few months after the 14th Dalai Lama fled Tibet, crossed into India in March 1959 and was later granted political asylum by New Delhi.“It was at Longju in the Subansiri frontier division that the first armed clash took place between the PLA (2nd Company of 1st Regiment of Shannan Military Sub Command) and personnel of 9 Assam Rifles occupying the Indian post at Longju on August 25, 1959, which resulted in two Indian casualties,” according to a journal published by think tank United Service Institution of India in 2014.It added that Assam Rifles did not reoccupy Longju and instead set up a post at Maja, 10 km south of Longju, on August 29, 1959. The article in the journal was headlined ‘1962 War - The Unknown Battles: Operations in Subansiri and Siang Frontier Division.’Highlighting Chinese attempts to continue pressing its claims at the LAC, the US defence department report pointed to a large 100-home civilian village China has constructed “inside disputed territory” between Tibet and Arunachal Pradesh.“The Chinese have, for years, maintained an army post in the region and the various constructions undertaken by the Chinese have not happened in a short time,” said a second official.It is true that this area (where the village has come up) has been under the control of the PLA since 1959, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“However, Chinese claims here have not been accepted by India. Constructing villages and settling civilians in disputed areas is one way by which China could reinforce and strengthen its claims,” Hooda warned.Some experts, including General Hooda, also view the setting up of the Chinese village in the context a 2005 agreement between India and China on political parameters and guiding principles for the settlement of the India-China boundary question.Article VII of that pact says, “In reaching a boundary settlement, the two sides shall safeguard due interests of their settled populations in the border areas.”Last month, Eastern Army Commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande flagged concerns about the “dual-use” of villages being set up by China in forward areas, and said the army was factoring in the development in its operational planning.The PLA has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after a lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector. It has ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities in the eastern sector, as previously reported by HT.The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected increased PLA activities include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La - areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector - and countermeasures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency,India and China have hardened their stance on the LAC in Ladakh, and also in the eastern sector, going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies amid the ongoing border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-built-village-in-area-held-by-pla-for-decades-say-officials-101636469887998.html
10-11-2021||India||Manipur Guv can’t ‘sit over’ EC's opinion: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed its displeasure at delay by the Manipur Governor in deciding on the disqualification of 12 MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur for allegedly holding office of profit in contravention of the law. “Governor cannot sit over an opinion indefinitely. There has to be a decision. He must decide one way or the other,” observed a bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, as it heard a petition by Congress MLA DD Thaisii. La Ganesan is the current Governor of Manipur, although he was named to the post only in August. The controversy predates him. Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, representing Thaisii, complained that even after the Election Commission submitted its recommendation to the Governor in January , the constitutional head of the state is yet to decide on the plea for disqualifying the 12 MLAs, some of whom are ministers in the state cabinet. Sibal argued that the Governor is obligated under Article 192 of the Constitution to take a decision on questions as to disqualifications of members of the assembly after obtaining the opinion of the Election Commission.The bench, which included justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, agreed with Sibal: “You are right. He (Governor) cannot skip the decision. There has to be a decision.” Sibal pointed out that the term of the assembly is ending soon and the endeavour seems to render the petition infructuous by not taking a call. “The Election Commission gave its opinion to the Governor way back in January. We don’t know what has the Governor done after receiving this opinion. We are entitled to know how the constitutional functionaries in the country are acting,” added the senior counsel. At this, the bench observed that it was earlier of the opinion that the Election Commission has been “dragging its feet” by not submitting the opinion to the Governor but the situation is different since the Governor is in receipt of this report for almost 10 months. Appearing for the Election Commission, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan submitted that Article 192 makes the opinion of the apex poll panel binding on the Governor, whose decision can also be challenged only on very limited grounds.To this, the bench cited a case relating to commutation of punishment of a convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case where the Tamil Nadu Governor was not taking a decision on the state government’s recommendation to remit the sentence of convict AG Perarivalan. “We passed an innocuous order and the Governor did take a decision soon thereafter. We did not have to give any direction there. But here we are again faced with a situation where the Governor has not taken a decision,” rued the bench. The counsel for the Manipur government requested for an adjournment, saying solicitor general Tushar Mehta was to appear for the state but he was arguing before a different bench. “You cannot hoodwink the court like this by taking adjournments. They say that the term of the assembly is getting over in a month or so. You cannot render the petition infructuous by taking adjournments,” retorted the bench. The court decided to take up the matter after around an hour but the S-G remained unavailable, following which the case was adjourned to Thursday for passing orders. “If we have to pass any order, we will need somebody from the respondent to be here. Let somebody be here so that directions can be passed,” the bench told Sibal. It also asked Sibal to serve a copy of the plea on the secretary of the Manipur Governor to apprise him of the developments in the apex court. The tenure of 60 members Manipur Legislative Assembly is scheduled to end on March 19, 2022. After the election in 2017, a coalition of the BJP, National People’s Party, Naga People’s Front and Lok Janshakti Party formed the government, with N Biren Singh becoming Chief Minister. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the ruling Congress won 28 seats in the 60 member House. The BJP got 21 seats. With the support of the splinter parties, Biren formed the coalition government. Since then, there have been floor crossings, resignations and disqualifications. The Congress claims it will have a clear-cut majority if these 12 MLAs stand disqualified.These 12 MLAs were appointed as parliamentary secretaries in March 2017, giving them the status of a minister apart from other financial benefits and perks. By a judgment in September 2020, the Manipur high court quashed these appointments after declaring the law on appointment of parliamentary secretary as unconstitutional. The HC decision prompted the Manipur Congress to approach the Governor for disqualifying these 12 MLAs for holding the office of profit. The Governor then sought the Election Commission’s view on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-guv-can-t-sit-over-opinion-given-by-ec-on-disqualification-of-12-bjp-mlas-sc-101636462147212.html
10-11-2021||India||Hindi-Mizo barrier: CM Zoramthanga wants CS replaced||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga has written to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting that he replace the state’s new chief secretary, Renu Sharma, as she does not know Mizo and his ministers do not understand Hindi. The letter was written on October 29.Sharma, an Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer from the 1988 batch, took charge on November 2. People familiar with the matter said Zoramthanga was unhappy with the Centre’s choice for the post. They added he wanted additional chief secretary JC Ramthanga, a Manipur cadre IAS officer from the 1989 batch, to be named as the chief secretary and even forwarded his name to the Central government. The people said Zoramthanga was expecting the Centre to agree to his demand.Istead, the Centre appointed Sharma, who was earlier in charge of the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Project in Delhi, on October 28.In his letter, Zoramthanga said none of his Cabinet ministers understands Hindi. “Some of them even have problem with the English language,” he wrote in the letter, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT. “With such background, a chief secretary without the knowledge of a working standard Mizo language will never be an effective and efficient chief secretary,” he added. Zoramthanga said the Centre has previously never appointed a chief secretary who did not have a working knowledge of the Mizo language. He added that in other states, a person who does not have knowledge of a state’s basic language is never appointed to the post of chief secretary.Zoramthanga pointed out in his letter that his Mizo National Front has been a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from the beginning while parties in other states have changed alliances. “I am the only one in the northeast states who has been a faithful partner of NDA from the beginning... I, therefore, believe that I deserve a special favour and consideration for the faithful friendship with NDA.”Zoramthanga said if his proposal of having a chief secretary with working knowledge of Mizo is denied, the Congress and other opposition parties will mock him for faithfully serving the NDA. He “earnestly requested” Shah to modify the earlier order of naming Sharma and make Ramthanga the chief secretary.Officers in the chief minister’s office did not provide more details when contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-ministers-don-t-know-hindi-replace-chief-secretary-mizoram-cm-writes-to-amit-shah-101636456266670.html
10-11-2021||India||Barbs fly between Oppn, govt in fresh Rafale row||The political row over the Rafale deal escalated on Tuesday, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government of irregularities in its attempted deal to purchasethe fighter jets in 2012, and the principal opposition party alleging a “cover up” by the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government when the deal was finally sealed and executed in 2016.French journal Mediapart on Sunday published alleged fake invoices for payments between 2004-2013, saying they enabled French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation to pay at least €7.5 million in kickbacks to a middleman to help it secure the deal. The UPA was in power then, and the deal referred to is the original one signed by the previous government with Dassault.Citing claims of a French media report on “commissions” being paid during the UPA rule, the BJP said the Indian National Congress should be renamed “I Need Commission” party.“The documents say Dassault, which was been described as D, paid €7.5 million or ₹65 crore as a commission to a middleman for 36 Rafale aircraft. This happened during 2007-12,” said BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. The BJP leader referred to the alleged middleman in the deal, Sushen Gupta, and added that he was also involved in the AgustaWestland corrupt deal for VVIP choppers. “It is too much of a coincidence and too much of a coincidence is a conspiracy.”He said the Congress misled the country ahead of the 2019 general elections by insinuating the BJP was responsible for irregularities in the deal. “During the UPA tenure, there was a deal within every deal.”Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera hit back, saying an “operation cover-up” was on by the government to bury the corruption, kickback, and collusion in the deal. He called the “Rafale scam” the biggest in the history of free India. Khera said that Mediapart revealed a “dubious nexus” between the government, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Congress focussed on a second claim by Mediapart that Indian investigative agencies were aware of these kickbacks at least as early as 2018 -- when the current NDA regime was in place -- but chose not to probe the charges. The report added that the deal involved offshore companies, dubious contracts, and false invoices. Mediapart said detectives from CBI and ED have had proof since October 2018 that Dassault paid commissions to Gupta.“Were the anti-corruption clauses deleted to escape responsibility from bribery and commission to be paid in the Rafale deal? Why was the deletion of anti-corruption clauses approved by the Prime Minister and the Modi government in September 2016, despite the defence ministry’s insistence upon including it in the inter-governmental agreement in July 2015,” Khera asked. “Is this the reason that CBI-ED refused to probe the corruption in Rafale deal since October 11, 2018, till date?” he asked.India’s decision to sign an $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later. This replaced the previous Congress-led UPA government’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).Mediapart has published several reports on alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal.Five months ago, it reported that a French judge was appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the deal. In a report in April, the journal said that it was in possession of documents that showed Dassault and its industrial partner Thales, a defence electronics firm, paid “middleman” Gupta several million euros in “secret commissions” in connection with the deal. HT could not reach Gupta for a response.In another April report, Mediapart claimed that Dassault paid €1 million to Gupta for manufacturing 50 replica models of Rafale jets, even though the planemaker provided inspectors of French anti-corruption agency Agence Française Anticorruption no proof that these models were made.HT has not reviewed any of the documents cited by Mediapart.Khera accused the government of undermining national security, jeopardising the interest of the armed forces, and causing a huge loss to the exchequer. He questioned why there was no investigation against Gupta.Patra said the Congress should clarify the alleged irregularities when the UPA was in power. “For 10 years, the IAF (Indian Air Force) was deprived of fighter aircraft. There were negotiations without conclusion... now we know the negotiation was about the commission, not the aircraft.”Rahul Gandhi later chose to address his party colleagues through a tweet on the issue, asking them not to stop or be afraid of fighting against the “corrupt” central government. “When the truth is with you in every step, then what is there to worry about? My Congress colleagues - keep fighting like this against the corrupt central government. Don’t stop, don’t get tired, don’t be afraid,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag “#RafaleScam”.Patra also referred to a Supreme Court verdict saying it saw nothing wrong in the current deal and the government’s auditor Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s (CAG) conclusion the same year that India had not overpaid for the jets.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and, in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the CAG said India had not overpaid for the jets.Patra said if the Congress felt the BJP government was not investigating the scams, then it should go to court. “[It should] ask why [the government] is not carrying out investigations against the Gandhi family…,” he said in response to a question on why the investigation was not being carried out. “...They are trying to tease us and whenever investigations were carried out, they screamed vendetta.”The Opposition, led by the Congress, has previously claimed that the price at which India was buying Rafale aircraft was ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL.The government has said that its deal includes several specific ready-to-fly security enhancements,and that it cannot disclose the details of the price because of a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies. The government submitted details of the price of the jets in a sealed envelope to the Supreme Court, and the court said it would not get into the pricing issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-previous-congress-led-govt-of-irregularities-in-rafale-jets-deal-101636452486888.html
10-11-2021||India||Govt employees no longer bound to fly by Air India||The Centre will end Air India’s monopoly over flying millions of government employees after its privatisation, although large part of the employees’ ticketing requirements will continue to be handled by three state-owned companies. The companies will likely earn agency commissions and ticketing charges from the huge pool of government employees, estimated to run into a few million. On November 2, department of investment and public asset management secretary Tuhin Kanta Panda said it would no longer be mandatory for government employees to travel by Air India after its privatisation. Air India, too, has stopped offering ministries credit for the purchase of air tickets, prompting the finance ministry to ask all ministries to clear the airlines’ dues.According to an RTI query that was replied in October this year, the Centre’s total dues to Air India stood at ₹300 crore for both VVIP flights and travel by officials. ₹34 crore was due for VVIP flights, and ₹269 crore for tickets of officials. The old system required government employees to book with the former national carrier in sectors it serviced. “For other places, where there were no Air India [flights] or its subsidiaries, we had to take prior permission for buying tickets,” said a senior government official, who didn’t wish to be named.That’s changed now, but three state-owned firms Balmer Lawrie, Ashoka Travels and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will continue to handle all ticket bookings for government employees. Balmer Lawrie, a company under the petroleum ministry, provides logistics support and a host of other business while Ashoka Travels and Tours Ltd is a subsidiary of India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC). The third entity, IRCTC operates a travel portal, and provides ticket booking and catering for Indian Railways. Both IRCTC and Balmer Lawrie are listed companies. Also Read: Air India Boeing pilots warn of mass protest on non-payment of arrearsIndia has eight airlines in various sectors apart from some regional carriers primarily focused on a few routes under the government’s Udaan scheme. A circular of the Lok Sabha secretariat dated November 5, said, “All the officers are thereby requested to purchase air tickets in cash from Air India/Indian Airlines counter or from three agents, i.e. Balmer Lawrie and Co. Ashoka Travels and Tours Ltd and IRCTC, authorised by the ministry of finance for the official journeys to be performed.” The Lok Sabha circular, citing the General Finance Rules, also told officials that all air ticket bills must be submitted within the stipulated period. “Henceforth, no request to honour the TA/DA claim after the stipulated time limit shall be entertained in any case,” it added. Air India operates a ticket counter inside Parliament to cater to MPs.The Union government sold the ailing Air India to Tata Sons last month. Tata Sons bought the national carrier for ₹18,000 crore in a deal that will no longer see hefty bailout packages for the carrier that was widely seen as a burden on the exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-employees-no-longer-bound-to-fly-air-india-101636428424600.html
10-11-2021||Today's||SRK and the realities of female fandom||From the nightclubs of Delhi to the villages of Uttar Pradesh, drawing on more than a decade of data and conversations, I have followed the jobs and journeys of a diverse group of Indian women. They are divided by class and religion, but united in their quest for economic independence, love, and fandom for actor Shah Rukh Khan (SRK). By listening to female fans talk about Khan, I came to understand their socio-economic struggles better. How did SRK fandom reveal the realities of these women?
10-11-2021||Today's||When religion and caste collide in Punjab||In her piece, The anatomy of a Dalit labourer’s lynching, published in this newspaper on November 7, Sujatha Gidla outrages at the lack of outrage by liberals over the brutal murder of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu farm protest site. Outrage we must, at the loss of human life, but certain assertions by the author are deeply problematic and need to be addressed.
10-11-2021||Today's||The courts must crack down on prolonged detentions, make bail the general rule||Irrespective of one’s views on the Aryan Khan case — and we believe that it is best left to the courts — it has thrown up a larger issue. As retired police officers, we are distressed about the violation of human rights by the judiciary. Our grievance relates to the tortuous processes set in motion for considering the application for bail of those held in custody.
10-11-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | Is there a gene that pushes some men to murder?||Is violent behaviour tied to genetics? Can someone argue that their genes made them commit a crime? Earlier this year, a legal argument centering on these questions made its way to the Supreme Court of the state of New Mexico in the United States.
