21-11-2021||Pune||Garbage on ground contradicts Pune’s cleanliness ranking: NSCC, residents||While Pune city has seen a major jump from the past two years in being ranked fifth in the ‘Swachh Sarvekshan 2021’, residents and mohalla committee members are of the view that a lot remains to be done and that the ranking may lead to complacency moving forward. Statistically speaking, this year’s survey result is encouraging for Pune city as in 2020 and 2019, it was ranked 17th and 37th respectively. Whereas, the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad has been ranked 19th in the ‘Swachh Sarvekshan 2021’, which is an improvement of five spots compared to 2020.According to the National Society of Clean Cities (NSCC) - an independent group of citizen volunteers which has been part of the apex committee formed by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) solid waste management (SWM) department – the ranking means nothing if the city still has a sizeable garbage problem.Pune city used to generate 2,100 tonne of garbage daily but with the recent inclusion of 23 villages, it generates 2,400 tonne of garbage daily. Although the civic body claims to lift garbage from all localities, there are areas such as Baner, Balewadi, Sutarwadi, Hadapsar, Kondhwa, Mohammadwadi, Kalyani nagar and Katraj where waste is regularly seeing lying unattended, several complaints from citizens notwithstanding.Shyamala Desai, president, NSCC, said, “The citizens are not involved in the stages where officers actually come for a visit and even don’t know the content of the report submitted to Swachh Sarvekshan. We are in the loop to the extent that we are involved from time to time to keep the SWM department in check and to raise queries as to what is to be done to make the city cleaner, but I cannot say that we are aware of how the parameters are used to measure the cleanliness at the prabhag levels.”G Bhaskar, member, NSCC, said, “I feel a lot remains to be done. The main concern about this rank is that it will create complacency and things will deteriorate hereon. Garbage project operations are not efficient. Dry waste is a far cry from what is expected, garbage collection is shoddy, bulk generators source segregation is mired in politics. Accountability and responsibility of SWM department officials is practically absent. There are no ward-level discussions on these matters, for there is no compulsion to conduct meetings on a regular basis. We have many times hinted to the SWM department to conduct studies for causes such as littering of roads and open plots, but there is no effort to study and resolve the problem.”Ravindra Sinha, a citizen, said, “What metrics are used for such ranking is highly questionable? The amount of garbage dumped and burned on roads and in streams and rivers is visible only to us citizens and not to these ranking agencies.”Vaishali Patkar, a resident of Aundh, said, “We do not raise the right topics that are actionable and strategic and we spend too much time on appreciation and status reporting.”According to the ministry of housing and urban affairs which is the nodal agency for the Swachh Bharat Mission aka the central government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation in urban centres, the score of the five cities within the top five rankings is: Indore (5618.14); Surat (5559.21); Vijayawada (5,368.37); Navi Mumbai (5,307.68); and Pune (4,900.94).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/garbage-on-ground-contradicts-pune-s-cleanliness-ranking-nscc-residents-101637519380202.html
21-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: MCG to develop 1.5km stretch as model road||An internal road linking Golf Course Road (GCR) and Dhani Chowk in Sector 53 will be developed as a model road, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said on Sunday. The 1.5km stretch, known as Khatu Shyam Mandir Marg, will provide an alternative route and will also help commuters of Sector 53 and DLF 5 bypass the heavily congested St Thomas Marg, they said.On the GCR side, the stretch is located between South Point Mall and Parsvnath Exotica residential society, and ends at Dhani Chowk near Ardee Mall, located on the stretch connecting Golf Course Extension Road to Huda City Centre. Although Khatu Shyam Mandir Marg passes behind residential areas of DLF 5, the residents have no access to it.According to the officials, any stretch free of potholes and encroachments, and having adequate provisions for pedestrians with dedicated footpath, benches, green belts, bins, and parking spaces is known as a model road.“Last week, a consultant for the project was appointed and they are in the process of preparing estimates. Then the project will be presented before the finance and contract committee for approval, following which tenders for finalising a contractor will be floated,” said Sunder Sheoran, executive engineer, MCG, who is overseeing the project.Kuldeep Bohra, MCG ward 31 councillor, said that the civic body has approved a ₹1.53 crore proposal for developing the stretch.“Currently, the 1.5km stretch is viewed as an internal pothole-ridden village road. With adequate amenities as part of the model road project, it can have the same significance as the more prominent St Thomas Marg,” said Bohra.During a house meeting on July 31 this year, Bohra had floated an agenda for constructing model roads in all 35 municipal wards of the city which was subsequently approved.“For nearly three months, there was no progress on the matter. In the last month’s house meeting, I once again raised the model road issue which prompted MCG officials to act on the matter. The MCG has finalised Khatu Shyam Mandir Marg as the site for model road,” said the councillor.The two-km-long St Thomas Marg carries heavy volume of traffic between Genpact Chowk on GCR and Kanhai Chowk. Residents say that due to the heavy traffic, crossing the stretch during peak hours takes around 15-20 minutes.“St Thomas Marg is a heavily congested stretch, especially near the Paras Hospital traffic signal which alone takes 10 minutes to cross. Upgrading of Khatu Shyam Mandir Marg will thus provide an alternative route to commuters, leading to reduction in congestion,” said Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-mcg-to-develop-1-5km-stretch-as-model-road-101637519261079.html
21-11-2021||Noida||Govt hospital in Noida performs complex cardiac surgery on 16-year-old girl||Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Child Health (PGICH), also known as Child PGI in Noida’s Sector 30, performed a minimal invasive cardiac surgery on a 16-year-old girl suffering from a congenital heart disease. While the surgery is often performed on adults, doctors said this was the first such surgery conducted on a paediatric patient at a government institute in Uttar Pradesh. The girl, a resident of Azamgarh, was suffering from a cardiac defect called Atrial Septal Defect (ASD) since birth. She came to Child PGI hospital in April this year after being referred under the Rashtra Bal Suraksha Kalyan programme of the National Health Mission, which provides free treatment to children born with congenital defects.“The girl is 16-years-old but the structure of her body was that of a 12-year-old. Her weight was just 34kg. She is from a poor family, her family’s humble financial condition prevented them from seeking consultation from private hospitals,” said Dr. Mukesh Kumawat , head of the paediatric cardiac surgery department at PGICH.The girl’s surgery was postponed due to a crippling second wave of Covid-19 that ravaged the country in April and May. Doctors said she also had antibodies against Covid-19, which meant she had been infected with the viral infection but was unaware of it. “Unlike conventional sternal (mid chest bone] approach, where an incision is made in the middle of the chest and the chest bone has to be opened to operate on the heart, minimal invasive surgery involves operating on the heart by making an incision on the side of the patient’s chest. Minimal invasive cardiac surgeries have been practised on adults but in paediatric cases, they are extremely expensive and are rarely done in government institutes,” said Dr Dheeraj Sharma, associate professor of cardiac surgery, PGICH.He added such a procedure is not performed on paediatric patients due to unavailability of necessary equipment that can be used on children of different age groups and body types. “This procedure has an advantage in terms of early post-operative recovery, less requirement of blood transfusion and freedom from sterna (chest bone) non-union. A special advantage is that there is no chest scar peeping out of clothes. It has often been seen that cardiac patients, especially children, may develop low self-esteem due to the presence of a visible scar on their body. This was the first such paediatric surgery conducted at a government institute in Uttar Pradesh,” said Dr Kamawat. He added that the surgery was conducted successfully on October 15 and the patient was off ventilator after two hours of surgery. “The patient was able to move and walk the next morning without any chest discomfort. It has been a month now and the child has not reported any discomfort after the surgery,” said Dr Sharma.Dr Kamawat added that the provision of performing minimally invasive cardiac surgery (MICS) at Child PGI will help more children with congenital heart diseases which are life-threatening. “The Child PGI will be able to cater to more paediatric patients with heart diseases in western Uttar Pradesh. We hope this surgical approach is promoted at more government institutes so that the underprivileged can avail the facilities. In the future, MICS is expected to substitute the conventional approach of heart surgeries among paediatric patients in more than 80% of the cardiac procedures for its cosmetic advantages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/govt-hospital-in-noida-performs-complex-cardiac-surgery-on-16-year-old-girl-101637518839754.html
21-11-2021||Noida||Noida: Auto coding helps man get back his camera worth ₹50k from auto driver||A Noida auto driver on Sunday returned a lost bag containing a digital single-lens reflex (DSLR) camera worth ₹50,000 to a passenger, who was travelling from Noida Sector 52 to Greater Noida.With the help of auto coding, the auto was traced, as it was booked at the spot and the passenger had no records of the ride, according to the traffic police.Shrikant Sharma, a resident of Ace City in Greater Noida West, said that he and his family members had visited Madhavgarh in Gurugram. “We reached the Noida Sector 52 metro station at 2pm on Saturday, and booked the auto for our house. In a hurry, we forgot to take our suitcase from the auto. We immediately came outside, but the auto was gone by then. We scanned CCTV footage of nearby areas and spotted the auto, but its registration number was not clearly visible due to the poor quality of the camera,” he said.The auto had the unique code -- 1644 -- on its back. “Some people informed me that the Noida traffic police had coded such autos and they have records of those vehicles. I then contacted the traffic police for help,” Sharma added.Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that we traced the auto driver -- Dinesh Chandrapal, a resident of Sarfabad -- with the help of the code. “Chandrapal said that the suitcase was with him. We facilitated the process and returned the suitcase to Sharma on Sunday,” Saha said.Chandrapal also said that he had ferried three to four other passengers after dropping Sharma. “I was unable to figure out whose suitcase it was as I spotted it two hours after the owner left the vehicle... So, I brought it home. When I got a call from the police control room, I returned it to Sharma,” Saha added.Gautam Budh Nagar has 17,655 autos and nearly 9,000 of them have been registered and given unique numerical codes, which are clearly visible and easy to remember. These codes improve passengers’ safety and also help in finding lost valuables, said Saha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-auto-coding-helps-man-get-back-his-camera-worth-50k-from-auto-driver-101637518359883.html
21-11-2021||Noida||Police bust fake body supplements racket, three arrested in Greater Noida||Three men allegedly involved in making fake steroids, protein, and injections used by body builders were arrested from Vishnauli village in Greater Noida on Saturday night. Police have seized raw materials worth ₹2 crore from their possession. Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said on Saturday, the police and the drug inspection department received information about a fictitious body supplement factory in Badalpur area. “We conducted a raid and arrested three persons from the spot. We also seized the raw materials, some sealed supplements, an XUV 500 and a scooter,” he said. The suspects were identified as Anuj Kumar Singh (30) from Vishnauli village, his brother-in-law Preetam Kumar alias Golu (24) from Chandauli, and Bachhan Kumar (25) from Bulandshahr. Police said that Singh, a biotech graduate from Chennai, is the mastermind of the gang. “He worked for six years in some pharmaceutical company, from where he got the idea of manufacturing the steroids and proteins. He then engaged his brother-in-law and another accomplice in manufacturing the body supplement from his own house,” he said. Police said the suspects used to buy raw materials from two people, identified as Praveen Dhankad and Somveer Dhankad, from Rewari in Haryana. “They used to manufacture these products and label them with the stickers of leading foreign brands. The two suspects from Haryana used to help them in selling the products locally. They have been functioning for the last six months,” said Elamaran. Police said the suspects had no licence for manufacturing health supplements. These products, if not prescribed under proper guidance, are harmful to the health and can lead to serious side effects and addictions. Based on the complaint filed by drug inspector Vaibhav Babbar, a case has been registered against the five suspects under Section 274 (adulteration of drugs), 275 (sale of adulterated drugs), 420 (cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 10, 18-A and 27 of The Drugs & Cosmetics Act,1940. “The three suspects will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Monday. We have launched a search for the two other suspects, who are on the run,” said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer of Badalpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-bust-fake-body-supplements-racket-three-arrested-in-greater-noida-101637518242271.html
21-11-2021||Noida||Prime Minister Modi may unveil medical device park in Noida next month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will be laying the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport on November 25, is also likely to unveil the medical device park in Sector 32 near the airport site next month, said officials from the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida). “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is keen to launch the medical device park because it will not only promote manufacturing of medical devices in the country but also create thousands of jobs and boost local economy. The date is yet to be fixed; the PM may launch the medical device park next month,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of YEIDA.In the run up to the Uttar Pradesh state assembly polls, the PM wants to launch the medical device park so that the BJP can put across the message that both the state government and the Centre are working hard to boost economy and create jobs for youth.The UP government and the YEIDA have already completed processes required for starting work at the medical device park. Right after inauguration, the authority will start selling plots to industries, which want to set up units for manufacturing medical devices.In September this year, the central government approved the medical device park proposed near Noida International airport at Jewar as it would bring huge business opportunities and create jobs in the health sector in the region.Arvind Kumar, under secretary with the Government of India, shot a letter to Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development department, Uttar Pradesh, on September 24 asking him to prepare a detailed project report and submit the same by December 23. “We convey in-principle approval to the setting up a Medical Device Park on 350 acres of land at Yamuna Expressway as per the scheme guidelines of ‘Promotion of Medical Device Park. The steering committee of the government decided that now the DPR is required to be submitted in 90 days time as per the rules,” stated the letter.“All approvals required are in place now and even the detailed project report is almost ready,” said the CEO. In-principle approval means that the YEIDA is expected to get over ₹1000 crore fund support and associated benefits from the Central government, said officials.In November 2020, the authority had already earmarked 350 acre of land for the medical device park in Sector 28 and also sent a proposal to the state government. The state government gave in-principle approval to the project and decided to start work immediately as it will give a boost to business in this region, said officials. The authority is expecting an investment of ₹5,250 crore for the project, said officials.Under the scheme ‘promotion of medical device park’ in follow-up to the ministry of chemical, fertilizer and pharmaceuticals’ July 27 order, the Uttar Pradesh government on August 4 appointed Yeida as the state implementing agency to execute the project. Subsequently, Yeida roped in Kalam Institute of Health Technology (KIHT), Visakhapatnam to prepare the detailed project report for the project. If the project is taken to its completion, it will be the first-of-its-kind medical device park in the country, said YEIDA officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/prime-minister-modi-may-unveil-medical-device-park-in-noida-next-month-101637518239886.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya master plan proposes industrial corridor on both sides of ring road||Lucknow: The new master plan of Ayodhya, which will cover 65 km area from ring road, proposes industrial corridors on both sides of it. The Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA) is preparing the master plan-2031 which is expected to be finalised next month. The exact industrial area will be ascertained after the state government’s nod. “Ayodhya’s master plan is in the last stage of being finalised. The town planning department of the state government has also vetted the document,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya. According to officials of Ayodhya Development Authority, the new industrial area will be between 50 to 100 acres. The state government has approved around 114 development projects for Ayodhya. All these have been incorporated in the master plan- 2031. The bus terminal in Ayodhya, two more bus terminals on the highway, Maryada Purshottam Sriram Airport, green township and medical college among others are part of Ayodhya’s development plan. The Yogi Adityanath government has approved two development plans for Ayodhya- vision document and master plan -2031. The master plan will be for areas within the jurisdiction of the Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). The vision document will cover adjoining areas of Ayodhya and a new township. However, this master plan does not include 63 villages of Gonda, 126 of Basti and 154 of Ayodhya which were added in Ayodhya’s development plan last year. After this addition, Ayodhya’s increased area is 872.81 sq km. For this area, another master plan will be prepared. The last master plan of Ayodhya had expired in 2001. Thereafter, several attempts were made to prepare a master plan but it could not be done, said a senior official of the ADA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-master-plan-proposes-industrial-corridor-on-both-sides-of-ring-road-101637517220018.html
21-11-2021||Other||Punjab CM Channi meets Rajasthan counterpart||Jaipur Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met his Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot here on Sunday. It was a courtesy meeting which took place at CM Gehlot’s residence, according to an official statement. Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi, former Union minister and All-India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken, and PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra were also present during the meeting. Channi had arrived in Jaipur on Saturday night to attend a private function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-channi-meets-rajasthan-counterpart-101637517159685.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||AIMIM chief Owaisi demands repeal of CAA||Lucknow All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi has demanded repeal of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) by the central government. Addressing a public meeting in Ramnagar area of Barabanki district on Sunday, Owaisi said the year-long farmers’ protest forced the BJP-led NDA government at the centre to withdraw the three contentious agriculture laws. Now it was the turn of the Muslim community to force the central government to withdraw the CAA, he said. Terming the CAA against the spirit of the Constitution, Owasi said the Constitution did not give power to any government to formulate law on the basis of religion or caste. The CAA was formulated by the BJP government to target the Muslim community. It was an attack on the right to equality guaranteed under the Fundamental Rights, he said. If the central government moved ahead with the proposal to enact laws for National Register for Citizen (NRC) or National Population Register (NPR), the AIMIM would launch a big protest movement in Uttar Pradesh and other states at par with Shaheen Bagh protest organized in Delhi in 2019, he said. “I opposed CAA on the floor of the Parliament. The Muslim community should know that if CAA is implemented their rights will be curtailed,” he said. Owaisi attacked the secular parties- Samajwadi Party (SP), Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)-- for being silent on atrocities committed by the state government on the Muslim community. “The SP, Congress and BSP are concerned with the votes of the Muslim community. They are silent on the custodial death of Muslim community youths in Kasganj, Unnao and other places. The leaders of the so-called secular parties have not raised their voice on the problem faced by the weavers with the closure of handlooms and powerlooms and the difficulties faced by the Qureshi community with the closure of slaughter houses. Rather they are misguiding the Muslim community with the statement that the AIMIM will divide the Muslim votes. The AIMIM did not field candidates in the 2017 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Barabanki, yet the SP lost both the elections,” he said. The Muslim community should create a political leadership by voting for the AIMIM that would fight for their rights on the floor of the UP assembly. The BJP and secular parties were trying to create fear among the 19% Muslim voters in UP. Muslims should understand their design, as these political parties were not concerned about welfare of the Muslims but about power, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aimim-chief-owaisi-demands-repeal-of-caa-101637516919616.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Palghar highway mishap: Van rams into container, 4 killed, 8 injured||Four of a family from Dandi, Tarapore, were killed while returning from Ekvira temple at Virar (East) after their van rammed into the rear of a container. Eight other passengers, including two minors, who were also seated in the van have sustained injuries.According to police, the accident took place at Avandani village, near Dahanu at around 6pm. “The driver collided with the container on the Ahmedabad lane. The multi-axle container sped away as the driver was unaware of the mishap,” said inspector Pradeep Kasbe of Manor police station. The deceased, identified as, Rakesh Tamore, 42, Hemant Tare, 60, Sushma Arekar, 32, and Sarvajna Arekar, 2, died on the spot while the injured are under treatment at Global Hospital, Manor. The victims are all fishermen. “The condition of at least four victims are in serious condition. We have registered a case of an accident and will register a first information report for causing death due to negligence, under the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act, against the deceased driver Tamore, after we take the statements of the injured victims,” said Kasbe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-highway-mishap-van-rams-into-container-4-killed-8-injured-101637515959440.html
21-11-2021||Indore||Indore: Representatives return with ‘cleanest city’ award, welcomed at airport||As Indore bags India's Cleanest City award for the fifth consecutive time, the administrative officers and public representatives who reached the city with the "Swachhata award" were accorded a grand welcome at the airport.Hundreds of BJP workers and municipal employees had reached the airport with drums, garlands, and fireworks to welcome the team consisting of commissioner Pawan Sharma, collector Manish Singh, municipal commissioner Pratibha Pal, and BJP MP Shankar Lalwani.After the administrative officials left the airport, a decorated 'Swachhta Vijay Rath' was prepared for BJP MP Shankar Lalwani to carry the awarded statue of Mahatma Gandhi to Rajbara.During the reception, decorated garbage vehicles of the Municipal Corporation were also present at the airport. Vehicles and crowds celebrating the occasion blocked the airport.The government of India began the award in the year 2017, and ever since, Indore has been winning the title.Talking to ANI, Collector Manish Singh said, "This is the victory of the people of the city; we are bagging the award since 2017, this is for the fifth time that we are receiving the award. It is the collective effort of all the people. I believe Indore will be bag the award every time."Hundreds of vehicles were stuck in a traffic jam caused due to celebrations for a long time. A fire brigade was also blocked due to the "Rath", but with great effort, its way was cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-representatives-return-with-cleanest-city-award-welcomed-at-airport-101637514807961.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Three Zika patients test negative, 10 fresh dengue cases in Lucknow||Three zika patients, of the total six in the state capital, tested negative on Sunday, according to the health department.“The patients had tested positive for zika on November 11 and 12, and in retest done to check their status, they tested negative on Sunday,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow.Also, reports of 146 other suspected cases, samples of whom were taken during contact tracing of the six patients, came negative for zika. The surveillance teams screened 3,405 people in Safdalbagh, 867 people in Phoolbagh, 1,150 in the LDA colony and 1,700 in Azad Nagar.During the day, 10 fresh cases of dengue were reported from different areas, including Indira Nagar, Chinhut, Aliganj, NK Road. The number of daily fresh dengue cases has gone down in Lucknow in the past one week, but doctors say the threat remains for the next few days.On Saturday, there were 10 fresh cases, and on Friday, 13 new cases were reported. Similarly, on Thursday, there were 14 cases reported, and on Wednesday, 20 tested positive. On Tuesday, 27 cases were reported in the state capital. “Even with one dengue case, people should take utmost precaution and adhere to preventive measures to avoid mosquito bites,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general association of international doctors.The health department has decided to continue with screening and testing of suspected cases for dengue and zika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-zika-patients-test-negative-10-fresh-dengue-cases-in-lucknow-101637515299445.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Nadda on two-day UP visit, to address BJP booth presidents in Gkp today||LUCKNOW: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda, who will be on a two-day visit of poll -bound Uttar Pradesh from Monday, will address booth presidents’ meetings in Gorakhpur and Kanpur. In the booth presidents’ meeting in Gorakhpur on Monday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also be present. Adityanath, who was in Lucknow attending programmes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah, left for Gorakhpur on Sunday for Nadda’s Monday address to the booth presidents. At a recent high-level meeting in Delhi, the BJP think tank had named top leaders, including Nadda, Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh to man the six regions that the BJP has divided the state into for organisational purposes. The responsibility has been given keeping the 2022 UP polls in mind, BJP leaders agree. While Nadda has been tasked with Kanpur and Gorakhpur regions, Rajnath has been tasked with Avadh and Kashi regions. Shah has been tasked with the key Braj and Pashchim (west UP) regions where the BJP is hoping to make gains after the recent announcement by PM Modi to repeal the three contentious farm laws. West UP and Punjab had witnessed maximum protests by the farmers. Himanshu Dubey, BJP’s co-media coordinator said Nadda would visit the Gorakhnath temple at Gorakhpur and after that address booth presidents’ meeting at Champa Devi Park. Nadda is also scheduled to hold a meeting with forest dwellers before arriving in Lucknow on Monday evening. “On Tuesday, the BJP chief would visit Baba Namdev Gurudwara in Kidwainagar vegetable market and inaugurate Kanpur BJP’s regional office in Juhi, Saketnagar. He will virtually inaugurate seven other offices of the BJP in different districts from there and then address booth presidents in Nirala Nagar, Kanpur,” Dubey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nadda-on-two-day-up-visit-to-address-bjp-booth-presidents-in-gkp-today-101637515179450.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Saving aquatic life: Forest department’s initiative to create awareness among children||Bahraich forest division in association with Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA) has taken an initiative to curb hunting of endangered aquatic animals in the district. To spread awareness among children, especially those not able to attend school, the forest department arranged a free movie at the river conservation centre near Ghaghraghat on Sunday. The three hour show, included different short movies based on importance of aquatic animals like Gangetic dolphins, ghariyal and turtles. “Children enjoyed the short movies. The motive behind organising the show was to make children sensitive about the importance of aquatic animals in water ecosystem,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) Bahraich Manish Singh. He said several freshwater turtles and fishes were very important to keep ecosystem of water healthy as they consume dead matter and algae in the rivers. “Often turtles and dolphins get caught in the net of fishermen. Several species of turtles like Batagur, Chitra Indica and Manouria are on the verge of extinction. High demand of several species of turtles in the international market is also a matter of concern for conservation of aquatic animals as well as for balancing of water ecosystem,” he said.“Most of the children going to school have some knowledge about the importance of aquatic animals as environmental studies have been introduced now at primary level in most of the schools. So we focused on creating awareness among children who didn’t go to schools,” Manish said. “The children have been instructed to request their parents to save turtles, dolphins and other endangered species of aquatic animals,” he added.
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Azamgarh police seize Mukhtar Ansari’s property in Lucknow||Lucknow The Azamgarh police seized an illegal property of Mofioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari in Hussainganj area of Lucknow on Sunday. The 194 sqaure metre property is next to a petrol pump and is a “Nazul” land (government property). Azamgarh police along with officials of the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) reached Hussainganj in the afternoon. According to LDA officials, the land with a market value of around ₹3 crore was purchased illegally in the name of Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afsha Ansari. The Azamgarh police arrived in the state capital after submitting all details of Mukhtar Ansari’s property to the Azamgarh administration and to the Lucknow district administration. In August last year, the Lucknow administration and the LDA had razed two properties of Mukhtar Ansari in Dalibagh area. The two illegal three-storey residential buildings were constructed on enemy property on around 20,000 sq feet land.The Yogi government is carrying out a drive against henchmen and illegal properties of Ansari in eastern Uttar Pradesh, including Varanasi and Mau district which is Ansari’s home town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/azamgarh-police-seize-mukhtar-ansari-s-property-in-lucknow-101637514639465.html
21-11-2021||Bangalore||BJP like a touring circus with Janaswarajya Yatra amid calamity, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition in Karnataka, Siddaramaiah, on Sunday said that the ‘Janaswarajya Yatra’ of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was actually the “Jana Barbadi Yatra”, mocking the ruling party of prioritising politics when the entire state was reeling under heavy losses due to incessant and unseasonal rainfall.“Half the state has been hit by unseasonal rain. Though it has been a good crop, farmers are not able to reap the benefits. The state government is like touring talkies (performers) and they are performing. This is not Janaswarajya Yatra, it is the Janabarbadi Yatra,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.The post comes days after the BJP began its Janaswarajya Yatra ahead of the polls to 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature, scheduled to be held on December 10.The tour is also meant to mobilise support for the upcoming Zilla and Taluka panchayat elections that would set the ground for the 2023 assembly polls.“Affected by the heavy rainfall, over 20 people have died. Over 10,000 hectares of crops have been destroyed. People are on the streets as their homes have collapsed. The BJP government has to rush to their aid but instead are going around doing their Janaswarajya Yatra,” Siddaramaiah said.Karnataka, like several other parts of the country, has been deeply impacted by the unseasonal rain that continued to batter several regions all through October and November.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the unseasonal rain had caused extensive damage in several parts. There have been reports of damage to infrastructure, agricultural land, personal and public property as well as loss of human and animal lives.“About 3 lakh farmers were affected due to excessive rain in July, August, September months. Compensation amount had been released for them. Instructions had been issued for disbursal of ₹130 crore pending amount through Direct Transfer of Benefit system,” Bommai said on Sunday.He added that district officials have been instructed to submit survey reports on the losses so far.The ministers are touring their respective districts. The election code of conduct is also an issue that is causing delay as permission from the Election Commission is needed. “We will write to the Election Commission in this regard,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-like-a-touring-circus-with-janaswarajya-yatra-amid-calamity-says-siddaramaiah-101637514341012.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Swachh Survekshan 2021: How Lucknow gained in sanitation rankings||The progress from one star to three star garbage-free city has not come easily for Lucknow. It took a lot of hard work by staff despite the pandemic, municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said.To note, Lucknow bagged awards in “best state capital in citizen feedback” and “garbage-free cities” categories in Swachh Survekshan 2021.Last year, Lucknow had secured 12th position out of 470 cities of the country which were nominated and it had also topped as the cleanest city of the state. In 2019, Lucknow stood at a poor 121st place. In 2018, the state capital was placed at 115th rank while in 2017 its place was 269.Dwivedi said, “I am not saying that there is no problem in the waste management on roads now but when you compare it from the past then the situation has surely improved. Lucknow has achieved three star sanitation rankings due to our 24x7 hard work for the last 12 months. When people used to sleep, our mechanized sweepers were sweeping the roads. Not only that we analysed our shortcomings and worked to ensure door-to-door waste collection from homes in every ward.”The LMC has deployed 500 vehicles for waste collection and placed portable compactors at 84 places in the city. This has helped in compressing and transfer of waste in covered condition, he said. “The LMC distributed three coloured bins in each house of 55 wards. I inspected the waste treatment plant at Shivri plant every month to check the segregation, recycling and composting of waste in a scientific way,” Dwivedi said.“The survey also took note of our efforts in material recovery facility points which we established to process construction material. Besides, over 10,000 plots were made waste free, 120 open garbage dump yards were closed down and at the same time started sweeping 62 roads in the city with the help of mechanized sweeping machines,” said the municipal commissioner.The central team also took note of the efforts in making city open defecation free. “The LMC has ODF ++ certificate. LMC has also constructed 390 community toilets and 96 air-conditioned deluxe toilets across the city besides making 510 urinal points. In addition, 74 pink toilets were also made. These pink toilets have sanitary pad vending machines, hair dryers, dispensers, baby changing stations,” said Dwivedi.The biggest advantage which Lucknow got was from the fact that LMC started using treated water from Bharwara treatment plant for irrigating plants on sides of road. Lucknow has also gained from the positive citizen feedback, said Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-how-lucknow-gained-in-sanitation-rankings-101637514339614.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Realty firm, PMC await compensation notice from pollution control panel||The realty firm Gokhale Landmark and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are yet to receive a notice from a joint committee of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) on an environmental compensation to imposed. The committee was formed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The ruling was passed on October 8.Advocate Manasi Joshi who represents the MPCB said, “The meet has been constituted and they are in process of assessing it.”The realty firm and PMC are accused of causing damage to the Mula river water as untreated water was flown into the river due to a broken sewage line. The PMC was also accused of inaction despite local residents bringing it to their notice. Advocate Pralhad Paranjape who represents Gokhale Landmarks said, “NGT has not said that either 100 per cent Gokhale Construction is responsible, or 100 per cent Pune Municipal Corporation is responsible. What NGT has said is that, a committee of CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board) and MPCB (Maharashtra Pollution Control Board) will meet and that committee will figure out what needs to be done. In that sense the committee will assess what is the damage caused and the committee is going to assess and figure out, in what proportion are we liable. The committee is yet to act further .” As per information provided by architect Sarang Yadvadkar who raised this issue before the NGT alongwith other four applicants, close to 20.24 million litres per day (MLD), ie, 2,024 tankers of untreated raw sewage were released into the water body. “Basically, the pollutant released in to the water body is raw sewage in this case. So daily quantity released and for how many days was it released - that is the formula. And compensation will be in the financial category. They have to pay environmental compensation toward the damages,” said Yadvadkar. The firm is building a commercial complex near City Pride, Kothrud. The judgement was given by the NGT special bench on October 8, led by chairman Justice AK Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/realty-firm-pmc-await-compensation-notice-from-pollution-control-panel-101637514279668.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Centre will bring back three farm laws after 2022 assembly polls, fears SP||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday expressed apprehension that the Centre could bring back the three contentious farm laws after the assembly polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, next year as it cited the statements made by Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP from Unnao Sakshi Maharaj on them. On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws after nearly a year-long agitation by a section of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, opposing the laws. Both Mishra and Maharaj told reporters on Saturday that the laws can be brought again, if needed.In a tweet in Hindi, the Samajwadi Party charged, “It is absolutely clear that their (BJP) heart is not clean and after the elections, the bills will be brought again. Occupying the constitutional posts, Governor of Rajasthan Kalraj Mishra and BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj have said that the BJP government may bring the bill for farm laws...This is the truth of those tendering false apologies to farmers...The farmers will bring a change in 2022.”Mishra on Saturday said in Bhadohi that efforts were made to make the farmers understand the provisions of the farm laws, and positive aspects, but the farmers were demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws and were protesting against them. Eventually, the government felt that the laws be withdrawn, and if there was a need to make the laws again, it would be done. “The farmers were continuously demanding that the farm laws be withdrawn and it was done in a very civilised manner. It is a good step and an appropriate decision,” Mishra said.Speaking to reporters in Unnao on Saturday, BJP MP Maharaj said, “Bills are made and repealed. They will come again, and will be made again. It hardly takes any time (Bills to bante rehte hai, bigarte rehte hai...vaapas aajaayenge, dobaaraa ban jaayenge...koi der nahi lagti hai). But I would thank Modiji that he displayed a big heart and he chose the nation over the laws. And those whose intentions were wrong, those who had raised slogans of ‘Pakistan Zindaabad’ and ‘Khalistan Zindabad’, have got a befitting reply.”He also categorically stated that there was no connection between the announcement of repealing of the farm laws with the next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. “In the UP 2022 assembly elections, the BJP will cross the 300-mark in the (403-member) UP Legislative Assembly. In India, there is no substitute of (Prime Minister) Modi and (UP chief minister) Yogi Adityanath. Their magic will stay,” he said.SP national president Akhilesh Yadav in a press conference on October 25 (much before the PM’s announcement) had said that “It is quite possible that the BJP government (at the Centre) would withdraw the ‘black’ farm bills and then reintroduce them after the elections. And in press conference on Friday, hours after PM’s announcement, Akhilesh Yadav had said: “Saaf nahin hai inka dil, Chunaav baad fir layengey bill (Their heart is not clean, they will reintroduce the bill after elections).
21-11-2021||Lucknow||SKM to hold farmers’ mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, will be holding a mahapanchayat at Eco Garden in Lucknow on Monday in a show of strength days after the PM’s announcement that the three farm laws, which led to the farmers’ movement, would be repealed. Giving a “Lucknow Chalo” (march to Lucknow) call, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait has invited farmers, labourers and youths to join the mahapanchayat in big numbers. The Lucknow mahapanchayat was planned several months before the Friday’s announcement.Farmer leaders said the protests will continue until the government makes a law on minimum support price (MSP). In a tweet in Hindi on Sunday, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, “Chalo Lucknow Chalo Lucknow (lets go to Lucknow) for MSP Adhikaar Kisan Mahapanchayat. The agriculture reforms being talked about are fake and cosmetic. The farm reforms are not going to stop the plight of the farmers. The biggest reform for the farmers and agriculture will be to make a law pertaining to the MSP.”Meanwhile, farmers and supporters of their stir from different districts of western UP are expected to take part in the mahapanchayat in big numbers. General secretary, BKU (Asli), Surendra Singh said farmers’ confidence was running high after the announcement of the repealing of three “contentious” farm laws. Therefore, they were expected to attend the mahapanchayat in big numbers, he added.Moreover, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary also advised farmers in his “Parivartan Sandesh Rally” in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday to keep up the pressure on the government and reiterated that “his party will always back the decisions taken by the farmers”. Farmer leaders are reaching out to people in villages to ensure their good turnout in the Monday’s mahapanchayat.BKU’s Moradabad division president Digamber Singh said leaders and activists of union had already arrived in Lucknow to attend the mahapanchayat. He claimed that the mahapanchayat will see a huge turnout of people including from different districts of eastern and other parts of the state. “Guarantee for MSP is a genuine demand of farmers and the agitation will continue until the government accepts the demand,” Singh claimed.Other farmer leaders opined that the Centre’s decision to withdraw the three contentious farm laws had infused vigour among the agitating farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/skm-to-hold-farmers-mahapanchayat-in-lucknow-on-monday-101637513499662.html
21-11-2021||Patna||RCD pins hope on Gadkari meet to clear proposal for 2 more expressways in Bihar||After Centre’s nod to the Amas- Darbhanga expressway in march this year, the road construction department (RCD) is now hoping that the proposal to construct two more expressways- Raxaul to Kolkata via Patna and Buxar to Bhagalpur will get Centre’s clearance in a meeting next month scheduled to be held between state department minister Nitin Nabin and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari.Currently, Bihar doesn’t have any expressway. If cleared by the central ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), the state will have three expressways in years to come. Land acquisition process has already been started to build the state’s first expressway from Amas in Aurangabad to Darbhanga via Patna. Officials of the RCD said that the November 24 meeting between the two ministers has been deferred owing to Gadkari’s sudden programme to visit to Jammu and Kashmir to oversee the issues pertaining to the road projects for strategic importance. “We hope that the meeting would now be held in the first week of December,” said a senior officer, adding that they were preparing the detailed proposal of Buxar-Bhagalpur expressway to get the in principal approval for it during the meeting. The RCD had submitted the proposal to construct the Buxar-Bhagalpur expressway as another greenfield project to MoRTH last month. However, the MoRTH is yet to discuss the project in details including its alignment with the state government officials. Nabin said that the long-awaited proposal to build expressway from Raxaul to Kolkata via Patna was pending for clearance by the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The process to appoint a reputed consultant to prepare the detailed project report (DRP) of nearly 640km-long Raxaul-Kolkata expressway would start once it is cleared by the CCEA,” said the RCD minister. The minister said that the department has earmarked the alignment of the 350 km Buxar-Bhagalpur expressway for discussion with the Union minister. “We will try integrating this expressway project as part of Bharat Mala Phase-2, once the Raxaul-Kolkata project receives the formal nod,” said that minister, adding that land acquisition for the two expressway would be carried out as soon as the Central government gives their formal consent. Regarding the 189km Amas-Darbhanga expressway, the minister said that the land acquisition for the Greenfield project is in the final stages and the expression of interest to execute the project from renowned construction companies would be invited. A sum of about ₹5,000 crore is likely to be spent on constructing the Amas-Darbhanga expressway. Boosting Connectivity Expressways Length stage of execution Amas-Darbhanga 189km Land acquisition in final stage Raxaul-Kolkata 639km Awaiting CCEA clearance at the Centre Buxar-Bhagalpur 350km Proposal submitted for initial nod from MoRTH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rcd-pins-hope-on-gadkari-meet-to-clear-proposal-for-2-more-expressways-in-bihar-101637512959278.html
21-11-2021||Patna||Patna University to begin admission in PG courses from Monday||In a major relief to students waiting for admission in post-graduation (PG) regular courses, Patna University (PU) is all set to commence the process for the same from Monday.As per the latest notification issued by PU, online forms for admission in regular PG courses including MA, MSc and MCom along with PG diploma in public administration programmes will be available from November 22 to December 20.“Interested students can check details of all courses and fill online admission form through our official website www.patnauniversity.ac.in,” said Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare.PU has around 1800 seats in PG regular courses of science, commerce and humanities.Besides, PU has extended the deadline for filling online admission form in PG vocational courses till November 30.PU’s academic session for PG courses has been delayed this year owing to Covid-19 induced restriction. Usually, the varsity starts the admission process for PG courses in April.“The varsity takes admission in traditional PG courses based on marks obtained by the candidates in their last qualifying examination instead of conducting entrance test. However, entrance exams will be conducted for admission in PG vocational courses. The entrance schedule for them will be announced after the closure of the application window,” said Kumar.Admission on UG seats through spot roundThe state education department has sanctioned additional 240 seats in undergraduate (UG) courses at two colleges of PU. The varsity has announced to take admission on additional seats and vacant seats through online counselling mode beginning from Monday.Patna College and Patna Science College have been sanctioned additional 180 and 60 seats respectively. PU has announced an online counselling process for conducting spot admission for filling around 900 seats in undergraduate courses across its constituent colleges. Interested candidates can fill the subjects’ choices through online mode. The process will begin with Magadh Mahila College on Monday followed by Patna Science College on November 24, Patna College and Vanijya Mahavidyalaya on November 26 and BN College on November 28.“Selected candidates will have to pay admission fee through online mode and visit their respective colleges for paper verification. The spot round admission will be concluded by November 30”, said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-university-to-begin-admission-in-pg-courses-from-monday-101637512719421.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Swachh Survekshan: Prayagraj’s ranking takes a hit||Sangam city’s ranking has taken a hit in the ‘Swachh Survekshan-2021’ the results of which were declared on Saturday. The city was ranked 26th in the country and fifth in the state in the survey results released by the union housing and urban affairs ministry. Prayagraj’s ranking at the national level dropped six places as compared to the cleanliness survey of 2020 while in the state too, the city’s ranking came down by a notch as compared to 2020.In the last year’s survey, Prayagraj had bagged 20th rank in the country and fourth in the state among cities having a population of over a million. However, this time around, Sangam city could secure 26th rank in the country and 5th in the state. Critics, however, point out that failure to ensure cleanliness in the city as per set government norms cost Prayagraj this time. The slip is all the more obvious if one takes into consideration Sangam city’s number 1 ranking in terms of improvement in cleanliness in the 2017 survey—a feat that saw mayor Abhilasha Gupta ‘Nandi’ and the former municipal commissioner Devendra Pandey being felicitated in New Delhi by the then union urban development minister M Venkaiah Naidu, they claim.“We are constantly working towards improving the cleanliness in the city through better waste collection, management and disposal efforts. We will review the scores and our performance in the latest survey and work to better the things. All efforts would be made to improve the ranking in the next survey,” said Uttam Kumar Verma, environmental engineer, PNN.Municipal officials requesting anonymity said this time the PNN and other agencies focused their attention on key arterial roads for cleanliness and pressed even modern machines for this but failed to do the same in bylanes and intersecting smaller roads. The central team as part of the survey, however, visited the narrow lanes and interacted with locals which finally saw a poor though truer picture emerge. Some of the areas in which the city is believed to have lost marks in the survey include poor collection of door-to-door waste, segregation of dry and wet waste, disposal of bulk garbage at a single spot, poor crackdown on individuals indulging in littering among others.As many as 342 cities were given some star ratings in this year’s annual cleanliness survey, with a total of 4,320 cities taking part in it, which as per the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs was the “world’s largest urban cleanliness survey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/swachh-survekshan-prayagraj-s-ranking-takes-a-hit-101637512659570.html
21-11-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports 16 Covid-19 cases; Recovery rate stands at 98.68%||Haryana reported 16 Covid-19 cases and zero daily deaths due to the disease on Sunday, pushing the infection tally to 7,71,544.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the death toll remained unchanged at 10,053.Nine new cases were reported from Gurugram, four from Panchkula, two from Fatehabad and one case was from Faridabad.The number of active cases of the disease in the state stands at 117, while the count of recoveries is at 7,61,351.The recovery rate was recorded at 98.68 per cent, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-16-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-stands-at-9868-101637512419754.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Dawood aide Riyaz Bhati booked in ₹25-L extortion case; Param Bir co-accused in case||Versova police on Sunday booked Riyaz Bhati – an alleged aide of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim for extortion from a businessman after allegedly making the complainant’s objectionable video.According to the police, Bhati is wanted in an extortion case registered on July 23, in which former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Vaze have also been named.In statement to the police, the businessman claimed that Bhati had trapped him and extorted ₹25 lakh after making a video of him with a woman.“I was being blackmailed by Bhati,” the complainant stated, adding that he had given an application to the police two months ago about the extortion. The police verified the businessman’s transactions and checked the CCTV footage of the area where the complainant had met Bhati.‘’The complainant has said he has paid ₹25 lakh from two accounts. We have registered a case against Bhati under section 384 of IPC (Indian Penal Code) for extortion and are investigating further,” said an officer from Versova police station.Vaze is in Taloja jail in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases. Singh has been declared an ‘absconding accused’ in another extortion case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dawood-aide-riyaz-bhati-booked-in-25-l-extortion-case-param-bir-co-accused-in-case-101637512359366.html
21-11-2021||Other||Basmati prices on upswing in Punjab, with reduction in area hitting supply||Chandigarh With basmati supplies expected to be constrained with area under its cultivation falling this season, the aromatic variety has seen an upward swing in the prices, crossing over ₹4,000 a quintal, over the past ten days. Last season’s peak season rates ranged between ₹2,500 and ₹2,600 in mandis of Kotkapura, Amritsar, Muktsar, Batala, Fatehgarh Churian and Batala. Punjab Mandi Board figures show that to date, 8.35 lakh tonne basmati has arrived in mandis against last year’s corresponding figure of 10.75 lakh tonne. “Prices are expected to cross ₹4,500 per quintal, with total arrivals expected to be between 13 lakh tonne and 14 lakh tonne. “This upswing in prices has come after years and is good for growers, especially when the area under the crop has reduced by 26% over previous season,” said Ashok Sethi, director, Basmati Exporters Association. The area under premium paddy variety basmati this season has shrunk by one-fourth over the previous seasons. Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) figures show that this season, basmati was sown over 4.4 lakh hectare against last year’s area under of 6 lakh hectare, witnessing a steep fall of 26%. The Centre has been studying the cropping pattern over the past four-five years. Fall in area is attributed to poor economics attached with the premium crop forcing the basmati growers to shift to the Parmal paddy covered under MSP, with 26 lakh hectare is under Parmal. Now, paddy crop sown June-July has matured and is being harvested. “An acre of basmati yields 18-20 quintal, which is sold at price of ₹2,500 a quintal, for a total sale of 48,000. While the yield of an acre of Parmal variety is 30-32 quintal which sells at a fixed price of 1,940 per acre,” said an official with state’s food and civil supplies department. He adds that parmal fetches per acre value between ₹58,000 to 62,000 per acre witnessing a benefit of Rs. 10,000 to 12,000. “Prices are expected to see an upward trend this week. There is needs a system to regulate and stabilise prices offered for basmati, so that farmers are not fleeced,” said Surinder Singh, a basmati grower from Batala. According to Sethi, the fall in prices is due to closure of business with Iran which used to export grain worth ₹12,000 crore from the state. “We hope for more upward swing in the basmati market, once sanctions imposed on Iran by the US are removed; India had also followed the US,” he added. Annually, basmati export from India is worth ₹34,000 crore, out of with Punjab contributes 40%. The quantum of Indian basmati rice consumed in Saudi Arabia is 50% of import to middle-east; the region itself forms 70% of our country’s export market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/basmati-prices-on-upswing-in-punjab-with-reduction-in-area-hitting-supply-101637510979350.html
21-11-2021||Other||Repeal of farm laws will not benefit BJP in Punjab: BSP||Jalandhar Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) state affairs in-charge Randhir Benipal said the Shiromani Akali Dal-BSP alliance will form the next government in Punjab, as people were tired of fake promises. “The BJP will not get any political or electoral benefit in Punjab for the repeal of the three farm laws,” he said, on the sidelines of a meeting with the legal cell of the party at the Desh Bhagat Yaadgar hall on Sunday. He added that the BSP has taken feedback from the intellectuals on the choice of candidate for assembly polls, scheduled early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/repeal-of-farm-laws-will-not-benefit-bjp-in-punjab-bsp-101637510499197.html
21-11-2021||Other||Mansa woman held selling infant in Sangrur||Sangrur Police have arrested a woman who was travelling to Sangrur to sell an infant that she had kidnapped. The infant has been recovered from her possession, the police said, naming the accused as Kamlesh Kaur of Mansa town. She was arrested from Kotra Lehal bus stand near Lehragaga. The FIR says that police had a tip-off on the crime that she was about to commit. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansa-woman-held-selling-infant-in-sangrur-101637509959013.html
21-11-2021||Other||Pargat distributes ₹50 lakh grant to Jalandhar villages||Jalandhar Punjab cabinet minister Pargat Singh has said that the state government was committed to providing ultra-modern city-like facilities for rural areas. He also distributed grants worth ₹50 lakh in Jalandhar villages, adding that there was no dearth of funds for the development and a detailed road map had been chalked out to expedite development in urban and rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pargat-distributes-rs-50-lakh-grant-to-jalandhar-villages-101637509659095.html
21-11-2021||Pune||8 distts with lowest Covid vaccination numbers in Maha get innovative to turn the tide||PUNE With over 100 million vaccines administered in Maharashtra, one of the leading states in the country, a few districts are still lagging when it comes to Covid vaccinations. There are 22 districts in the state that have recorded numbers lower than the state average, as less than 77% of eligible beneficiaries have got the first dose, and less than 38% have been fully vaccinated. Of these, the eight districts that are of concern are Hingoli, Amravati, Akola, Aurangabad, Yavatmal, Nanded, Beed and Nandurbar. The administration in these district has now geared up to try innovative techniques, right from vaccination before banking services and religious calls, to lure beneficiaries to the vaccination centres, which they claim is working and will hopefully help them achieve the target of 100% of beneficiaries vaccinated with the first dose by the year end. Earlier, through a video conference call, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed some of these districts and set a target to ensure that 100% of beneficiaries are vaccinated with at least the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine. However, despite the steady flow of the vaccine the turnout at the vaccination centres did not look promising. One of the primary reasons is a waning fear of Covid-19 as the number of new cases in these districts has gone down to single digits and then there is vaccine hesitancy. Ten days ago, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted: “The vaccine industry has worked tirelessly to provide enough stocks for the nation. Today, there are over 200 million doses available with states. I urge all adults to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Vaccine hesitancy is now the greatest threat in overcoming this pandemic”.State immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai verified the statement as he confirmed that the state machinery has over 10.80 million doses for use and so vaccine shortage is not an issue.Various officials in these districts have also said that the reducing fear of the infection, vaccine hesitancy and also the failure of the administration to reach out to beneficiaries, especially in tribal belts, or to those who have a hesitancy was a problem which they believe they have now overcome.The eight districts which are at the bottom have reported below 65% first doses and 30% second doses as of Sunday. Manisha Khatri, collector of Amravati district, which has seen 63% of the eligible beneficiaries vaccinated with the first dose and 28% fully vaccinated said, “For the last ten days we are seeing 10,000 vaccinations everyday which was earlier a few thousands. Over 110,000 beneficiaries were overdue for their second dose which has now gone down to 70,000. We are to set up vaccination centres outside major banks and government offices and will ask visitors to produce the vaccination certificate. Of course we cannot deny them any services as the vaccine is not mandatory.” Jitendra Papalkar, collector of Hingoli, which has seen 63.60% of beneficiares who have got the first dose and 24.83% who have been fully vaccinated said, “To boost the vaccination, the administration went door to door. We also surveyed these villages wherein not a single dose was administered. We even deployed our volunteers and personnel at ration shops and asked people who came there for daily essentials to produce their vaccine certificate. If they did not we directed them to the nearest vaccination centre. In the past ten days the vaccination rate of the district has been going up daily by at least 1%. It is also important to note that the vaccination drive really began in the district only in August and so second dose beneficiaries are eligible now. Also we lost the monsoon months as the administration and the people were engaged in tackling the heavy floods. We hope to vaccinate everyone with at least one dose by this year end.”Akola’s collector Nima Arora, where 63.16% of the beneficiaries have got the first dose and 28.58% are fully vaccinated, said, “The primary reason why the district lagged was because of the waning fear due to lowering positive cases. However, now we are using different media platforms like radios, local newspapers and with multiple waves in western countries being reported, people are coming forward to take the vaccine. We were are the 35th position in the state with regards to vaccine coverage, but in the past ten days we have jumped up five spots. We formed multiple teams led by Asha workers, Aanganwadi sevikas and teachers who were given 20-25 volunteers who would go door to door and explain to people the benefits of vaccination and clear any hesitancy.”Arora said, “We did try to prioritise distribution at ration shops for those who are fully vaccinated, then those who have got first dose and then those who are not vaccinated; and also to delay salaries of government employees. So we approached the minority community leaders and religious centres and made them the face of IEC. There was some hesitancy among the SC and the Muslim community at first, but now we are seeing a response and we hope that by this month end we would have vaccinated atleast 70% of the eligible population with the first dose.” The district collector of Aurangabad, Sunil Chahuan was also in news recently when he issued a circular that those with no vaccine certificate would not get petrol or diesel. He said, “The circular definitely worked as more people are getting the vaccine. Earlier 20,000 people were taking the vaccine which has now gone up to 40,000 daily. We kept our vaccination centres open 24x7 at bigger talukas and in rural pockets we ran the centres early morning or late evening. We appealed to the minority leaders to use their influence and request people to get vaccinated. I myself halted at the villages at night and spoke to village leaders regarding this issue. Our team is working in election mode and if required have stayed overnight at the villages to vaccinate people. I am also conducting a meeting with the doctors in the district and requesting them to ensure that every person who comes to the OPD has the vaccination certificate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8-distts-with-lowest-covid-vaccination-numbers-in-maha-get-innovative-to-turn-the-tide-101637508819016.html
21-11-2021||Other||TMC Bengal unit leader held in Tripura on charges of criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder||Tripura police on Sunday arrested Trinamool Congress leader from Bengal, Sayani Ghosh, on the charge of promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy and attempt to murder. This comes a day after she was booked for her alleged attempt to disrupt chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s civic poll rally in Agartala. She would be forwarded to court on Monday, officials said. Police lodged a case against Ghosh under Sections 153 (promoting enmity between different groups), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). “We got a complaint and accordingly summoned her. Based on the statements of the witnesses, we found her involvement in a criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder, promoting enmity and arrested her,” said additional superintendent of police Jagadeswar Reddy. “Four more people were with her that time. We are trying to arrest them,” he said and didn’t say anything about how or whom Sayani attempted to murder. Shankar Lodh, Ghosh’s counsel, said that he would move for a bail petition in the court tomorrow. Lodh said that Sayani was returning from a political programme at Ambassa in Dhalai district and when her vehicle came to Ashram Chowmuhani in Agartala where a poll meeting of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb was held, someone told her ‘Khela Hobey’ and she replied the same. “Being a lawyer, I will not comment on a political matter but a political slogan can’t be unconstitutional. If someone gives the threat to kill someone, that might be considered unconstitutional,” Lodh said. TMC leader Sushmita Dev alleged that police went to the hotel last night where Sayani was staying and asked her to report to police and she went there on Sunday. While the police were interrogating her inside the police station, some Trinamool Congress leaders, who were present near the police station in Agartala, were attacked by a group of BJP cadres. “The main motive of BJP is to disturb TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s rally here tomorrow (Monday). We are with Sayani,” Sushmita told the reporters. Police said that some people were attacked by some unidentified miscreants and two were known to have received injuries. “We have taken a suo moto case. We will arrest them once they are identified,” said Jagadeswar Reddy. Reacting to the issue, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, “We don’t consider Trinamool Congress as our opponent even and our activists didn’t attack them. They should also restrain themselves from using any such words that are not welcome.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tmc-bengal-unit-leader-held-in-tripura-on-charges-of-criminal-conspiracy-attempt-to-murder-101637508639933.html
21-11-2021||Pune||PMC forms 5-member co-ordination committee to resolve issues with irrigation department||PUNE The PMC has formed five-member co-ordination committee to resolve issues between with the irrigation department regarding water supply. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar formed the committee which includes officials from the water supply, road, building permission and construction, land and estate departments. The committee also includes Vijay Patil, executive engineer, water and resource department, Khadakwasla irrigation division. Water supply and the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project are some of the major issues which the PMC will have to take permission from the Khadakwasla irrigation division for, because the Mula-Mutha river comes under the Khadakwasla division. The committee will ensure smooth functioning and resolving day-to-day issues related to the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-forms-5-member-co-ordination-committee-to-resolve-issues-with-irrigation-department-101637508578997.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Petition in Bombay HC seeks verification of caste certificate of Sameer Wankhede||A petition has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions to the caste scrutiny committee to verify the caste certificate of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede and the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) to terminate the officer’s services if the scrutiny panel finds that he has misused the Scheduled Caste (SC) status of his father. The petition claims that the SC status was relinquished after Wankhede’s Dnyandev got married to a Muslim woman. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course. The petition filed by social activist Ashok Mahadev Kamble through advocate Nitin Satpute has stated that Wankhede entered civil service by hiding the fact that he was a Muslim and by misrepresenting his caste/religion. The petition alleges that Wankhede had not disclosed his real caste and religion while being inducted into the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) in the SC category. Justifying his claim, Kamble has stated that as Wankhede’s father Dnyandev had converted to Islam and taken the name Dawood to get married to Zaheeda Bano, Wankhede could not avail benefits meant for the SC community. Kamble has relied upon various documents that show that the NCB officer had been a Muslim, born to Dawood Kachru Wankhede and Zaheda Bano. The petition further stated that while a declaration stating a change in Dawood’s name was made in 1993, there was no change made to his religion. It also claimed that the sub-registrar had corrected Dawood’s name to Dnyandev in the NCB officer’s birth certificate so that the latter could get an admission in college through the SC quota. Kamble has also referred to Wankhede’s marriage to Dr Shabana Qureshi by performing the nikah ceremony and stated that if the NCB officer was not a Muslim, he could not have married a girl from the community. In light of these averments, the petition has Wankhede’s dismissal from civil service. It also sought directions to the scrutiny committee to ascertain the NCB officer’s caste claim and legal action against him based on the written complaint submitted by the petitioner to the panel. The petition has also sought revocation and cancellation of Wankhede’s appointment in civil services after verifying his caste and religion with further directions to take criminal action against him for misleading and providing false information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petition-in-bombay-hc-seeks-verification-of-caste-certificate-of-sameer-wankhede-101637508098949.html
21-11-2021||Pune||PMC floats tender of ₹40 crore to “unclog” 30 sites prone to water logging||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has floated a tender of ₹40 crore to “unclog” some 30 sites in the city that have been deemed as prone to “chronic water logging”. Santosh Tandale, chief superintendent engineer of the drainage department said, “Due to concretisation, road widening, new flyovers, and inadequate drainage lines, need for long-term measures are needed to avoid water logging. In the last two years, the city has witnessed heavy rainfall and water logging in various parts of the city.” In 2016, PMC conducted a survey and identified 346 such sites in the city. So far, PMC has done work on 288 of these sites. Tandale added, “We floated a tender to complete the work related to flooding. We have ₹55 crore for this work which includes construction of culverts, desilting, cleaning, maintenance and repairs of nullahs.”As per the data with the drainage department, available since 2016 areas in Kothrud, Warje, Bavdhan, Pashan, Vishrantwadi, Dhanori, Yerawada, Wadgaonsheri, Hadapsar, Kondhwa, Wadia college area, Shaniwar peth, Dattawadi, Hingane, and Vadgaon Budruk, are prone to water-logging.A PMC official, speaking anonymously, said, “Lack of coordination between the drainage and road departments created man-made water logging spots. Normally, the road department carries out the road-widening work and are supposed to inform the drainage departments to increase the length and size of and drainage systems. It is not happening so, we see water logging.”In the Kondhwa basin area, as per the corporation officials, Passport office to the nullah at Pingale wasti, Taradatt Colony, Shivdatta Colony, Dnyaneshwar Park on BT Kawade road – Hadapsar, B G Shirke company to Bhimnagar Canal Culvert – Hadapsar, Koregaon park G lane, Shahu Modak Udyan lane No 5, Vidyut Nagar, Kargo Hotel to Mughal Garden to Vascon Windermere on North Main road, Shiv Plaza Society to airoba Nalla at Kondhwa Gaothan – BT Kawderoad to Railway crossing are sites identified as experiencing chronic water logging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-floats-tender-of-40-crore-to-unclog-30-sites-prone-to-water-logging-101637508039043.html
21-11-2021||Pune||14 marijuana shrubs seized from temple premises in Shirur; one arrested||The Shirur police, during a raid on Friday, recovered 41kg of marijuana (ganja), including 14 marijuana shrubs from a temple complex in Kathapur Khurd village in Shirur, some 70km from Pune. Aside from the contraband, the police also seized deer horn and hide from the premises of Hanuman Mandir Math. The head of the math, identified as Shantaram Baburao Dobhale, alias Bapu Maharaj (53), has been arrested in this regard. He was produced before a Shirur court that sent him to three days’ police custody on Friday. Police have booked the accused under relevant sections of the Wild Life Act and NDPS act.Inspector Sureshkumar Raut, Shirur police, received a tip-off about the sale of marijuana inside the temple complex. “Accordingly, we laid a trap and nabbed the accused from the premises. We have seized fourteen shrubs along with deer hide and horns from the campus. In total, we have seized 41kg of ganja estimated to be worth ₹2.57 lakh,” PI Raut said.The Pune rural police, in August, seized marijuana worth ₹13.75 lakh in Kamshet. The Shirur police in April had seized 78kg of cannabis and arrested four persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/14-marijuana-shrubs-seized-from-temple-premises-in-shirur-one-arrested-101637507738902.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Students threaten protest as TISS administration yet to re-open campus||Weeks after the state government directed higher education institutions in the city to reopen and bring back only vaccinated students in a phased manner, students at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) are still waiting for a word from the college management to get back on campus, officials said.In a letter sent to the management this week with signatures of over 168 students, many have demanded the college to reopen.“The Covid-19 situation is now in control and colleges too have reopened across the country. The majority of students from the marginalised communities are facing issues due to the digital divide in the absence of basic resources like the availability of electricity, internet connection, which has led to many missing important lectures. We request the institute to open campus only for such students first,” states the letter.Student groups have suggested that for starters, only research scholars should be allowed to work from campus in order to access basic library and laboratories for completion of work on their respective projects.In the second week of October, minister for state higher and technical education, Uday Samant, announced the reopening of colleges in a phased manner only for fully vaccinated students. In a statement made on October 13, Samant suggested that colleges should implement the physical reopening of campuses in a phased manner and should continue online classes for those students who are not yet fully vaccinated.“City colleges are reopening as per government orders. But for us, college reopening means reopening hostels which many students depend on. We have set up a committee to look into the possibility of reopening and suggest protocols and their report is expected by this month-end,” said PK Shajahan, dean of academics, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS).With no response from the management of the institute as yet, a group of students have also threatened to enter campus by force post-November 30. Hashtags of “chalo campus” and “occupy campus” have been going viral on social media sites.“TISS administration must notify about campus reopening by November 30, else we will occupy our campus,” said a statement released by the Progressive Students’ Forum (PSF), a group of students from TISS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/students-threaten-protest-as-tiss-administration-yet-to-re-open-campus-101637507140171.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||HC raps Mumbai cops for demanding license fees from restaurants||The Bombay high court has rapped the city police commissioner’s office for issuing a demand notice to a restaurant asking it to pay license fees retrospectively from 2018 despite the lockdown. The eatery had approached the HC after it was informed by the police that the restaurant would be closed if the fees were not paid. The court, while granting interim relief to the restaurant from paying the fees demanded by the police, has directed cops to file a reply justifying its action of seeking payment of the license fees for the period when the restaurant was not functional. A division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhabv Jamdar while hearing the petition filed by Anitha Ashok Shetty, proprietor of a restaurant in Dadar (E) was informed by advocate Veena Thadani that her client had received a demand notice from Mumbai police asking her to pay ₹12.6 lakh towards license fees failing which the establishment would be forced to shut down. Thadani informed the bench that prior to December 2019, the premise license fees was ₹2000 per month however in December 2019 it was increased to ₹2 lakh per month and was applied retrospectively from 2018. Thadani submitted that on February 12, 2020, her client received a demand notice from the police asking her to pay ₹12,60,000/- as renewal fees for the orchestra license for the period from 2019 to 2021, failing which she was threatened that the license would be cancelled or the entire business would be shut down. The bench was informed that in light of the lockdown which started from March 2020, Shetty made four representations till July 30 to the authorities seeking exemption from payment of the license fees as the business had come to a standstill, but the police insisted with the demand and threat. Aggrieved by the action of the police , she approached the HC seeking setting aside of the February 2020 demand notice and stay on proceedings ensuing from the notice. After hearing the submissions the bench held, “We are particularly shocked at the insistence on payment of fees without showing any latitude at all right up to 2021.” The court added that increasing the license fees and demanding it from the restaurant for the period while it was not offering any service was unacceptable. Staying the operation of the demand notice and proceedings ensuing from it the court directed the police to file an affidavit in response to the petition and posted hearing of the petition to January 27, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-raps-mumbai-cops-for-demanding-license-fees-from-restaurants-101637506542217.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath meets Modi at Raj Bhavan in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Raj Bhavan in Lucknow on Sunday morning. The two, according to those aware of the meeting, were together for about 45 minutes before Modi left to attend the 56th All India conference of DGPs/IGPs in the Uttar Pradesh capital.Though the details of the discussions between the two could not be known, the two pictures that Yogi Adityanath tweeted were widely shared on various social media platforms.Yogi shared pictures of the two walking together on the precincts of Raj Bhavan with Modi’s hand on Yogi’s shoulders. The chief minister also texted a verse in Hindi along with the pictures, which, when roughly translated, would mean: “We have set out with a pledge, devoting our body and soul, with a resolve to make the sun rise, to rise above the sky, to make a new India.”Modi reached Raj Bhavan on November 19 night from his tour to Mahoba and Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh. He was in Lucknow, according to the state information department, to attend the 56th conference of DGPs/IGPs . He left for New Delhi on Sunday evening.Union home affairs minister Amit Shah, the directors general of police (DGPs) of all the states and Union territories, the directors general (DGs) of central police organisations and 350 other senior police officers were also present at the conferenceNotably, the meeting of the two leaders (Modi and Yogi) holds significance as it comes months ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Yogi had met Modi on Saturday morning also at the Raj Bhavan, and the state government had called it a courtesy call.Yogi Adityanath saw PM Modi and Amit Shah off at the airport on Sunday evening as they returned to Delhi.Elections for the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh assembly are slated for early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-meets-modi-at-raj-bhavan-in-lucknow-101637506418912.html
21-11-2021||Noida||Bid for development of UP’s proposed film city to open on November 23||Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) CEO Arun Veer Singh on Sunday said that the bid for the development of ₹10,000 crore film city along the Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh will open on November 23. He also said that the pre-bid will be done on December 8.“The bid for the development of ₹10,000 crore film city will open on November 23, pre-bid will be done on December 8. It will be built upon 1,000 acres of land, out of which 740 acres will have filming activities and 40 acres for film institutions,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The proposed film city along the 165km Yamuna Expressway is expected to create another hub for filmmaking and production in Uttar Pradesh and boost tourism in the state. According to a report by HT, the detailed project report (DPR) of the film city filed by the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) shows that production of films will begin from 2024. The project will be built over 1,000 acres of land while 740 acres have been proposed by Yeida for film facilities.The DPR also suggested that there should be an amusement park on 120 acres, commercial development on 40 acres, 34 acres should be earmarked for retail space, 21 acres for five-star hotels, and 40 acres each for residential purposes and world-class film institutes, according to the HT report.There are three models suggested for the development of the film city in Uttar Pradesh. The first model is that the developer will give a certain amount of rent to the state and Yeida. The second model suggests that the developer will give stake to both the state and Yeida and the third model allows the developer to give a share of profit annually. The government will take a call on which model it will propose.There are three models suggested for the development of the proposed film city in Uttar Pradesh. The first model is that the developer will give a certain amount of rent to the state and Yeida. The second model suggests that the developer will give stake to both the state and Yeida and the third model allows the developer to give a share of profit annually.The government in August approved a proposal to go for a hybrid model of development for the film city in Greater Noida. The Yeida will hold equity in the project through its contribution of nearly 1,000 acres in Sector 21, and the party involved in building and developing the film city will pay the government ₹100 crore-a-year after a 10-year moratorium and offer a share of its revenue to the authority, a HT report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bid-for-development-of-up-s-proposed-film-city-to-open-on-november-23-101637504691340.html
21-11-2021||Other||Area on which farmers burnt stubble reduces 22%; no fall in number of cases||Patiala Even as the number of stubble burning cases in Punjab shave touched 71,000-odd, the second-highest figure over the past five years, data with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) shows that the polluting activity actually occurred on 22% lower area of agricultural land compared to the last year. Till November 15, paddy stubble was burnt in 12.9 lakh hectare of agricultural area; last year, the area where stubble was burnt was 16.5 lakh hectare, so a reduction of 22% has been seen. The PPCB and the state agriculture department claim that reduction in burnt area is result of their efforts to create awareness among farmers, and the machinery provided to them over the past three years. . PPCB member secretary Krunesh Garg said there are multiple factors that have resulted in reduction in the area under stubble burning. “Awareness campaigns over the past few years have yielded positive results for in-situ management (in the field itself) of the crop residue. Farmers have started managing paddy crop leftover in an eco-friendly manner,” Garg claimed, adding that the promotion of direct sowing, the Super Straw Management System (SMS) with harvesters, balers and other machinery have also helped in reduction in area. “There is gradual change on the ground and with this, the area under farm fire will be reduced to large extent in coming years,” Garg said.  ₹1,100 CRORE SPENTPunjab has spent ₹1,100 crore in providing required machinery for in-situ management of crop residue to farmers. Nearly 86,000 crop residue management (CRM) equipments were sold to farmers on 50% subsidy over the past three years, officials say.The state has also mooted plan to setup 22 compressed biomass gas projects with a total capacity of 229.3 tonne per day, which will help manage nearly 8 lakh tonne of paddy straw. The first of these plants is likely to be commissioned next month; two more are under construction.Garg added that reduction in burnt area is a positive sign as it has happened at a time when the harvesting area has increased over last year. “In this kharif season, the harvesting area was recorded at 29 lakh hectare than 27.89 lakh hectare last year,” he said.State agriculture commissioner BS Sidhu said awareness among farmers has been the key. “Farmers have started understanding that pollution caused due to stubble burning has adverse affects on their own health first, before it reaches other parts of state or Delhi,” Sidhu said.He added that the Super SMS had also helped farmers in re-carpeting and managing stubble. Last year, the state government had made self-propelled combined harvester mandatory under the scheme as it shreds paddy straw before spreading it evenly across the field. This enables farmers to sow wheat without burning the residue. AQI LEVEL IMPROVESWith scattered cases of stubble burning, the AQI level of most of the Punjab cities has improved., though it continues to be in the unhealthy and the very unhealthy band. Data with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) shows that the AQI of Bathinda was at 199; Amritsar 181; Ludhiana 196; Khanna 170; Rupnagar 149; Mandi Gobindgarh 264; Patiala 204 and Jalandhar 219.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/area-on-which-farmers-burnt-stubble-reduces-22-no-fall-in-number-of-cases-101637504918693.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Make Varanasi completely jam-free: Commissioner of Police to traffic cops||Commissioner of Police A Satish Ganesh on Sunday instructed additional deputy commissioner of police traffic and stations officers to deploy additional police force at places prone to traffic snarls and make the city completely jam-free.He passed the instructions during a meeting with ADCP traffic Ramsevak Gautam, assistant commissioner of police traffic Santosh Meena and station officers of Commissionerate area. Places like Chauka Ghat, Chandpur intersections, Benjamin trisection, Piplani Katra, Radio station trisection and Mahmurganj are some major traffic jam points in the city. CP told traffic cops to deploy cops at these points in order to ensure smooth movement of traffic. Simultaneously, station officers will keep an eye on the traffic jam points in their respective areas. “All these efforts are aimed at making Varanasi a jam-free city,” he said.The CP further said “Checking will be done only on the orders of DCP or a senior officer. Papers related to insurance, pollution will not be checked during peak hours and peak days since it is priority to give jam-free traffic.”He also asked cops not harass people going on two-wheeler with family in the name of checking. He also instructed officials to take action against vehicles, including auto rickshaws running without permits, and those parked on roads and lanes in haphazard manner.“The data of illegal buses or other vehicles seized by cops in the last 6 months has been sought,” he said and added that the police station in-charges have to check illegal encroachments on the roads of their areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/make-varanasi-completely-jam-free-commissioner-of-police-to-traffic-cops-101637504138615.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Major mishap averted due to alertness of railway keyman in Pratapgarh||A major mishap on Pratapgarh-Lucknow railway route was averted after an alert railway keyman spotted broken track near Antu railway station in Pratapgarh minutes before Padmavat Express was to cross the stretch.Railway keyman Moti Lal was inspecting the tracks when he spotted a gap in the track near Mishran village around 2 km ahead of Antu station at around 8.35 am. “There was at least 2 inch gap in the tracks. The Padmavat Express had started moving. Moti Lal stood on the tracks with red flag following which the train driver immediately applied brakes. The keyman informed the driver and control room of the broken track following which repair work was started,” said Antu Railway station superintendent AK Dubey. The Lucknow-bound train was halted at the station for 45 minutes until the track was repaired. The train left station at 9.21 am. Dubey appreciated the alertness of the keyman and said the gap in the track was developed due to cold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-mishap-averted-due-to-alertness-of-railway-keyman-in-pratapgarh-101637503658560.html
21-11-2021||Kolkata||WBBSE modifies schedule for physical classes of affiliated schools. Timings here||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education (WBBSE) on Sunday instructed all its affiliated schools to hold physical classes on days alternating among the standards. Classes 10 and 12 have been allowed to hold physical classroom sessions on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, while classes 9 and 11 may ask students to show up on Tuesday and Thursday. All these classes are to be held in accordance with official coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related social distancing protocols, the WBBSE noted.Class scheduleMonday, Wednesday, and Friday: Academic classroom sessions for Class X and Class XIITuesday and Thursday: Academic classroom sessions for Class IX and Class XISaturday: No academic classes for students; feedback sessions, awareness generation campaigns, and orientation of guardians are to be organised every weekend.Sunday: HolidayMoreover, academic study matters on alternate non-schooling days shall be looked after by the school management.Class timingsFor all classes: School day will last from 10:50am to 4:30pm, in all districts except in the hill sub-divisions of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, where the school day will last from 9:30am to 3pm.-The notification issued by the board, titled “Opening of schools at secondary/higher secondary level”, was addressed to all the heads of institutions under the WBBSE and the WBCHSE. “The arrangement will be operational immediately and shall continue until further orders,” the letter, signed by WBBSE president Kalyanmoy Ganguly, noted.West Bengal schools had re-opened physical classes from November 16, but the WBBSE had earlier proposed that academic classes may be held every day as per revised school hours from Monday to Saturday. Additionally, hostels have also been allowed to be re-opened wherever necessary, with strict adherence to coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wbbse-modifies-schedule-for-physical-classes-of-affiliated-schools-timings-here-101637500407787.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi hails positive change in police attitude towards public||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Sunday appreciated the positive change in the police attitude towards the general public, particularly post-Covid.He was addressing the valedictory session of all India conference of directors general of police (DGPs) and inspectors general of police (IGPs) at UP Police Headquarters in Lucknow, stated a press released shared by UP police officials.It further mentioned that PM Modi suggested the positive use of drone technology for the benefit of the people and stressed on the review of the SMART policing concept introduced in 2014. He suggested development of a roadmap for its continuous transformation and institutionalisation of the same in police forces. He urged to involve highly qualified youth to look for technological solutions through hackathon to tackle some of the routine challenges faced by the police.During his address to the country’s top police brass, PM Modi called for analysis of all police related incidents and developing case studies, to make it an institutionalised learning mechanism. He hailed the hybrid format of the conference as it allowed the free flow of information between various ranks.PM Modi suggested the development of inter-operable technologies which would benefit police forces across the country. He called for constituting a high-powered police technology mission, under the leadership of Union home minister Amit Shah to adopt future technologies for grassroot policing requirements.PM Modi gave examples of CoWIN, GeM (Government e-Marketplace) and UPI while citing the importance of technology in the lives of the general public. PM Modi participated in the discussions and gave suggestions in the conference for two days on Saturday and Sunday. In the run-up to the conference, various core groups of DGPs were formed for holding discussions on key aspects of national security such as prison reforms, terrorism, left-wing extremism, cyber-crimes, narcotics trafficking, foreign funding of NGOs, drone-related matters and development of border villages.The conference was attended by 62 DGPs/IGPs of states/Union Territories and DGs of CAPFs (central armed police force)s/central police organisations (CPOs). Over 400 officers of various ranks attended the conference virtually from Intelligence Bureau (IB) offices across the country. The PM also awarded the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service to IB personnel.For the first time, as per the directives of the PM, Indian Police Service officers from various states had submitted articles on contemporary security issues, which added more value to the conference.Earlier on Friday, the Union home minister had inaugurated the three-day conference, wherein he had awarded trophies to the three-best police stations of the country. He participated in all the discussions and offered his suggestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-hails-positive-change-in-police-attitude-towards-public-101637502818312.html
21-11-2021||Bhopal||BJP and Congress to hold events during the week to woo tribal voters in MP||The ruling BJP and the Congress in Madhya Pradesh will be holding outreach programmes for the tribals of the state during the week, with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan addressing an event in Mandla on Monday and the opposition party convening a meet of its tribal legislators on Wednesday.In Monday's event, Chouhan will inaugurate the work of installing statues of tribal king Shankar Shah and his son Raghunath Shah, both of whom were blown to pieces with cannons by the British during the first freedom struggle, Mandla BJP president Bhisham Dwivedi told PTI over phone on Sunday. "He will also address a huge rally of tribals in Ram Nagar, the capital of erstwhile Gondwana kingdom, to wrap up the week long Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas, which started on November 15 on the birth anniversary of icon Birsa Munda," he said. MP Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta said state unit chief Kamal Nath is going to hold a meeting with party legislators on November 24. “I am coming to Bhopal on Wednesday to take part in the meeting,” Congress MLA Dr Hiralal Alawa said.According to political observers, the BJP is desperately trying to regain its tribal base in MP while the Congress is trying to keep it intact. As per the 2011 Census, tribals account for 1.53 crore, or 21.08 per cent, of the 7.256 crore population of MP. A total of 47 seats in the 230-member Assembly are reserved for Scheduled Tribes, while there are over 50,000 tribal voters each in another 35 constituencies. The Congress managed to win the 2018 Assembly polls by capturing 31 of the 47 ST seats, while the BJP could emerge victorious in only 16 seats. However, a revolt by MLAs loyal to Jyotiraditya Scindia led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government in early 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bjp-and-congress-to-hold-events-during-the-week-to-woo-tribal-voters-in-mp-101637501595623.html
21-11-2021||Patna||Police raid hotels, arrest 21 for consuming liquor in Patna||After Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar held a meeting on liquor prohibition, Patna police on Saturday night raided more than 50 hotels in the state capital and arrested several persons including two doctors, four law students of different universities, six software engineers, a hotel owner on charges of consuming and providing liquor. The police also recovered several liquor bottles, officials said. In the last three days, the police have sent more than 100 people to jail on charges of consuming liquor. Deputy Superintendent of Police (law and order), Sanjay Kumar, said, “The police on Saturday night launched a special drive and conducted raids across 23 areas in Patna against liquor consumers and liquor suppliers in which the police arrested 21 persons including two doctors, four law students of different universities, and a hotel owner. The police arrested four law students from Rajiv Nagar areas who had come to attend a marriage ceremony and were found consuming liquor,” he added.The DSP said that the police also arrested two doctors, including a female doctor, from a hotel under the Kotwali police station. “All the 21 persons were sent to jail after FIRs were lodged with Kotwali police station on Sunday morning,” he added.Police said they arrested a doctor, a resident of Bhagalpur currently working in Ranchi and his female doctor friend from Maharasthra who came to Patna for their interview at AIIMS. But now they have been sent to jail, said a police officer.ASP (Town), Amit Kumar said that the police arrested seven persons after raiding three hotels under Gandhi Maidan police station. “The police raid will continue in Patna,” he added.The Kankarbagh police raided more than 10 hotels and arrested six software engineers who were identified as Rohit Kumar from Hyderabad, Anil Kumar and Kanchan Kumar Singh from New Delhi, Anand Mandal and Vinit Jaiswal from Kolkata, Kanchan Kumar Singh from New Delhi, Vikas Kumar from Mumbai who came to Patna to attend the marriage ceremony of their friend. All the accused have been sent to jail after being produced before the excise court in Patna. The police also arrested a BSNL employee from Kankarbagh area, said SHO of Kankarbagh police station, Ravi Shankar Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/police-raid-hotels-arrest-21-for-consuming-liquor-in-patna-101637500238994.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh on course to becoming medical hub: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said Uttar Pradesh was moving towards becoming a medical hub with the assistance of the central government.There was a time when the state was lacking in health facilities, but now all the 75 districts in the state are well equipped with ICU beds, 1.80 lakh emergency beds, and 518 oxygen plants have also become operational, he said.The medical facilities to deal with the pandemic were negligible in a majority of the districts during the first wave of Covid but they have been augmented now, he said.The chief minister made the point about Uttar Pradesh becoming a medical hub while speaking at a function at Lok Bhavan, where he gave appointment letters to 310 specialist doctors selected by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission. He also inaugurated 15 BSL-2 (biosafety level 2) laboratories.The labs will be operated in Amroha, Baghpat, Sambhal, Hardoi, Bhadohi, Chandauli, Shamli, Rampur, Pratapgarh, Hapur, Muzaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Farrukhabad, Sultanpur and Sant Kabir Nagar districts.Yogi Adityanath also said, “Ordinary citizens have a sense of respect for a doctor, but it has declined in recent times. There was a time when people used to regard doctors as “Gods on earth”, but commercialisation prevailing in the profession has changed the perspective.” The chief minister congratulated the newly appointed doctors. He encouraged them to discharge their responsibilities honestly and diligently in various health institutions of the state.Highlighting the augmented health services in the state on its way to becoming a medical hub, the chief minister said the ventilator facilities have also been made available in all the districts.Elaborating on the health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh, the chief minister maintained that in the last 70 years, there were only 12 medical colleges in the state but 33 medical colleges have been built in the last four-and-a-half years, out of which nine medical colleges have become operational.The academic session has commenced in eight medical colleges and the enrolment of students in the remaining nine medical colleges will start soon, he said.“We did not have any medical facilities (for Covid-19) when the first wave of the pandemic hit the nation. We had to send samples to other places for examination. At present, the state has the capacity to conduct four lakh tests daily,” the chief minister said.About apprehensions of the third wave, he said Covid is wreaking havoc again in Europe, the UK and China.“Our government has already planned to deal with the third wave. We have faith in all the Covid warriors including our doctors, health workers, Asha (Accredited Social Health Activists) and Anganwadi workers,” he added.The services of specialist doctors will be available in all the districts, he said, adding that the state government is recruiting and posting specialist doctors in various districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-on-course-to-becoming-medical-hub-yogi-adityanath-101637499878115.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||First sojourn to the plains with memories to treasure||Fifty-six years ago, I along with my father and siblings had walked to the tehsil headquarters and stayed there overnight. In the morning, we boarded a bus that took us to Nadaun, where the Beas river had to be crossed. A tributary of the river was in spate and we had to wait. While waiting, we had our meals. It was for the first time that I tasted something cooked in a dhaba. The nation was facing food scarcity and the eateries had instructions not to serve more than four chapatis per meal. Whether it was the limit on the chapatis or the food was tasty, I was left a little hungry. We walked on a pontoon bridge to cross the river and boarded another bus that climbed up and down through verdant hills. When we reached Hoshiarpur, the dark of the night had descended. We stayed in an inn without electricity. A small joint near the inn that served makki ki roti with dal was the place for our candlelight dinner. Heavenly it was! Father took us a little around Hoshiarpur and it included a visit to the now dilapidated Sheesh Mahal. Here, I took my first ride on a cycle rickshaw. Few cars and scooters were seen for the first time but I was awestruck by the large number of bicycles. For the first time, I saw huge hoardings. In Jalandhar, we had our meals at the railway canteen for 50 paise each. Here, I also learnt of the working of the flush system in a lavatory. Father took us to the premises of a newspaper to let us have a glimpse of how a daily was composed and printed; how a ‘Quatib’, a calligraphist, actually wrote a full newspaper page in Nastaliq script for an Urdu daily. It was exhilarating to ride a passenger train to Amritsar; another first for me. We were blessed by our visit to Harmandar Sahib. A visit to Durgiana Mandir supplemented it. We visited Jallianwala Bagh and saw its bullet marks on small-sized Lahori bricks as also the well into which patriots had jumped to avoid the bullets but perished in that attempt. I noticed ladder-like structures atop some buildings and learnt of the television and its antennas that picked up the signal in those times. It was thirst quenching to gulp down fresh sweetened soda water that was dispensed in bottles with a pinched neck and sealed airtight with a glass marble, the kanche wali bottle! Back in the village it was always free, but paying 10 paise for two roasted corn cobs was another experience. All passengers had joined to fill up the muddy earth with stones when our home-bound bus failed to climb up through the slush of a rain-soaked unmetalled road. Once the bus crossed the hurdle, father narrated the story of King Bruce and the spider. In between, the radio set bought by him in Jalandhar brought music and news. Now parents take children to exotic places; to mountains and to islands. I, born in the hills, had made my first sojourn to the plains and still treasure the memories. kumarr5803@gmail.com The writer is a retired professor of medicine at Dharamshala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-sojourn-to-the-plains-with-memories-to-treasure-101637498857947.html
21-11-2021||Other||35-yr-old man arrested in Assam’s Cachar for raping 15-yr-old autistic girl||A 35-year-old man has been arrested in Assam’s Cachar district for allegedly raping a 15-year-old autistic girl who cannot speak, officials said. The incident happened on Friday afternoon when the girl was alone at home and her parents were at work. Both her parents are daily wage labourers and residents of Ledia tea garden located in Lakhipur Legislative Assembly constituency. The accused is also a resident of the same area. The father informed the police that on Friday evening when he returned home along with his wife, they saw their child crying in pain. “Her grandmother was trying to calm her but we could feel her situation. She cannot speak but we know her language. What she indicated, showed that she was sexually assaulted. Talking further we identified the culprit and lodged a complaint at the local police station.”The mother said, “It was a tough decision to go to the police because it can increase her mental trauma further but we just cannot let the culprit move free after committing such a crime. We want strict punishment for him.” According to the police officials, they arrested the person on the basis of a complaint lodged by the girl’s father. The accused absconded after molesting the girl on Friday. He was arrested from a house in Ledia tea garden on Saturday morning and was produced at the court on the same day.Officer in-charge of Joypur Police Outpost, Manir Uddin, said, “The little girl cannot speak and the accused has admitted that he forced himself on her when she was alone at home. The victim was taken to the Silchar Medical College and Hospital for treatment. We have collected the reports from SMCH and her statement will be recorded once she recovers physically.” He also informed that the accused has been sent to Silchar Central Jail as per the Court’s order. Police will continue investigating and recording statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35yrold-man-arrested-in-assam-s-cachar-for-raping-15-yr-old-autistic-girl-101637498559397.html
21-11-2021||Other||‘Conviction rate for crimes in Assam presents sorry picture’: NCRB report||Like other parts of India, incidents of crime, especially the grievous ones, get highlighted in Assam newspapers and TV channels and arrests of criminals also grab headlines. But the rate of criminals getting convicted in court present a very dismal picture for the northeastern state, states a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). As per the Crime in India, 2020 report released by the NCRB, only 1.53% of those charge-sheeted in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes in Assam finally got convicted in court. In contrast, the national rate of convictions for IPC crimes last year was 14.35%. As per the report, a total of 133,641 persons were arrested in Assam for the IPC crimes in 2020. Of these, while charge sheets were filed against 61668, only 949 of them were convicted. Courts acquitted 15919 of those arrested and 208 were discharged. “One prime reason for this is faulty and unscientific investigation. There’s also a lot of pressure on policemen who, besides doing the investigation, are responsible for maintaining law and order and other duties,” said a former DGP of the state refusing to be quoted. “The slow pace of trial is another factor as sometimes witnesses retract from their earlier statements or turn hostile after a few months or years. Lawyers involved in prosecution should be more professional and the tendency to file frivolous cases or several cases for one incident also needs to be curbed,” he added. The conviction rate for crimes under special and local laws (SLL) in Assam is also very low. While the all India rate stood at 34.16%, in Assam the conviction rate for SLL crimes in 2020 was just 1.36%, said the NCRB report. In 2020, a total of 12482 persons were arrested under the SLL in the state. Charge sheets were filed against 5564 of them and only 76 of them ended up getting convicted. The courts acquitted criminals in 1128 cases and discharged one. “The total strength of Assam police is very low and as there is no division of investigation, law and order and security duties, the same policeman ends up doing all of these tasks, which results in an improper investigation. There’s a problem with infrastructure as well,” said noted lawyer Nekibur Zaman. “The state doesn’t have a fully-equipped forensic sciences laboratory. There is also a lack of proper training for policemen to conduct a scientific investigation. In some cases, charge sheets are not filed on time, which results in criminals getting bail and influencing witnesses,” he added. Zaman said that while the judiciary is doing its bit, police also need to ensure delivery of summons on time or exhibits produced on schedule in courts. He blamed the state government for appointing prosecution lawyers on political considerations and not giving them adequate support. In 2020, a total of 146,123 people were arrested under the IPC and SLL crimes in Assam. Charge sheets were filed against 67232 of them. Of them, 1025 got convicted, 209 were discharged and 17047 were acquitted. The conviction rate for the state was 1.52% of those charge-sheeted in comparison to the national figure of 21.63%. While conviction rates were low, the figures for recidivism (the tendency of persons arrested/convicted in past to commit crimes again) in Assam were better than the all-India figures. In IPC cases, the rate for recidivism in Assam was 1.4% while the national figure was 4.8%. In SLL crimes, 4% of those arrested in 2020 were found to be repeat offenders in contrast to the all-India figure of 5% for such crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/conviction-rate-for-crimes-in-assam-presents-a-sorry-picture-ncrb-report-101637496638517.html
21-11-2021||Jaipur||‘Done after much brainstorming and exercise’: Pilot on Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle||Senior Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Sunday expressed his happiness over the cabinet reshuffle by chief minister Ashok Gehlot saying all sections of the society have been given representation and the Congress was ready to take on the BJP in 2023 assembly elections.Clamour for cabinet reshuffle had been growing for several months with MLAs loyal to Pilot demanding that it should be a balanced cabinet having presentation of all caste and communities. This is the first cabinet reshuffle in the Gehlot government, which is going to complete three years of its term next month. “I am happy that the issues raised, including increasing representation of Dalits, have been addressed by the party leadership,” he told reporters at his residence, hours before the swearing in ceremony. Five of his loyalists were among the 15 ministers sworn in on Sunday at Raj Bhawan. “It has been tried that no one should be left out and the decision has been made keeping in view every section and region. The representation of SC and women has increased manifold in the cabinet. This in itself is very important which we all should welcome,” he said. The former CM, who had rebelled against Gehlot in July 2020 and legislators loyal to him were putting up in a hotel in Manesar, Haryana, expressed satisfaction that four Dalits legislators have been made ministers and said consensus-building within the party has worked. “Work has been done to give representation, participation in proper proportion to the section which has always stood with the Congress. For this, I thank Congress President Sonia Gandhi, Ajay Maken, Ashok Gehlot and Govind Singh Dotasra. They discussed with all the leaders and such a big reshuffle has been done, it was done with a very comprehensive approach after taking feedback from all the leaders and workers,” he said. Pilot said that after the reshuffle, there would be changes in the state Congress also, which would help the party to take on the BJP in 2023 assembly polls. On asking about the members from his faction finding a place in the cabinet, he said, there is no faction in the party and all will work unitedly to win the 2023-assembly elections. “There is only one faction - the faction of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and we all are the members. It will be our endeavour to move forward collectively and win the next assembly elections,” he said. On what role would he play now, Pilot said that he will do whatever the party decides for him. There has been speculation that Pilot would be made general secretary in-charge of an important state. To begin with, he is expected to get important reasonability for Uttar Pradesh polls. “I have always worked for the party. My aim is to bring party’s government again in Rajasthan in 2023,” he said. In July 2020, Pilot and 18 MLAs supporting him had taken a rebellious stand against the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot after he was removed as state Congress president and three MLAs loyal to him were sacked as ministers. As a compromise after 20-day drama, in which MLAs loyal to him were lodged in a Haryana hotel, the Congress party formed a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by Pilot. Pilot said the committee which was formed last year to look into the issues raised by him has delivered the first result. The young Congress leader expects that those loyal to him would find a place in political appointments, expected to start from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/done-after-much-brainstorming-and-exercise-pilot-on-rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-101637493698429.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Your Space: Financial stability must for sportspersons||Even as the Maharashtra government confers its best sportspersons with highest prestigious award Shiv Chhatrapati Award carrying prize money of ₹1 lakh, the recipients are seeking job opportunities. Should the awardees be given jobs so that they can focus on their sports, mentor new players and develop the state’s sports culture? Readers share their opinion...Education qualification is important criterion for job The Maharashtra government has been honouring sportspersons since a long time and many have got government jobs from sports quota. I believe the practice is still going on. The question is do the players have required educational qualification for a given job? I feel a player should at least have a degree to be considered for a government job. Just passing Class 10 or Class 12 does not make sense. The job for which these players are applying come with some responsibility. The person in that position is accountable for many things, be it right or wrong. Without proper education, I do not think they will be able to do justice to that role. The government should clearly state the required educational qualification for such job and just being an awardee should not be taken as guarantee for getting a job. Aditya Gund Financial stability is vital for sportspersons Successful players are conferred with the prestigious Shiv Chhatrapati award by the Maharashtra state government. The awardees work hard in their sports throughout the career. If the state government offer them job, it will become very helpful for the players as they can more focus on their sports. Financial stability is a basic requirement in everyone’s life, and players are not an exception. Many players could not earn money from their respective sports. So, a government job offered by the state to players might be the game changer and we could see an improvement in the performance of players in future. Sharad Bodage Job will also benefit player’s family State players need to be given a government job so that they can wholeheartedly focus on their respective sport without worrying about the monetary benefits that they may or may not earn from their game. It will give their families confidence and a sense of financial security that is somewhat lacking currently. Chinmay Remane Provide job based on educational qualification, ageThe Shiv Chhatrapati Award is given by the Government of Maharashtra to players who have consistently made remarkable achievements in the field of sports. The purpose of this is to praise the players who are consistently shining in sports and to encourage, budding players. One of the objectives is to improve the quality of all sports in Maharashtra. Though the award is an honour, getting a job is most important for players. There are many Shiv Chhatrapati award winning players in the state who do not have a job to earn a living. Some who have represented the country have also received the award, but deprived of jobs. Therefore, Shiv Chhatrapati Award winning players should be given government jobs by the state government based on their educational qualification and age criteria. Anil Bhoir Self-employment in sports Career in sports is what is lacking in India. Parents are still asking what will their child do for a living once their ward stops playing. As a coach and head of basketball, we have very limited answers to these questions. Only creating jobs is not going to be sufficient for the number of games and players in India. Self-employment in sports has to looked at as a second option. Lalit Nahata Improve sports infrastructure I believe instead of cash rewards, the sportspersons who are conferred with state awards should be given the best amenities and infrastructure related to their particular sport. This will help them to practice better and perform. As we are lacking in sports infrastructure, the monetary allocation should be utilised in the betterment of player and game. Abhijeet Jadhav Sportspersons, mentors need financial security Sports have always been an integral part of the overall development of a person. Lately, its importance has increased even more. To reap the full benefit of sports, we need mentors, infrastructure and encouragement. The latter two can be achieved only if we have great mentors. The biggest problem mentors or sportspersons face in India is financial security. Either they must focus on academics and compromise sports or vice-versa. This affects their performance. To solve the issue, we need to create a culture where sportspersons and mentors are given the security of job and money. Financial security is a necessity any person needs for their life. They are right in seeking job for their career and future. Any state government must consider this thing if they want to create world class sportspersons and achieve medals in international events. Infact, a job for them must be created in the field of sports so that their talent can be utilised for betterment of sports and physical fitness in the state and country. Ankit Rungta Govt should take steps to promote sports In August, it was a pride moment for all as Indians as Neeraj Chopra won the gold medal in javelin in Tokyo Olympics. Determination and hard work towards the sport helped him won the medal and respect from across the world. Like him, if we want to create more sportspersons, our government should encourage people to learn different sports and game. And they should offer good positions in government job. Create new positions in the government job under sports quota so that the awardees can encourage and mentor others, besides focussing on their game and provide financial stability to family. These steps will also motivate others to take up sports, physical exercises and encourage Indians to remain healthy. Sayali Shinde Job security must to focus on sports Yes, it is important to have a job if the government is not providing it as sportspersons look for subsidy, monthly stipend, support from sponsors for long term. The prize money of ₹1 lakh is not enough to survive for lifetime. A quality of job support will help players to focus on their sport. In other states, athletes are also given job with awards. Tuhin Deb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-financial-stability-must-for-sportspersons-101637492977233.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Introduce children to theatre early on!||A friend called me sometime back and asked my review about the school I was in. He was asking as he wanted to admit his son to the school. I truly have some unforgettable memories of the place I was in for 12 years – both good and bad. I am sure everybody does of their school. But one thing that I realised while talking to him was that our school did not have an active theatre group back then. Of course, I do not know what the current situation is, and that is exactly what I told my friend too. But that got me thinking – it is so important to introduce children to theatre early on! Apart from inculcating a good culture early on, theatre also helps as a team activity, letting go of inhibitions and awkwardness and in certain cases theatre can also be used as therapy. The only theatre activities I was introduced to early on were the plays for children or popularly known as “Baal Natya”. I remember that newspapers would be full of advertisements of such plays during the summer holidays! They seemed attractive. Some would even offer a free ice-cream with every ticket, making the prospect even more attractive! But looking back, one thing that I realise is that none of those plays were memorable. Not because of the content, but maybe because of its intent. The plays did entertain, sure. But that’s all that they offered. And that too was solely dependent on the performers. The music, set design, lights and costumes were not something worth mentioning. Nor did they make any comment on the society or offer an insight about the lives we are living. I understand that not every play needs to make such a statement, but unfortunately, the plays did not go beyond farcical comedy. Once I had passed out from school and started doing inter-collegiate plays from college, I was introduced to various amateur theatre groups in Pune. I had the good fortune of being a part of most of them. One such activity that I got involved in was the Grips theatre movement in Pune. Originally started in Germany by Volker Ludwig in the 60s and brought to India by Dr Mohan Agashe in the 80s, Grips theatre is for children and young adults, and deal with their lives and their problems, but presented in a humourous and musical format. Maharashtra Cultural Centre in Pune primarily produces these plays with Shrirang Godbole and Vibhawari Deshpande now spearheading the movement. While most of the actors in the aforementioned “Baal Naatya” were children, a main point of difference in plays by Grips is that adults play children! I watched a performance when I was in college called “Pan aamhala khelaychay! (But we just want to play!)”. Set against the backdrop of communal riots, it tells the story of a group of children who discover each other’s religion and realise that they don’t care and they just want to play. I thoroughly enjoyed myself watching the play and watching adults performing children so well. It is a tougher job than it appears to be! Also, the audience is primarily children and it is not easy to please them and hold their attention for two hours. The thing that I felt the most that evening though, was regret. Or also known as FOMO (fear of missing out) in today’s lingo! I had missed out on these plays for nearly sixteen years of my life. But not wanting to be left behind, I watched all the plays that were being performed and even ended up performing in one of them a year later! This was nearly 15 years ago. The activity has changed gears during the past few years. Earlier, the plays used to be official adaptations of original German plays. Now Vibhawari and Shrirang write original plays in collaboration with German playwrights too. Marathi plays often visit the iconic Grips Theatre at Hansaplatz in Berlin and perform for German audiences. Theatre for children is a largely overlooked area in contemporary Marathi theatre. Not only do they help in development of children and make them more social and empathetic, they also create a good audience. And usually, a good audience are good citizens! Good citizens are not those that just do as they are told. They question the system whenever necessary and help shape a just society! Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-introduce-children-to-theatre-early-on-101637492677125.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||73-yr-old Dahisar resident who attempted suicide saved by neighbours, police||Alert neighbours and quick action by a Nirbhaya Pathak team of Dahisar police helped save a senior citizen who had attempted suicide on Saturday.According to the Dahisar police, on Saturday, at about 5 pm they received a distress call from residents of Shailendra Nagar that a 73-year-old woman had locked herself in her house and had threatened to consume poison. Within four minutes the officers of the Nirbhaya Pathak who were patrolling the area, reached Shailendra Nagar and rang the bell of the septuagenarian’s house. However, when she did not answer the door, the officials broke it open to find Kundan Ravindra Vaigan on the floor with froth coming out of her mouth.The officials rushed Vaigan to the Navneet Hospital in Dahisar. On questioning, the neighbours of the woman revealed that Vaigan stayed alone and had recently lost her only daughter to Cancer. “The neighbours said that Vaigan was depressed since then,” said a police officer from Dahisar police station.On Saturday, Vaigan had been talking to the neighbours of ending her life and had also shown them the bottle of poison that she had kept at her house.The police officers said that at first the neighbours assumed that she was depressed and was just venting it out and was threatening to attempt suicide. However, when she showed them the bottle of poison and rushed to her apartment locking herself inside, the neighbours panicked and called the police control room.“The woman is alive and has been admitted to the hospital for further treatment,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/73yrold-dahisar-resident-who-attempted-suicide-saved-by-neighbours-police-101637491897115.html
21-11-2021||Bangalore||All K'taka ministers to go to rain-hit districts, oversee relief work: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that all ministers of his government would travel to rain battered districts in the state and oversee relief work there. He said a survey is on to estimate the damage and the compensation will be announced at the earliest. "Several Ministers are in the rain affected districts as this was unseasonal rain. Some Ministers, who couldn't do so earlier, will also go. All Ministers will go to their districts," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters, he pointed out that there is need to get the Election Commission's permission as well, in the wake of December 10 legislative council polls and that he has spoken to the EC in this regard. "I have told the commission to allow Ministers to hold meetings with officials, to permit the survey work. The Chief Secretary will also be writing to the Election Commission in this regard. Ministers will go to the affected districts immediately," he added. The biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities Constituencies for 25 seats, due to retirement of sitting members, will be held on December 10, and the Model Code of Conduct is in place. Noting that the depression in the Bay of Bengal has resulted in unexpected, untimely, widespread rains in the south and north interior and coastal parts of the state, Bommai said that due to excess rains in the interior regions in the last few days, there are reports of destruction of crops, connecting roads and bridges, and loss of lives in some places. He said that during the recent video conference, district administrations were directed to survey losses at all affected regions. Pointing out that continuous rains made it difficult to do surveys in some areas, the Chief Minister said "Preliminary or eyesight surveys have begun where the rains have reduced and information is getting uploaded on the portal. From today evening we will examine the reports, discuss with officials on the funds required, following which the compensation will be announced." During the rains in July, August and September, three lakh farmers had lost their crops and the government has already released compensation, he said, adding that ₹130 crore was pending and that he has ordered for its immediate disbursement through DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer). The CM said he has already inspected a few rain affected areas of Bengaluru city and that he would continue to do so in future as well. Bommai, in response to a question, said "We care for Bengaluru. Officials have been directed to take up project and repair works once the rain reduces and preparations are on. Work will be taken up on a war footing."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/all-k-taka-ministers-to-go-to-rain-hit-districts-oversee-relief-work-cm-bommai-101637484895809.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||After Centre announces to scrap farm laws, Sidhu highlights its ‘sinister’ plan||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Sunday that even after the Centre announced that the three controversial farm laws would be scrapped, its "sinister plan" to end minimum support price (MSP), public distribution system (PDS), government procurement and food security for the poor will continue.“Today, as we rejoice in our victory against the Centre's three Black Laws... Our real work has just begun, Centre's sinister plan to end MSP, end Food Security for the Poor, end Govt procurement and end PDS will continue without the farm laws, it will be now hidden & more dangerous,” Sidhu tweeted on Sunday.Also Read| PM’s move to repeal farm laws beginning of new chapter: SidhuIn a subsequent tweet, Sidhu said that the Centre's design to give procurement, storage and retail to private capital is still pending. “No word by Centre for MSP legalisation, we are back to June 2020, Small farmers need Punjab government's support to protect them from Corporate take over - Punjab Model is the only way,” he wrote on the microblogging site.Centre's design to give Procurement, Storage and Retail to private capital is still ongoing... No word by Centre for MSP legalisation, we are back to June 2020, Small farmers need Punjab Govt's support to protect them from Corporate take over - Punjab Model is the only way !! 2/2On Friday, the Punjab Congress president lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to repeal the three farm laws, against which hundreds and thousands of farmers have been protesting for more than a year.Sidhu, however, pointed out that if the Modi government genuinely wanted to increase the income of farmers, it should meet the demand for legislation to guarantee a remunerative MSP, according to news agency ANI.Sidhu also said on Friday that the revival of farming in Punjab by the means of a roadmap should be a top priority for the state government.Farmer unions in the country have said that their agitation will continue till the Centre's fulfils their demand. Apart from MSP, the two other crucial demands of the unions are the rollback of Power Bill 2020 and the Air Quality Ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-centre-announces-to-scrap-farm-laws-sidhu-highlights-its-sinister-plan-101637484600470.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||'To make a new India': Yogi Adityanath meets Modi in Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Raj Bhavan in Lucknow. The prime minister is on a three-day visit to the state to attend the 56th DGP/IGP conference in Lucknow.Adityanath, who invited Modi for a meeting this morning, shared pictures of them at Raj Bhavan along with a verse. “We have set out with a pledge, devoting our body and soul, a resolution to make the sun rise, to rise above the sky, to make a new India,” the UP chief minister tweeted in Hindi.हम निकल पड़े हैं प्रण करकेअपना तन-मन अर्पण करकेजिद है एक सूर्य उगाना हैअम्बर से ऊँचा जाना हैएक भारत नया बनाना है pic.twitter.com/0uH4JDdPJEModi reached Raj Bhawan on November 19 and will leave for New Delhi today evening.He attended the second day of the DGP/IGP conference in Lucknow on Sunday. Union home affairs minister Amit Shah, the director generals of police (DGPs) of all the states and Union territories, the director generals (DGs) of central police organisations and 350 other senior police officers were also present at the event."Took part in the DGP/IGP conference in Lucknow. This is an important forum in which we are having extensive deliberations on modernisation of our police set-up," he said in a tweet.Notably, the meeting of the two leaders holds significance as it comes months ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. According to news agency ANI, it is the first state where the Prime Minister visited for three days and is monitoring the work himself. He will also hold rallies in the run-up to the elections, ANI stated.Elections for the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly are slated to take place early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/to-make-a-new-india-yogi-adityanath-meets-modi-in-lucknow-101637485677371.html
21-11-2021||Dehradun||Kejriwal promises free pilgrimage for Uttarakhand voters with ‘Lok, Parlok’ slogan||Eyeing to make inroads in Uttarakhand politics, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked auto and taxi drivers in Haridwar to give his party a chance in the upcoming Assembly elections. Speaking at a public meeting, Kejriwal promised to the auto-taxi drivers of Uttarakhand to bring systemic change by introducing faceless RTO services, free treatment for accident victims, and removing fitness fees.He claimed that the people of Uttarakhand will stop voting for other parties if AAP gets an opportunity to govern the state.“In 2020 Delhi polls, I had said to not vote for me if I hadn't worked. Nobody dares to say this before polls. Today I ask you to give us an opportunity, you'll forever stop voting for BJP & Congress,” the Delhi CM said.In a bid to woo Uttarakhand voters, Kejriwal said that AAP will introduce ‘Tirth Yatra Yojana’ in the state like the one it has started in Delhi.“We'll facilitate free 'darshan' of Lord Ram in Ayodhya. For Muslims, we'll have the provision of visiting Ajmer Sharif and for Sikhs to Kartarpur Sahib. It'll be free,” he added.AAP is the only party that works for Janta's real issues:🎓Education🩺Healthcare💡24x7 Free Bijli🚰Free Water👩🏻‍🏭Employment🛕Spirituality"हमें VOTE दो, हम आपका लोक भी सुधारेंगे, परलोक भी सुधारेंगे"-CM @ArvindKejriwal #KejriwalTeerthYatraYojana pic.twitter.com/JPhvilAiweDuring his previous visits to Uttarakhand, Kejriwal had promised to make the state the “spiritual capital” of India.Earlier today, the AAP co-founder said that the people of Uttarakhand have made up their minds to give the opportunity to a new party as they “can see development in Delhi in the past few years.”The AAP has declared retired Army colonel Ajay Kothiyal as the chief ministerial candidate for Uttarakhand Assembly polls, while the party is yet to decide the face for the Punjab elections.Kejriwal is also scheduled to hold a roadshow in Haridwar during his visit today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/kejriwal-announces-free-pilgrimage-scheme-for-uttarakhand-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101637482029104.html
21-11-2021||Indore||Indore, Bhopal to get Police Commissionerate system: MP CM Shivraj Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that the Police Commissionerate system will now be implemented in Bhopal and Indore.Sharing information about the implementation of the Police Commissionerate system in Bhopal and Indore, Shivraj Singh Chouhan told ANI, "The law and order situation in the state is better, the police are doing a good job. The police and administration together have done many achievements, but the urban population is increasing rapidly"."The metropolis is also expanding geographically and the population is also increasing continuously. Hence some new problems of law and order are arising. We have decided to solve them and to control the criminals. We are implementing Police Commissionerate system in two big metropolitan cities of the state, in the capital Bhopal and in the clean city of Indore in order to better control the crime," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-bhopal-to-get-police-commissionerate-system-mp-cm-shivraj-chouhan-101637479564459.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Will restrictions to combat pollution in Delhi continue? Decision tomorrow||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai will on Monday hold a meeting with senior government officers to review the restrictions imposed in the national capital to contain high pollution levels.“The meeting has been called to review the restrictions which come to an end on Sunday. Officials of all departments concerned will be in attendance,” an official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Last Wednesday, the Delhi government brought in a 10-point “decision list” including measures suggested by the central air panel as well as those that are being enforced by the state government.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) announced a ban on construction work and stopped offline classes in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), and barred entry of trucks in the city.Also read | Gopal Rai says 69% air pollution due to sources outside cityThe decision came during a meeting, which was held in response to a 24-hour deadline set by the Supreme Court for the authorities to prepare a list of urgent steps to control rising air pollution levels.The Delhi government also banned construction and demolition activities till November 17, which was then extended till November 21. The directive of work from home to all government offices will remain in force until November 21. The Delhi government also shut down educational institutions till November 21, which will now continue until further orders.Additional measures such as using fire trucks to sprinkle water at the city’s 13 pollution hot spots and procuring 1,000 private buses to augment the public bus fleet were also announced.Also read | Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ category, in some areas it’s ‘severe’Delhi’s air quality remained “very poor” on Sunday morning and strong surface winds are likely to bring some relief from high pollution levels during the day, authorities said.The city recorded its air quality index at 382 at 9am—the 24-hour average AQI was 374 on Saturday. Faridabad (347), Ghaziabad (344), Greater Noida (322), Gurgaon (345) and Noida (356) also recorded their air quality in the “very poor” category.Also read | Air ‘very poor’, standing travel allowed on Metro, public busesThe Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitor SAFAR has said that from November 21 to November 23, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality. SAFAR said that strong surface winds gusting up to 30 kilometres per hour are likely on Monday.“Transport-level winds coming from the northwest direction are also likely to be strong during the period and will flush out locally emitted pollutants from Delhi to the southeast region that is expected to improve air quality further,” it said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 9.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 27 degrees Celsius.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-restrictions-to-combat-pollution-in-delhi-continue-decision-tomorrow-101637473504214.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Police confiscates Mukhtar Ansari's Lucknow property under UP Gangsters Act||The Uttar Pradesh police has confiscated Mau MLA Mukhtar Ansari's Lucknow-based land under UP Gangsters Act and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act.According to the police, the confiscated property was registered under the name of Ansari's wife which was worth ₹3 crore.Ansari's gang is registered as IS (Inter-State) Gang 191 in police records."A case was registered against the gangster at Tarwan police station in Azamgarh district under the Gangster Act," the police said on Saturday.Mukhtar Ansari, a former gangster-turned-politician is currently lodged in Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail. Ansari, an MLA from Mau in eastern Uttar Pradesh, is facing 52 cases in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere, and 15 of them are in the trial stage.Earlier on November 7, Enforcement Directorate (ED) had reached Banda's Mandal Jail and interrogated Bahujan Samaj Party MLA Mukhtar Ansari in an alleged money laundering case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-confiscates-mukhtar-ansari-s-lucknow-property-under-up-gangsters-act-101637472555101.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ category, in some areas it’s ‘severe’||Delhi's overall air quality continued to remain in the "very poor" category even as several areas of the national capital registered severe Air Quality Index (AQI), which affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), AQI in Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Mundka, RK Puram, Rohini and Vivek Vihar was 401 and 500, which is categorised as “severe".Authorities have forecast that AQI in Delhi is likely to improve significantly from Sunday owing to relatively strong winds.On Saturday morning, the AQI in the national capital was recorded at 377 in the morning and 374 in the evening—slightly better on Friday at 370—according to the CPCB. The AQI in the Capital’s neighbouring areas of Ghaziabad (346), Gurgaon (348), Noida (357), Greater Noida (320) and Faridabad (347) was also recorded in the "very poor" category.Also read | Air ‘very poor’, standing travel allowed on Metro, public busesAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".In yet another measure to control the rising air pollution, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has allowed commuters to stand and travel on Metro trains and buses to let more people use the city’s public transport systems instead of private vehicles.The DDMA said in its order that 30 standing passengers will be allowed in each Metro train coach. The maximum number of passengers allowed to travel standing will be 50 per cent of the seating capacity in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster buses, it added.Also read | Odd-even rule to return in Delhi? What we know so farMetro trains and buses in Delhi were, so far, allowed to run only with full seating capacity to reduce crowding to check the spread of Covid-19.To control air pollution, the Delhi government has also announced a ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items into the city and the closure of schools and colleges till further orders. The government has also ordered that all its employees with work from home for the government departments and construction and demolition work has been banned till November 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-in-some-areas-it-s-severe-101637466388488.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||After Bombay HC order on Aryan Khan, Nawab Malik steps up attack on NCB||After the Bombay high court issued a detailed bail order for Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, arrested in the drugs-on-cruise case last month, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has issued a tweet with pointers from the order copy.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, who has repeatedly accused the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede of levelling false charges against Aryan Khan and others in the drugs-on-cruise case, amped up his attack on the central anti-drugs agency.“High Court order proves that the #AryanKhan case was a case of Kidnapping and Ransom. It was pre planned but a selfie released in public domain failed the plan. The Farjiwada now stands exposed,” Nawab Malik, who is a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, tweeted on Saturday.High Court order proves that the #AryanKhan case was a case of Kidnapping and Ransom.It was pre planned but a selfie released in public domain failed the plan. The Farjiwada now stands exposed pic.twitter.com/RR2GPIicbBA single bench of Justice NW Sambre granted bail to Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha on October 28 in the case on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh each. A detailed copy of the order was released on Saturday.Also watch | Proof of conspiracy by Aryan Khan in drugs case? What Bombay HC said on SRK's son
21-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle: List of probable ministers to be sworn in today||As many as 15 ministers, including four existing ministers, are likely to take oath on Sunday as Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is all set to rejig his cabinet to dispel months of tensions between him and his former deputy Sachin Pilot.The oath-taking ceremony of the new ministers will be held at the Governor's house. According to reports, the oath-taking ceremony of new ministers will take place at 4pm on Sunday.The list of new faces for the Rajasthan cabinet was shared by state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra. The MLAs to be sworn-in in the cabinet reportedly includes several of Sachin Pilot's "loyalists", including Hemaram Choudhary, Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola."Many many congratulations to all the new MLAs of Rajasthan cabinet and all the three ministers promoted from minister of state to cabinet minister," Dotasra said in a tweet in Hindi.Notably, the list includes only two female MLAs, one of whom will be elevated to the cabinet rank.Here's the full list of probable ministers who will take oath today:1. Hemaram Choudhary2. Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya3. Ramlal Jat4. Mahesh Joshi5. Vishvendra Singh6. Ramesh Meena7. Mamta Bhupesh Bhairava8. Bhajan Lal Jatav9. Tikaram Juli10. Govind Ram Meghwal11. Shakuntala Rawat12. Zahida Khan13. Brijendra Singh Ola14. Rajendra Gudha15. Murari Lal MeenaAhead of the cabinet reshuffle, all Rajasthan ministers submitted their resignations to Gehlot, who then met Governor Kalraj Mishra at Raj Bhawan in Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-list-of-probable-ministers-to-be-sworn-in-today-101637459519248.html
21-11-2021||Jaipur||15 ministers to take oath in Rajasthan today as Congress seeks to strike balance||As many as 15 ministers—11 cabinet ministers and four ministers of state—will be sworn-in on Sunday as Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will reshuffle his cabinet after the Congress sought to ease tension between the senior leaders of the party.The Congress leadership does not want to repeat the situation in Punjab given the current tensions between the Gehlot and Pilot factions in the state even though elections are scheduled to be held in Rajasthan in 2023.The new Rajasthan cabinet will have 12 new faces, including five ministers from the Sachin Pilot camp, in the reshuffle. Congress leader Sachin Pilot's "loyalists" MLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Vishvendra Singh, Murari Lal Meena, Ramesh Meena and Brijendra Ola, will be part of the cabinet of Ashok Gehlot after the reshuffle.Also read | Ashok Gehlot inducts 12 new faces in Cabinet rejig, promotes 3 ministersVishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena were sacked as cabinet ministers along with former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in July last year.The chief of Congress’ Rajasthan unit Govind Singh Dotasra shared the list of 15 MLAs, who will take oath on Sunday, and said that three ministers will be elevated to cabinet rank."Many many congratulations to all the new MLAs of Rajasthan cabinet and all the three ministers promoted from minister of state to cabinet minister," Dotasra said in a tweet late on Saturday.
21-11-2021||Bhopal||MP police book Amazon executive under NDPS in drug peddling case||The Madhya Pradesh Police have booked an executive director of e-commerce site Amazon under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) in a drug peddling case, police said.The case pertains to the arrest of four people for supplying weed from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh through a company they registered on Amazon under the guise of selling stevia, a plant-based sweetener. The action against the firm’s director was taken two days after state home minister Narottam Mishra asked the company officials to support in the investigation or face action.“Bhind police arrested four members of the gang who had registered their company as a seller of stevia leaves but supplied marijuana to selected customers. The accused had supplied at least 1,000kg of marijuana from Visakhapatnam,” said the SP,” Bhind superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Singh said.The SP said that during the investigation, they found that Amazon director was involved in supporting the accused logistically.“The executive director has been booked on the basis of documents provided by Amazon for allowing a seller to supply marijuana in different parts of the country as stevia leaves, “ Singh said.In a statement, an Amazon spokesperson said: “Amazon operates a marketplace in India, which enables third-party sellers to display, list and offer for sale, products to end-customers directly... We do not allow the listing and sale of products which are prohibited under law to be sold in India. However, in case sellers list such products, as an intermediary, we take strict action as may be required under the law, when the same is highlighted to us. The issue was notified to us and we are currently investigating it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-police-book-amazon-executive-under-ndps-in-drug-peddling-case-101637443790286.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Court pulls up police for ‘separate’ charge sheets in minor's rape case||A Delhi court has pulled up the city police for filing two separate charge sheets in the alleged rape case of a 14-year-old girl, remarking that “it is a big slap on the Delhi Police’s logo of “Shanti, Seva, Nyay”.In a November 17 order, additional sessions judge Gaurav Rao called the investigation so far in the case a “mockery”.“‘Nyay’ [justice] has been taken for a ride by them, twisted and warped as per their whims and fancies. If this continues, and the officials are not dealt with sternly, the public shall lose their faith in the police system. They have not only mocked the court and the judicial system but also abused their power qua the people they have pledged to serve and protect,” the court said.During the previous hearing (on November 8), the court took note of the differences in the charge sheets given to the court and the victim’s counsel.While one set of the charge sheet was filed with the court and accused’ s counsel, the other was filed with the public prosecutor and complainant’s counsel, that reportedly omitted facts.Observing that police officers prejudiced the accused’s right to a fair trial, the court had directed the commissioner of police to initiate an inquiry and register a case against the officers for “committing fraud upon the court”.On November 17, while hearing the accused’s bail application, the deputy commissioner of police filed a report stating that a charge sheet without correction was given to the complainant and was an inadvertent mistake committed without mala fide intent. However, the court said it has been “misled”.The accused was arrested in March this year for allegedly raping and kidnapping the minor in south Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-pulls-up-police-for-separate-charge-sheets-in-minor-s-rape-case-101637441981369.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi sikh body files complaint against Kangana Ranaut||The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Saturday filed a police complaint against actress Kangana Ranaut for allegedly using derogatory language against the Sikh community on Instagram, a statement said. The complaint was filed with the cyber cell of the Mandir Marg Police Station.The committee said that Ranaut had “intentionally” and “deliberately” portrayed the farmers’ protest as “Khalistani movement”. “ …(she) further dubbed the Sikh community as Khalistani Terrorists, and the massacre and genocide [that] happened during 1984 and earlier, as planned and calculated move on part of (late former prime minister) Indira Gandhi,” the statement alleged.It further said the actress used “derogatory and insulting” language against the Sikh community. “...request your office to look into the matter on priority basis and strict legal action may be taken after registering an FIR,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sikh-body-files-complaint-against-kangana-ranaut-101637441576896.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||187 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths in Jammu and Kashmir; Srinagar reports highest number of cases||Jammu and Kashmir reported 187 fresh Covid-19 infections and two deaths on Saturday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 163 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 24 infections. Two persons succumbed to the virus in the Kashmir division.Kashmir reported the highest 61 cases in the summer capital Srinagar followed by 56 cases in the northern district of Baramulla and 15 in Ganderbal. Jammu district in the Jammu division saw the highest 19 cases. All other 16 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 595 followed by Baramulla and Ganderbal districts with 341 and 155 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 158 with active positive cases reaching 1,696.The government’s daily health bulletin also said 48,875 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.614 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,29,046 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.19%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,35,203 and the death-toll has reached 4,461.The officials said 50,067 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,150 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 860 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,35,203Total recovered patients: 3,29,046Total Deaths: 4,461Active cases: 1,696||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/187-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-in-jammu-and-kashmir-srinagar-reports-highest-number-of-cases-101637441668435.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Air ‘very poor’, standing travel allowed on Metro, public buses||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday allowed the city’s buses and Metro trains to operate with limited standing passengers — a first since restrictions were put in place last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic — in a bid to push the use of public transport amid toxic air pollution levels in the Capital.According to a DDMA order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday, the Delhi Metro will be allowed to operate with 100% seating capacity and with up to 30 standing passengers in each coach. In buses run by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and under the cluster scheme, standing passengers will be allowed at up to 50% of the total seating capacity of each bus.A senior transport official said this means every cluster bus which has 40 seats will now get to carry 60 passengers (40 seated passengers and 20 standing). In DTC buses, 53 passengers will be allowed per bus (35 seated and 18 standing passengers).“This will be the first time when some relaxation has been given to allow standing passengers in buses and the metro in limited numbers so as to avoid overcrowding,” a senior transport official said.Delhi has been in the throes of an air emergency, forcing agencies to scramble for solutions to bring down the city’s air quality index (AQI), which has hovered between the ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ zones for much of the week.Delhi’s air quality remained in the upper reaches of the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday, improving marginally from Friday’s reading of 380, to touch 374 on Saturday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily 24-hour bulletin.Dev, in Saturday’s DDMA order wrote: “Whereas, in view of the prevailing air pollution situation in Delhi, it has been felt to augment the carrying capacity of public transport system (buses/Delhi Metro) to minimise the use of private vehicles in order to improve ambient air quality of the city.”According to the affidavit submitted by the Centre before the SC on Monday, the transport sector contributes 28% of the city’s PM2.5 levels during winter, and 24% of the PM10 levels.Wind speeds to pick up today, says IMDAgencies said pollutants are expected to disperse from Sunday, as wind speeds pick up, and touch 30 kilometres per hour in parts of the city on MondayDelhi recorded a minimum temperature of 14.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday morning, two degrees above normal, and up sharply from 10.9°C on Friday morning.The Indian weather office attributed this rise in mercury over the last 24 hours to a dense cloud formation on Friday night that it says took place due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal.“There was a lot of moisture and with clouds, the minimum temperature at night does not fall too low. Northwesterly winds will start blowing once again towards Delhi from Sunday and while this tends to increase the stubble contribution, local surface winds will be good,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at the India Meteorological Department, adding that wind speeds could touch 15km/hr on Sunday afternoon, with surface winds between 20-30 km/hr blowing on Monday.The contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s overall PM 2.5 concentration has seen a sharp drop over the last one week, with the share remaining low – at five percent on Saturday.The order further said that in buses, boarding shall be allowed only from the rear door while de-boarding shall be allowed only from the front door. “The transport department, DTC as well as the DMRC shall be responsible for strict compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (viz social distancing, wearing of mask, use of hand sanitizer etc.) as well as relevant SOPs of the respective departments / authorities in this regard,” it stated.When allowed to operate to its full capacity, including standing passengers, the DTC and cluster buses together carry about 4.2 million people a day, while the Metro carries about 2.3 million passengers.Delhi currently has a fleet of a total of over 6,700 DTC and cluster buses. The city administration is planning to hire an additional 1,000 private buses to augment public transport.(With inputs from Jasjeev Gandhiok)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-very-poor-standing-travel-allowed-on-metro-public-buses-101637441098245.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir: Hizbul Mujahideen district commander killed in Kulgam encounter||The police on Saturday claimed to have killed the district commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district following a cordon and search operation at Asmuji village.In the past three days, six militants, including two top commanders of the Hizbul Mujahideen and the TRF, were killed by the forces in separate operations. The police identified the commander as Mudasir Ahmad Wagay.In the morning, the Army, the police and the CRPF launched a cordon and search operation on a tip-off about the presence of two militants in the Asmuji area. The operation turned into an encounter in which one militant has been killed.Police spokesman said during the search operation after the presence of militants was ascertained, efforts were made to evacuate the civilians and a message was passed to hiding militants to surrender. However, he refused and started firing indiscriminately upon the security forces, which was retaliated leading to an encounter. “In the ensuing encounter, one militant, Mudasir Ahmad Wagay of Malwan, Devsar, was killed,” the police said.Wagay was (A+) categorized militant was presently the district commander of the proscribed militant outfit, Hizbul Mujahideen. “He (Wagay) was active from 2018. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site,” the police said.On Wednesday, the forces killed five local militants at Pombay and Gopalpora villages of Kulgam district in two separate encounters. Among those killed, the police identified two as top commanders of the TRF and the Hizbul Mujahideen, Shakir Najar and Afaq Sikendar Lone.The police said these commanders were involved in many militancy related incidents in south Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-hizbul-mujahideen-district-commander-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-101637440769971.html
21-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Gehlot announces state cabinet reshuffle||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot late on Saturday announced the state cabinet reshuffle after days of hectic parleys in the state, an official release said.The new 30-member Cabinet includes 12 new faces, while three ministers of state have been elevated to the Cabinet rank.The development comes hours after Gehlot convened a meeting of his council of ministers at his residence and the members were asked to tender their resignations to facilitate the cabinet rejig.After the meeting, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariywas said, “All the ministers have tendered their resignation as directed by the party.”The clamour for a Cabinet reshuffle had been growing for the past several months, with the Sachin Pilot camp seeking to accommodate supporters of the state’s former deputy chief minister.On Friday, three ministers -- Govind Singh Dotasara, Raghu Sharma and Harish Choudhary -- wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, offering to quit their posts and work for the party.The resignations of the three ministers were on expected lines as they were holding dual positions – health minister Raghu Sharma is AICC incharge of Gujarat; revenue minister Choudhary is AICC incharge of Punjab; and education minister, Dotasara, is the state party chief.AICC general secretary incharge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken, who arrived in Jaipur on Friday, was also present at the chief minister’s residence.Apart from the Congress MLAs, independents who support the government and MLAs who defected from the BSP to the Congress also have expectations from the reshuffle.At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers including the chief minister.There can be a maximum of 30 members in the council of ministers in the state where the number of MLAs is 200.A minister on condition of anonymity said, “There were nine vacancies, and three submitted resignations yesterday, taking the tally to 12,” he said.Political analyst Manish Godha said asking for resignations from all the ministers means a major reshuffle of departments, promotion from state to cabinet rank, and also the possibility of being dropped from the cabinet.“This reshuffle is different from what Gehlot has done in his previous tenure as this time he has to discuss the changes with the high command. Even today his statement in a meeting saying that only Maken and the high command know what is going to happen in the rejig – this indicates that he does not have a free hand,” the political analyst said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-gehlot-announces-state-cabinet-reshuffle-101637440531705.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Price may be at record high this season, but cotton arrival in Punjab mandis slowest in five years||BATHINDA The arrival of cotton, the second biggest kharif crop in Punjab, has been slowest in the last five years, indicating a drastic fall in production this season.Even as the price of the ‘white gold’ showed a record-breaking upward trend this season due to high demand in the international textiles sector, markets in Punjab continue to have lesser raw produce.Experts attribute poor production to the pink bollworm attack in the cotton-producing districts of Bathinda, Mansa and pockets of Sangrur and Barnala district. According to the assessment made by the state revenue department and field inspections by the agriculture authorities, the standing crop in the four districts was severely hit. However, the crop was not affected in other cotton-producing districts, Fazilka and Muktsar.Quoting the ongoing arrival trend, state authorities say Punjab this time may find it challenging to touch even 50% of the 50 lakh quintal cotton produced in 2020-21. Punjab Mandi Board data shows 7.98-lakh quintal cotton was purchased in nine districts till November 18 as compared to 16 lakh quintal for the corresponding period last year.In 2016-17, 9.16-lakh quintal crop was purchased in various mandis whereas 9.15-lakh quintal was recorded in south Punjab districts in 2017-18. More than 10 lakh quintal cotton was sold each in 2018 and 2019.Officials said this is the only bad season since 2015-16 when the crop was hit by a widespread infestation of whitefly. That season, 6.38-lakh quintal cotton arrived in mandis till November 18 whereas the total production was about 21 lakh quintals. Cotton was purchased by private buyers between ₹5,300-6,195 per quintal that year. This season, the crop touched a record-breaking rate ₹10,500 per quintal on November 1. Punjab Mandi Board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said it is unlikely that farmers could be holding back the cotton stock as the prevalent prices offered by private players is exceptional.“After crossing the ₹10,000 mark, cotton prices started decreasing though farmers continue to get rates up to ₹3,000 higher than the MSP of ₹5,925/quintal. There are bleak chances that farmers will risk not selling the cash crop at such an encouraging market trend. Current trend of arrival and crop loss projections say that the production this year may stay around 25 lakh quintals,” said Goel.Market watchers say this time when cotton harvesting began in the semi-arid region of south Malwa, there was a sharp rise in the arrival of the crop in mandis.About 80,000-quintal cotton was purchased in various purchase centres of the state till September 21. In the corresponding period of 2020, mandis of the region had reported the arrival of only 1,637 quintals.Industry sources say there were strong feelers that rates would start dropping after the first week of November as cotton picking in southern states gained momentum.GFXFlow of ‘White Gold’Arrival till Nov 18 Quantity (lakh quintals)2017-18 9.15 2018-19 10.41 2019-20 10.14 2020-21 16 2021-22 7.98||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/price-may-be-at-record-high-this-season-but-cotton-arrival-in-punjab-mandis-slowest-in-five-years-101637440469880.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||High drama as woman stabs herself at police station in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed as a woman stabbed herself at the Division Number 6 police station to pressurise the police to favour her in a case of immigration fraud she had filed against a travel agent. The woman also brandished a knife on the neck of her four-year-old son and threatened the police that she would kill him too, if they did not file a report in her favour.When women police officers tried to intervene, the woman hit them too and also tore the uniform of a woman constable.The woman, Babita Singh of Kaind village, was arrested.The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of constable Harpreet Kaur. Kaur stated that the woman turned up at the police station and asked for ASI Sethi Kumar. As the ASI was not present at the police station, she asked the woman to wait for a while. All of a sudden, the woman brandished a knife on the neck of her son and threatened to kill him if the police did not favour her in the investigation.Two women police officers rescued the child, but the woman stabbed herself with the knife. Then, they nabbed the woman and rushed her to hospital for treatment.ASI Kumar stated that the woman had lodged a complaint of immigration fraud against a travel agent. In her complaint, the travel agent had agreed to pay the money. He was supposed to come on Saturday, but the woman came a day before to pressurise the police.He added that a case has been registered against the woman under Sections 291 (continuance to nuisance after injunction to discontinue), 309 (attempt to commit suicide), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of his public functions), 189 (threat of injury to public servant) and 506 (Criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code.The woman has been remanded to judicial custody after being produced in court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-drama-as-woman-stabs-herself-at-police-station-in-ludhiana-101637440168151.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Brother of gangster Vicky Marado held with illegal weapon||The CIA Staff 3 arrested the brother of notorious gangster Vicky Marado and recovered an illegal weapon from his possession. The accused has been identified as Amandeep Singh, 32, of Guru Nanak Nagar in Marado. Inspector Beant Juneja, in-charge at CIA staff-3, said police arrested the accused from Phase-1 Dugri following a tip-off. The accused was crossing from the area in a Maruti Suzuki gypsy. On frisking, cops found a .32 pistol and two live cartridges in his possession. The accused told police that he had brought the weapon from Uttar Pradesh. His brother Vicky Morado, a category-A gangster, is wanted by the police in seven cases. A case under Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at Dugri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-brother-of-gangster-vicky-marado-held-with-illegal-weapon-101637440048309.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||JK LG Manoj Sinha must take responsibility of Hyderpora killings: Mehbooba Mufti||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday wanted the Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to take the responsibility for innocent killings in Hyderpora encounter saying that such violence would further widen the chasm between the people of J&K and the rest of the country.Mufti said the incident at Hyderpora was “extremely tyrannical”. “And its responsibility should be taken by the LG here because he is the head of the administration and Delhi’s representative here. The responsibility of the safety of life and property of the people of J&K lies with him. And such an incident where three innocent civilians are killed and then they were labelled overground workers (OGWs) and hybrid militants and then their families had to beg for their bodies,” she said.The Jammu and Kashmir administration late on Thursday exhumed the bodies of the two civilians - Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul - from the frontier police district of Handwara, killed in Monday’s gunfight in Srinagar and handed them over to their protesting families for their burial in Srinagar. The LG office also ordered a magisterial probe into the incident promising suitable action as soon as a report is submitted. It added the administration is committed to protecting the lives of civilians and will ensure there is no injustice.The police had maintained that the two men were “overground workers” of militant outfits and were killed in the crossfire, but their families said the two were used as human shields and called the killings “cold-blood murders”. The police had claimed that two militants were also killed in the encounter of which one was a Pakistani and another Amir Magray, a resident of Ramban, Jammu. People have also raised questions over Magray’s killing.The former J&K chief minister castigated the authorities for not handing over the body of Magray whom the police claimed was a ‘hybrid militant’ while the eyewitnesses and locals said he worked at the shopping complex where the encounter took place. “He belongs to a poor family, whose father has been awarded for killing a militant, and his body has not been handed over to his family. This type of tyranny won’t improve the situation here, but instead will further vitiate it. And the distance between the country and J&K will further widen,” Mehbooba said.“And if this violence continues, the coming time will be dangerous,” she cautioned. “The people have become so disillusioned or disheartened that neither they seek justice nor punishment,” she said.On whether it was possible that Article 370 will also be restored after the decision of the Central government to take back three farm laws, she said the struggle for its restoration would continue.“Our bad luck is that we don’t contribute hundreds of Parliament seats like UP and Punjab. We have just five seats. But nothing is impossible in the world. If the BJP took 70 years to revoke Article 370, we might take 70 months to get it back. But we will struggle for our identity and over the promise with the people of J&K by our country under the Constitution, we will struggle till not only Article 370 or 35-A is restored, but the Kashmir issue is also resolved,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-lg-manoj-sinha-must-take-responsibility-of-hyderpora-killings-mehbooba-mufti-101637439928135.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir reels under sub-zero temperatures; Pahalgam coldest at -4.3°C, Srinagar -1.5°C||All weather stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero night temperature for the second day on Saturday with mercury dipping lowest in the southern resort of Pahalgam.The meteorological department in Kashmir said Srinagar witnessed -1.5°C on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, two degrees below normal. The fog covered major parts of the city and reduced visibility.The department’s weather register revealed that all weather stations of the Valley recorded below zero night temperatures.The mercury plunged lowest in the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir settling at -4.3°C while it was -4°C at Khanbal.The gateway to Kashmir valley Qazigund in the south saw -1.8°C.The ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded -1°C and the temperature of - 2.7°C was witnessed in Kupwara.The day temperature on Friday at most of the places hovered between 13°C and 16°C except Gulmarg which recorded 7.5 °C day temperature.The Valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings for the past one week.Officials said the foggy conditions are owing to sub-zero temperature and air pollution caused by increased traffic and the burning of stubble and tree foliage. The temperatures will keep dipping till a western disturbance will change the dry weather condition. Last week the MeT department had predicted a feeble western disturbance to hit the region between November 21-23, but the department has now revised the forecast.“The forecast for subsequent one week is that there will be cloudy weather with the possibility of light rain and snow during November 24-25. No forecast of any major snowfall till November end,” said J&K’s MeT director Sonam Lotus on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-reels-under-sub-zero-temperatures-pahalgam-coldest-at-4-3-c-srinagar-15c-101637439869813.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: Jai Ram Thakur lays stones of 31 projects worth ₹77 crore in Kinnaur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of 31 developmental projects of about Rs77 crore at Reckong Peo in Kinnaur district on Saturday during his one-day tour to this tribal district. Later, while addressing the people on the occasion of the inauguration ceremony of a five-day tribal dance and craft mela, the chief minister said the state government was also celebrating this year as the Golden Jubilee Year of Statehood. He said the Union government had provided financial assistance of ₹30 lakh to organise this mega event. He said the exhibition put up on the occasion was an apt platform for showcasing the tribal handicrafts and handlooms. He said Kinnaur district was universally known for its colourful culture and traditions. Jai Ram Thakur said it was the need of the hour to conserve and preserve the rich culture and traditions of the state. He said the district had made great progress in various spheres of development such as horticulture, education, health, etc. He said that Himachal Pradesh has achieved the target of a cent per cent first dose vaccination against Covid-19 and Kinnaur district has pioneered by becoming the first district of the country to achieve the target of cent per cent vaccination of the second dose. While paying rich tributes to former speaker of state Vidhan Sabha Thakur Sen Negi, he said Negi was not only a great administrator and leader but also a great champion of the tribal culture. He said efforts must be made to further strengthen the museum established here. He said Shyam Saran Negi also hails from this area, who is the first voter of Independent India. He announced the creation of one post of ADM at the district headquarters for better functioning of the administration. He announced the opening of a PHC at Shobrang and a veterinary dispensary at Sungra gram panchayat. He also announced the upgrade of CHC, Bhawanagar, to civil hospital and High School, Panvi, to senior secondary school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-jai-ram-thakur-lays-stones-of-31-projects-worth-77-crore-in-kinnaur-101637439811519.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 4 years on, kin of firemen killed in plastic factory blaze await a memorial||Paying tributes to the nine firefighters killed in the 2017 plastic factory fire and building collapse, on their fourth death anniversary, kin slammed the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) for its failure to establish a memorial in their name. The family members organised a ‘Sukhmani Sahib Paath’ near the mishap site on Saturday. MLAs Surinder Dawar and Balwinder Bains also paid tributes to the firefighters. The MC authorities had announced plans to establish a fire memorial to pay tributes to the firefighters who lost their lives in the line of duty. A proposal was also approved for establishing a memorial at the Mini Rose Garden in Kidwai Nagar, but the project failed to see the light of the day.The family members raised the issue with civic body officials, including MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. Deceased sub fire officer (SFO) Raj Kumar’s wife Manjit Kaur said, “We have demanded that the memorial should be established at Suffiyan Chowk only. MC officials have suggested that a scrapped vehicle of the fire brigade can be used for the purpose.”Father of deceased fireman Manpreet Singh, Malkit Singh said the MC should immediately pass a resolution in this regard and take steps to establish the memorial at the earliest as four years have already passed since the incident.Area councillor Gurdeep Neetu said a resolution regarding the same will be tabled in the next MC House meeting. MC commissioner Sabharwal said he will direct the officials to expedite the process to get the project approved from the MC General House.In all, 16 persons, including nine firefighters, were killed in fateful incident that took place on November 20, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-4-years-on-kin-of-firemen-killed-in-plastic-factory-blaze-await-a-memorial-101637439810313.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||50,000 diabetes patients identified under Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana in Himachal Pradesh||The Himachal Pradesh government has identified 50,000 diabetic patients across the state. A spokesperson said the state government had started the Mukhyamantri Nirog Yojana for the annual screening of the population above 18 years of age in the state. He said 10 “Nirog” clinics had been established across the state in 2021-2021 at hospitals in Bilaspur, Dharamshala, Recong Peo, Kullu, Mandi, RH Solan, Una, Rampur, Palampur and Paonta Sahib. In these clinics, trained doctors, staff nurses and support staff are screening people for non-communicable diseases and are also providing referrals. The government spokesperson said that under this scheme, the risk assessment of nearly 24 lakh individuals (56%) has been done. Furthermore, 8.5 lakh individuals have been screened for non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension and cancer, beneath the ambit of this scheme He said the Indian Council of Medical Research study has revealed that the prevalence of diabetes in Himachal Pradesh is 11.5%, which is higher than the national average of 9.8%. He added that about 50,000 diabetic patients have been identified under the scheme and are on follow up across the state. The government spokesperson said to prevent people from developing the non-communicable disease, apart from the screening of the disease, frontline workers and ASHA counsel people to adopt a healthy diet, perform physical activity, avoid alcohol and tobacco and reduce weight. He added that timely medication and lifestyle measures can help in keeping blood glucose levels within acceptable limits and thus preventing diabetes in people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50000-diabetes-patients-identified-under-mukhyamantri-nirog-yojana-in-himachal-pradesh-101637439688109.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Two senior forest officials’ transfer stayed||The transfer of two senior forest department officials effected by the Punjab government on November 12 has been stayed. The high court has stayed the transfer of Punjab Forest Service (PFS) officer Khushwinder Singh, while Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) stalled the order to shift Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Surjit Singh Sahota. The petitioners had alleged favouritism and violation of service rules. In Sahota’s case, it was argued before the CAT that he was transferred from Amritsar to Phillaur even has his retirement date is less than six months away in May 2022. He was transferred to home district, which is not permissible under the service rules, his lawyer KS Dadwal said. The CAT has allowed him to work from Amritsar till further orders. In Khushwinder Singh’s case, the high court was told that he upon transfer joined in Sangrur in April but was transferred to Patiala again on November 12 even as he due for retirement in March 2022. The court has allowed him to work from Sangrur till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-two-senior-forest-officials-transfer-stayed-101637439629297.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SCERT to hold NTSE Stage-1 exam on January 16, 2022||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will conduct Stage 1 of the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) for 2021-22 on January 16, 2022, for students of Class 10.Students from government schools, Kendriya Vidyalayas, Navodaya Vidyalayas and from any other affiliated board can take the exam. According to SCERT, students from SC, OBC and handicapped categories can take the exam only if they passed Class 9 examinations with at least 55%. For general category students, only those who passed Class 9 exams with at least 70% are eligible.Sanjeev Taneja, Ludhiana district mentor, said, “Registrations are currently on. Last time, over 3,000 students from Ludhiana participated in Stage-1 of NTSE. Each school has identified potential candidates and special classes are being conducted for them. Moreover, each school has a nodal officer to look after NTSE preparation. The said officer will provide study material, including online modules for science, SST, mathematics and mental ability.” Students who clear Stage 1 will be eligible to take the Stage 2 exam, which will be held at the national level by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). “Each state has a fixed ratio for participation in the second stage. From Punjab, the top 187 students will advance to Stage 2,” added Taneja.The top 2,000 students who clear the NTSE exam are allotted scholarships by NCERT. For Class 11 and 12, they will receive ₹1,250 per month and while pursuing graduation and post graduation, they will get ₹2,000 each month from NCERT.As per the central government’s scheme, 15% scholarships are reserved for SC students, 7.5% for ST, 27% for OBC, 10% for economically-weaker sections and 4% for physically-challenged students. The registration for NTSE commenced on November 15 and will conclude on November 30. Students can download their admit card on December 1. In the Stage 1 exam, the questions will be objective type with 200 multiple choice questions including 100 questions pertaining to mental ability. According to the officials, no specific syllabus has been set for the exam, but students will get most of the questions from Class 9 and 10 NCERT text books. Moreover, there will be no negative marking.“Block mentors or nodal in-charges share the science, mathematics, and mental aptitude test (MAT) modules and videos with the students in special Whatsapp groups formed for NTSE,” said Davinder Singh Chhina, media officer of the local education department.Meanwhile, DEO secondary Lakhvir Singh Samra stated, “Our mission is to make government school students competent enough to be able to go through any national-level entrance test in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-scert-to-hold-ntse-stage-1-exam-on-january-16-2022-101637439628246.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Fertiliser shortage hits Himachal apple growers hard||The shortage of fertilisers has plagued farmers and fruit growers in Himachal Pradesh. The shortage is more acute in the apple-growing regions of the state.The apex cooperative federation of Himachal Pradesh, Himfed, which is the main supplier of fertilisers in the state, is unable to meet the demand of the farmers. Against the demand of 4,000 metric tonnes (MT), IFFCO has only supplied 700 MT of NPK 12 x32x16. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (NPK) are the three primary nutrients in commercial fertilisers.“Our agency had placed an order for 4,000 MT of NPK with IFFCO, but so far we have only received 700 MT,” said KK Sharma, managing director, Himfed. “Himfed has sent repeated reminders to increase the supply,” he added.Government fertiliser depots are almost empty. The shortage of fertiliser has also hit the manuring of orchards that are undertaken in November and December.“Fertiliser is unavailable in government depots. A day before yesterday, Himfed supplied only 145 bags of the NPK in Jubbal and Kotkhai, which is too little. The Central government talked high on doubling the income of the farmers, but the cost of fertilisers, insecticides and pesticides have doubled over the years,” said Congress legislator from Jubbal and Kotkhai Rohit Thakur. A bag of NPK 12-32-16 and NPK 15-15-15 fertilisers that cost ₹1,026 and ₹954 per bag, respectively, in 2013-14, is now priced at ₹1,450 and 1,154 per bag now.“Private distributors have jacked up rates of the fertilisers. Most of them don’t even have it,” said Kuldeep Chauhan, a fruit grower in Rohru.Farmers are facing problems due to an increase in rates of fertiliser 12.32.16,15.15.15, muriatic of potash, etc, supplied by government agencies. “The situation is further aggravated by the shortage of these fertilisers. Farmers are unable to get these fertilisers for post-harvest applications in orchards. The least the government can do is to ensure an adequate quantity of fertilisers is made available,” said Lokinder Singh Bisht, president, Progressive Growers’ Association, PGA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fertiliser-shortage-hits-himachal-apple-growers-hard-101637439508617.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: FIR against garment manufacturer, 5 others for ₹13.48 crore GST fraud||PAU police have booked six people, including a garment manufacturer, his accountant, chartered accountant, an employee and other accomplices, for ₹13.48 crore fraud in GST refund. According to the police, the accused had forged bills to execute the fraud.The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of principal commissioner, central goods and services tax commissionerate, against garment manufacturer Narinder Chug, accountant Satish Sharma, chartered accountant Ankur Garg, employee Ram Bilash Yadav and accomplices Rohit Kumar Gupta and Aman Saggar.The complaint stated that the accused Narinder Chug owns at least 18 firms, including 12 in Punjab. The accused have submitted factitious bills and got a GST refund. By doing this, the accused caused the loss of ₹13.48 crore to the government. The accused have helped Chug in preparing bogus bills to execute the fraud.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Deedar Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR has been lodged following a detailed inquiry by a senior official. The inquiry report suggested that these firms are involved in passing and availing of fake input tax credit without actual supply of goods and monetising the same by way of availing refunds. The accused are also indulging in availing export benefits without meeting the export requirement. They have availed input-tax credit to the tune of ₹8.97 crore and its monetisation through GST refund amounting ₹4.80 crore, accounting ₹13.87 crore.He added that a case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fir-against-garment-manufacturer-5-others-for-rs-13-48-crore-gst-fraud-101637439448261.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Former bank manager booked for embezzling ₹3.20 crore||A former branch manager of State Bank of India, Link Road branch, and his aides have been booked for embezzling ₹3.20 crore after fraudulently sanctioning 65 loans under Xpress credit scheme.The police have booked former branch manager Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar; Arun Kumar and Avinash Kumar of Satjot Nagar, Amarjit Singh of Friends Colony, Sahnewal, and Harish Kumar of Janta Nagar.The FIR has been lodged based on the statement of current branch manager Abhishek Jain. Jain said that while scanning records, they found that 65 beneficiaries of Xpress Credit Scheme had not paid even a single instalment. However, they were shocked to find that the beneficiaries were illiterate or labourers.They found that Kumar, in connivance with agents, faked salary slips and issued ₹3.20 crore as loan to 65 people. The account holders said that they were unaware of anything and after the loan amount was debited to their bank accounts, the former manager withdrew the amount using the cheques.The complainant stated that the loans were issued from July 16, 2018 to June 6, 2020. He filed a complaint with the police on April 12.ASI Rajesh Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR has been lodged following an investigation. A cheating case has been registered and a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-former-bank-manager-booked-for-embezzling-rs-3-20-crore-101637439148118.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||30-year-old civil engineer shot dead in Kapurthala, accused flee in his vehicle||A 30-year-old civil engineer was shot dead in broad daylight by three men who also took away his new Mahindra Bolero SUV near Ibban village on Kapurthala-Jalandhar national highway on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Balwinder Singh of Tarn Taran district who was a contractor with National Highways Authority of India and working on the Delhi-Katra project. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh and other senior police officials rushed to the spot. The accused, booked for murder, have been identified as Harkrishan Singh of Dhapai village, and Sukhwinder Singh and Lovepreet Singh of Ibban village of Kapurthala district. Police said they were members of a gang. According to the FIR registered on the complaint of victim’s brother Gurwinder Singh, Balwinder was conducting a survey for the Delhi-Katra expressway for acquiring land when the accused carrying pistols walked up to him and demanded car keys. “Balwinder resisted and the accused fired at my brother. The accused fled from the spot in our vehicle,” Gurwinder said. Gurwinder Singh rushed Balwinder to Kapurthala civil hospital where he was declared brought dead. Sources said the accused were arrested but nobody confirmed the same officially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30yearold-civil-engineer-shot-dead-in-kapurthala-accused-flee-in-his-vehicle-101637439088415.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Class-11 student found dead in Sidhwan Canal||The body of an 18-year-old boy, who had gone missing four days ago, was fished out of Sidhwan Canal near South City on Saturday. He was a student of Class-11 in one of the government schools of the city.Police say it appears to be a suicide case, but they are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain this. As per the boy’s family, he had left home for school on November 16 and had been missing since then. His schoolteachers told the family that he had left his bag in the school. Suspecting that someone may have kidnapped him, family members had filed a police complaint immediately after his disappearance. On Friday, the police found the boy’s motorcycle parked near the canal and his phone lying in the dickey. Following this, they roped in some divers and started a search operation in the canal. On Saturday, they found the body in the canal near South City.Family members, meanwhile, refused to believe that he killed himself. His classmates too said that he was last seen with one of his female classmates and appeared quite cheerful. “They were talking about table and music interests,” said the classmates, still in shock.PAU station house officer, inspector Kamaldeep Singh said cops are investigating the case from all angles and are currently waiting for the post-mortem report for clarity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-class-11-student-found-dead-in-sidhwan-canal-101637438908296.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border lynching: Month on, SIT has no clue how victim reached farmer protest site||Punjab Police have failed to find any headway in the Singhu border lynching case even after the passage of one month since a high-level special investigation team (SIT) was formed. On the direction of Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota had constituted the SIT led by Varinder Kumar, additional director general of police (ADGP)-cum-director bureau of investigation (BOI), Punjab, on October 20 to unravel an alleged conspiracy and circumstances in which victim Lakhbir Singh of Cheema Kalan village went to the Singhu border. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG-Ferozepur) Inderbir Singh and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harvinder Singh Virk are members of the team. The team was formed after victim Lakhbir Singh’s sister Raj Kaur alleged that her brother was “allured by some unknown persons and taken to Singhu border”. 35-year-old Lakhbir, who was a daily wager, was brutally murdered by a group of Nihang Sikhs at the Delhi border in the early hours on October 15. His mutilated body was found tied to a police barricade near the farmers’ protest site. The SIT has not even questioned the four accused who were arrested by the Haryana Police. When asked any of the arrested accused brought on production warrant for questioning, SSP Virk said they can’t take their production warrant as there is no separate first information report (FIR) registered in this regard in Punjab. “We just have to verify that how he went there,” he said, adding that so far, they haven’t got any ‘headway’ or ‘clue’ in this case. The Haryana Police had arrested Sarabjit Singh of Gurdaspur, Gobindpreet Singh of Jalandhar, Narayan Singh of Anandpur Sahib in Punjab, and Bhagwant Singh of Sahajahanpur in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Meanwhile, the SIT is scheduled to visit the crime spot on Wednesday. One of the SIT members said, “We have yet to ascertain if Lakhbir went to the Singhu border on his own or with someone else. However, we are visiting the crime spot on November 24.” The Haryana government has also given ₹4 lakh compensation to the deceased’s wife Jaspreet Kaur. Her brother Sukhchain Singh said, “The government had promised to give ₹8 lakh in two instalments. We are waiting for the second instalment.” He said they have also got a letter from the Haryana government asking if they were satisfied with the investigation. “We have yet to send a reply,” he added. The victim’s sister Raj Kaur said so far, she has not got any update on the Punjab Police investigation. She had alleged that her brother could not go to the farmers’ protest site own by own and he was taken there under a deep-rooted conspiracy. She had also claimed that her brother was in touch with some ‘high-ups’ on phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-border-lynching-month-on-sit-has-no-clue-how-victim-reached-farmer-protest-site-101637438728243.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana hotels, banquet halls booked to capacity for weekend weddings||With Covid cases on the decline, the sheen is finally back in the wedding industry. As per a rough estimate, around 2,000 weddings are set to take place in the district over the weekend and all major banquet halls and hotels are booked to capacity. Amarvir Singh, president, hotel and restaurant association, Punjab, said that it is for the first time since March 2020 that all the hotels and banquet halls are sold out. “The next few days are considered to be auspicious for wedding ceremonies, so almost all hotels and marriage palaces are booked.” “For nearly two years, there was no or negligible business but with Covid cases going down, our business is beginning to pick up steam,” said Singh, adding that an estimated 2,000 weddings are taking place over the weekend, of which 200 are taking place in banquet halls and hotels within city limits while the rest are in Samrala, Khanna, Jagraon and Doraha.Amarjeet Singh Sant, president, Ludhiana marriage palace welfare association, however, says that as compared to the pre-Covid era, there is only 30% business. “There are many factors hampering the business. Firstly, due to travel restrictions, NRIs are not able to visit the country. They are a major source of revenue during the wedding season. Secondly, people are still cautious due to the anticipated third wave. So they aren’t spending much on weddings. Thirdly, the economy is still reviving and a lot of people have exhausted their life’s savings due to job losses or Covid treatment, so they aren’t able to spend much,” said Sant. Akhilesh Sharma, a priest at Durga Temple in Dugri, said as per the Hindu calendar, the next 15 days or so considered auspicious in the Hindu calendar, as after that the month of ‘poh’ (foggy conditions) will follow. So people, prefer holding wedding ceremonies in these days, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-hotels-banquet-halls-booked-to-capacity-for-weekend-weddings-101637438553051.html
21-11-2021||Other||Kartarpur Corridor reopening: 300 Indian pilgrims pay obeisance on day 4||Over 300 Indian pilgrims visited the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, on Saturday the fourth day of the reopening of the corridor, Pakistani authorities said. This is biggest footfall of the pilgrims so far after the reopening of the corridor that was closed for last 20 months following the Covid-19 outbreak.A Punjab government jatha (group) and a small group of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) visited the revered gurdwara. The SGPC jatha comprised members Satpal Singh Talwandi and Gurmeet Singh Booh and other functionaries, including Ajaib Singh Abhiasi, Sukhwinder Singh Agwan and Gurinder Kaur Bholuwal.The Punjab government comprised revenue and rehabilitation minister Aruna Chaudhary; education and sports minister Pargat Singh, forests and wildlife minister Sangat Singh Gilzian; Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu; working president PPCC Pawan Goel; Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training chairman Mohinder Singh Kaypee, MLAs Kulbir Singh Zira, Amit Vij and Rajinder Singh.Capt had undeclared alliance with BJP, SAD, alleges PargatPargat Singh, part of the state government group, said in Dera Baba Nanak after returning from Pakistan that former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s response to the Centre’s revocation of the three farm laws has ‘let the cat out of the bag’. “I have been saying for three-and-a-half years that there was an undeclared alliance between the BJP, Capt Amarinder Singh and the SAD. Today, Capt Amarinder Singh has issued advertisements in support of the BJP. The people of the state were already aware of this concoction being prepared by Capt Amarinder in collaboration with the BJP, and hence they would not listen to him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kartarpur-corridor-reopening-300-indian-pilgrims-pay-obeisance-on-day-4-101637438488201.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Posing as ‘Good Samaritans’, duo snatches rag-picker’s baby||Posing as Good Samaritans, a car-borne woman and her male aide kidnapped a rag-picker’s four-month-old son from the Grain Market near Jalandhar Bypass on late Friday night. The accused had approached the rag-picker’s family on the pretext of donating woollens and food for the children.On being informed, the Salem Tabri police lodged an FIR against unidentified persons and initiated investigation. The car used by the kidnappers has been captured on close-circuit television cameras (CCTV) in the area. According to the police, the kidnappers used a Maruti Suzuki Alto, bearing a yellow number plate. However, the registration number was not captured in the cameras. The kidnappers were seen driving towards Bahadurke road.Rupa Devi, the mother of the newborn, stated that she was in her shanty with her eight children when a man, appearing to be in mid-40s turned up there. He had covered his face with a mask. The man told her that a “Madam” wanted to donate some woollens and food for the children.“My infant was suffering from cold so I asked my daughters to take care of him and walked towards the car. The man insisted that I take the infant along. I told him that the boy is not well but he convinced me to take him outside, stating that Madam wanted to see the infant,” said Rupa Devi.“As I went near the car, I saw the woman sitting in the rear seat of the car. She asked me to bring the infant closer as she wanted to see him. Meanwhile, her male aide sat on the driving seat and ignited the engine. The woman handed over a bag of clothes to me. The moment I took the bag, the woman snatched my baby from my hands. Before I could do anything, the accused sped away,” she added.She raised the alarm following which onlookers gathered there and informed the police.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Dharmpal Juneja said separate teams have been formed for the arrest of the accused. He added that it seems to be a well-planned conspiracy as the accused had parked their car in a dimly-lit area to avoid been caught on CCTV. A case under Sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 365 (abduction) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. He said the role of some human-trafficking gang or childless couple cannot be ruled out. Infant’s sisters had seen man twice during the dayThe infant’s family hails from Katihar of Bihar and has been living in the city for the last two decades. Kanhaiya, the newborn’s father, is a rag picker. Kanhaiya said at the time of the incident, he was sorting the rag, which he and his children had collected, to sell.According to the two sisters of the kidnapped infant, they had seen the male accused taking the rounds of the grain market twice during the day. The man had first come in the morning and later in the afternoon.The girls stated that at the night, when he turned up at their shanty, they sensed something amiss and asked their mother to not take the infant outside. But he kept insisting that she take the infant out, and on seeing the two sisters object to it, he asked them to stay inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-posing-as-good-samaritans-duo-snatches-rag-picker-s-baby-101637438368039.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||From the soul to the soul: LU’s first all-girl band, Roohani, to take centre stage at Foundation Day||Breaking away from tradition, a newly formed all-girl band will perform at Lucknow University’s Foundation Day programme on November 25, in place of the usual boys’ band. Named Roohani, to stress on the theme of ‘singing from soul’, the band aims to send a message of gender sensitisation.“Forming a band is one of those things that are usually attributed to boys. We aim to change this during the Foundation Day event of the university this year,” remarked Sneha Pandey, one of the 11 members of Roohani, as they practice for the final performance at the hall in the Geography department of the university.A brainchild of Roli Misra of the Gender Sensitisation Cell at the university, the band came into existence just two weeks ago and is still being restructured. “I came up with the idea during preparations for the Foundation Day event. Every year, our very fine all-boy band, Roobaroo, performs at the Foundation Day event. We thought that the event can be the best platform to send a message regarding gender sensitisation and what can be a better way to do it than a girls’ band,” Misra said.Interestingly, the members of Roobaroo also came forward and helped in scouting for talent for the girls’ band. Within a few days, the band began taking shape. Prajakta Sharma, an MA student and trained in classical music, joined the band. Simanti Prakash, who has a magical touch on the harmonium joined next, followed by Anshika Shukla, Ishika Narayan who plays mandolin. Ishita Khanna and Anshika Shukla joined the band as guitarists, while Kritika Kumar brought her expertise on the tabla to join a group of trained vocalists including Sristy Verma, Shruti Tiwari and Sneha Chautala.Once the core group came together, the band began practising with the help of Roobaroo members and the support of teachers. “We practise every day and the sessions will continue till the Foundation Day event. We are a new group but it can’t be an excuse to perform poorly. So, we are working hard to put across a good show,” said Simanti Prakash.The group has prepared a Bollywood number to begin with, followed by a medley of old songs, and is working on another special piece for their first performance. Along with the practises, the group continues its search for new talent with expertise on the drums and the keyboard.“The band is a work in progress but they have come a long way in the past one week. The girls support each other and that helps improve their performance. I am confident that the students will not miss the performance of Roobaroo on the Foundation Day event,” Roli Misra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/from-the-soul-to-the-soul-lu-s-first-all-girl-band-roohani-to-take-centre-stage-at-foundation-day-101637438255486.html
21-11-2021||Bangalore||Rani Abbakka: The forgotten female admiral||A fleet of the Indian coast guard off short patrolling vessels bears the name of the queen from present-day Karnataka’s coast. Even though a fading memory, the exploits of Rani Abbakka II against the Portuguese is not forgotten in the state. She was one of the few female admirals of India, who gave the Portuguese a bloody nose in the sea and on her lands.Giving a glimpse of Rani Abbakka’s exemplary will in taking on the mighty Portuguese, Suryanath Kamath, who was the chief editor of Karnataka State Gazetteer, said her planning and war tactics left the invading forces clueless.“More than 200 Portuguese came to coastal areas of Karnataka and demanded goods be sold at a price fixed by them. Rani Abbakka protested the demand. She asked the people to not yield to the men and with the help of Prince Venkatappa Nayak of Keladi she took the Portuguese head-on,” said Kamat saidRani Abbakka was not willing to accept the Portuguese embargo since her ships had been travelling to the Middle East to sell spices, fabrics etc. For this trade, she was in an alliance with the Zamorin of Kozhikode. In the true family tradition, she had continued defying the Portuguese and trading directly with the Middle East. When the Portuguese captured a rich ship of hers returning from Mecca, she planned a secret attack. “On a night, her fishermen soldiers, the Mogaveeras and Moplahs, got into boats, sneaked amongst the Portuguese ships. The Portuguese navy had to retreat with heavy losses. It was one of the rare occasions where the Portuguese lost to an Indian kingdom,” said Kamat.The historian referred to family tradition because her mother Rani Abbakka I, known as the queen of Ullal, too was a fierce enemy of the Portuguese. “She worked in close alliance with the several chiefs of Malabar and against her husband who was an ally of the Portuguese,” read the gazette notes on her.Dr Tukaram Poojary, a retired history professor who researched Abbakka, said that her husband Lakshmanappa wanted to join hands with the Portuguese, so she left him. “She then took over as the ruler of Ullal, which she got as the matriarchal system was practised at that time. She took on the Portuguese in three battles,” he said.As per records, she took on the Portuguese when she decided to stop paying tributes to them when they attacked the chief of Cannanore (today’s Kerala), her erstwhile ally in 1555. Three years later, the queen took on the Portuguese by assisting a naval attack led by the Raja of Cannanore against the Portuguese.“The Portuguese were so incensed at this that he reduced Mangalore to ashes. The queen again ceased to pay tributes to the Portuguese, when they declared war on her ally, the Raja of Cannanore in 1566.”In 1567, a punitive expedition was sent against her by the Portuguese governor under Joao Peixote, according to the Gazette. The Portuguese army attacked Ullal under General Joao Peixoto. He captured the city and occupied the palace. However, the Queen managed to escape and hide in a mosque. In the dead of night, with 200 soldiers, she raided the Portuguese and managed to kill General Peixoto and 70 soldiers. The invaders fled to their ships. She followed and killed the admiral of the fleet.In 1588, however, Goa Viceroy Anthony D’ Noronha led another attack against Ullal with a grand Armada. Ullal fell and was destroyed in this attack. The queen also died, as per the legend, leading her men from the front.But after her death came Abbakka II. “It was under her rule, the Portuguese suffered one of the biggest naval battles in the subcontinent. Abbakka, the second, took over in 1594. She gained great fame throughout the Indian Ocean by attacking and burning the Portuguese fleet in 1618. This ensured that invasions by the Portuguese stopped in the coastal regions of Karnataka,” said Poojary.The news of the Portuguese loss to a woman made international news across Arabia, Persia and Europe. Thereafter, the Portuguese never attempted to attack Ullal or come in the way of her trading activities.On learning about the heroism of this Queen, Persian Traveller Pietro dellaVelle visited her court in 1623. His travelogue provides a useful account of her personality and concern for her people. “She was a gentle lady of high dignity, dressed in simple clothes, yet had an alluring figure. Though her exterior posterity and habit represented rather a dirty Kitchen wench than a delicate and noble Queen; her graceful voice and her prudent and judicious speech bespoke her nobility,” says Pietro dala Velle’s accounts.While records have little details about the exploits of this queen, it is the folklore, particularly the art form of Yakshagana, that puts light on her life. One of these accounts talks about a war tactic used by the queen. A torch made of dry coconut leaves popularly known as ‘thoote’ in Tulu language was used by soldiers to attack ships.Abbakka’s soldiers used the thoote as a striking war strategy. Hundreds of these thoote were swung like arrows towards the enemy ships that were anchored near the coast or offshore. When the ships caught fire many lost their lives. The rest of the soldiers would jump into the sea to save themselves only to be killed by Abbakka’s soldiers who fought with swords and spears.While the debates over women in combat roles continue, history, especially the story of Abbakka, shows how the country has a rich history of women leading armies and navies from the front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rani-abbakka-the-forgotten-female-admiral-101637438190244.html
21-11-2021||Other||Unions continue mobilising Sangrur farmers to go to Delhi on Nov 26||Sangrur A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the revocation of the three farm laws, leaders of farmer unions have started mobilising people in villages and are holding meetings to observe one year of their movement against these laws that started on November 26, 2020. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) held a camp of over 400 of its members at Ugrahan village to inform them about the current situation and next plan of action. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union also held meetings and rallies in villages in Longowal area to mobilise farmers for a protest on November 26 at the Delhi borders.“Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has given a call to observe one year of farmers’ agitation. Over 20,000 farmers will move to Delhi borders in buses, cars and trolleys. We are holding meetings and educating farmers, including women. Leaders briefed people about our stance on the PM’s announcement and asked them to prepare for a few more months,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief, BKU Ugrahan.Youth wing convener of Kirti Kisan Union Bhupinder Singh Longowal said he held meetings in Rattoke, Takkipur, Sahoke and Dhadrian villages for the preparation of the November 25 march towards Delhi borders to participate in the one year anniversary of the agitation.“Though the BJP government has announced the repeal of the ‘black farm laws’, it is need of the hour to intensify our agitation. We should not take it easy. We will fight until the three laws are nullified in Parliament,” Longowal added. “The agitation will continue until the government ensures MSP and bills related to pollution and electricity are scrapped. Farmers will move to Delhi in tractor-trolleys on November 25,” he added. Logowal added that farmer unions asked farmers to collect ration for next six months, and the agitation will continue till all demands of farmers are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unions-continue-mobilising-sangrur-farmers-to-go-to-delhi-on-nov-26-101637438188308.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||By praising Imran Khan, Navjot Sidhu has insulted our soldiers yet again: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was repeatedly insulting and demoralising the country’s soldiers by eulogising Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan whose country was responsible for stirring up unrest and dropping drugs in Punjab. Sukhbir was reacting to Sidhu’s ‘bada bhai’ (elder brother) reference to Imran at Kartarpur on Saturday. In a statement, the SAD president said it was shocking that Sidhu continued to refer to Imran Khan, who had been propped up by the Pakistan military establishment and was a puppet of the ISI, as an elder brother. “This is not the first time that Sidhu has cosied up to the ISI. Earlier also, during his maiden visit to Pakistan, he embraced General Qamar Javed Bajwa despite knowing that the latter was engaged in a proxy war with India in Kashmir which has led to the martyrdom of hundreds of soldiers,” said Sukhbir. He said Sidhu again has gone out of the way to praise Imran Khan whose government is actively engaged in stirring up unrest in Punjab. “This is most condemnable. Sidhu should desist from such activities which can only harm Punjab and become a threat to the peace and communal harmony in the state,” Sukhbir said. Sukhbir also urged the Gandhi family to explain Sidhu’s actions. “They (Gandhis) should explain whether Sidhu’s utterances are of his own accord or whether he speaks for the Gandhi family,” he said, adding that his party would stand as a bulwark against any such nefarious conspiracies to spoil the peace in Punjab. “We will not let outside elements create trouble in the state at any cost and appeal to Punjabis to snub the anti-national forces,” he said. The SAD president also asked Congress party to apologise to the soldiers from Punjab who were guarding the frontier against Pakistan as well as Punjabis who were bearing the brunt of ISI’s policy to push drugs into the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/by-praising-imran-khan-navjot-sidhu-has-insulted-our-soldiers-yet-again-sukhbir-101637438130813.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana tops state in Safai Mitra challenge, 26th in country||With the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs announcing the results of the Safai-mitra challenge on Saturday, the city secured 26th rank out of the 45 cities under the category of cities with population of 10 lakhs and above. Though Ludhiana secured only 80.38 marks out of 1,000, it stood at first position in the state.Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge is aimed at preventing hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks and promote mechanised cleaning.Two cities from Punjab, including Ludhiana and Amritsar competed under the category and Amritsar bagged 32nd spot with negative marks. Indore has bagged first position in the category across the country with 799. Ludhiana secured only 80.38, while Amritsar got negative marking with -35.91 marks. Chandigarh stood at 10th position with 426.27 marks. Teams of quality council of India conducted inspections in the city in the month of October. The parameters on the basis of which the marks were given include mechanised cleaning of sewer lines, ODF+ certification, helpline numbers, awareness among citizens etc.An official requesting anonymity said having an eye on the first prize of ₹12 crore, the MC also participated in the challenge. However, the civic body has remained in controversy over manual scavenging and chairman of Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission, Gejja Ram Valmiki, had also moved high court recently after he caught MC employees involved in manual scavenging and officials failed to take action against the same.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said efforts have been made to use machines for cleaning the sewer lines and manual scavenging without safety has been completely banned in the city. Jetting machines and super suction machines are deployed in the city for cleaning sewer lines. Apart from the existing safety equipment, more safety kits are being purchased for sewermen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-tops-state-in-safai-mitra-challenge-26th-in-country-101637437829254.html
21-11-2021||Other||After Dev Deepawali, litter cleaning of ghats begins||The day after Dev Deepawali celebration, a group of Ganga activists led by Rajesh Shukla cleaned Dashashwamedh Ghat and the Ganga stretch along with it.The volunteers reached Dashashwamedh ghat where flower petals and other waste were lying on the ghat. They cleaned the ghat and later took the waste out of the Ganga.Shukla said, “It is the duty of all of us to keep the ghats clean.” He said that people should understand that their cooperation is a must for achieving the goal of keeping the Ganga clean.“Don’t leave plastic bottle, wrappers and polythenes on the ghats,” he appealed, adding, “I visit the ghats daily and clean at least a ghat daily and take waste out of the river Ganga. Locals should come forward and join us.”The Varanasi Nagar Nigam also carried out a drive to remove waste from the ghats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-dev-deepawali-litter-cleaning-of-ghats-begins-101637437827991.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU, PGI residents in Ward 13 want MC to share responsibility||Comprising Sectors 11, 12, 14 and 25, Chandigarh municipal corporation’s Ward No. 13 is an education hub and home to two premier institutes of the region —Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Panjab University (PU). However, those residing here rue poor infrastructure, including parks, roads and parking spaces, besides sanitation issues.The MC is not responsible for maintaining roads or streetlights within the PGI campus in Sector 12 or PU campus in Sectors 14 and 25. Residents of these areas, who include doctors, professors and other employees, say the civic body and the two institutes often keep passing the buck, as a result of which nothing concrete happens on the ground.“PU is maintaining the infrastructure, including roads and streetlights on the campus. But it is not sufficient. Even we vote for the councillor, and avail power and water supply from the MC. It must coordinate with PU and PGIMER to ensure basic civic amenities in these sectors,” says Ashwani Koul, a PU professor and resident of Sector 25.“The PGI administration does not coordinate with the MC and both the authorities do not wish to be held responsible for doing the work on the ground. Roads inside the PGIMER need immediate re-carpeting while the garbage dumps need to be cleared up. But when we ask the MC officials and councillor to do the needful, they say the PGI will do it, and vice-a-versa,” says Ravinder Kumar, 46, sanitary attendant in PGIMER and resident of sector 12. Councillor Raj Bala Malik, who represents the area, says: “The independent institutes do not even let MC vans and vehicles enter their campuses. Despite our best efforts, we are not able to give a boost to the infrastructure.” Parking a pain in Sector 11However, the situation is different in Sector 11, which a tony residential area of the city. Though people have access to basic facilities like clean drinking water, 24-hour electricity and public parks, residents want better parking space, recarpeting of inner lanes and more street lights. “The roads in the sector were dug up for laying optic cables but have not been recarpeted. Garbage collection and water taxes are unnecessarily hiked. We expect the new councillor to work on providing more parking spaces, as the existing ones get occupied by people visiting the PGIMER in the neighbouring sector. In markets too, the MC must ensure that there is no encroachment by vendors,” says Diwakar Sahoonja, president, Market Welfare Association, Sector 11.KNOW YOUR WARDLocalities: Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 14 and Sector 25General wardVoters: 8,500Key IssuesPublic works hampered as MC holds less power at PU, PGIMERGarbage dumps on empty plots, parks, roadsParking spaces a major concern in Sector 11LOCAL VOICESThe PGI administration does not coordinate with MC and both the authorities do not wish to be held responsible for doing the work on the ground: Ravinder Kumar, 46, sanitary attendant at PGIMER and a resident of Sector 12 Even in an institute like PGIMER, sanitation is a big concern. The garbage heaps invite stray cattle and dogs to the area, which are adding to our woes: Raj Kumar, 50, a resident of Sector 12PU is itself maintaining the infrastructure like roads and streetlights, but it is not sufficient. MC must coordinate with it to ensure basic civic amenities: Ashwani Koul, PU professor and a resident of Sector 25We expect more parking lots in the sector as most of the space gets occupied by people visiting the PGIMER. MC should also remove all illegal street vendors: Diwakar Sahoonja, president, Market Welfare Association, Sector 11||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-pgi-residents-in-ward-13-want-mc-to-share-responsibility-101637437528037.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Despite huge deficit, UPPCL unlikely to file ARR before polls||The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) is mulling filing the annual revenue requirement (ARR) cum tariff revision proposal for the financial year 2022-2023 only after the assembly elections to avoid government-owned discoms’ mounting deficit and tariff increase proposal becoming an issue in a poll year.“The UPPCL will file the ARR listing estimated expenditures and revenue in the next financial year, only after assembly elections are over in March, despite its cumulative deficit having reached around 80,000 crore,” an energy department official said. According to the rules, the UPPCL is supposed to file the ARR with or without tariff revision proposal by November 30, so that the new tariff comes into effect from April 1, that is if the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) announces the tariff order 120 days after the ARR is filed.People dealing with the issue said that the state government was unlikely to permit the UPPCL to file the ARR/tariff revision proposal at a time when the assembly polls are only three months away and any proposal seeking tariff increase was bound to be lapped up by the Opposition.It is, however, learnt that the UPPCL may propose a hefty tariff increase when it files the ARR and the tariff revision proposal after polls considering that there has been a status quo on rates of electricity for the last two consecutive years in the state.“The UPPCL did not seek tariff increase for two years due to political reasons but now it may increase a substantial hike to make up for its deficit to some extent in 2022-2023 though the new tariff may not be effective before June-July next year, if the ARRR is filed in March-April,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/despite-huge-deficit-uppcl-unlikely-to-file-arr-before-polls-101637437408000.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||ED issues summons to Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali for the third time||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to Bhavana Gawali for the third time and has asked the Shiv Sena Member of Parliament to appear before the agency’s investigators on November 24 for questioning in connection with a money laundering case registered against her. The MP has earlier skipped the summons twice. According to the ED, Gawali in connivance with her aide conspired to convert a Trust into a company through forgery with an intention to take over the trust’s properties worth ₹69 crore. The ED’s Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case against Gawali is based on the first information report (FIR) registered with Risod Police Station in Washim district on May 12, 2020, in connection with alleged financial irregularities in the trust Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan. Gawali, who was also the chairperson of Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan, is the complainant in this FIR and had alleged that her personal secretary Ashok Gandule and other employees had connived to misappropriate funds worth ₹18.18 crore belonging to the trust. However, all these employees as witness have stated before ED that (Gawali’s) complaint is a false one and the same was filed only with an intention of taking over the Trust management under her individual control and to harass them and their family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-issues-summons-to-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-for-the-third-time-101637437167787.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kartarpur: Big row over Navjot Sidhu’s ‘bada bhai’ reference to Imran Khan||Another row erupted over Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s ‘bada bhai’ (elder brother) reference to Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan on Saturday during his visit to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur. Sharp reactions came not only from the opposition BJP and SAD, but Congress’s MP Manish Tewari, too, took a dig at the cricketer-turned-politician for his remark. Accompanied by ministers Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilzian and some party MLAs, Sidhu was welcomed by Kartarpur Corridor Project Management Unit CEO Muhammad Latif at zero point on behalf of Pakistan PM. “I am greatly honoured. He (Khan) gave us a lot of love. I don’t deserve this honour. Thank you very much,” he said. In 2018, Sidhu came under severe criticism when he hugged then Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa during the oath-taking ceremony of Imran Khan as prime minister. During the inaugural ceremony of the corridor, Sidhu attended the event as a special guest of Khan. ‘People pick petty things, ignore real issues I raise’ On returning from Kartarpur gurdwara said people pick petty things and ignore the real issues that he raises. “I am very thankful to the prime ministers of both the countries for reopening the corridor,” he said while interacting with the media at Dera Baba Nanak. Sidhu demanded opening of trade between both the countries through the Punjab border. “When the former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee went to Pakistan on a bus, people of both Punjabs were on toes to welcome him. We should learn from the European countries how they opened their borders after suffering from massive destruction in World Wars. This resulted in re-emergence of Europe. If trade between Mumbai and Karachi is open, why the trade between both Punjabs is shut? We have the same language, dress and food habits. So, the issue that I have been raising since long needs to be look into.” He also underlined the need for being liberal in granting visas to pilgrims. Tewari’s dig at Sidhu Congress spokesperson and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari took a dig at Navjot Sidhu over his ‘bada bhai’ remark. “Imran Khan may be anybody’s elder brother but for India, he is that cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones arms & narcotics into Punjab & sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K. Have we forgotten martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon?” he tweeted. Sidhu acting like a Pak agent: Chugh 
21-11-2021||Other||Punjab cities climb Swachh ladder, Patiala adjudged cleanest in state||Patiala After last year’s lacklustre performance, Punjab’s cities have improved their national ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, with the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs releasing the results of the nationwide survey on Saturday. In cities in the 1-10 lakh population category, Patiala has been ranked 58 nationally, with a score of 3,713.78 points of a total 6,000. Last year, the Royal City had ranked 86. Overall, Punjab has ranked seven of 13 states in the country that have over 100 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). SAS Nagar is the new entrant in top 100 ULBs with ranking of 81 (3,510 points). Bathinda municipal corporation maintained last year’s ranking at 84 with (3,414.61 points). Moga recorded 100th rank (3,278.18) in the cleanliness survey In the above 10-lakh population category, Amritsar secured 34th rank as it scored 3434.54 points, an improvement over last year’s 39th spot. Ludhiana has slipped four ranks to 39th from last year’s 34th with 3,229.81 points.Within Punjab result section of the survey shows that in the category of cities with population between 50,000 and 1 lakh, Rajpura has been adjudged as cleanest city; Phagwara as the best city in innovation and best practices and Mandi Gobindgarh as self-sustainable city.In cities with population between 25,000 and 50,000, Kurali has been adjudged the cleanest city, Bhagapurana as the best town in Citizens feedback, Nawanshahr as a self-sustainable city and Budhlada as the fastest movers city. In less than 25,000 population cities, Moonak has been adjudged as cleanest city, Khanauri as self-sustainable city and Dhanaula as ‘fastest movers city’. All these rankings are, again, within Punjab. SURVEY DIVIDED INTO THREE PARTS The process and methodology of the survey was divided into three parts, totalling 6,000 points, including 1,800 for citizen’s voice which includes feedback, engagement, innovation and best practices. Service-level progress has 2,400 points, which include segregated collection, processing and disposal and sustainable sanitation. Another 1,800 points are for certification that includes open-defecation free and garbage-free cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cities-climb-swachh-ladder-patiala-adjudged-cleanest-in-state-101637437107782.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Domestic help found hanging at retired IPS officer’s house||A 54-year-old domestic help was found hanging in a store at the house of former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer K Selvaraj in Sector 19, where he had been working for years, police said on Saturday.Identified as Ram Pal, the victim had been missing since November 17. His body was recovered after the family reached the IPS officer’s house to make enquiries on Friday. While the body is kept in a mortuary, the family is refusing to give permission for its postmortem. “We are not alleging any foul play, but we want to lodge a complaint against the owners and other staff for not checking the house properly due to which Pal’s death remained a mystery for two days,” said Sandeep Kumar, an acquaintance. Investigating officials confirmed that Selvaraj, who retired as a director general of police from Haryana in 2021, was not present at home while his son was there when police were called. The former top cop remained unavailable for comment.Police have initiated inquest proceedings and are awaiting the family’s permission to get the postmortem conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhdomestic-help-found-hanging-at-retired-ips-officer-s-house-101637436816050.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan: Mohali makes great strides to rank 81||Mohali has climbed multiple positions to attain the 81st rank out of 372 cities (with population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh) in the nationwide Swachh Survekshan 2021, the results of which were declared on Saturday. Last year, Mohali stood 157th. In 2019, it had attained 153 rank and was 109th in 2018. This year, out of an overall score of 6,000, the city attained 3,510 marks. It has also bagged the third position in Punjab after Patiala and Phagwara. Last year, Mohali was seventh in the state. In the service-level progress component, the city has scored 1,920 out of 2,400. It evaluates the city’s performance on solid waste collection and transportation, processing and disposal, bylaws and sustainable sanitation among other parameters. Last year, after slipping to 157th rank, the civic body had constructed 200 pits at various places to make compost out of the kitchen waste. Garbage segregation work was started on the spot and the sanitation team stepped up the work. The municipal corporation spends ₹18 crore every year on cleaning the city. The system includes both mechanical and manual cleaning. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said: “Our main focus was on cleanliness in the city and we are trying hard to bring the city among the top 10 cities in the country.” MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said: “We are happy with the improvement in the ranking, but next time, we will try to rank among the first 50 cities. The local feedback system has helped us in improving the overall system.” In citizens’ voice, the city has scored 1,089 out of 1,800.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survekshan-mohali-makes-great-strides-to-rank-81-101637436814847.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets thumbs down in Swachh Survekshan 2021||A dysfunctional waste processing plant, slow progress in legacy mining and segregation at source still to be fully achieved — all these factors pushed the City Beautiful further down the Swachh Survekshan rankings. Ranked 8 among cities with more than 10 lakh population last year, Chandigarh dropped to 16th position in rankings announced for 2021 by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Saturday. Over all, the city stands at 66th position out of 4,320 cities that were covered in various categories this year. Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Surat in Gujarat continue to rank top two cleanest cities in the country, and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh is third. In the tricity, Mohali is ranked 357 and Panchkula 488. In addition to the rankings, the Chandigarh’s total score has also fallen sharply. Surat scored 93% this year against last year’s 94%, while Chandigarh’s score fell sharply from 82% to 71%. The Swachh Survekshan is conducted to study the progress of Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) and rank cities based on cleanliness and sanitation parameters. Three parameters were used for arriving at the overall ranking of a city – certification (1800), service level progress (2,400) and citizen voice (1,800). On a positive, Chandigarh bagged the award for best performing Union Territory under the “Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge” for 2021. What dragged the city down The municipal corporation’s poor solid waste management, particularly waste segregation and disposal, led to continued poor showing of the city. The city’s GFC certification was downgraded from 3-star to 1-star. The MC has failed to start of work on the upgradation of the beleaguered solid waste processing plant. In June last year, the civic body had taken over the plant from Jaypee Group due to its inability to process the waste completely. But since then, the MC has neither improved the plant’s working nor upgraded the technology and most of the daily waste is still being dumped at the Dadumajra landfill. The city produces 550 to 600 metric tons (MT) of waste daily. Of this, around 200 MT is dry waste, 150 MT is wet (kitchen) waste, 75MT is mixed and 100-125 MT is horticulture. However, the plant’s current waste processing capacity is only 70-80 MT. Meanwhile, of the total legacy waste of 5 lakh MT, only around 2 lakh MT (40%) has been removed as yet. The work originally was to complete in May this year, but the deadline has been extended to August 2023. Though, the MC twin-bin door-to-door garbage collection vehicles now cover over 85% of the city, but the segregation at source still remains a big challenge. ‘Money has gone down the drain’Former Chandigarh MP and Congress national treasure Pawan Kumar Bansal said: “It is appalling that a city which was cleanest in the country now languishes at rank 66. BJP has failed to even perform the primary duty of keeping the city clean. So much money has gone down the drain but this is what the BJP has to show for city’s basic need of sanitation.” Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “For a long time, our garbage disposal and waste processing plant related issues remained stuck at the National Green Tribunal. Thus, our endeavors like setting up a new plant and introducing two-bin waste-lifting vehicles were in progress when this survey was conducted for the period of April 2020 to March 2021. But now these have been streamlined and next year our performance will improve markedly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gets-thumbs-down-in-swachh-survekshan-2021-101637436813037.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Robbers attack elderly couple, flee with valuables||An elderly couple was attacked with sharp-edged weapons as three robbers barged into their house at Mansa Devi Complex and fled with ₹5.5 lakh and jewellery items worth several lakhs on Saturday afternoon.Annu Walia stated in her complaint that she lives with her husband in house number 327, Sector 4, MDC, Panchkula. Her son Ashish, daughter-in-law and grandson also live with them. The incident occurred around 3:30pm, when her son and daughter-in-law were out for work. The woman was feeding milk to her grandson and her husband was sleeping in another room when three armed youths entered the house. “While one of them was holding a rod, another one had a sharp-edged weapon and the third one broke the leg of one of the stools to use it as a weapon. They all started hitting my husband and threatened that they will kill me and our grandson, so I sat quietly at one corner. They took away ₹5.5-lakh cash, diamond rings, gold sets and other jewellery items,” she said.The woman has raised suspicion over one of her newly appointed domestic helps. She said: “Nearly 15 days ago, we had appointed a new domestic help. He was present at the time of the crime, but ran away later on.”A case has been registered under Section 392 (robbery) and 394 (voluntary causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-robbers-attack-elderly-couple-flee-with-valuables-101637436810938.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh family alleges negligence as infant dies at GMSH-16||After a five-day-old baby died at Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, the family has alleged that no doctor was available to treat the sick child. An inquiry has been marked into the alleged negligence.A woman, who resides in Sector 23, Chandigarh, got admitted to the hospital a week ago. On November 14, she gave birth to twins: a girl and a boy. The twins were underweight and were admitted at the postnatal ward of the hospital. However on Saturday, the mother alleged that the boy was suffering from hypoglycaemia since the time of birth. “During the late evening hours of November 19, the health condition of the boy deteriorated. We asked the nurses on duty to call the doctor immediately. However, no doctor was available in the hospital during that time. The nurse tried making repeated phone calls to the doctors but to no avail. As no doctor was available to attend my child, he died due to the negligence of the staff,” the complainant said.Soon after the incident, the family submitted a written complaint to the director health services (DHS), Chandigarh, and sought necessary action against the doctor concerned for missing from duty.Following the written complaint, DHS Dr Suman Singh marked an inquiry into the matter and asked the medical superintendent to submit a report immediately.Dr VK Nagpal, medical superintendent, GMSH, said, “We have received the complaint and have started investigating the matter. The hospital always makes duty rosters of the doctors and it can never happen that a doctor misses the duty. However, we will check as to why the doctor was not available when the patient needed the consultation. The inquiry report will be submitted to the DHS on Monday and strict action will be taken against the doctor, if found guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-family-alleges-negligence-as-infant-dies-at-gmsh16-101637436809766.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan: Panchkula falters for first time in five years||After improving its rank for four years in a row, Panchkula has tumbled down to the 99th position in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings announced on Saturday. Ranked among 372 cities with population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh, Panchkula scored 3,283 out of the total score of 6,000 distributed across three parameters. In the past four years, it had improved its rank from 211 (in 2017) to 56 (in 2020), but dropped by 43 positions this year. The drop comes despite Haryana assembly speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta claiming last year that the ranking will improve in 2021 as the local authorities were working on streamlining solid waste management in the city. “Our marks got deducted mainly due to the poor solid waste management. This is the one parameter on which we lagged behind. We will try our best to improve waste processing in the city,” said municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Dharamvir Singh. The authorities also blamed the citizens for not cooperating with the MC for setting up a solid waste management plant at Jhurriwala village. Meanwhile, SK Nayar, president, Resident Welfare Association, said: “The MC is only concerned about beautifying the roundabouts. If the officers keep on working like this, then I am afraid the ranking will slip further.” said He said that from the last 10 years, MC has been promising about management of solid waste, but it failed the city again. Meanwhile, at state-level, Panchkula has got the second position among 14 districts of Haryana. Despite the slip in rankings, Gian Chand Gupta issued a press statement appreciating the work of sanitation workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survekshan-panchkula-falters-for-first-time-in-five-years-101637436808635.html
21-11-2021||Other||Much delayed step: Punjab CM Channi on farm laws repeal||Ludhiana/Batala/Gurdaspur Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said that farmers should stay ‘vigilant’ until the three farm laws were not repealed by the Centre, following due process in Parliament and the move had been much delayed. Addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stone of a new sugar mill in Batala, Channi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had just made an announcement and the laws are yet to be abolished. “Repealing of laws is baseless until and unless the guarantee of MSP for crops is not made. The Punjabis must not sit idle but should be extra vigilant until the entire process of scraping the laws is completed,” Channi said. Channi also announced that the state government will construct a memorial in the name of farmers who died in the year-long protest. Earlier in the day, during a visit to Bhaini Sahib, he had said that sports infrastructure available there will be replicated at the block and district level across the state. Channi is the second Congress CM to have visited Bhaini Sahib during this government’s term; in November 2017, the then CM Captain Amarinder Singh had also visited Bhaini Sahib.The visit is considered to be significant in the wake of the Vidhan Sabha elections next year. The Namdhari sect enjoys considerable clout across the region, particularly in Sahnewal and Samrala assembly constituencies.CM Channi met Namdhari Sect head Satguru Uday Singh, former Punjab Congress chief HS Hanspal and other eminent Namdharis. Samrala MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon; Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema; MLA Gill and chairman Punjab State Warehouse Corporation Kuldeep Singh Vaid accompanied Channi.TO MEET AKAL TAKHT JATHEDAR ON LIVE TELECAST OF GURBANITo end the ‘monopoly of one TV channel’, Channi said he would soon meet Akal Takht jathedar with a proposal to allow other channels also to telecast live Gurbani Kirtan from Sri Darbar Sahib on a par with PTC network that has already been exclusively permitted for the same.“The transport mafia operated by the Badals has been broken by my government. The next target it to break the back of the cable mafia,” he added. At Beas in Amritsar, Channi dedicated a state-of-the-art building of the newly constructed sub-tehsil complex to the people of the state. The Radhaa Soami Satsang Beas has donated this ₹5-crore building to the government.Making announcements to further boost infrastructure in Beas, Baba Bakala and adjoining areas, CM Channi said the construction of a ₹10 crore ITI will start soon. Expressing gratitude to Radha Soami Satsang Beas for creating such a modern infrastructure, CM Channi said that now the more than 70,000 residents of nearly 30 villages would directly benefitted from this facility at Beas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/much-delayed-step-punjab-cm-channi-on-farm-laws-repeal-101637436627807.html
21-11-2021||Other||Poor got houses under govt housing schemes in Prayagraj: Official||Over 1.22 lakh people got houses in rural areas of the Prayagraj district under the housing schemes of the centre and the state during the past around five years, said officials. “The Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana (PMAY) is for the poor who have their own land but cannot afford to build a house. Under PMAY, homeless poor families can apply. The benefit of the scheme is for people whose monthly income is less than ₹10,000. A monetary help of ₹1.20 lakh is given to such people under the scheme,” said KK Singh, project director of district rural development authority (DRDA). The scheme was launched in 2016-17 and so far, 1, 14,189 people have been given houses under this scheme in the district and a budget of over ₹1370 crores has been allotted under it, he added. 21,971 houses were constructed under the scheme in (2016-17), 17,921 in (2017-18), 10,026 in (2018-19), 3,218 in (2019-20), 29791 in (2020-21) and 31,279 in (2021-22). The Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana started 2018-19. Although under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, homeless of general category can also apply, some conditions have been kept in the Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana. Under this, such families are given benefits whose houses have collapsed in any natural disaster. People of backward communities like Vantangia, Musahar, Kol, Sahariya and Tharu caste are also given benefit from this scheme. So far 8569 people have been given houses under the scheme since 2016-17 in Praygaraj. Each beneficiary is given ₹1.20 lakh for constructing the house. An amount of over ₹102 crore has been spent under this scheme. In 2018-19, monetary help was provided to people for 253 houses, for 1381 houses in 2019-20, for 2451 houses in 2020-21 and 4484 houses in 2021-22. Singh informed that such people who have land but do not have house can apply. “After verification by DRDA, registration takes place at the block headquarters and after which priority list is prepared. After the listing, details are sent to the government. After this the budget is released, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-got-houses-under-govt-housing-schemes-in-prayagraj-official-101637436567745.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Ludhiana slips five spots, ranked 39th out of 48 cities||Despite tall claims made by the civic body of promoting cleanliness in the city, Ludhiana municipal corporation has slipped five spots in Swachh Survekshan 2021, securing the 39th rank out of the 48 cities having a population of 10 lakh and above. Last year, the city, known as an industrial hub and being developed as a smart city, was ranked at 34th out of 47 cities covered under the national government cleanliness survey.The results were announced by the Ministry of housing and urban affairs on Saturday. Though, the city’s score is more than the national and state average, it has still not been able to live up to its last year’s achievement.The cities were judged on the basis of three parameters, including service-level progress, citizens’ voice and certification. Service-level progress includes segregation of waste and disposal. Citizens’ voice includes feedback and participation of the public, while certification includes open defecation-free and garbage-free city certification.Of the total 6,000 marks, Ludhiana scored 3,229.81 against the national average of 2,072 and state average of 2,562.In service-level progress, the city scored 1,725.97 out of 2,400. In the citizens’ voice, the civic body has scored 1,203.84 of 1,800 marks, while only 300 marks have been scored out of 1,800 under certification. The MC has secured zero marks for garbage-free certification.No award this yearLast year, Ludhiana also bagged the ‘Best big city in innovation and best practices’ award under the Survekshan but this time, it hasn’t received any award. Other urban local bodies, including Moga and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr), have bagged awards under different categories.Amritsar surpasses LudhianaAmritsar surpassed Ludhiana city by bagging the 34th position in Survekshan 2021. Amritsar was at the 39th position last year, a spot which Ludhiana is at this time. Amritsar has secured 3, 434.53 marks in Survekshan 2021. Indore remained at the first position in the country for the fifth time in a row with 5,618.14 marks and Chandigarh bagged the 16th rank in the national cleanliness survey with 4,277.29 marks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-ludhiana-slips-five-spots-ranked-39th-out-of-48-cities-101637435970793.html
21-11-2021||Other||Punjab CM Channi lying on cancellation of PPAs: AAP||Chandigarh Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Saturday accused chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of lying on the issue of cancellation of costly power purchase agreements (PPAs) made by the Badal government with the private thermal plants. Cheema challenged Channi to show a single document or notification regarding the cancellation of power agreements. “It is not only a fraud, but also a punishable offence to claim cancellation of power agreements without cancellation,” Cheema added. He warned the Channi government that the party would launch an awareness campaign on its false and misleading propaganda ; if it did not immediately stop this false propaganda being carried out by the government with public money. Cheema added, “If necessary, the government can be taken to court against such false propaganda.” The AAP leader added that as soon as the Channi government came to power, it had announced the cancellation of power deals and a special session. “Finally, two months later, when the two-day session of the Vidhan Sabha was convened for constitutional pretence, the Channi government refused to rescind the deadly power deals. In the run-up to the elections, there has been a ‘drama’ of manipulating tariffs on power deals that is being touted as cancellation of PPAs; which is morally and practically wrong,” he said. Cheema has also sought clarification from Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on the Channi government’s claims regarding the cancellation of the agreements. He also claimed that the AAP’s protracted struggle against power mafia had brought a great deal of awareness among the people of Punjab which made it difficult for the ruling Congress to answer questions of the people regarding high electricity bills and power guarantee promised by Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-channi-lying-on-cancellation-of-ppas-aap-101637435969182.html
21-11-2021||Other||Basic education revamp, honest teachers, officials responsible for top slot: UP minister||Basic education minister Satish Dwivedi on Saturday said Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) basic education sector is now ranked number one in the country and attributed this to the revamp of the sector undertaken by the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government. “The success is also due to honest and hardworking teachers as well as officials of the department,” he said while speaking at the opening ceremony of the Kapilvastu Mahotsav in Sidharth Nagar, the minister’s hometown. “UP is the only state in country to witness rise in school enrollments even during Covid-induced lockdown,” he said. “As per union education ministry’s report, UP’s basic education that was ranked fifth with 650 marks in 2018, has now jumped to number one spot bagging 860 marks. We intend to take it to one plus-plus category. And that’s why we have recruited one lakh twenty-five thousand teachers. Recruitment process is going on for teachers in inter colleges,” he said. The minister said that Basic Shiksha Parishad schools in city and villages have been revamped under the ‘kayakalp yojna’. With facilities like smart classes along with introduction of concepts like regular parent teachers’ meetings, annual functions, mid-day meal monitoring committees, these government schools are giving competition to convent schools. “In UP government schools, the children of poor and labourers are now able to attend smart classes and avail facilities including quality education which until now were available only in convent schools. That’s why now, many parents are shifting their children from private schools to convent ones,” he said. “Recently I inspected a Basic Shiksha Parishad school in Varanasi’s Sevapuri block which is adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There I was surprised to find a woman teacher who was also a qualified BDS doctor. When I asked her why she was working as a teacher despite having a medical degree, she said she had a passion for teaching. She praised the transparent recruitment process where she got selected on merit,” he said. Dwivedi said that Sidhdharthngar, which once used to be a backward region, now boasts of a medical college, university and will soon become the only district of purvanchal to have three national highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/basic-education-revamp-honest-teachers-officials-responsible-for-top-slot-up-minister-101637435847913.html
21-11-2021||Other||15 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab on Thursday witnessed 15 fresh cases with four deaths from the virus, with the state’s positivity rate for the day recorded at 0.09%. With these fresh cases, state’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,02,956 cases, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases in the state has increased to 290. Among fresh cases, the maximum three cases were registered Jalandhar, Pathankot and SAS Nagar. With 34 persons recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86, 082, it said. To date, 16,584 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,59,34,007 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, of which 17,574 tested on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101637435487566.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Now UPRTOU to start five new certificate courses to empower women||With an aim to empower women and make them financially independent by starting small businesses of their own, officials of Uttar Pradesh Rajashri Tandon Open University (UPRTOU—UP’s lone state open varsity) has decided to launch five new vocational courses from the coming academic session. The highlight of these new courses is the fact that students getting enrolled need not even be literate and could belong to any age group. The only prerequisite would be that they want to pursue these courses which would be mainly short-term certificate courses, the varsity officials said. The female candidates, who would be coming to pursue these courses do not have to give any entrance test or approach the university with a recommendation of anyone. “Since 1999, UPRTOU had started the initiative to make learning free from all the technical glitches and reaching to those who were otherwise ‘unreached’. Along with traditional degrees and diplomas, our focus has been on imparting professional courses too and these new courses are also a small effort to make our womenfolk, especially of the rural areas of our university and its study centres, skilled so that they can earn for themselves and become self-reliant,” said UPRTOU vice-chancellor, Prof Seema Singh who coincidently is the first woman VC of this university. The five courses that would be launched by UPRTOU include home gardening, handicrafts and embroidery, sewing, painting and cooking. Director of the centre for internal quality assurance of the university, Prof Omji Gupta said, “We had recently presented a proposal to the vice-chancellor for starting these courses in our university following which she has taken the approval from the chancellor, the Governor of the state Anandiben Patel. Now after the unanimous approval of the courses in the meeting of the Executive Council held on November 12, the admission process for these courses will soon be started.” VC Prof Seema Singh said that illiterate women can also take admission in any of the five vocational courses. There is no age limit, minimum qualification or for that matter even number of seats for admission to these courses, she added. “Admission for these courses would be given in the main campus of the university under the pilot project. Following the acceptance of the courses among the womenfolk and their response, this new system will be implemented in all the study centres spread across the state,” said Prof Singh. The certificate will be given after training for two months, she added. The training in these courses will be based on practical sessions. The assessment will also be done based on grading in these sessions with “A” meaning excellent, “B” standing for good and “C” meaning satisfactory, explained the VC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-uprtou-to-start-five-new-certificate-courses-to-empower-women-101637434948928.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Poland returnee tests Covid positive in Agra||After a gap of twenty days, a footwear manufacturer, who recently returned from Poland tested positive for Covid-19 in Agra on Saturday. As many as 56 other people at the shoe factory, who were feared to have come in contact with the man have been asked to get tested, stated Prabhu N Singh, district magistrate of Agra.However, the district administration had sent the sample for retesting to SN Medical College (SNMC) as earlier the test was conducted at a private lab. The sample sent to SNMC also tested positive for Covid-19, chief medical officer of Agra Dr AK Srivastav informed.The health department is expected to send the sample to Lucknow to ascertain the variant because the man has returned from a European nation.“A total of 56 people suspected to have come into contact with him will be tested. Samples of all those testing would be sent to Lucknow for genome sequencing to know the variant of Covid-19,” Dr Srivastav added.On March 2, 2020, Uttar Pradesh’s first Covid-19 case was reported in Agra, and the person who was tested positive also returned from Italy, another European nation. “We are not taking any chances and as many as 56 others at the shoe factory, who may have come into contact with the man, are being asked to be tested for Covid-19,” the district magistrate said.The last positive case of Covid-19 was reported on October 30, 2021. Agra recorded no Covid active cases, till this case surfaced on Friday. The positive cases in Agra reached 25766 on Saturday, with 25307 cases discharged and 458 fatalities.The district has tested 2009843 samples to date and maintains a cure rate of 98.21%. The positivity rate of Agra is 1.28% and the fatality rate is at 1.77%. In all, 3337767 have been vaccinated in Agra till Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/poland-returnee-tests-covid-positive-in-agra-101637434707920.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party alliance with Shivpal unlikely to be announced on Mulayam Singh Yadav birthday||Contrary to speculation, an alliance between the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP) and his politically estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) may not be announced on SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday on Monday (November 22).The Samajwadi Party will focus only on Mulayam Singh’s birthday, rather than on joinings or alliance announcements, people aware of the issue said.Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary on Saturday said the party will celebrate Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday on November 22 with simplicity.“On the instructions of the national president Akhilesh Yadav, the party will celebrate the birthday of former minister for defence Mulayam Singh Yadav in all districts on November 22. Discussions will also be held on the party’s foundation and chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s life, political struggles, and his commitment towards the socialist ideology,” said Chaudhary.Regarding the likelihood of an announcement about the alliance between the SP and the PSP-L on Monday, Chaudhary said the Samajwadi Party chief had never mentioned any date and dismissed it as speculation.On November 3, Akhilesh Yadav had declared the intent to try and forge an alliance with PSP-L. He had made the politically significant comment in his ancestral village Saifai (Etawah) ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls.“… The SP will endeavour to ally with regional parties. Uncle (Shivpal) also has a party. Naturally, we will try to forge an alliance with uncle’s party also. We will accord him full respect. Will make full efforts to take him along in the elections,” he had said.Asked whether the PSP-L would merge with the SP, Akhilesh Yadav had said: “Alliance, not merger”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-alliance-with-shivpal-s-party-unlikely-to-be-announced-on-mulayam-singh-yadav-birthday-101637434647547.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Govt plans to install 6,000 charging stations across 9 expressways: Mahendra Nath Pandey||The government is planning to install 6,000 charging stations for electric vehicles across nine expressways in the country, said Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey, minister of heavy Industries at Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) on Saturday. Pandey also asked ARAI to develop technology to reduce charging time.“Since charging is the main concern when it comes to the use of EVs, the government has chosen nine expressways where 6,000 charging stations have been sanctioned and about 3,000 will be installed soon. The advanced chemical cell (ACC), which is the main component of the EV battery, is currently imported. About 30% of the cost of the EV is the cost of the battery itself. This can be reduced if it is locally produced. This is possible because about 70% of the material used in the manufacturing of lithium-ion batteries is already available in India. With these newly-introduced PLI schemes, the government is providing support up to ₹362 crore per gigawatt in the EVs sector,” Pandey said.According to the minister, the sale of EVs in India has increased drastically in the last few months due to various schemes and subsidies provided by the government. “However, there are various challenges that we have to counter, including the price and the charging infrastructure. “To overcome one of these problems related to charging, I am going to urge ARAI to develop technology that reduces charging time,” he said.Pandey emphasised on the government’s FAME (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV) scheme I and II which has been extended by another two years to March 31, 2024. “The production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme will lead to an investment of ₹42,500 crore and will further accelerate manufacturing of components and batteries in India. The government is providing financial support up to 8 to 13% for auto component manufacturers and up to 13 to 18% for EV manufacturers through the scheme. “This will also facilitate the creation of about 7.5lakh new advanced-level employment opportunities,” he said.Considering the increase in the usage of drones in the coming years for various applications, the ministry of heavy industries has sanctioned ₹120 crore for research and other related work in this regard. Further, action for the same will be initiated by the ministry of civil aviation, Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/govt-plans-to-install-6-000-charging-stations-across-9-expressways-mahendra-nath-pandey-101637434527558.html
21-11-2021||Pune||PMC contractor booked for ₹one crore fraud||Pune: The Shivajinagar police have lodged a first information report (FIR) against a contractor on charges of allegedly forging bills estimated to be worth Rs1 crore related to wiring work at Vaikunth and Amardham crematoriums. According to the police, the accused has been identified as Yogesh Chandrashekhar More of Ganesh Park on Sinhgad road. He has been charged for producing fraudulent bills and got them stamped and signed in the names of the supervisory officials through cheating and forgery. The complaint was lodged by PMC electrical department engineer Prahlad Pawar. A few days ago, PMC on instructions from municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar decided to file a police case stating that civic work valued at Rs1 crore was carried out without any legal tender issued by the civic body. Kumar termed the incident as an economic offence and said that he had directed the department to lodged an FIR. Kumar also spoke to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta seeking an FIR against the contractor. The matter came to light after the PMC’s audit department found that during the Covid pandemic, the electrical department carried out wiring-related work at the Vaikunth and Amardham crematoriums, without tenders being issued for the same. Following the audit, the civic chief ordered a probe and asked the municipal administrator to file an FIR. Earlier, the electrical department had also issued notices to all parties involved with the work. PMC has maintained that the signatures on tenders will be examined forensically. PSI Bhairav Nath said, “Investigation is on and we have booked him under relevant sections of cheating of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).” It was found that the Sinhgad ward office also carried out work without issuing a tender. There is also allegations that in some instances, while a tender was issued for work at one site, the actual work was carried out elsewhere. The NIBM annexe forum had also demanded a probe into the tree contractor’s alleged act of supplying private men in uprooting 52 trees from Gemini Avenue Housing Society’s amenity plot in Mohammadwadi, a month ago. A complaint has been lodged against the accused with the Kondhwa police. A few years ago, in the Bhavani Peth area, a contractor had dug holes with no pipelines laid. Despite this, the PMC at the time, paid the contractor for work. Two tenders were issued for the same road work in Katraj area, and bills were issued twice for the same job. Civic activists have appealed for a probe into the nexus involving officials, contractors and corporators in the civic works where forgery, fraud and cheating has been carried out using taxpayer money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-contractor-booked-for-rs-one-crore-fraud-101637434467479.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Congress likely to lose a seat in upcoming MLC elections||Congress is expected to lose one of its seats in the legislative council owing to the reduced number of councillors in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Congress may not retain the seat which is held currently by its Mumbai unit chief Bhai Jagtap. The seat is likely to go to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which improved its tally in the 2017 BMC elections.BJP is expected to retain its Dhule-Nandurbar seat, though retaining the Nagpur one may be a herculean task because of the reduction in the number in the district council. Sena is expected to retain its seats elected from Mumbai and Akola-Buldhana-Washim, as the parties enjoy a majority in these local bodies. Congress may retain its Kolhapur seat banking on the majority in the local bodies in the district.The required number of votes to win each seat from BMC councillors is 77 against which only Shiv Sena and BJP have the requisite numbers to win one seat each. “With 29 seating corporators, the Congress has no hope to win the seat. Even if its allies Shiv Sena, NCP and Samajwadi Party help with their votes, the party falls short of at least 15 seats. Even if the party managed to gather the number, it will have to ensure that the candidate from either Sena or BJP does not get the desired number of votes,” said a senior Congress leader.The leader also said that Congress is unlikely to contest the election from the BMC constituency. “Since we have been talking about going solo in BMC elections, we can’t expect help from two other parties in the poll. Secondly, it would be embarrassing for the party if our candidate and that too the city unit chief lost the election ahead of the civic polls. More importantly, the party leadership itself is not sure if all its sitting corporators will vote for party candidate if contested the election,” he added. Jagtap refused to comment and said that the decision about the seat will be taken at the appropriate time.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “We would not have any problem in winning one seat from BMC. The candidates for all the six seats of councils will be finalised in a couple of days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-likely-to-lose-a-seat-in-upcoming-mlc-elections-101637434348041.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Power unlikely to be restored in over 800 Pune ZP schools by November 22||While schools are set to reopen after Diwali vacations, the electricity supply in more than 800 Pune zilla parishad (ZP) schools – that was disconnected by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) over failure to pay bills on time – is unlikely to be restored by Monday. The Pune ZP plans to restore power supply in 15 days.Pune ZP vice-president Ranjit Shivtare said that the process of paying the dues has begun and the administration has been asked to resolve the situation in 15 days. “It has only been two to three days since the issue was highlighted. We have asked the administration to resolve it within 15 days. In the upcoming week, we will again assess the situation. Our aim is to restore it in 15 days,” he said.Out of the total 3,639 ZP schools in Pune district, more than 800 are currently without electricity over failure to pay bills on time. “ZP has taken the necessary steps so that power supply can be restored. The electricity bills are sent to the school addresses and not directly to the ZP. Schools were closed for a long time and hence, such a scenario must have arisen,” Shivtare said.While schools are scheduled to reopen from November 22, Shivtare said that the disconnected power supply will not cause inconvenience to ZP schools as only 846 out of the total 3,639 ZP schools are set to open and some of them still have electricity supply. “Not all of the 846 schools have disconnected power supply. Once the academic session resumes, we will get a better idea. By coming Wednesday, we should have the bifurcation of schools with restored power supply and those which are still in the dark,” said Shivtare.Pune ZP owes Rs2 crore and 28 lakh in electricity bills to MSEDCL. A senior official from MSEDCL Pune rural circle on the condition of anonymity said that not only private establishments but even public sector undertakings have failed to pay electricity bills on time. “We do not separately have the numbers of schools that have not paid bills. It just comes under public service establishments. For example, in the Baramati circle, which includes six tehsils, 34,224,000 are pending from public service establishments. Once the bills are paid, we restore the connections. The details of school numbers can only be given by the ZP,” the official said. ZP has already asked gram panchayats to pay the electricity bills from their funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/power-unlikely-to-be-restored-in-over-800-pune-zp-schools-by-november-22-101637434169432.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses to interfere with decision of ECI to exclude Solapur from MLC polls||Mumbai The Bombay high court has refused to interfere with the decision of the Election Commission of India (ECI) to exclude Solapur local authorities constituency from elections to the Maharashtra legislative council (MLC). Ashok Balorgi, a councillor of Akkalkot Municipal Council in Solapur district, had moved the high court questioning the November 9, 2021 decision of the ECI and sought a direction to the authority to hold elections for the MLC seat from Solapur local authorities constituency. Balorgi had moved the high court questioning the decision on two counts – first, he contended that the conclusion that Solapur constituency did not meet the criteria of 75% functional electorate was factually incorrect, for five new recently created municipal councils in the district were taken into consideration. He contended that no elections have been held for the new municipal councils and if they were excluded from the zone of consideration, the functional electorate (elected representatives of local bodies) in the constituency would be 82.82%. The contention, however, failed to impress upon the division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar. The bench dismissed Balorgi’s petition on Monday. The bench said once a municipal council is constituted, it is difficult to see how it can be “excluded” from the computation for the purposes of reckoning a number of electors. “Indeed, we perceive a wholesale failure of logic in this argument,” said the bench. HC clarified that if these newly formed councils were to be excluded today, and an election from the Solapur constituency was directed to be held, then, in a few months’ time, when the newly-formed councils have their electors, there will be no possibility of an election to the Solapur constituency, for the election will already have been done — and the newly formed councils would be entirely disenfranchised. Instead, the court said, if Solapur is excluded from the present, then, once the electors for the newly-formed councils are formed, the election process can begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-interfere-with-decision-of-eci-to-exclude-solapur-from-mlc-polls-101637434168392.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Eight booked for assaulting guard at Pune reserve forest||Pune: The Kondhwa police have booked eight persons on charges of physically assaulting a forest guard who objected to grazing of cows being done by one of the shepherds in survey number 68 in Forest Science Centre locality in Hadapsar on Wednesday. The victim, identified as Vishal Yadav (38) of Ramoshiwadi in Hadapsar lodged an FIR against the accused. According to the police, Yadav was on duty when he saw cows on the forest land and objected to trespassing by the shepherd who owned the animals. The accused summoned his other associates and physically assaulted the guard, police said. Investigation officer Chaitrali Gapat of Kondhwa police station said that the accused despite knowing that the victim was forest department employee physically assaulted him. “The complainant has been appointed to guard the area under the social forestry section. The accused assaulted him on duty and have been booked under the relevant sections of IPC,” she said. The police have booked the accused under IPC 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace), 141 (show of criminal force), 142 (being member of unlawful assembly) , 143 (being a member of unlawful assembly), 146 (use of force or violence for an unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) and 149 (vicarious liability of members of an unlawful assembly for the crime committed by any member of the assembly in furtherance of the common object).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eight-booked-for-assaulting-guard-at-pune-reserve-forest-101637434167398.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Parties choose reward, course correction to nominate candidates for council polls||Sunil Shinde, former Shiv Sena legislator from Worli, has been nominated as the party’s candidate for the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) seat from the Mumbai local body. His nomination is being viewed as a reward for giving up his seat for Thackeray scion and state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray in the 2019 Assembly polls. Meanwhile, Sena leader Ramdas Kadam--the incumbent on the Mumbai seat, was not renominated following the episode of his viral audio clips, where he allegedly gave information against Sena minister Anil Parab to a person who was in touch with BJP leader Kirit Somaiya. After the incident, the Sena leadership was upset with Kadam, party insiders said.Sanjay Raut, senior Sena leader and chief spokesperson of the party, said that he would not comment on Kadam being sidelined. “Ramdas Kadam has worked for several years for the party and as a minister. He also led the party in Legislative Council...Balasaheb has made all of us a ‘neta’ in the party and nobody needs to be upset about this,” Raut said.Talking about Shinde, Raut said, “Sunil Shinde is a true Shiv Sainik. He was the Worli MLA, and he sacrificed the seat for Aaditya Thackeray. Keeping his sacrifice and faith in mind, Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray gave him the nomination.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in a course correction, nominated former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule from Nagpur in place of incumbent Girish Vyas. Bawankule, who hails from the Teli community, was denied a ticket by the party in the 2019 Assembly polls. A ticket to Bawankule is viewed as his political rehabilitation. Rajhans Singh, a former Congress legislator and prominent North Indian face, has been given the ticket by BJP ahead of the BMC polls. Singh, who joined BJP just before the 2019 Assembly polls, will be the candidate from one of the council seats falling vacant in Mumbai, where corporators will vote in the election. The Shiv Sena, meanwhile, has renominated Gopikishan Bajoria from the Akola-Buldhana-Washim seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parties-choose-reward-course-correction-to-nominate-candidates-for-council-polls-101637433929034.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Southern Command launches military exercise||Pune: Pune-based Southern Command on Saturday launched a military exercise in Rajasthan and Gujarat. Named Dakshin Shakti, the exercise with troops aims to validate the battle readiness and operational effectiveness of troops of Southern Army in an integrated and futuristic battlefield scenario. In addition to conventional military tactics, the exercise will be aimed at stress testing new concepts of war fighting in all domains, including air, space, cyber, electronic and information warfare. A key focus of the exercise would be on exploitation of new and indigenous technologies like advanced light helicopter (weapon system integrated), Dhruv, swarm drones and enmeshing of artificial intelligence to provide a cohesive intelligence, surveillance and recce architecture. The exercise is conducted against the backdrop of the soon to emerge Integrated Theatre Commands that give major emphasis on tri-service integrated operations. Testing of sensor to shooter grids by employing surveillance and air assets networked with land-based operational and tactical vectors in addition to manoeuvre by mechanised formations would establish Southern Command as a network centric force in a theaterised environment, according to the Southern Command press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/southern-command-launches-military-exercise-101637433927555.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Job fraud: Two Chandigarh men duped||Two men from Ram Darbar, Chandigarh, were duped on the pretext of being provided jobsIn the first case, Narinder Singh stated in his complaint that he met a person through Facebook and between August 13 and August 18, paid ₹70,000 to get a job in State Bank of India. Later, he realised that he had been duped and filed a complaint. Krishan Mohan Jha of Ram Darbar was also duped of ₹9,968 by an unknown caller who had sent him a link to provide him a job at Wipro on July 7 this year. Cheating cases were registered in both incidents. No arrests have been made yet.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSMan arrested for stealing mobile phonePolice have arrested a 24-year-old labourer for stealing a mobile phone from a shopkeeper in Kajheri village on Friday. The accused has been identified as Charan Das alias Charna of Kharar. The complainant, Sakil Mohammad of Kajheri, said that Charan stole his phone when he had come to his shop. A theft case has been registered and Das was sent to judicial custody.2 vehicles broken into, belongings stolenTwo vehicles were broken into and their belongings were stolen. On Friday, near the Sector 8 gurdwara, ₹8,000 and a pair of gold earrings were stolen from one Manpreet Singh from Nayagaon’s car after the left side window was broken. Also, on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, one Varinderpal Singh’s car was broken into in Sector 21 and documents and his wallet containing ₹1,000 were stolen. Theft cases were registered for both incidents.Woman robbed at gunpoint in Industrial AreaA woman in her 20s was robbed at gunpoint near Mango Garden in Industrial Area, Phase 1, on Thursday. In her complaint, Aprajita Sen, who works at a cosmetics shop in Elante Mall, was going home around 8.30pm, when an unknown person robbed her of her gold chain and silver ring before escaping on foot. Police have however expressed doubts over this testimony, as the robber did not take her mobile phone and wallet. A robbery case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/job-fraud-two-chandigarh-men-duped-101637433867466.html
21-11-2021||Pune||19 of 74 Pune kids who lost both parents to Covid get monetary support from Maharashtra state||As per the Pune district collectorate information, Pune district has reported that 2,228 children in the district have lost either one parent or both parents due to Covid-19. Of these, 2,226 need care and protection as per the administration’s analysis. In the past 20 months, the administration has been looking out for kids who have now become homeless or dependent on the administration due to the Covid infection. Of these 2,228, 74 have lost both parents, 288 have lost only their mother and 1,867 have lost their father. Back in June, Aaditya Thackeray, cabinet minister of tourism and environment for the government of Maharashtra, had promised that the state would provide ₹five lakh of fixed deposit and would also take responsibility for the child’s education through the various child welfare schemes of the state. However, the fixed deposit scheme is now applicable to only those kids who lost both their parents to Covid. Therefore, of the 74 kids who were eligible through the scheme, 19 have already got the amount deposited in their account. Ashwini Kamble, women and child welfare department (WCD) officer for the district, said, “We had received 2,769 names of which we could verify 2,228 names of the kids who lost their parent to the infection. Of the total, 14 kids are admitted in homes and orphanages. We have distributed the forms to open fixed deposit account in case of 51 kids of which 43 forms have already been submitted to the collector’s office and in case of 19 kids the fixed deposit account has already been opened as joint account under the name of the child and the district WCD officer. The scheme is only eligible for kids who lost both parents and for the other kids we are awaiting budget allocation and accordingly they would also get coverage.” For other kids too, the administration has verified the names of 1,089 kids through home visits. She said, “We are in touch with the kids to resolve multiple issues be it with regards to school fees admission, college admission and also property related or loan issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19-of-74-pune-kids-who-lost-both-parents-to-covid-get-monetary-support-from-maharashtra-state-101637433807551.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Strawberry to arrive 15 days late in Pune market||PUNE: As unseasonal rain in the Mahabaleshwar belt has damaged 50% of the strawberry crop in parts of Satara district, the fruit will arrive 15 days late in the Pune market. Four-thousand farmers in the Mahabaleshwar, Panchgani and Wai belt of Satara district grow strawberry. Strawberry is grown on 2,000 to 2,500 hectare land in the Mahabaleshwar belt.Balasaheb Bhilare, head of the Strawberry Growers’ Association of Maharashtra, said, “Every year, strawberry starts arriving in the Pune market in the second week of November, however the ill-timed rain in October has caused delay in producing the fruit. There was rain when the plant was flowering and it was ready for coating. There is now a delay of 15 days and if there is more rain, even more of the crop will be damaged.”“Last year, the rate was Rs250 per kg and the market for strawberry is expected to open at the same rate this year so farmers will get good rates. However, the delay in arrival is a major issue,” Bhilare said.Baba Bibve, an official from the Fruit Market Association, Marketyard, said, “Strawberry has not arrived in large quantities at Marketyard so far. Every year, the fruit arrives in the second week of November.”Suhas Patil, a farmer from the Mahabaleshwar belt, said, “Strawberry fruit will grow in my farm in the second week of December. The crop was completely damaged so I had to start the entire process from scratch.”Retail fruit seller Amol Shinde from Kothrud said, “People have started demanding strawberry but the current stock is minimal and it is not of good quality either so we are avoiding stocking in large quantities.”As regards the export of strawberry from India, 80% of what is exported is produced in Mahabaleshwar while the rest comes from Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan.Box:Strawberry rate for 2021 season: Rs250 per kgFarming in Mahabaleshwar belt: 2000 to 2,500 hectare.Number of farmers in the Mahabaleshwar belt producing strawberry: 4,000Normal time of arrival of fruit: November second weekCurrent year’s arrival: delayed by 15 days||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/strawberry-to-arrive-15-days-late-in-pune-market-101637433687366.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Pune’s active Covid cases rise slow, but steady||In the past ten days, Pune district’s Covid-19 cases have seen a slight rise as the active case count has gone back up above the 3k mark, exactly ten days after it had slipped below 3,000 on November 10. As more new cases are reported than recoveries, the active cases count continues to stay above. Pune city and Pune rural’s daily case count is going above 100 new cases which is pushing the absolute virus numbers in the district on some days, except weekends. This comes at a time when western countries with high vaccination rates are sending alerts regarding forth Covid waves in the near future due to spurt in new cases. As per the state health department, Pune district reported 2,045 new Covid cases in the first ten days of November which rose to 2,157 new cases in the next ten days between November 11 and November 20. Most of the new cases were being reported from Pune rural and Pune city from where close to 100 new cases were being reported within 24 hours. Although the continued decline in the days post Navratri and Dussehra were reassuring, experts had warned that post Diwali migration of people who return to the city after festivities or even after the opening of more commercial activities, there might be a slight spike in Covid cases. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health officer said, “Post Diwali we had anticipated that there could have been a slight rise in the number of active and new Covid cases as more people tend to migrate to the city as more offices open up and more commercial activities are reopening. However, the rise is not at all alarming and the rate of hospital admissions are still under control.” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Pairshad said, “There are serious complaints coming in from rural areas that people have given up the use of masks even though we have not issued any order withdrawing the use of masks despite the lowering rate of new cases. This is serious and we have asked all the taluka and village level officers as well to ensure that people do not let off their guard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-active-covid-cases-rise-slow-but-steady-101637433567459.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court says sufficient material available against Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Adsul||While rejecting the interim anticipatory bail to former Union minister and Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Adsul, named by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case, a special court has reasoned that prima facie material against him was found to be substantial and satisfactory.The ED had conducted searches last month in the premises of Adsul in connection with alleged fraud at City Cooperative Bank.The court has noted this in its detailed order in the matter that was made available on Friday. “Only in exceptional cases where the case alleged is found to be frivolous or groundless, relief under section 438 of CrPC (Grant of bail in the apprehension of arrest) can be granted,” said the court, adding that prima facie, the case of the Enforcement Directorate is found neither frivolous nor groundless. He is scheduled to hear the main pre-arrest bail plea next week.Adsul was named as chairman of the bank in 2006. An RBI audit in 2014-15 had allegedly revealed anomalies and irregularities in loan disbursement. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) had begun a probe and an FIR was registered in 2020 on charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy. The ED had summoned Adsul in February to record his formal statement.Adsul had said in his plea that he was summoned again in September but he could not remain present due to an angioplasty he had to undergo. The plea added that the ED had not given any documents to him to specify why he was summoned. The 74-year-old alleged that it was a means of harassing him, as he has nothing to do with the alleged irregularities. He said that he had an apprehension that he would be arrested if he appeared before the central agency. Adsul’s interim pre-arrest bail plea was rejected on Tuesday. A petition filed by Adsul in the Bombay High Court seeking quashing of the summons and the complaint was rejected last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-says-sufficient-material-available-against-shiv-sena-leader-anandrao-adsul-101637433447391.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Ambala improves by 30 spots, ranks 90th||In the Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings announced on Saturday, Ambala ranked 90th out of 372 civic bodies of cities which have a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh. This is an improvement of 30 spots from 120th last year, municipal commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said.The civic body also bagged aaRohi (aspiring) in the Prerak DAUUR Samman category, introduced for the first time this year. Under this, Ambala was tagged along with at least 60 other civic bodies in the country. Six ULBs in Haryana were categorised with the Prerak Samman, that has a total of five additional sub-categories.According to the ministry of housing and urban affairs, the categorisation was done on the basis of six indicators, primarily the waste generated.“Ambala has also been declared open defecation free as the city is now ODF++. We will try to improve more and secure a rank in the top 20 in the 2022 survey,” the commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-ambala-improves-by-30-spots-ranks-90th-101637433387850.html
21-11-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 239 new Covid cases, four deaths; 46,658 vaccinated on Saturday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 239 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths due to the infection on Saturday. The progressive count stands at 1.15 million cases, out of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,017 deaths reported, and 2,163 are active cases.Pune rural reported 100 new Covid-19 cases, which took the progressive count to 367,140, and the death toll went up to 6,947.Pune city reported 88 new Covid-19 cases, which took the progressive count to 522,384, and the death toll went up at 9,212 as four more deaths were reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 51 new Covid-19 cases, and the progressive count went up to 269,438, and the toll stood at 3,509.Pune district also saw 46,658 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWIN dashboard and in total 12,653,984. Out of which 7,985,195 are first doses and 4,668,789 are second doses. A total of 639 sites saw vaccination out of which 451 were government centres and 188 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-239-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-46-658-vaccinated-on-saturday-101637433148657.html
21-11-2021||Mumbai||Swachh Survekshan: Navi Mumbai slips a rank but cleanest in Maharashtra||Navi Mumbai, which stood third in last year’s Swachh Survekshan survey, has slipped to fourth place this year. However, it continues to top in Maharashtra as the cleanest city and has also topped in the country in the `Cleanest Big City’ category of 10-40 lakh population. This news has come as a disappointment for Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), as they targeted the top rank amongst the 4,320 participating cities. NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “The Navi Mumbai residents deserve this. Residents have actively participated in all the civic endeavours that included beautification, novel wall paintings and awareness messages in public areas.” Commenting on the ranking, Bhupendra Shah, chairman Trustee Board, Builders Association of Navi Mumbai, said, “What really matters is that the city has topped in the country in the specified population category. This means that necessary action has been taken for this population. We will go beyond the other cities in the next few years as the fundamentals in Navi Mumbai are very strong.” BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation, however, is unhappy with the slip. “The cleanliness in the city was and is limited only to highways and main roads such as Palm Beach Road. The lanes, bylanes have miles to go. The idea of dustbin free city was badly executed. People continue to dump garbage in the erstwhile bin areas. Segregation of waste has also not picked up.”Thane 14th in Swachh ranking Consistently for the second year, Thane city achieved the 14th position nationally and the third position in Maharashtra in the survey in the cities with more than 10 lakh population category. TMC initiated various campaigns on waste collection and transportation process, regular cleanliness, public awareness and capacity building to hold its position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/swachh-survekshan-navi-mumbai-slips-a-rank-but-cleanest-in-maharashtra-101637433147559.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||IndianOil SERVO Masters Golf 2021: Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Sandhu clinches maiden PGTI title||Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu clinched his maiden title on the TATA Steel PGTI in style with a dominant final round performance of eight-under 64 at the ₹60 lakh IndianOil SERVO Masters Golf 2021.Sandhu’s (66-68-67-64) tournament tally of 23-under 265 set the record for the lowest winning total at the Digboi Golf Links on Saturday as he registered a thumping six-shot victory with Bengaluru’s M Dharma (69-68-68-66) finishing runner-up at 17-under 271 following his last round of six-under 66.The 24-year-old Sandhu, the overnight leader by two shots, came up with an eagle, eight birdies and two bogeys in round four to pick up the winning cheque worth ₹9.7 lakh and thus zoom from 11th place to sixth position in the PGTI Order of Merit for 2020-2021 with his season’s earnings moving to a total of Rs. 33,69,400.Sandhu, the son of an Army officer, had enjoyed an exceptional season prior to landing in Digboi with nine previous top-10s including six in the last seven events. The two-time winner on the PGTI Feeder Tour began the day with a bogey on the first, but soon regained ground with birdies on the third, fifth and seventh. He chipped-in on the fifth.From the third till the eighth hole, M Dharma was breathing down Yuvraj’s neck, as the former sank five birdies to trail the latter by just one shot. However, a couple of erratic shots led to Dharma’s double-bogey on the ninth.Sandhu then made a crucial chip-putt birdie on the 11th to seize the momentum as he got on a hot streak making three birdies, an eagle and a birdie on the next five holes that stretched his lead to seven shots and sealed the deal for him. Yuvraj, the 2019 PGTI Feeder Tour Order of Merit champion, produced two excellent drives, a 30-feet conversion and two 10-feet conversions during his dream run from the 11th to the 16th.Sandhu’s bogey on the 17th didn’t change the equation, as his nearest rival Dharma was a fair distance away with just three birdies on the back-nine. Yuvraj’s 23-under 265 bettered the previous lowest winning total of 20-under 268 at the Digboi Golf Links achieved by Mukesh Kumar in 2002, Shankar Das in 2015 and Honey Baisoya in 2016.Sandhu, the leader for the previous two days, said, “I started with the same feeling as the first three days but Dharma played some phenomenal golf on the first eight holes and he gave me a tough time on the front-nine. But on the back-nine I got the reins back and took control.“I’ve let my clubs do the talking, all the hard work I’ve put in is paying off. I can’t be more thankful to my team consisting of my coach and physio. They’ve all been part of this process. It’s a special moment for me and I want to treasure it. I want to let it sink in and get my tub of ice cream to celebrate. Once I’m back on the course, I want to keep doing things in a similar fashion since it’s working for me. I’m now looking forward to the next few events as the hunger to win is still there,” he said.“I had a tricky start, so the birdie on the third was crucial to get back into the game. Similarly, the birdie on the 11th set up the momentum for the terrific run on the back-nine. After the eagle on the 15th, I knew I had it in the bag but still wanted to see how low can I go and that explained my aggressive approach till the end. Winning before on the Feeder Tour did help me today. I said to myself that if I’ve done it before, why not today,” added Sandhu, whose 64 was also the day’s best score.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indianoil-servo-masters-golf-2021-chandigarh-s-yuvraj-sandhu-clinches-maiden-pgtititle-101637433091168.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Swachh Survekshan: NDMC declared cleanest city in 1-3 lakh population category||The Lutyens’ zone in Delhi – administered by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) – was adjudged the cleanest among 372 Indian cities with populations between 100,000 and a million, according to the Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings released on Saturday.At the same time, two other zones in the Capital ranked among the lowest: neighbourhoods under the North Delhi municipal corporation was the fourth dirtiest with a population of over a million, the survey found, while the East Delhi corporation was in the bottom 10.NDMC improved on its 2020 ranking, when it clinched the third spot in the survey, even as the North Delhi Municipal Corporation fell from 43rd to 45th on the rankings, out of 48 cities, while the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) climbed from 46th last year to 40th this year.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) was ranked 31st, the same as 2020. Swachh Sarvekshan is the central government’s annual survey on cleanliness under the Swachh Bharat Mission. This was the sixth edition of the survey introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2016. The survey covered 4,320 cities this year.NDMC was also adjudged a five-star garbage-free city. The Delhi Cantonment Board was ranked third in the survey in the cantonment boards’ category.NDMC chairman Dharmendra (who goes by a single name) credited the council’s frontline workers for helping it reach the summit of the rankings. “The credit of this success goes completely to our frontline workers, including all the staff of health and sanitation departments. The role of different residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and market associations can never be ignored, without whom getting the top rank will have remained a mirage,” he said.Sanjay Sahay, SDMC director (press and information) said the civic took heart from the fact that it performed the best among Delhi’s civic bodies.“SDMC has done a lot of work in the field of cleanliness in the last few years that will certainly improve our rankings in the coming surveys,” he said.The EDMC, in a press statement, said “it is heartening that EDMC has scored far better than last year’s survey and has performed well in all the three parameters.” Despite repeated attempts, North MCD officials could not be reached for comment.Bharati Chaturvedi, founder and director of Chintan – an NGO that has worked with Delhi’s civic bodies– said that NDMC has several natural advantages. “Since NDMC has utilised those advantages, like substantial commercial areas, in the best way, it has been ranked first. On the other hand, the three MCDs don’t have enough funds, particularly after the trifurcation [of the unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi]. But, I am sure that these corporations will get better ranks in coming years as the staff there are really working hard,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/swachh-survekshan-ndmc-declared-cleanest-city-in-1-3-lakh-population-category-101637428829868.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Crowd at Singhu border swells as farmers await final repeal of farm laws||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his decision to repeal the three farm bills, more farmers could be seen pouring into Delhi at the Singhu border on Saturday, wishing to join in the celebrations with the farmers who had stayed back and to prepare for the one-year anniversary of the protest on November 26. The celebrations will begin with a nagar kirtan at Singhu border on Sunday, with the numbers expected to treble in the next few days, and the groups serving langar have already begun to load up on stock. Jagdev Singh, a farmer from Dharamkot in Moga, Punjab, says the gruelling part is now over, but instructions from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha are clear – to not desert the protest site, but instead, calling other farmers back, who had gone back to harvest their crop. “We kept taking turns to stay at the protest site and when one group would stay, the other would go back home to do chores and take care of the village crop. We have asked all of them to return now,” said Singh. He was joined this morning by another farmer from his village in Gurmukh Singh, with more set to be on the way. “The women are booking trains to come, while those who can come by road are willing to take the one or two-day journey. As soon as I got to know about the decision, I set out from my village immediately,” said Gurmukh. Kabul Singh, who arrived in the early hours of Saturday from Verka in Amritsar, Punjab, said the mood has completely transformed at the border. “I came to provide support to all my brothers and friends at the protest site. For those who have stayed here for nearly a year, this is a mini victory of sorts, but the real battle is not yet won and we will wait patiently for the Parliament session to take place now,” he said.Harvinder Singh from Tarn Taran district in Punjab said no farmer is willing to abandon the protest site at such a junction, with only a verbal agreement in place so far. “We have already waited a year. We can wait a few more weeks too. Once the Parliament session is held, we will know if those words hold true or not.”As HT took a walk around the Singhu border, no visible decorations were in place at any point. The old placards, posters and demands to repeal the three farm laws were still hanging over the tents, tractors and bamboo houses erected that the farmers have been calling their home for the past year. The only decorations that stood out had been done at the main stage of the protest. However, farmers were quick to point out that this was done to celebrate Guru Nanak Jayanti on Friday and not for the Prime Minister’s decision.“Nothing has changed at the site of the protest visually. We are not putting up posters to celebrate our win or to gloat, as it is not a victory yet. The bills are yet to be taken back and so for us, status quo still exists,” explains 38-year-old Mehtab Singh, stationed near the stage. Santokh Singh from Patiala, who has adorned his bamboo hut with posters bearing words such as “take back these black farm laws” and “no farmers, no food” along with the names of some of the farmers who died at the Singhu border as part of the protest, says it is not easy to celebrate such a victory. “We have lost nearly 700 farmers in our fight against these bills. We cannot put up decorations just yet, until we are sure that they are indeed off the books,” said Santokh, adamant he will only return when the repeal process is over.From serving special menu items to loading up on more stock, those serving langar at the protest sites say they are already seeing an increase in the number of people wishing to eat food at these community kitchens. Lakhbir Singh, who has set up the “Mohali langar sewa” at the site, said the protest site was buzzing since Friday morning, with numbers only set to increase further in the next few days. “We will order more food stock. So far, there was largely a fixed numbe of people coming for food, but this is set to increase massively in the next few days. We may prepare special items too,” he said. At the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) langar service, kheer and matar paneer were the special items prepared for Saturday, with more delicacies planned for the week ahead. “This is the time to celebrate. We were serving rice and sabzi earlier, but special food items will now be planned,” said a volunteer at the stall. Joginder Singh from Ropar in Punjab says fresh vegetables had already arrived at their langar service on Saturday, with flour and rice expected by the evening. “The quantity has been increased manifold. More will be done based on the demand. We plan to hold a grand langar service for the one-year anniversary,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crowd-at-singhu-border-swells-as-farmers-await-final-repeal-of-farm-laws-101637428530184.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Woman found dead with 17 stab wounds in Malviya Nagar, husband arrested||Two days after a 33-year-old woman was found stabbed to death inside her house in Malviya Nagar, Delhi police on Saturday said they have arrested her husband, a supervisor at a cable manufacturing company, for allegedly hiring three contract killers to carry out the murder as he was reportedly in a relationship with another woman. Police have also arrested two of the three contract killers, and are on the lookout for the third man.Police said that the suspect, Naveen Gullaiya, allegedly decided eliminate his wife, Reena Gullaiya, a homemaker, as the latter had learned of his affair, and they used to often fight over it. Police said that Reena was found dead with at least 17 stab injuries on Thursday.Investigating officers said that Naveen, a supervisor at a private company, had tried to misguide police and even made up an alibi by leaving the house with his son at the time of the murder.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said that police were informed about the woman’s death by PSRI hospital in Sheikh Sarai on Thursday.“On receiving the information, the staff of Malviya Nagar station reached the hospital where the deceased was declared brought dead... Later, the scene of crime -- drawing room of the house (in Malviya Nagar) -- was inspected. Naveen said that at around 2.30pm on Thursday, he had gone to visit a doctor in Defence Colony along with his son, leaving his wife alone at home. He said that later, after shopping with his son, he dropped him off at a barber shop near Shiv Mandir Bandh Road and went to his office in Kalkaji,” said Jaiker.According to the DCP, Naveen claimed that he later asked one of his employees to fetch his son from the barber shop and drop him home. “Naveen said that his employee found Reena lying in a pool of blood when they reached home at around 4.45pm. Naveen immediately rushed home, took his wife to PSRI Hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” she said.Police said an examination of footage from multiple CCTV cameras of the area around the house showed three men leaving the house in the afternoon, and heading to Pamposh Enclave from where they got on a motorcycle and fled.Another police team going through the call data records of the couple found that Naveen was in constant touch with another woman, a resident of Govindpuri. “We checked Naveen’s phone too and found that he was in touch with a man named Rahul, also from Govindpuri. When we questioned him (Naveen) further, he confessed to killing his wife by hiring contract killers,” said DCP Jaiker.Police subsequently arrested Naveen on Friday and recovered a second cell phone, which was allegedly used to speak to the killers, and ₹50,000from his scooter’s boot, which he claimed was part of the payment for the killers. Police also conducted raids in Govindpuri and arrested Rahul and his associate Sonu.“As it turns out, Naveen decided to eliminate his wife, which was also approved by the other woman. Accordingly, he hired Rahul, a contract killer, for ₹5 lakhs, which was to be given through another man, Sunil alias Lall, after completion of the task. Naveen also sent the location of his house to the killers. As per the plan, Naveen left his house on Thursday when his wife was taking rest. While leaving the home, he locked the main gate door and passed on the key to Rahul, who along with associates Sonu and Chandu, entered the house and brutally stabbed Reena 16-17 times,” DCP Jaiker said.Police said Rahul worked as a driver but was currently unemployed, and Sonu worked as a bike mechanic. Police are on the lookout for Chandu and Sunil, and are probing the role of the other woman who was in a relationship with Naveen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-found-dead-with-17-stab-wounds-in-malviya-nagar-husband-arrested-101637427086703.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Summons to Delhi BJP chief, three party leaders over defamation plaint by DJB||A Delhi court has summoned Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and three other party leaders in a criminal defamation complaint filed by the Delhi Jal Board and its vice chairman Raghav Chadha for allegedly calling the institution as “Dalali Jal Board” and accusing it of a ₹26,000 crore scam. The BJP leaders claimed they have the documents to prove the charges.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) Dharmender Singh on November 18 asked Adesh Gupta, MLAs Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, and Vijendra Gupta , and Delhi BJP media relations in-charge Harish Khurana, to appear before him on November 27.“This court is of the considered view that in the present case, there are sufficient grounds for proceedings against the respondents. In view of the allegations made in the complaint, testimonies of CW1 to CW4, and material brought on record by them, this court is prima facie satisfied that there are sufficient grounds for summoning all respondents as accused qua offence punishable u/s 500 (defamation) read/with section 34 IPC (common intention),” the judge said in its order.The complaint was filed by DJB through its authorised representative Dalbir Singh; vice chairman Chadha; Vikram Singh, a legal intern at the board; and Manoj Tanwar, a social worker and member of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The complaint, filed through advocate Prashant Manchanda, contended that BJP leaders, at a press conference on January 21 and 23 this year, alleged that the DJB, Chadha and other members of the board committed a scam worth ₹26,000 crore. The plea also said that all of them referred to the DJB as “Dalali Jal Board” several times.In his complaint, Chadha said that the accused persons have been actively indulging in publishing and sharing false and defamatory statements/allegations on social media, hoardings, posters and other platforms. The complaint also stated that Adesh Gupta, along with other BJP leaders, were trying to intentionally hinder and obstruct him in discharge of his official obligations by levelling false and malicious and defamatory allegations against the Board, the Chief Minister of Delhi and himself.Taking note of the contentions, the court said that the DJB is an identifiable body and can file a defamation complaint even though it is not a natural person.The court also noted that the respondents held two press conferences and posted tweets, in addition to using print media and making visual representations, alleging corruption.The judge also said that instead of approaching the investigating agency competent to probe corruption cases, the respondents only levelled the allegations publicly.The court noted that though Khurana had not made any defamatory statement, he was present on the dais along with other party members. “In this way, it is clear that all the respondents acted in furtherance of their common intention,” the court said in a 17-page order.The BJP leaders, however, claimed that they have necessary documents “to support the claims made in the press conference”. “We will present all the facts before the court.We have also asked for an inquiry to look into the accounts of the DJB and probe the allegations of embezzlement of funds. The matter is coming up for hearing on November 29,” said Khurana.Vijender Gupta said that he would challenge the order of summoning in the higher court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/summons-to-delhi-bjp-chief-three-party-leaders-over-defamation-plaint-by-djb-101637426486722.html
21-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt drafting street vending policy, will benefit hawkers: Bhardwaj||The Delhi government will soon introduce a “street vending policy” to organise sector and ensure hawkers get dedicated spaces for trade, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj said on Saturday.Addressing a press conference, he said the surveys carried out to identify and register street vendors will continue till December 7. Data showed that so far, the city’s municipalities have identified 71,371 street vendors throughout Delhi. HT had reported last week that the municipal corporations have started issuing certificates of vending to street vendors.The announcement comes at a time when all the three MCDs in Delhi are scheduled to go for elections early next year. While BJP is currently ruling all the three MCDs, AAP is a key contender and is the principal opposition at present.“The issue of street vendors in urban clusters in not just Delhi, but all metros across India. There are two points to keep in mind when talking about this. One, the society needs street vendors -- be it a fruit/vegetable vendor, laundry and ironing services, cobblers, and so on -- to be able to sustain their livelihood... Two, if a street vendor is not situated in an ideal location, then it causes problems in movement of people, especially pedestrians. Overall, there is an urgent need to balance this situation out,” he said.“The Delhi government is working on a highly progressive policy for street vendors in the city. Under this, all street vendors are identified through town vending committees. Work is being done to estimate the number and kinds of vendors all over Delhi...,” Bhardwaj said.Officials said the Delhi government is working on ideal locations for these vendors to continue their business without disrupting traffic, blocking footpaths, or taking up space on someone else’s property, and to peacefully conduct sales without any extortion by the MCD or the police.Bhardwaj accused the MCDs and policemen of extorting large sums of money -- “ranging from ₹500-2,000” -- from street vendors, and “have their stalls shut down if they don’t pay”. “With the implementation of the policy, street vendors in Delhi will get a place to efficiently conduct business without any disruption to movement in traffic or footpaths, or to the RWAs. The AAP will ensure that street vendors don’t pay anything to the MCD and police, and every section of Delhi will benefit from the new policy,” he said.Data showed that as of September 30, 2021, at least 23,951 street vendors had been identified by South MCD, 27,819 by North MCD and 19,577 by East MCD. After surveying and registering all the vendors, elections will be conducted among them and vending committees will be established according to the various zones throughout Delhi. Following this, the procedure of allocating zones to respective street vendors will be commenced.“BJP’s Jhuggi Samman Yatra programme is futile if its councillors don’t stop extorting money from street vendors -- stopping this will be the biggest honour for the vendors.’’ said Bhardwaj.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor dismissed the charges as “politically motivated”. “During the last five years, the Arvind Kejriwal government extended no help in setting up of street vendors committees and today, when civic elections are less then six months away, the AAP leader (Bhardwaj) is announcing schemes, that too without mentioning a time frame. The three municipal corporations have already identified over 71,000 street vendors and the civic leadership is issuing them certificates... Even AAP councillors are hailing the scheme and getting certificates issued to vendors in their wards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-drafting-street-vending-policy-will-benefit-hawkersbhardwaj-101637425107031.html
21-11-2021||Lucknow||ICMR DG says India watching Covid vaccination among children in other countries||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general (DG) Balram Bhargava on Saturday said India is closely watching the progress of Covid vaccination among children in countries conducting the same.The evaluation is being done indigenously, ICMR DG said while addressing a research showcase at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow.“Some countries are vaccinating children in age brackets such as between 15 and 18 years and we are closely monitoring the development there. We know kids are protected as 62% of them showed immunity against the virus in India,” he said.He did not specify any date for the beginning of Covid vaccination among children in India.“The technical committee and subject experts have the results from the studies done for vaccination among children. But, at present, schools have a significant role in ensuring they conduct a short but daily session on Covid protocol for students, may be 5 or 10 minutes daily,” said Bhargava. “Our mantra was not herd immunity but test-track-treat,” he said, sharing the progress in Covid vaccine manufacturing.“We were sure about delivering the vaccine fast and we had decided to stick to the classic rule and make vaccine from the dead virus. India scripted history and today 110 countries have approved Covaxin, along with WHO’s approval,” he said.Asked about a booster dose for those who have taken both doses of the Covid vaccine, ICMR DG said, “Both the doses are providing up to 98% protection. Our target is to get all those eligible vaccinated and till now about 80% of the people have got their first dose.”The annual research showcase was organised at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Convention Centre in Lucknow. The programme highlighted the research contributions and achievements of the faculty and students of KGMU in the past one year, especially in the context of the Covid pandemic.In his oration on “Going Viral, the Inside Story of Covaxin”, ICMR DG discussed the trials and tribulations in the development of the first Indian Covid vaccine. He described how India became the “largest and fastest” vaccinating country in the world with 40% of the adult population totally vaccinated and 80% having received a single shot. In the process, ICMR lost 23 of their bravehearts, he said. KGMU vice chancellor Lt Gen (retired) Bipin Puri praised the efforts put in by the medical university in raising the research standards of the country. Prof Shally Awasthi, dean (research and development) presented the annual research report of KGMU. She said KGMU has 237 extramural ongoing projects with combined funding of ₹21.62 crore, of which nine were focused purely on Covid research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/icmrdg-says-india-watching-covid-vaccination-among-children-in-other-countries-101637424266504.html
21-11-2021||Kolkata||BJP leader Tathagata Roy bids farewell to Bengal BJP ‘for the time being’||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura, Tathagata Roy, who has been attacking a section of top BJP leaders ever since the party’s debacle in the recent West Bengal assembly polls, tweeted on Saturday that he was bidding farewell to the party’s unit in the state ‘for the time being’.“I was not tweeting to earn applause from anyone. I was just trying to caution the party against the way some in leadership positions had indulged in money and women. Now the results are showing it. I will wait for the results of the civic polls. For the time being bye West Bengal BJP,” Roy tweeted in the morning.When asked to clarify as to what he meant by saying “For the time being, bye West Bengal BJP,” Roy refused to elaborate.“I have nothing to say beyond what I have tweeted,” he said.Senior BJP leaders refused to comment. HT contacted at least three senior BJP leaders in the state.“We are not giving any comment,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP’s spokesperson in the state.The ruling Trinamool Congress, however, took a jibe at the BJP saying that more (BJP leaders) would quit the party.“More would quit the party. Those who are knowledgeable know that the party would neither be able to do any good for Bengal nor for the country. Their aspirations won’t be fulfilled till the time they stick to BJP. Nothing can be achieved by spreading communal hatred and through muscle power. You have to bow down before the people to work for them. That’s not the attitude of BJP,” said Firhad Hakim, state minister and senior Trinamool Congress leader.The BJP had suffered a massive blow in the recently held West Bengal elections when the TMC returned to power for the third consecutive time after a thumping victory winning 213 seats out of the 292 seats where elections were held. The BJP, which had aimed to win more than 200 seats and form the new government, could manage only 77 seats.Ever since the BJP’s debacle in the recently held West Bengal assembly elections, Roy mounted attacks on some senior leaders including Dilip Ghosh, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash. Ghosh could not be contacted for his comments.Last month, Roy had told reporters that he was ashamed of some top-level leaders as, ahead of the Bengal assembly polls, they were swayed by the glamour factor while inducting people into the BJP and did not take experience and chances of winning into consideration. Recently, Roy retweeted a tweet by a party worker in which the latter said that he was ashamed of a senior party leader for how he was praising a Tollywood actor.Earlier this month BJP’s national vice president Dilip Ghosh lashed out at Roy, asking him to leave if he was upset with the party’s style of functioning.Amid the ongoing feud with Ghosh, Roy had tweeted that he was not mulling quitting the party voluntarily. He had also said that he intends to remain as the party’s “conscience-keeper” and said he would have revealed many more “secrets” if he was quitting the party, in what appeared to be a tongue-in-cheek remark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/veteran-bjp-leader-tathagata-roy-bids-farewell-to-bengal-bjp-for-the-time-being-101637402605737.html
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: 3.4 magnitude earthquake jolts Mandi district||An earthquake of magnitude 3.4 on the Richter scale hit Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi district on Saturday morning. Mild tremors were felt across the district at around 1.38am. The National Centre of Seismology confirmed the seismic movement at depth of 5km. No casualties or damage to property has been reported, so far.While all of Himachal falls in the high-damage risk zone, parts of Chamba, Kangra, Una, Mandi, Kullu, Hamirpur and Lahaul-Spiti fall in a ‘very-high’ damage risk zone on the earthquake hazard map. Of late, several minor tremors have been felt in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal34-magnitude-earthquake-jolts-mandi-district-101637385442678.html
21-11-2021||World||Putin revaccinated against Covid-19: Report||Russian President Vladimir Putin has been revaccinated against COVID-19, Russian news agencies quoted him as saying on Sunday.Putin said in June 2021 that he had been vaccinated with Sputnik V vaccine."Today, on your recommendation and that of your colleagues, I got another vaccination, Sputnik Light. This is called revaccination," Putin said at a meeting with the deputy director of the Gamaleya Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology, which developed both vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-revaccinated-against-covid-19-report-101637513814477.html
21-11-2021||World||Iran's Mahan Air says hit by cyberattack||Iran's second-largest airline, Mahan Air, said it had been hit by a cyberattack Sunday, the latest of several targeting the company."Mahan Air's computer system has suffered a new attack," the company said in a statement."It has already been the target on several occasions due to its important position in the country's aviation industry."All of its flights were on schedule, the statement added, but the company's website was down."Our internet security team is thwarting the cyberattack," spokesman Amir-Hossein Zolanvari told state television.According to Mehr news agency, some Mahan customers had received text messages that said: "Cyberattack against Mahan for complicity in the crimes committed by the terrorist Guardians Corps" -- a reference to Iran's elite Revolutionary Guards.Mahan Air is Iran's main private airline and the second biggest after the national carrier Iran Air.It has been on the blacklist of Iranian companies targeted by US sanctions since 2011.In addition to a domestic network, it also serves destinations in Europe and Asia.Iran last month accused Israel and the US of a cyberattack on its petrol distribution system that caused havoc at fuel pumps nationwide.Israel's internet infrastructure has meanwhile been hit by cyberattacks by the Black Shadow hacking group, including against the largest Israeli LGBTQ dating site and an insurance firm.The hacking group has not acknowledged any link to Iran, but the attacks are widely seen as part of a years-long covert war between Israel and Iran including physical attacks on ships and offensive cyber moves online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-mahan-air-says-hit-by-cyberattack-101637508727784.html
21-11-2021||World||Covid-19 highlights a geographic split in Germany||Analysis of Germany's latest Covid-19 figures shows that infections are soaring where the vaccination rate is lower than the national average. Many of the districts with the highest infection rates are in the eastern states of Saxony and Thuringia, and more recently Brandenburg.But even in Bavaria — where the vaccination rate is only slightly lower than the national average — there are hot spots. Bordering Austria, which was affected by the pandemic earlier than Germany, Bavaria dealt with higher than average numbers at the beginning of the pandemic, and that is still the case.Vaccination roll-out has been most successful in the northern city-state of Bremen, where nearly 80% of the population has been vaccinated thanks to coordinated efforts to reach out to citizens.Limited education, right-wing inclinationCan a lack of willingness to be vaccinated be put down to a lack of education or to a certain political ideology? Heike Klüver, of the Institute for Social Sciences at the Humboldt University in Berlin, published a study into Germans' willingness of Germans to be vaccinated, based on a representative group of 20,500 people surveyed in March 2021. Some 67% of those asked were already vaccinated or willing to be, 17% were undecided and 16% rejected being vaccinated altogether."We see a significant correlation between education and rejection of vaccination. The lower the level of education, the higher the rejection," Klüver told DW. "The people who reject vaccination are more likely to be voters for the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party and more likely to have held right-wing positions. In addition, these are people who have low trust in politics, the government, the media, and the health-care system as a whole."Previously against immigration, now against vaccinationMany people who oppose vaccination against the coronavirus appear to share political views on other matters too. "We see relatively clear skepticism when it comes to migration," says Klüver. "As early as March, we could see that these anti-vaxxers did not adhere to mask or social distancing rules." The lack of social distancing also contributed to driving up infections in the AfD's strongholds in the eastern states.The group opposing vaccination has long had a common spirit, according to Josef Holnburger of the CeMAS research group. CeMAS, short for Center for Monitoring, Analysis, and Strategy, conducts research primarily on radical right-wing issues and conspiracy narratives online and is funded by the Alfred Landecker Foundation, among others."If it becomes known that someone in this scene has been vaccinated, then that leads to indignation from others," Holnburger said. "Because it means someone is seen to have given in." He added that vaccine skepticism was being deliberately instrumentalized by right-wing groups, especially in the east. "That's surprising insofar as these are states that traditionally had a particularly high vaccination rate, for example against measles or tetanus." This was a kind of late legacy of the communist German Democratic Republic, where numerous vaccinations were mandatory, unlike in West Germany.Holnburger, like Klüver, sees a direct connection between state-rejecting, right-wing slogans and vaccination refusal. "There are people who have a closed ideological worldview, who have a different view on reality and cannot be convinced with arguments," he said. "We see that with other issues, too, with measures against climate change, for example."In Saxony and Thuringia, there is a growing number of reports that people who want to be vaccinated and doctors who administer vaccinations have become targets of verbal attacks and threats of violence. Critics of anti-coronavirus measures are also strong in Germany's south, in Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg.Most scientists and physicians agree that politicians should not let the radical opponents of vaccination stop them from taking drastic measures against the pandemic."There could be further polarization, but trust in existing institutions was already very low," says Klüver. On the other hand, a clear majority of Germans are still willing to be vaccinated and stand by most of the coronavirus measures, even the painful ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-highlights-a-geographic-split-in-germany-101637505505489.html
21-11-2021||World||Chileans vote in fourth presidential election in 18 months||Chileans began voting Sunday in their fourth election in 18 months, this time to choose a new president among seven candidates, with the winner overseeing the drafting of the country's first post-dictatorship constitution.The election marks the most wide open contest since the 1990s, and may well buck Chile's traditional political cycle, with the two favorites not among the established coalitions that have governed for the past three decades.Following a campaign scarred by two years of intense social protests, outgoing President Sebastian Pinera was the first public figure to cast his ballot, at a school in the affluent Santiago neighborhood of Las Condes."All opinions matter. Come and vote," he said before television cameras. "We are capable of resolving our differences in a peaceful way, by voting."The poll comes with many Chileans in revolt against deep-rooted inequality, and it follows recent elections for a body that will write the new constitution -- a key demand of the protesters.That ballot, in May, saw voters massively reject traditional political parties in charge since democracy replaced the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet 31 years ago.On Sunday, seven hopefuls vie to replace the unpopular Pinera, covering the entire political spectrum.The favorites are Gabriel Boric, 35, of the leftist Approve Dignity alliance which includes the Communist Party, and far right candidate Jose Antonio Kast, 55, of the Republican Party -- each with about a quarter of stated voter intention.Both are from minority parties not in government.Centrists, including the candidate from Pinera's party, proved the least popular in opinion polls that also revealed half of the 15 million eligible voters to be undecided."I'm going to vote but I am pretty disappointed," said Danilo Panes. The 26-year-old took part in 2019 protests and feels none of the candidates have put forward "alternatives in line with what the people demanded" when they took to the streets.High inequalityThe demonstrators denounced low salaries and pensions, poor public health care and education, and in the words of a recent OECD report, "persistently high inequality" between rich and poor.This situation was largely blamed on the Pinochet-era constitution, which pundits say has made the country rich through its promotion of private enterprise in all spheres, but at the expense of the poor and working classes.Dozens of people died in weeks of protests in 2019 that marked Chile's worst social crisis in decades.The government finally agreed to a referendum, which one year later saw about 80 percent of voters give the go-ahead for a new constitution to be drawn up by an elected body.Voters in May elected a majority of independent candidates, mainly left-leaning, to that body, which has already started drafting the document.Chileans also vote to replace the 155-member Chamber of Deputies and almost two-thirds of Senators for a new-look Congress that will be in place when the country decides in a mandatory referendum next year whether to adopt the new constitution.It is not known how, or if, a changed constitution could impact on the terms or powers of the president.But the fact that Kast and Boric, a former student leader, are the favorites signals an upending of political norms."It can be argued that these are the last elections of the old cycle, since they may end with a different result to the ones that came before," University of Santiago political scientist Raul Elgueta told AFP.Also competing are Christian Democrat senator Yasna Provoste, the only candidate who has served in the center-left coalition that ruled for 20 years after the dictatorship; far-left professor Eduardo Artes; and filmmaker and progressive politician Marco Enriquez-Ominami.'A difficult period'With his second, non-consecutive term beset by economic and social upheaval, billionaire Pinera approaches the end of his mandate with record-low approval.The country's economic woes have worsened with the coronavirus epidemic, with unemployment up, inflation at six percent and foreign debt skyrocketing as the demand for social aid and subsidies exploded.One thing is clear: a large proportion of Chileans want a more interventionist and socially-minded government, better access to public health care and education and changes to the pension system, which is privately administered.Analysts have also observed a recent rightward swing blamed partly on sometimes violent and arsonist actions by protesters, but also on growing concerns about immigration and crime.To win in the first round, a candidate must garner 50 percent of votes cast, but analysts believe the election will likely go to a runoff round between the top two contenders on December 19.Polls remain open until 6:00 pm (2100 GMT), with results expected late Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chileans-vote-in-fourth-presidential-election-in-18-months-101637504632009.html
21-11-2021||World||28 detained in Netherlands as protests against Covid norms enter second night: Report||As protests against Covid-19-induced restrictions entered a second night on Sunday, at least five cops were injured and 28 people detained across the Netherlands, reported Reuters.According to the report, the Dutch authorities also resorted to using water cannons, dogs and deployed police to stop the youths from rioting. The protests are being touted as one of the worst disturbances since a full lockdown led to widespread disorder and more than 500 arrests in January.The unrest began on Friday after police opened fire on a crowd during a protest in Rotterdam. At least three people were believed to be hit by police bullets and were later admitted to a hospital.What sparked the protests?The protests were sparked by opposition to government plans to restrict use of a national corona pass to people who have either recovered from Covid-19 or have been vaccinated, excluding those with a negative test result.The protests are also being held against the reimposition of lockdown in the Netherlands in an effort to slow a resurgence of the virus.Also read | Rotterdam police open fire as protest over Covid curbs turns violentBesides, the ban on a New Year's Eve firework to avoid added pressure on hospitals also angered the youths.On Saturday night, at least five officers were injured in The Hague, police statement said.About Saturday protestPolice carried out charges on horseback and arrested 19 people, one of them for throwing a rock through the window of a passing ambulance. Further, two Eredivisie league soccer matches, which have been closed to the public under the tougher Covid-19 restrictions, were briefly disrupted on Saturday night as small groups of fans forced their way into the stadiums and threw fireworks.Another 13 arrests were reported by police in two towns in the southern province of Limburg, while disturbances were also reported in the northern province of Flevoland on Saturday. Eight people were detained in the town of Urk, where a Covid-19 testing station was torched earlier this year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/28-detained-in-netherlands-as-protests-against-covid-norms-enter-second-night-report-101637501072332.html
21-11-2021||World||Sudan's military agrees to reinstate ousted PM Abdalla Hamdok: Report||A deal was reached between Sudan's military and civilian leaders to reinstate Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, who was deposed in a coup last month, military and government officials said Sunday.They also said that government officials and politicians arrested since the Oct. 25 coup will be released as part of the deal between the military and political parties, including the largest Umma Party. However, the party later issued a statement implying that it did not sign off on the deal.Hamdok will lead an independent technocratic Cabinet, the officials said. They said the U.N., the U.S. and others played “crucial roles” in crafting the agreement. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the deal before the official announcement.The coup, more than two years after a popular uprising forced the removal of longtime autocrat Omar al-Bashir and his Islamist government, has drawn international criticism. The United States, its allies and the United Nations have condemned the use of excessive force against anti-coup protesters.Sudanese have been taking to the streets in masses since the military takeover, which upended the country’s fragile transition to democracy. The agreement comes just days after doctors said at least 15 people were killed by live fire during anti-coup demonstrations.The military has tightened its grip on power, appointing a new, military-run Sovereign Council. The council is chaired by coup leader Gen. Abdel-Fattah Burhan.The Sovereign Council will meet later Sunday before announcing the deal, the officials said.A national initiative formed after the coup that includes political parties and public figures said in a statement that Hamdok would be reinstated and will form a technocratic Cabinet. It said the deal would be signed later Sunday along with a political declaration. It did not elaborate.However, the Umma Party released a statement stressing its opposition to any deal that fails to “meet the aspirations of all revolutionaries and the Sudanese people.”“The party expresses its faith in the victorious and rebellious resistance and reaffirms that it shall always stand by the people to protect justice,” it said.Also, the Forces for the Declaration of Freedom and Change, the group that spearheaded the uprising that culminated in al-Bashir's ouster, objected to any deals with the military.In a statement Sunday, the group reiterated its opposition to any new political partnership with the military, insisting the perpetrators of the coup should be brought to justice.“We are not concerned with any agreements with this brute junta and we are employing all peaceful and creative methods to bring it down,” the statement said.Meanwhile, thousands took to the streets in the capital of Khartoum on Sunday to denounce the coup and demand the immediate transfer of power to civilians. Protesters waved the Sudanese flag and chanted “Power is to the people! The military are to stay in the barracks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sudans-military-agrees-to-reinstate-ousted-pm-abdalla-hamdok-report-101637497810307.html
21-11-2021||World||Singapore, India to resume daily flights under Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL)||Singapore said on Sunday it has reached an agreement with India on resuming commercial flights under the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) facility that will commence with six daily flights from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai on November 29. The city state began discussions with Indian authorities last week for a temporary arrangement for partial resumption of commercial flights between the two sides following the launch of VTL for quarantine-free travel for fully vaccinated travellers. Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong tweeted that joint efforts by the lead agencies of both sides resulted in the resumption of commercial flights. Travellers from India can apply for a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) from November 22, he said. VTL travellers must be fully vaccinated and present a digital proof of vaccination. They must also take two Covid-19 tests – a pre-departure test within two days before departing for Singapore, and an on-arrival test at Changi airport, following which they have to remain self-isolated until the result is confirmed to be negative. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who was in Singapore last week, had tweeted on November 17 that he had discussed enhancing travel arrangements between the two countries at a meeting with Singapore’s transport minister S Iswaran. The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) said in a statement it “reached an agreement with the Ministry of Civil Aviation of India on the resumption of scheduled commercial passenger flights”. “This will facilitate quarantine-free travel on the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) from India to Singapore, which will start from 29 November 2021 with six designated VTL flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai,” it said. Airlines can also operate non-VTL flights between India and Singapore, and travellers on these flights will be subject to certain public health requirements, including a Covid-19 test two days before departure and serving a seven-day “Stay-Home Notice (SHN)” at the place of residence, a hotel or a serviced apartment. The airlines will announce the schedules for VTL and non-VTL flights when ready. People familiar with developments said the arrangement with Singapore will be on the lines of an air bubble. India currently has air bubble arrangements with 30 countries. According to the CAAS statement, short-term visitors and long-term pass holders will need to apply for a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) to enter Singapore under the VTL. Applications for VTP for both categories of visitors from India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Finland and Sweden will open on November 22. “CAAS understands that travellers are looking forward to the launch of the VTL and would like to assure travellers that there is no need to rush to apply for the VTP,” the statement said. VTPs will initially be issued to those who intend to travel to Singapore from November 29, 2021 to January 21, 2022. Those who intend to enter Singapore after December 1 were encouraged to apply after November 24. Short-term visitors were advised to obtain a visa after receiving VTP approval. They must also purchase travel insurance, with a minimum coverage of S$30,000 for Covid-19-related medical treatment and hospitalisation costs. In Singapore, these visitors must also use the Trace Together app to facilitate contact tracing. Currently, the only flights from Singapore allowed to carry passengers to India are flights under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). Since these are chartered repatriation flights, they could not be designated as VTL flights. Singapore started the VTL mechanism on September 8 with two countries – Brunei and Germany. It now has VTL arrangements with 13 countries, including Australia, the UK and the US. VTLs for India, Finland, Indonesia, Malaysia and Sweden will become operational from November 29, and similar arrangements for Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will begin from December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-india-to-resume-daily-flights-under-vaccinated-travel-lane-vtl-101637497957862.html
21-11-2021||World||Singapore to operate 6 daily flights from India from November 29 under Vaccinated Travel Lane programme||Singapore is set to resume scheduled commercial passenger flights from India under its Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) starting November 29, after both the countries reached an agreement.The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS), in a statement on Sunday, said that it will facilitate quarantine-free travel from India, with at least six designated flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai.“Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) has reached an agreement with India's Ministry of Civil Aviation on the resumption of scheduled commercial passenger flights between Singapore and India,” news agency ANI quoted the Singapore's civil aviation authority as saying.“It'll facilitate quarantine-free travel on Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) from India to Singapore, which will start from November 29, 2021, with six designated VTL flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. Airlines can also operate non-VTL flights between India and Singapore,” the aviation regulator added.Applications for Vaccinated Travel Passes (VTP) for short-term visitors and long-term pass holders from India will start on November 22 at 6pm Singapore time, ANI reported. "All short-term visitors and long-term pass holders who meet the requirements of the VTL will receive a VTP," the agency further said.Airlines can also operate non-VTL flights between India and Singapore, although passengers on non-VTL flights will be subject to the prevailing public health requirements, the CAAS further informed."CAAS understands that travellers are looking forward to the launch of the VTL and would like to assure travellers that there is no need to rush to apply for the VTP," the authority said.The authority also urged short-term visitors and long-term pass holders to apply for a VTP to enter Singapore under the VTL, ANI reported, citing CNA.To facilitate the application process, VTP applicants should have their passport and digital proof of vaccination ready. They should also know the address of the place they intend to self-isolate themselves while waiting for the results of their on-arrival COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, the CAAS release said.Travellers who require a visa for travel to Singapore should apply for it separately and only after their VTP is approved, CAAS said."They must also purchase travel insurance, with a minimum coverage of Singapore USD 30,000 for Covid-19-related medical treatment and hospitalisation costs, prior to travel to Singapore. In Singapore, these visitors must also use the TraceTogether app to facilitate contact tracing," the authority added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-daily-commercial-flights-from-india-to-singapore-from-november-29-101637487130085.html
21-11-2021||World||Palestinian kills 1 Israeli, injures 4 others near Jerusalem: Report||A Palestinian assailant killed one Israeli and wounded four others before being fatally shot by Israeli police near the entrance to a flashpoint Jerusalem holy site Sunday, police said.Police said the violence took place near an entrance to a contested flashpoint shrine known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary. Violence surrounding the site, which is considered holy by both faiths, has triggered previous rounds of fighting between Israel and the Palestinians, most recently in May.Paramedics said one person suffered critical injuries, two suffered serious wounds, and two others were lightly injured. Jerusalem’s Hadassah hospital later said one of the injured died. The paramedics said the Palestinian attacker was confirmed dead at the scene.Police published pictures of an improvised firearm and a knife from the scene.The Hamas militant group praised the attack in a statement but stopped short of claiming responsibility, calling the incident a “heroic operation.”“Our people’s resistance will continue to be legitimate by all means and tools against the Zionist occupier until our desired goals are achieved and the occupation is expelled from our holy sites and all of our lands,” spokesman Abdel Latif al-Qanou said.Sunday’s incident was the second of its kind in Jerusalem’s historic Old City in recent days, but shootings are relatively rare. On Wednesday, a Palestinian teen was fatally shot after stabbing two Israeli border police.In that incident, the two officers were hospitalized and the teen, identified by police as a 16-year-old from east Jerusalem, was pronounced dead at the scene.Palestinians have carried out dozens of stabbing, shooting and car-ramming attacks targeting Israeli civilians and security personnel in recent years. Palestinians and rights groups contend some of the alleged car-rammings were accidents and accuse Israel of using excessive force.Israel captured east Jerusalem, including the Old City and its Christian, Muslim and Jewish holy sites, along with the West Bank and Gaza Strip in the 1967 Mideast war. It later annexed east Jerusalem in a move unrecognized by most of the international community.The Palestinians seek the occupied West Bank and Gaza for a future independent state, with east Jerusalem as its capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/palestinian-kills-1-israeli-injures-4-others-near-jerusalem-report-101637484546859.html
21-11-2021||World||Relatives of Covid-19 victims question Japanese govt's 'stay-at-home policy'||Yoshihiko Takeuchi, who ran a small restaurant on the island of Okinawa, told only a few friends he had the coronavirus. When he didn't answer phone calls from public health workers for three days, police went to his home and found him dead in his bed.He was among hundreds of people who have died while subject to “jitaku ryoyo,” or a policy of having some Covid-19 patients “recuperate at home."In many countries, those with the virus stay home to isolate and recover, but critics say that in Japan, a country with one of the most affordable and accessible health care systems, people have been denied hospital care, and the policy amounted to “jitaku hochi,” or “abandonment at home.”Takeuchi's sister and a daughter of another man who died at home of Covid-19 have started an online support group for grieving relatives of such victims.Japan has seen caseloads fall dramatically in the past two months and the government has drawn up a road map to improve its pandemic response. A plan adopted Nov. 12 aims to have beds for up to 37,000 patients nationwide by the end of November, up from 28,000.That compares with more than 231,000 coronavirus patients needing hospitalization in late August, according to government data. Many had to recuperate at home.Prime Minister Fumio Kishida also promised to have health care workers routinely visit Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms at home.Public anger over inadequate treatment in the country with the world’s largest number of beds per capita is a factor driving such changes. Kishida’s predecessor, Yoshihide Suga, resigned after only a year in office, mainly because of widespread dissatisfaction with the government’s pandemic response.Speaking up takes courage in a conformist society like Japan, and class action lawsuits are rare. But Kaori Takada, Takeuchi's sister, and others in her group believe their loved ones were denied the medical care they deserved.“I had to raise my voice,” she said.She is not sure what she will do. Thousands are following the group's Twitter account and others have come forward with similar painful stories.Takada, who lives in Osaka and runs a small nursery in her home, was Takeuchi's only remaining relative. They spoke on the phone right before he was diagnosed, but he did not tell her he was sick alone at home. Given widespread phobias in Japan about Covid-19, he didn't want word to get out.Takada said he was a gentle man and much loved.“We are coming together, trying to heal, sharing how people have been treated so cruelly, and perhaps helping each other take that first step forward,” she said in a telephone interview.Japan's local public health bureaus, responsible for arranging for the care of Covid-19 patients, struggled to find hospitals that would admit them. In some cases, ambulances were shunted from one hospital to the next.A few makeshift facilities provided treatment and supplemental oxygen, but calls to set up big field hospitals went unheeded.In New York, for instance, hospitals were quickly converted, adding thousands of extra beds and ICUs for virus patients. A Navy medical ship and other facilities were turned into makeshift hospitals. At the outbreak's peak in April 2020, there were more than 1,600 new hospitalizations a day citywide.In August of this year, when infections in Japan surged with the spread of the delta variant, Japan's hospital systems were quickly declared “stretched thin,” even though it has had far fewer Covid-19 cases than the US, Europe and some other Asian and South American countries. In early September, more than 134,000 people were sick with the virus at home, according to Health Ministry records.About 18,000 Japanese have died of Covid-19-related deaths in a population of 126 million. No one knows exactly how many died at home, though the National Police Agency, which tracks deaths, said 951 people have died at home since March 2020, with 250 of them in August 2021 alone.Shigeru Omi, a top government adviser on the coronavirus and head of the Japan Community Health Care Organization, or JCHO, has urged the government to set up emergency field hospitals, specifically to avoid deaths from “jitaku ryoyo.”Japan's health care system is dominated by small, private hospitals and clinics, and few inpatient facilities are equipped to handle infectious diseases. Many beds are occupied by psychiatric patients and by the chronically ill and elderly, and there are relatively few doctors, intensive care specialists and nurses.In some places, local authorities arranged for such hospitals to accept patients who were no longer infectious and rehabilitating from serious illness after they were treated at larger hospitals. But overall, caseloads vastly outnumbered the beds available for critical care.The JCHO runs 57 of Japan's biggest hospitals. All are heavily subsidized by taxpayer money. The Health Ministry said it provided up to 100,000 yen ($900) per bed for Covid-19 patients.In October, JCHO said it had prepared 972 beds nationwide for virus patients, or fewer than 7% of its more than 14,000 overall beds, though in August it temporarily made room for about 1,800 patients.JCHO declined to comment on Kishida's call for providing thousands more beds.Dr. Takanori Yamamoto, a critical care physician at Nagoya University, believes hospital care needs to be restructured to focus on seriously ill patients in designated facilities, instead of spreading them across small hospitals that each have a handful of ICU beds.Resources were improperly managed, including widespread hospitalizations of people who didn't need it, he said. Public health bureaus are designed for research and are ill-suited to be “gatekeepers” for doling out Covid-19 care, he added.The problems are deeply rooted in a decades-old system, and Yamamoto worries that even if Japan manages to ride out this pandemic, it will be unprepared for the next one.“No other nation turned away patients like this, even countries that had far more cases. The idea of doctors not seeing patients should be out of the question. If you are a doctor, you have to take care of the sick," Yamamoto said.“Japan has done nothing. There has been no leadership," he said.The time to act is now, before another wave of coronavirus infections hits, said Dr. Kenji Shibuya, research director at the Tokyo Foundation for Policy Research, an independent think tank.“They didn’t act before, even though they knew it’s coming,” said Shibuya, who has experience working in Britain. “It is about a lack of commitment, lack of will, lack of passion to make a change at a time of crisis,” he said.Back in August, Yuko Nishizato, co-founder of Takada's group, pleaded with hospitals for her 73-year-old father to be admitted. But he died after testing positive for Covid-19 without ever getting treatment, apart from medication for a fever.Phone records show he repeatedly called the local public health center right up to his death. It breaks her heart to know all he got were recordings.“I wanted him to live to see his grandchildren. I wanted him to see a more grown-up me,” Nishizato said. “There are so many who have suffered the same way, and I don’t understand why.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/relatives-of-covid-19-victims-question-japanese-govt-s-stay-at-home-policy-101637478435325.html
21-11-2021||World||China tennis star Peng Shuai ‘waves at audience’ during tournament in new video||In yet another new video shared by Chinese state media on Sunday, missing tennis star Peng Shuai was seen attending the final match of a teenagers’ tournament. Shared by Hu Xijin, the editor-in-chief of state-owned Global Times newspaper, on Twitter, the latest video is in addition to those shared a few hours before that purportedly showed Peng eating at a restaurant with her friends and coach.In the latest video, the 35-year-old Chinese tennis star was attending the China Open, the Associated Press reported citing the post shared by the organiser on its Weibo social media site. She can be seen wearing a dark blue jacket and white trousers with her hair tied into a ponytail, and smiling and waving at the audience.
21-11-2021||World||'It was crazy': Engine failure forces emergency landing of US-bound flight, passengers stranded in Europe||Dozens of people were stranded in Europe for a second night on Saturday after their US-bound flight made an emergency landing in Dublin following an engine failure, passengers said.Brussels Airlines flight 102 was en route from Brussels to New York on Friday when pilots issued a "pan-pan" message, which indicates an urgent but manageable problem, less serious than a "mayday," when flying west at 37,000 feet over the Celtic Sea, aviation media and tracking websites said.Pilots of the 12-year-old Airbus A330-300 requested to divert to Shannon in western Ireland but switched to Dublin on instructions from the airline, according to Aviation Herald, an independent website which tracks airplane incidents.Lufthansa unit Brussels Airlines did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Passengers praised the crew but said they had been put up in hotels in Dublin before being flown to Paris on Saturday, where many were then unable to get on overcrowded flights to New York days before Thanksgiving in the United States.They included 18-year-old Maja Schmidt from Germany who was heading to New York to work as an au pair."They didn't have anything vegetarian so I ate bread and a cookie," she told Reuters via mobile phone.Also on board was 22-year-old Oliver Sommerburg from near Hamburg, Germany, taking only the second flight of his life."It was crazy, I don't know what's going on. They don't tell us anything," he said.Bernard Vidick, a Belgian judicial officer, said he had been refused a connecting flight in Paris because the plane bringing stranded passengers from Dublin had also been delayed."This means we are blocked in Paris whereas we should be in New York. We are wasting two of the few vacation days we have," he told Reuters.Carriers serving the United States are bracing for congestion and delays next week as the Thanksgiving holiday overlaps with airline labour shortages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/it-was-crazy-engine-failure-forces-emergency-landing-of-us-bound-flight-passengers-stranded-in-europe-101637471803031.html
21-11-2021||World||China downgrades its diplomatic ties with Lithuania over Taiwan embassy issue||China has downgraded its diplomatic relations with Lithuania after the tiny Baltic nation allowed Taiwan to open a de facto embassy in its capital earlier this week. The Chinese foreign ministry said in a statement that Beijing expressed “strong dissatisfaction” over Lithuania's move allowing the self-governed island to set up a representative office in Vilnius.Taiwan considers itself as a sovereign but Beijing claims the island under its ‘one China’ policy and has been pushing to implement the Hong Kong system there. Only a handful of countries have direct diplomatic ties with Taiwan, which Beijing calls a violation of the ‘one China’ policy.On Friday, China warned that Lithuania will “pay for what it did”.“Lithuania only has itself to blame, it will have to pay for what it did,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a regular news conference.Lithuania will ‘pay for what it did’, says China after it forges ties with TaiwanWhile most of the countries try to walk a diplomatic tightrope on the Taiwan issue, the United States has become increasingly vocal about the island's greater participation on international forums, especially after the beginning of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.China, meanwhile, is working to introduce legislation that would make people criminally liable for life for supporting the independence of Taiwan. China’s Taiwan Affairs Office spokesperson Zhu Fenglian said in a statement earlier this month that people named in a list of supporters of Taiwan’s independence will face sanctions.Opting for draconian measures to muzzle dissenting voices is not new for Beijing. It imposed the controversial national security law on Hong Kong last year aimed at curbing greater autonomy of the global financial hub, triggering criticism from the West.Taiwan's Premier Su Tseng-chang, parliament Speaker You Si-kun and foreign minister Joseph Wu have been named in the list drawn up by China for being "stubbornly pro-Taiwan independence."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-downgrades-its-diplomatic-ties-with-lithuania-over-taiwan-embassy-issue-101637467776871.html
21-11-2021||World||Video shot by activist fresh proof of China's atrocities against Uyghurs||China, which has faced global provocation over the coronavirus pandemic, the recent standoff with the Philippines in South China and rising tensions with Taiwan, is now making news for the dreadful treatment of the Uyghur Muslim minority community at concentration camps in the Xinjiang province.Fresh and strong evidence has come up against China which shows the surveillance, intimidation and harassment of Uyghurs. A nearly 20-minute long video shot by an activist Guan Guan shows the brutal reality of how the Xi Jinping led-government continues its atrocities on Uyghurs. The video was uploaded on YouTube in early October.Also Read| Liver on sale for $160k: Uyghur organs ‘harvested’ in China's black markets"Due to the Chinese government's restrictions, foreign journalists can hardly gain access to Xinjiang to conduct interviews," Guan said. At the start of the video, he said that the Chinese government has set up concentration camps in Xinjiang province where local ethnic minorities and dissidents are imprisoned without a trial, according to a report by Radio Free Asia.During his trip to Xinjiang, Guan travelled in a total of eight cities and discovered 18 such concentration camps, according to a report by the Daily Mail. Despite many of these camps being unmarked on maps, the activist was able to film barbed wires, guard towers, military vehicles and signs and walkways inside prison walls, the report added.In Hami in eastern Xinjiang, Guan travelled to the Hami Compulsory Isolated Drug Rehabilitation Center, which he suspects is a concentration camp. On the other hand, In Urumqi, he came across a road that had several buildings with watchtowers and high fences topped with barbed wire, the Radio Free Asia's report also said.Also Read| No food, bottlecaps to moisten lips: Ex-Chinese cop on Uyghur travel woes & moreFor years, China has denied any wrongdoing against the Uyghur community and said that the concentration camps, which the government calls re-education camps, have been set up to fight against Islamist militancy in Xinjiang. However, several human rights groups have claimed that China has been sending Uyghurs to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious practices, sterilising women from the community etc.This year, the United States became the first-ever country across the globe to declare China's actions in Xinjiang as "genocide".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/video-shot-by-activist-fresh-proof-of-china-s-atrocities-against-uyghurs-101637463192692.html
21-11-2021||World||On Joe Biden's birthday, Former US President Obama calls him ‘friend’, ‘brother’||Former US President Obama on Saturday took to Twitter to wish President Biden a happy birthday. "Happy birthday to my friend and my brother, @POTUS!" Obama tweeted.Biden had served as Obama's vice president during his eight years in office. They both have worked together for years in their political careersIn his tweet, Obama highlighted the passage of the bipartisan infrastructure bill that is seen as a major win for the Biden administration."Thanks for giving all of us the gift of better infrastructure. Grateful for all you're doing to build this country back better," Obama added.Biden got the infrastructure bill passed and has turned his attention to the Build Back Better Act, The Hill reported.The bill is not expected to have Republican support, the report added.On Thursday, the Congressional Budget Office released a cost estimate of Biden's plan, saying it would increase the country's deficit by $367 billion over 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-joe-biden-s-birthday-former-us-president-obama-calls-him-friend-brother-101637462845036.html
21-11-2021||World||UK to probe 'systematic bias' in development of medical devices||Britain's health secretary announced Sunday he has launched an independent review to examine if "systematic bias" exists in the development of medical devices, after Covid-19 brought the issue "to the fore".Sajid Javid said he would also work with his counterpart in the United States, Xavier Becerra, and other like-minded nations around the world "so we can shape what sits behind these valuable technologies".Writing in the Sunday Times newspaper, Javid cited research showing that oximeters -- which monitor oxygen levels and have been used during the pandemic -- are less accurate on people with darker skin as highlighting the potential problem."One of the founding principles of our NHS is equality, and the possibility that a bias -- even an inadvertent one -- could lead to a poorer health outcome is totally unacceptable," he wrote, referring to Britain's National Health Service."We urgently need to know more about the bias in these devices, and what impact it is having on the front line."So I have commissioned an independent review, looking at whether systematic bias exists within current devices, and if so, how we can address it."Javid, the son of Pakistani immigrants and the first person from an ethnic minority to hold the role of UK health secretary, said it would assess all medical devices, and other common biases aside from racial bias, such as gender.He noted his interest in focusing on this issue came in part from seeing health disparities during the height of the coronavirus crisis last winter.Then, black, Asian and other minority ethnic groups made up 28 percent of critical-care admissions in England -- about double their representation in the population as a whole.On international collaboration to tackle the issue, Javid said he had already discussed it with Becerra."I want to work with him and other like-minded nations around the world so we can shape what sits behind these valuable technologies," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-probe-systematic-bias-in-development-of-medical-devices-101637460073683.html
21-11-2021||World||Google doodle celebrates 194th birthday of black Creole composer Edmond Dédé||Google on Saturday celebrated the 194th birthday of black Creole composer Edmond Dédé, who worked as the assistant conductor at the Grand Théâtre in France for more than four decades. Some of his famous compositions include Le Serment de L’Arabe Patriotisme and Le Palmier Overture.The Doodle for Edmond DédéAccording to a report by 9TO5Google, Dédé’s doodle was commissioned by Lyen Lucien, an artist from Brooklyn. The doodle shows Dédé conducting an orchestra, with a violin and clarinet behind him.Dédé was born on November 20, 1827, in New Orleans, Louisiana. His father was a poultry dealer and a music teacher. In the initial years, Dédé started learning the clarinet but soon made a switch over to the violin.Many prominent musicians and composers taught Dédé how to compose his music. This lasted till the end of the Mexican–American War in 1848, when Edmond Dédé left the United States and moved to Mexico to look for work, according to the 9TO5Google report.He came back to the US in 1851 and started working to save money to move to Europe. During the same year, Dédé published “Mon Pauvre Cœur,” which was his earliest surviving work of sheet music.Move to EuropeEdmond Dédé moved to Europe in the late 1850s and studied at the Conservatoire de Paris- a music school in Paris, France. In the early 1860s, Dédé became the assistant conductor of ballet at the prestigious Grand Théâtre in Bordeaux. He also worked at the Théâtre l’Alcazar.Edmond Dédé married frenchwoman Sylvie Leflet in 1864 and the couple moved to Bordeaux. They had a son Eugène who went on to become a music hall conductor.The only visit homeAfter he settled in Bordeaux, Edmond Dédé only visited New Orleans once in 1893. The 9TO5Google’s report said that during the voyage to the US, Dédé’s vessel was shipwrecked.All passengers were rescued but Dédé's favourite violin was lost. However, he was able to obtain a suitable replacement ahead of his solo performance in New Orleans, the report added.Dédé died on January 5, 1903, in Paris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-doodle-celebrates-194th-birthday-of-black-creole-composer-edmond-dd-101637456084396.html
21-11-2021||World||Chaos at Atlanta airport as convicted felon's gun goes off, 3 hurt: Police||Authorities searched for a gun owner who fled after his weapon fired by accident at Atlanta's airport, sending terrified travelers bolting onto the tarmac on Saturday, halting flights during the busy Thanksgiving holiday period.Three people suffered non-life-threatening injuries after the 1:30 p.m. shot in the security screening area at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) said in a statement.Some two hours later, officials gave an "all-clear" and flights resumed, the airport said on Twitter.An arrest warrant was issued for the 42-year-old gun owner, named by police as Kenny Wells.He was being sought on charges of carrying a concealed weapon at a commercial airport, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, discharging a firearm and reckless conduct, Atlanta Police Major Reginald Moorman told a news conference.The gun discharge occurred when a screening checkpoint employee was conducting a bag search "due to a prohibited item identified by the X-Ray," the TSA said in a statement."He advised the passenger not to touch the property, and as he opened the compartment containing the prohibited item, the passenger lunged into the bag and grabbed a firearm, at which point it discharged," the TSA said.The gun owner fled from the airport, although "he was not allowed to go," airport spokesman Andrew Gobeil told CNN."Because he was in the process of being screened, we have all his information," Gobeil said.Immediate fear that an active shooter had opened fire panicked the crowd, which rushed out of the terminal onto the tarmac."More and more people started running - there was screaming," said traveler Erika Zeidler, who sent photographs to CNN showing dozens of people scrambling onto the tarmac, some pulling suitcases.Police said one person requested EMS after experiencing a fall "in the atrium of the airport, which is not in the same area of the security check point, and two others complained of a shortness of breath."Hartsfield-Jackson was the world's busiest airport in 2021, according to aviation analytics provider Official Airline Guide (OAG).The Atlanta airport was expected to be particularly busy during the Thanksgiving travel period, with prepandemic-size crowds expected at security checkpoints from Friday, Nov. 19 through Sunday, Nov. 28, the TSA said."Officials have given an all-clear for #ATLAirport and normal operations are beginning," the airport tweeted at 3:24 p.m.A record number of firearms were seized at U.S. airport checkpoints in just the first nine months of 2021, the TSA said. Nationwide, TSA officers have stopped 4,495 airline passengers from carrying firearms onto their flights, surpassing the 4,432 firearms caught throughout 2019. In Atlanta alone, there were 450 firearms detected at airport checkpoints in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chaos-at-atlanta-airport-as-convicted-felon-s-gun-goes-off-3-hurt-police-101637456989789.html
21-11-2021||World||New video of ‘smiling’ China tennis star Peng Shuai surfaces amid global outcry||A new video of Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai has emerged after photographs showed her surrounded by toys amid growing concern in the sports world and several countries demanded to know about her whereabouts since she accused a former vice premier of sexually abusing her.On Saturday, the Chinese state media posted a video purporting to show the two-time Grand Slam doubles champion Peng Shuai smiling and well. Hu Xijin, the editor of the Global Times newspaper, posted a video showing the 35-year-old walking into a restaurant wearing a coat, knit cap and face mask.“I acquired two video clips, which show Peng Shuai was having dinner with her coach and friends in a restaurant. The video content clearly shows they are shot on Saturday Beijing time,” Hu posted on Twitter along with the videos.In the other video, Peng is seen with a mask and sitting at a table chatting with people over a meal.
21-11-2021||World||Flooding in western Canada: 1 person still missing as death toll reaches 4||The death toll from record flooding in western Canada has risen to four, with a fifth person still missing, local authorities there said Saturday.Torrential rains hit southwestern British Columbia last Sunday and Monday causing widespread flooding and landslides that damaged or destroyed roads and bridges.The body of a woman was found on Monday, near a large section of highway that had been swept away by a mudslide.That highway, which links Vancouver to remote northern parts of the province, was reopened Saturday for "essential travel only," the authorities said.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police confirmed Saturday that the bodies of three men listed earlier as missing have now been found near Duffey Lake, northeast of Vancouver."We have been continuing the search for one more man, however search efforts have been hampered by weather and site conditions," Sergeant Janelle Shoihet of the RCMP said in a statement.The authorities have had to ration fuel as the area struggles with storm-related supply difficulties.Individuals are being limited to purchases of no more than 30 liters (eight gallons) of fuel at the pump -- a measure that might remain in place for 10 days, according to Mike Farnworth, the province's minister of public security.The Trans Mountain pipeline, a crucial link carrying oil from the huge petroleum industry in Alberta Province to the west coast, was temporarily closed by flood damage.Farms have struggled to obtain needed supplies. In Abbotsford, where the army was deployed to deal with severe flooding, four tons of feed were delivered to a pig farm by helicopter on Saturday, the authorities said.More heavy rain is expected in the coming week in the region, which was hammered earlier in the year by a record heat wave and then devastating wildfires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/flooding-in-western-canada-1-person-still-missing-as-death-toll-reaches-4-101637446250759.html
21-11-2021||India||Cabinet set to approve draft legislation to repeal contentious farm laws||The Union cabinet is likely to approve a proposal to repeal three contentious farm laws this week following which Parliament will take up repealing bills to give effect to their revocation, officials aware of the development have said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced that his government would revoke the laws that had drawn out tens of thousands of farmers in protests after a year of being passed. “There will be corresponding repealing bills, which after being approved by the Cabinet will be tabled in Parliament during the winter session as announced by the PM,” one of the officials said. Parliament will convene for its winter session on November 29. Under Article 245, Parliament is vested with powers to both pass and annul laws. If Parliament is in recess, the government can repeal or enact laws by bringing in an ordinance, which needs to be ratified by Parliament later. The legislative process of passing, amending or scrapping legislation is largely the same, experts said. A fresh repealing bill needs to be approved by Parliament in case of junking an existing law. “Three separate repealing laws will be needed if the existing laws were separately legislated,” said GC Malhotra, former Secretary General of Lok Sabha. The three farm laws that will be repealed are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The laws the government said would be annulled were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement. Farm unions say the legislation would leave them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws comes ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-set-to-approve-draft-legislation-to-repeal-contentious-farm-laws-101637519199734.html
21-11-2021||India||'Nothing wrong in chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ but....': RSS chief Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday asserted that there was nothing wrong in chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ but urged people raising the slogan to also try becoming like Lord Ram. "Nowadays, we raise the slogan of Jai Shri Ram enthusiastically. There is nothing wrong in it but we should also follow the path shown by Lord Ram," news agency ANI quoted the RSS chief as saying while addressing a gathering at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi."Following Lord Ram's ideals gives people the courage to walk forward. Such people exist and are like us in appearance. They are not supernatural. They do not expect any form of cash or kind. They just do their work silently," Bhagwat said.#WATCH | Nowadays, we raise the slogan of 'Jai Shri Ram' enthusiastically. There is nothing bad in it but we should also follow the path shown by Lord Ram: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at an event in Delhi pic.twitter.com/rCrttILjJfCiting an excerpt from Ramayana, Bhagwat said, "Just like Lord Ram's brother Bharat loved him, many common men, in today's times, find it difficult to love their brothers in such a way. Such people should learn from Lord Ram's life."The RSS chief also remarked that India did not progress as much as it could have done in these 75 years as the nation did not take the right path. "The people of India have considered this land as their motherland since ancient times. If we continue to do the same and work together as brothers and sisters, there is no chance that India won't progress," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-wrong-in-chanting-jai-shri-ram-but-rss-chief-bhagwat-101637518845786.html
21-11-2021||India||Farmers to go ahead with planned protest activities||The protesting farmer unions on Sunday announced that their agitation will continue as planned, as they dug in heels for a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs), days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that his government would repeal three agricultural laws enacted last year that set off widespread protests.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, at the Singhu border on Sunday. Among the planned protests is a Kisan Mahapanchayat scheduled to take place in Lucknow on Monday, and a march to Parliament on November 29 to coincide with the commencement of the Winter Session.The SKM has also written an open letter to the PM seeking immediate resumption of talks with the government over six of their pending demands.The Union cabinet is likely to approve a proposal to repeal the contentious laws this week, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.In a televised address on Friday, PM Modi “while apologising to the people of the country”, said that the government “could not explain to some of our farmer brothers a truth that was as clear as a flame” about the farm laws. “Today I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws,” he said.While the farmers, who have been protesting across the country and at the three borders of the national capital since last year, welcomed the PM’s announcement, they said the protests will continue until the government brings a law on MSPs.MSPs are state-assured floor rates meant to help avoid distress sale.Briefing reporters, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said that the future course of action was discussed at the SKM meeting. “We discussed repeal of farm laws. After this, some decisions were taken. SKM’s pre-decided programs will continue as it is - Kisan panchayat in Lucknow on November 22 gatherings at all borders on November 26 and a march to Parliament on November 29,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters after the meeting.Rakesh Tikait of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the key organisations leading the agitation, did not attend the meeting as he is currently in Lucknow. Tikait, however, gave a “Lucknow Chalo” (March to Lucknow) call for a Mahapanchayat in the Uttar Pradesh capital.“Chalo Lucknow Chalo Lucknow (March to Lucknow) for MSP Adhikaar Kisan Mahapanchayat. The agriculture reforms being talked about are fake and cosmetic. The farm reforms are not going to stop the plight of the farmers. The biggest reform for the farmers and agriculture will be to make a law pertaining to the MSP,” Tikait said in a tweet in Hindi.Farmers and supporters of the agitation from different districts of western UP are expected to participate in the Kisan Mahapanchayat at the Eco Garden in Lucknow on Monday.Leaders of the agitation have said that the protesting farmers have been emboldened after the government’s decision to repeal the laws after their year-long agitation.“The farmers’ confidence is running high. They are expected to attend the mahapanchayat in big numbers,” BKU (Asli) general secretary Surendra Singh said.Several hundred farmers have already arrived in Lucknow for the gathering, farm leaders said.“Guarantee for MSP was a genuine demand for farmers and the agitation would continue until government accepts the demand,” BKU’s Moradabad division president Digamber Singh said.At the meeting, the SKM also decided to write to the PM, seeking the cancellation of the cases filed against the farmers and compensation for the families of the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation.While thanking Modi for his decision, the SKM’s letter, said, “After 11 rounds of talks, you chose the path of unilateral declaration rather than a bilateral solution.”“MSP based on the comprehensive cost of production should be made a legal entitlement of all farmers for all agricultural produce so that every farmer of the country can be guaranteed the MSP announced by the government for their entire crop. Withdraw the draft ‘Electricity Amendments Bill, 2020/2021’,” the letter read.The SKM’s demands included the sacking and arrest of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, whose son is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Four farmers and a journalist were allegedly mowed down by a car in the Lakhimpur Kheri district, the native place of the Union minister on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three people were also killed. Over a dozen people, including the minister’s son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in the case.While Rajewal welcomed the PM’s announcement, he said, “A lot of things still remain.”Rajewal said that another meeting of the SKM will be held on November 27 to discuss the future course of action.“We urge all the farmers to gather at all protest sites to mark the completion of one-year of the agitation on November 26. We will also take part in a farmers’ rally in Lucknow on Monday. The tractor march to Parliament will take place as per schedule from November 29. As many as 500 farmers from Tikri and Ghazipur borders will reach the parliament every day,” Rajewal said.The decision to scrap the laws has come ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.An official familiar with the development said that a bill to give effect to the revocation will be tabled in the winter session.“There will be corresponding repealing bills, which after being approved by the Cabinet will be tabled in Parliament during the winter session as announced by the PM,” one of the officials said.Parliament will convene for its winter session on November 29.The legislative process of passing, amending or scrapping a legislation is largely the same, experts said.“Three separate repealing laws will be needed if the existing laws were separately legislated,” said GC Malhotra, former Secretary General of Lok Sabha.The three farm laws that will be repealed are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-go-ahead-with-planned-protest-activities-101637518479769.html
21-11-2021||India||Submarine info leak: Ex-naval officers get bail; court says CBI chargesheet incomplete||The CBI had to cut a sorry face after a special court granted bail to retired Navy officers Randeep Singh and SJ Singh and others in a case of alleged leak of confidential information on submarine projects for pecuniary gains, terming the agency's chargesheets as "incomplete" as the documents do not mention anything about a probe under the Official Secrets Act (OSA), officials said.The court has also granted bail to TP Sastry, executive director of Allen Reinforced Plastics Limited, a Hyderabad-based company, they said.Special Judge Anuradha Shukla Bhardwaj granted default bail to the retired officers -- Commodore Randeep Singh and Commander SJ Singh -- who were arrested on September 2, and Sastry, who was arrested on September 8, on a personal bond of ₹one lakh each and other conditions.An accused becomes eligible for default bail if the investigating agency does not file the chargesheet within a stipulated period of 60 days or 90 days, depending on the charges pressed.The judge said although the agency had filed its chargesheets within 60 days on November 2, the documents are "incomplete" as those do not mention anything about the probe under the OSA, making the accused eligible for bail."The chargesheet filed before the court is incomplete in as much as there is no mention regarding the investigation being carried out under the Official Secrets Act, though the same was being carried out in this case itself. The chargesheet thus, is incomplete for the purposes of section 167(2) of CrPC (default bail)," she said.The agency had made a mention of the pending OSA investigation for the first time while replying to the bail applications of the accused, which were dismissed on November 10 as there was "no clarity regarding the status of the case under the Official Secrets Act, the computation of time period for offences discovered later in the investigation etc.", the judge had noted."It was stated in the reply of the CBI that the investigation was being conducted under the Official Secrets Act, the Ministry of Defence has been requested to file a formal complaint as per law and the supplementary chargesheet would follow," the judge noted.The defence lawyers cited a Delhi High Court judgment stating that since there is no minimum stipulated punishment under the OSA, chargesheets have to be filed within 60 days to deny default bail to the accused.The judge pointed out that the CBI had taken over the probe in respect of section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and other sections were added as the investigation progressed."At no point did the CBI inform the court that an investigation under the Official Secrets Act has also been taken up," she said.The judge noted that the investigation officer informed, when inquired, that the Navy in response to a reference from the CBI had told the agency that the documents recovered were confidential in nature.The response of the Navy was received on October 14 and October 19, she pointed out.The judge said the agency filed two chargesheets on November 2 but there was no mention of the OSA investigation being carried out by the agency.It was only in response to the bail applications of the accused that the CBI said in order to initiate a probe under sections 3 and 5 of the OSA, a complaint from the defence ministry was required for which the agency had sent a proposal to the ministry, she said.Citing Supreme Court and high court judgments, the judge said it was "incumbent upon the CBI" to have filed its chargesheets within 60 days, mentioning that the investigation on its part was complete and that the reference has been made to the ministry concerned for filing a complaint under the relevant sections.The court said even if it is considered for the sake of arguments that the CBI had forwarded the application for a formal complaint and the ball was in the court of the ministry -- though the argument of the prosecutor is that the investigation is also going on -- the part of the CBI was not over in as much as it was expected to file a report alongside the said complaint with all the evidence collected by it.The CBI had carried out raids on retired naval officers Commodore Randeep Singh and Commander Satwinder Jeet Singh on September 2 after getting information that the latter was going to share crucial details related to a meeting in the Navy on procurement. Both were arrested on the same day.The agency is probing allegations into the leak of confidential information pertaining to procurement and maintenance of naval equipment for pecuniary benefits and bribery in a deal for a mine-laying saddle from Allen Reinforced Plastics Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/submarine-info-leak-ex-naval-officers-get-bail-court-says-cbi-chargesheet-incomplete-101637516632514.html
21-11-2021||India||Andhra floods: Death toll crosses 30; several villages destroyed||Heavy destruction due to flooding in Andhra Pradesh over the past week saw trains and vehicles stranded, people displaced and killed and destruction of property. The death toll due to the recent floods in the state reached 31 on Sunday. Rivers Pennar and Cheyyeru which were inundated swept away several villages and flooded roadways.The Chennai-Kolkata National Highway-16 was closed after roads were flooded in Padugupadu in SPS Nellore district due to flooding in the Penna river.More than 17 trains were cancelled on the Chennai-Vijayawada grand trunk route as the flood overflowed on the railway track at Padugupadu. Some trains were also diverted.Andhra Pradesh disaster management body said the deluge was caused as more than two lakh cusecs of water from the flood flowed out of the Somasila reservoir in SPS Nellore district, news agency PTI reported. Vehicles were stranded on either side of the NH-16 between Nellore and Vijayawada due to the flooding.Villagers angered over Annamayya projectTogurupeta, Mandapalli, Pulapathur and Gundlur villages were caught in a deluge as Annamayya project on Cheyyeru river overflowed as two lakh cusecs of water was released. At least 18 people died in the floods and many others were missing as the medium irrigation project breached due to the release of water.“It was nothing but gross mismanagement on the part of the administration. Didn’t they know about the flood when there was such heavy rain? Why were we not even alerted about the coming danger before it destroyed us,” angry villagers from Mandapalli and Togurupeta were quoted as saying by news agency PTI.12 people died in Pulapathur village due to the flood in Cheyyeru while nine people died in Mandapalli and five in Gundlur. In Mandapalli, two families were wiped out as the Cheyyeru river flooded, news agency AP reported.“The river course changed but the dam breach was what caused the real destruction. We still moved some 600 people to safety,” Kadapa district collector Vijaya Rama Raju was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-floods-death-toll-crosses-30-several-villages-destroyed-101637513210066.html
21-11-2021||India||Delhi Sikh body writes to Prez Kovind seeking withdrawal of Kangana's Padma Shri||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Sunday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him that the Padma Shri conferred on actor Kangana Ranaut be withdrawn as she was "spreading communal hatred, targeting a religious community, and insulting farmers and freedom fighters".The Sikh body filed a police complaint against her on Saturday for allegedly making seditious and derogatory remarks on social media.In his letter to the President, DSGMC and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa said Ranaut has been "deliberately provoking Sikhs" making references to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots."She does not deserve this honour. She does not represent the spirit of India which is based on harmony and goodness for all. Considering the social sentiments, Padma Shri should be withdrawn from her immediately for insulting farmers, Sikhs, and freedom fighters," he said.Sirsa said a DSGMC delegation will go to Mumbai on Monday to meet Maharashtra's Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil and lodge a complaint against Ranaut at the Khar police station.He said he will meet the deputy commissioner of police to ensure the registration of an FIR against her."This time it will be ensured that Kangana Ranaut does not get bail and she goes to jail for spitting venom against Sikhs time and again. She is playing the card of Hindutva for cheap publicity," Sirsa alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sikh-body-writes-to-prez-kovind-seeking-withdrawal-of-kangana-s-padma-shri-101637512748202.html
21-11-2021||India||After Rajasthan cabinet rejig, 6 MLAs appointed as advisors to Gehlot||Hours after the Rajasthan cabinet went through a major reshuffle with as many as 15 ministers being sworn into office, six Congress MLAs were appointed as advisors to chief minister Ashok Gehlot. According to the ANI news agency, which reported on the update, these six MLAs are – Jitendra Singh, Babulal Nagar, Rajkumar Sharma, Sanyam Lodha, Ramkesh Meena, and Danish Abrar.After Cabinet reshuffle, Rajasthan Govt appoints six MLAs -- Jitendra Singh, Babulal Nagar, Rajkumar Sharma, Sanyam Lodha, Ramkesh Meena, and Danish Abrar -- as advisors to CM Ashok Gehlot15 ministers were sworn into the Rajasthan council on Sunday, with 11 of them being cabinet ministers and four ministers of state. The cabinet expansion included 12 new faces, fulfilling a key demand of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot whose rebellion last year shook the state’s Congress government.The 11 cabinet-rank and four ministers of state (MoS) sworn in by Governor Kalraj Mishra included five considered to be in the Pilot camp. Among them were Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, back now as cabinet-rank ministers after being sacked during the revolt.The list included three MoS, all Dalits, from the old team who were elevated to the cabinet rank. The Congress also made room for an MLA who had switched over from the Bahujan Samaj Party.All 20 members of the earlier ministry had submitted their resignations just ahead of the long-awaited reshuffle. But only three, including state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra, have been dropped with the party deciding to follow the one man, one post formula.The expansion, two years ahead of the next assembly polls, also gives Dalits and women a stronger presence in the Ashok Gehlot government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-6-mlas-appointed-as-advisors-to-gehlot-101637508597520.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Corpse’ found breathing inside morgue freezer night after being declared dead||In a real-life incident that can otherwise happen only in reel life, a 45-year-old man, declared 'dead' following a road accident, was found alive despite spending a night in the freezer of a hospital morgue, news agency AFP reported on Sunday. Srikesh Kumar was admitted to a clinic in a critical condition after he met with an accident in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad.The man was later transported to a medical facility where he was declared 'dead' by a doctor attending him.His body was then taken to a government hospital for a post mortem. "The emergency medical officer examined him. He did not find any signs of life and hence declared him dead," AFP quoted Rajendra Kumar, the hospital's medical superintendent, as saying.The body was later placed in the morgue freezer for about six hours, till his family arrived.To everyone's surprise, when a police team and his family came over to initiate the paperwork for the autopsy, the man was found alive. "This is nothing short of a miracle," the official added.According to the report, the man is in a coma and is undergoing treatment. An investigation has also been launched to determine how the doctors mistakenly declared him dead.In a similar incident which took place in 2018, a 24-year-old “brain-dead” man taken for autopsy in a government hospital in Madhya Pradesh was found to be alive, according to a PTI report. Himanshu Bharadwaj suffered head injuries after his motorcycle skidded off the road in Chhindwara, following which he was referred to Nagpur for treatment.According to the report, the doctors at the Nagpur hospital declared Bharadwaj brain dead and sent him back to Chhindwara. The man later regained consciousness and all his vitals were found to be stable, an official told the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corpse-found-breathing-inside-morgue-freezer-night-after-being-declared-dead-101637510895681.html
21-11-2021||India||Young couple found dead in Bengal town two weeks after marriage||A 21-year-old man and his 19-year-old wife were found hanging inside their home in north Bengal’s Siliguri town on Sunday, two weeks after they had tied the knot, police said. Though preliminary investigations suggested that the couple may have died by suicide, the woman’s parents told the police that they suspected foul play. The deceased lived with the groom’s parents. The marriage was arranged by the two families. The bride’s family lives in Islampur in North Dinajpur district. Her father alleged that she was not being allowed by the groom’s parents to visit her home for a few days and enroll for the higher secondary examination to be held next year. The groom’s father denied the charge. Manish Kumar Yadav, assistant commissioner, Siliguri metropolitan police, said, “We have started an investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-couple-found-dead-in-bengal-town-two-weeks-after-marriage-101637508519045.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC MPs seek meeting with Amit Shah over alleged ‘police brutality’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. A delegation of more than 15 Trinamool Congress (TMC) parliamentarians on Sunday sought a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah over allegations of police brutality being faced by TMC workers at the hands of Tripura police, party officials familiar with developments told news agency ANI. Read moreYamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) CEO Arun Veer Singh on Sunday said that the bid for the development of ₹10,000 crore film city along the Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh will open on November 23. Read moreFor long has he been touted to take the role of former Indian wicketkeeper-batsman MS Dhoni, given his similar ability of being aggressive with the bat. Read moreRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa have released their wedding video and it has a potpourri of emotions. The video begins with Rajkummar standing at the mandap, watching Patralekhaa walking up to him. Read moreRandeep Hooda often takes to Instagram to share various kinds of posts. Besides the shares that give a peek inside his real and reel lives, he also talks about preservation of the wildlife and creates awareness around it. Read moreIf your relationship with sugar is going strong to the extent that even the thought of not indulging in sugary treats for a day gives you anxiety, you need to find ways to break away from this toxic bond. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tmc-mps-seek-meeting-with-amit-shah-over-alleged-police-brutality-in-tripura-and-all-the-latest-news-101637507467432.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Train services soon between Siliguri and Dhaka’: Shringla||Train services between north Bengal’s Siliguri, the second-largest city in the eastern state, and Bangladesh capital Dhaka will start soon, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, India’s foreign secretary, said on Sunday. Shringla, who was in Darjeeling to attend a charity event, announced this while interacting with the media. “The Centre is trying to operationalise the railway services between the two cities and the announcement on the same would be made soon,” he said. “The plan is to start the service at the earliest and it will take advantage of the opening of Haldibari-Chilahati train services. It is important for linking Bangladesh to north Bengal. It will provide a lot of opportunities in the transportation of goods. The services will start with freight trains and, over a period of time, passenger train services will start between Siliguri and Dhaka,” Shringla added. Freight train services between Haldibari in the Alipurduar railway division and Chilahati in Bangladesh resumed on August 1, after a gap of 56 years. “The two countries have passenger train services between Kolkata and Dhaka and between Kolkata and Khulna. Passenger trains between Dhaka and Siliguri will bring in tourists and people coming for medical reasons. This is good for the region” Shringla said. Five railway services between West Bengal and Bangladesh are currently operational. These are - Petrapole (India) - Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede - Darshan, Singhabad - Rohanpur, Radhikapur- Birol and Haldibari-Chilahati. The foreign secretary also reiterated that India has a clearly-laid policy in regard to China. “The Tibetan autonomous region is a part of that country and there is no change in our policy,” the foreign secretary said in Darjeeling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-services-soon-between-siliguri-and-dhaka-shringla-101637507680058.html
21-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: TMC MPs allege ‘police brutality’, seek meet with Amit Shah||A delegation of more than 15 Trinamool Congress (TMC) parliamentarians on Sunday sought a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah over allegations of police brutality being faced by TMC workers at the hands of Tripura police, party officials familiar with developments told news agency ANI.  The party is also planning to hold dharnas in New Delhi to voice its concerns, the people cited above further added.  The move by the TMC workers comes hours after its youth wing leader Saayoni Ghosh was detained for allegedly attempting to "mow down" people and disturbing a political programme where Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb was present.  Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien in a tweet said that the police are not taking action against the BJP workers who allegedly attacked the TMC workers. He also requested the Supreme Court to take note.  TMC leaders in Tripura have accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Tripura of obstructing them from campaigning freely ahead of the civic polls in the state. Several clashes were reported in the past few weeks, with the latest clash reported on Saturday where it was alleged that BJP workers confronted former Union minister Babul Supriyo as he was assessing poll preparations with TMC candidates in Agartala.  The TMC claimed that the Tripura police was not adhering to the directive given by the Supreme Court earlier this month where it instructed the police in the state to ensure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner.  The TMC, which is trying to increase its national footprint, is seeking to make major gains in the northeastern state with the help of the upcoming civic polls on November 25. It also has set its sight in Goa, where it seeks to defeat the BJP. The party has also expanded its base to other northeastern states like Mizoram and Assam aiming to wrest it from the BJP buoyed by its recent victory in the October 30 bypolls as well as the West Bengal polls earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-tmc-mps-allege-police-brutality-seek-meet-with-amit-shah-101637506361606.html
21-11-2021||India||With his iktara to motivate farmers, 75-year-old protester returns to Singhu border||He plays iktara at the Singhu border, where he has been camping at regular intervals since the start of the protest against the three agri laws. With his songs of victory, Jagar Singh, 75, is back at the site, motivating the protesters to continue their struggle.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a rollback of the three agri laws at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year.On his fourth visit to the Singhu border, the epicentre of farmers' protest, Singh, a resident of Patiala district in Punjab, seems happy and in a celebratory mood."We have won half the battle but there is still some time for us to return home triumphant. We want the government to bring in legislation to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP)," he said.He said he has stayed at the Singhu border for a week each on his three earlier visits. A day after the Centre's announcement of the three contentious laws, Singh reached the site on Saturday to sing songs of victory and to motivate the protesters to continue their struggle.“Playing the iktara is my hobby and from the past few years, I have gradually started singing as well. This is the fourth time I have come to the Singhu border since the protest started. I have family responsibilities back home,” he said.Singh said he has also performed at the main stage at the Singhu border protest site.Malkit Singh (58), a resident of Ropar, said ‘nagar kirtan’ was organised at the border on Sunday morning.“Today, nagar kirtan was organised two days after the Gurupurab. It was started from the main stage, we did ‘sewa’ in the kirtan and sweets were distributed during the procession. We want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fulfil our other demands also so that we would go back to our respective homes,” he said.The protesters are refusing to move from the site till their demands are met.Chad Singh (70), a resident of Patiala, said the protesters have achieved one demand, however, "there are others which have to be accepted by the government".“Repealing of the three farm laws is one step. There are other demands of MSP guarantee etc. The government should also compensate the family members of the protesters who died here and give jobs to their kin. The farmers have spent a lot of money in the protest and the government should also waive loans of all farmers,” Chad said.Chad said he has celebrated Lohri and Diwali at the Singhu border.“I went back to my home in Patiala twice and later came here. For the first time, I celebrated Lohri and Diwali away from my home. My family has supported me a lot. They said I should be at the protest site and win the battle,” Chad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-his-iktara-to-motivate-farmers-75-year-old-protester-returns-to-singhu-border-101637506564956.html
21-11-2021||India||Chirag Paswan-led LJP (Ram Vilas) mulling new alliance before Bihar MLC polls||Following a dismal performance in the recently held by-polls for two assembly seats and an equally poor performance in the 2020 assembly election, Chirag Paswan-led LJP (Ram Vilas) is mulling forming a new political equation for the elections for the MLC seats in Bihar. Members of the party’s state parliamentary board, which met under the chairmanship of Hulas Pandey on Saturday, were unanimous that the party should contest the Council polls but it should not contest it alone. “A proposal to this regard passed by the state parliamentary board will be sent to the party’s national president. The meeting wanted an alliance and we are leaving it to our national president to explore the option. Whether it will be with the NDA or some other party, it is up to our president to decide,” said Ashraf Ansari, LJP (Ram Vilas) spokesperson. The meeting was also attended by party’s state president, Raju Tiwary. People familiar with the development said that most probably, the party would go for a tie-up with the RJD and Chirag Paswan would make some announcement in this regard on November 28 on the occasion of the party’s foundation day. Unconfirmed reports said that RJD has even offered 5-6 seats to Chirag’s party for MLC elections which are to be held on 24 seats for the Bihar Legislative Council. “We are having talks for an alliance but can’t say with which party as it is initial days yet,” said LJP (Ram Vilas) state president Raju Tiwary. LJP at present has no representation in either house of Bihar. It’s lone MLA switched over to the JD(U) and following a division in the party, LJP (Ram Vilas) has only one MP in the Lok Sabha in the form of Chirag Paswan whereas the other LJP, the LJP (National), led by Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras has five MPs. Just before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, former Union Minister the late Ram Vilas Paswan had included his party LJP in the BJP-led alliance. In the 2020 Legislative Assembly election, Chirag’s party had fielded its candidate against the candidates of JD-U. Chirag’s party did not get any seat in this election, but did a lot of damage to Nitish Kumar’s party. Senior party leaders said that Chirag’s party, which entered the Bihar bypolls with a new name and symbol, could not damage the JD (U)’s prospect though it pushed the Congress to a distant fourth position. At both the places, Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur, where JD-U won and RJD secured the second spot, Chirag Paswan’s party came in third. In the Kusheshwarsthan seat, Paswan’s party candidate Anju Devi got 5,623 votes, while in Tarapur, LJP (Ram Vilas) candidate Kumar Chandan got 5,350 votes. Chirag, however, expressed his satisfaction on bagging the third position in the by-election and said that this is just the beginning. “The state parliamentary party reviewed the causes of the party’s poor performance and decided to contest the MLC elections on 24 seats with a new alliance. The new alliance will fight more openly against Nitish Kumar, if the opposition parties of JD-U get together, then its impact will be seen in the coming days. This will further strengthen the ongoing political battle of the opposition parties against Nitish Kumar,” said party spokesperson, Krishna Singh Kallu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-paswan-led-ljp-ram-vilas-mulling-new-alliance-before-bihar-mlc-polls-101637506899067.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Some irresponsible nations…’: Rajnath Singh’s subtle dig at China at INS Visakhapatnam commissioning||During the Indian Navy's commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam, defence minister Rajnath Singh took an indirect dig at China, and mentioned “some irresponsible nations” while talking about the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).Explaining that the UNCLOS 1982 stands for a country’s exclusive economic zone, good order at sea and territorial waters, Singh said that the “arbitrary interpretations” of the international law cause hurdles for creating a “rule-based maritime order.”“There are some nations — I would like to say irresponsible nations — (who) for the sake of their narrow partisan interests, and hegemonic tendencies keep on giving new and inappropriate interpretations to these international laws,” Singh said during the event earlier in the day.
21-11-2021||India||Tripura civic polls: TMC’s Saayoni Ghosh detained for disturbing CM Biplab Deb’s public meeting||Trinamool leader Saayoni Ghosh was detained by Tripura police on Sunday for allegedly disturbing a political programme involving chief minister Biplab Deb. Tensions between both the parties have spilled over from Bengal to the northeastern state as it gears up for the civic polls.Saayoni’s arrest comes a day ahead of TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s roadshow on Monday in state capital Agartala. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker filed a complaint that the youth unit secretary of TMC's West Bengal unit allegedly "disturbed" a street corner meeting of chief minister Biplab Deb on Saturday night.“TMC youth congress chief Saayoni Ghosh arrested by Agartala police for allegedly trying to mow down BJP workers at a public meeting. She has been arrested based on preliminary evidence. We've registered a case under sections 307, 153 of IPC,” BJ Reddy, additional superintendent of police (urban) West Tripura, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. TMC leaders, however, claimed that the BJP workers roughed them up outside the East Agartala Women’s police station.Saturday also saw clashes between the BJP and the TMC supporters in Agartala when former Union minister Babul Supriyo was campaigning for candidates which led to injuries. West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim and party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh were also present at the spot where the clashes took place. Supriyo alleged that he faced a ‘violent mob of BJP supporters’ in Tripura while he was assisting the TMC candidates during poll preparations in Agartala.Earlier this month, the Supreme Court directed the Tripura police to make sure that no political party is prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with the law for campaigning in a peaceful manner.The TMC in a bid to enter the state’s politics are conducting several events in a bid to increase its footprint and secure some wins in the civic body polls which are scheduled to be held on November 25.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-tmc-s-saayoni-ghosh-detained-for-disturbing-cm-biplab-deb-s-public-meeting-101637503279019.html
21-11-2021||India||'Condemn PM's silence': Congress rakes up alleged Chinese intrusion in Arunachal Pradesh||The Congress on Sunday raked up the issue of alleged Chinese intrusion in Arunachal Pradesh once again and questioned the Union government's handling of the border tensions. The party also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “silence” on the matter, demanding him to address the issue and inform the nation about the steps being taken in this regard."We condemn the prime minister's silence. It is culpable. It is a negative eloquence which we can do without. It is inexcusable," news agency PTI quoted Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi as telling reporters.Singhvi also shared satellite images to show that China has built another village six-to-seven kilometres inside Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh with over 60 structures, PTI further reported. The Congress leader also claimed that the Chinese president had visited a few kilometres north of this spot a few days ago.The Congress then went on to accuse the BJP of giving lessons on national security to the entire country while digressing from addressing the serious issue that affected India's integrity and sovereignty. "We don't understand this definition is national security, where you berate, browbeat, intimidate the whole country on national security issues and keep silent on these kinds of things," Singhvi said."It is a sad case of deliberate distortion, digression and diversion on an issue affecting India's integrity and sovereignty," he alleged, hitting out at the Narendra-Modi led government at the Centre.Also read | India to deploy two S-400 systems by early 2022, changes game with ChinaEarlier, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala raised questions over what is happening on the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector of Arunachal Pradesh.Recently, the ministry of external affairs said India has neither accepted the illegal occupation of Indian territory by China nor China's unjustified claims. The statement was the first official response to the Pentagon report confirming that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh."China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims," ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Also read | ‘Illegal occupation’: India’s first response to China village in disputed region"The government is committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along border areas for improvement of livelihood, including in Arunachal Pradesh. The government keeps a constant watch on developments having bearing on India's security and takes all measures to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity," Bagchi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/condemn-pm-s-silence-congress-rakes-up-alleged-chinese-intrusion-in-arunachal-pradesh-101637502039629.html
21-11-2021||India||'Good schools, hospital for Uttarakhand, too, if voted': Kejriwal bats for AAP's CM face||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that if his party comes to power in Uttarakhand following the assembly elections in the state next year, it would build “good hospitals and schools.”“AAP is the only party that says it has built good hospitals and schools. If voted to power, we’ll do such things here (Uttarakhand) also,” he was quoted as saying by ANI during a roadshow in Haridwar. Urging the people of the state to make AAP candidate Ajay Kothiyal the chief minister of Uttarakhand, Kejriwal said that the retired Army colonel had “redeveloped Kedarnath” and stressed that "now together, we have to redevelop Uttarakhand.”The AAP posted a photo of the roadshow from its official Twitter account with the caption “Uttarakhand ready for change.”
21-11-2021||India||Inside the Rajasthan cabinet rejig: 5 Pilot ‘loyalists’, 6 from Gehlot camp||Rajasthan council of ministers was expanded on Sunday when as many as 15 Congress MLAs took their oaths, with 11 of them assuming the post of cabinet ministers while four were sworn in as ministers of state. The ministers were administered the oath of office by Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, in the presence of chief minister Ashok Gehlot.The full list of Rajasthan ministers, who took their oaths on Sunday, had earlier in the day been provided by Dotasra – who shared a list of the 15 Congress MLAs. The list was later shared by the ANI news agency on its official handle on Twitter.A total of 15 Rajasthan leaders, including 11 cabinet ministers, to take oath as part of the state cabinet reshuffle pic.twitter.com/1crm8RzfjeMLAs appointed as cabinet ministersThe 11 Rajasthan Congress MLAs who were sworn in as cabinet ministers on Sunday are:1. Hemaram Choudhary2. Mahendrajit Singh Malviya3. Ramlal Jat4. Mahesh Joshi5. Vishvendra Singh6. Ramesh Meena7. Mamta Bhupesh Bhairwa8. Bhajanlal Jatav9. Tikaram Juli10. Govind Ram Meghwal11. Shakuntala RawatMLAs sworn in as ministers of stateThe four Rajasthan Congress MLAs who were sworn in as ministers of state on Sunday are:1. Murari Lal Meena2. Zahida Khan3. Rajendra Singh Gudha4. Brijendra OlaOnly three women in Rajasthan cabinetWith the induction of the new cabinet, only three women are now part of the Rajasthan council of ministers, although it is technically an upgrade from the erstwhile number of one. Minister of state Mamata Bhupesh was promoted to a cabinet minister in the recent reshuffle. Shakuntala Rawat, a new face, has been inducted into the cabinet, while Zahida Khan was also sworn in as a minister of state.Notably, out of the total 200 MLAs in Rajasthan, the Congress has 108, including 15 women.5 Pilot ‘loyalists’, 6 from Gehlot campMLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola – who are now part of the cabinet of chief minister Ashok Gehlot after the reshuffle – are seen as Congress leader Sachin Pilot's “loyalists”. Meanwhile, six of the new ministers are seen as belonging to the Gehlot camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inside-the-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-5-pilot-loyalists-6-from-gehlot-camp-101637497043448.html
21-11-2021||India||4 crore senior citizens forced to travel on full fare since March 2020: RTI||Almost four crore senior citizens have been forced to pay full fare for their travel since the railways suspended their concessions due to the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020, a RTI has revealed.In a reply to a query filed by Madhya Pradesh-based Chandra Shekhar Gaur, the railways has stated that between March 22, 2020 and September 2021, 37,850,668 senior citizens have undertaken journeys on trains.During this period, train services remained suspended for several months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The concessions, which were suspended from March 2020, have remained suspended to this day.In the case of senior citizens, while women are eligible for 50 per cent concession, men can avail 40 per cent in all classes. The minimum age limit for a woman is 58 and a man is 60.Over the last two decades, railway concessions have been a much-discussed topic with multiple committees recommending their withdrawal. As a result of this in July 2016, the railways made elderly concession optional while booking tickets.In July 2017, the railways enabled the elderly to even give up their partial or full concession through the "give it up" scheme."The thing is that the concession given to us was significant and is a huge help for those that cannot afford it. Senior citizens in many homes are treated as an extra, with no income of their own. These concessions helped them to get around."Those who can have given up their concessions also. With regular train services running, at least the senior citizen concessions should be restored. Most elderly cannot afford to pay full fares," said Tapas Bhattacharya, a retired private sector employee, who is travelling to Kolkata with his wife, also a senior citizen, next week said.In a letter last month, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan appealed to the Union railway minister to restore passenger concessions for their railway journeys stating that it was necessary for the elderly in a country where 20 per cent live below the poverty line."My parents haven't seen their grandchildren for more than two years. This year also they didn't come as they cannot afford the tickets without concessions. It is also too much for me to pay. They used to come every year to Delhi and spent six months here," said Subhash Singh, a security guard working in a highrise in Noida, whose parents are both senior citizens and stay in Bihar.In fact, according to a CAG report of 2019, the response to the 'give it up' scheme from the senior citizen passengers was not very encouraging. The report said that out of total 4.41 crore senior citizen passengers, 7.53 lakh (1.7 per cent) passengers opted to give up 50 per cent concession and 10.9 lakh (2.47 per cent) passengers gave up 100 per cent concession.The railways, over the past ten days, have restored some of its services that it suspended in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. This includes the removal of the "special" tag from trains which brought down the prices of tickets and restarted the service of serving hot cooked meals.However, the decision on restoring concessions and providing bedrolls is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-crore-senior-citizens-forced-to-travel-on-full-fare-since-march-2020-rti-101637500866031.html
21-11-2021||India||Central team to assess rain damages in Puducherry||An inter ministerial central team would assess the damages the recent torrential rain caused in farm and other sectors in Puducherry during its visit in the Union territory (UT) on Monday. Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and chief minister N Rangasamy had appealed to the Centre to depute a central team to the UT when it visits neighbouring Tamil Nadu since Sunday. After visiting the rain ravaged areas in Tamil Nadu, the team would arrive at Puducherry and visit the rain hit areas here between 4.15pm and 6.30pm, and would also hold meetings with Lieutenant Governor and CM, official sources said. The CM had said he had pleaded with the Centre to earmark interim relief to the Union Territory to tackle the situation arising out of heavy downpour for almost 10 days under the influence of northeast monsoon. The release of water from certain dams in neighbouring Villupuram district had caused heavy inflow of water into the rivers here and large tracts of farm lands were inundated.There were reports of collapse of huts and houses. One person drowned in Malattar river in Madukarai recently. The territorial administration had also procured the services of the National Disaster Rescue Force to assist the people to move to safer places. A detailed report on rain havoc had been prepared by the government, which would be handed to the Central team, sources said. Puducherry and Karaikal bore the brunt of the havoc caused by torrential rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-to-assess-rain-damages-in-puducherry-101637500310869.html
21-11-2021||India||Mandaviya to hold meet to discuss low vaccination rates in these states||Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the low Covid-19 first dose coverage in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry. The Covid-19 first dose vaccine coverage is less than 70% in these states and Union Territories, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. He will also review the progress and planning of Covid-19 vaccination in these regions and discuss means to increase coverage.At least 56.7% of the eligible population in Meghalaya have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. In Manipur, the number is currently 54.2% while 49% and 65.7% of Nagaland and Puducherry's population, respectively, have been vaccinated with the first dose, officials said quoting government data on Sunday.The government also launched the month-long ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign for the unvaccinated and for those who are overdue on their second vaccine. The campaign includes health officials going door-to-door identifying beneficiaries who are required to take the Covid-19 shots.Officials say that more than 12 crore people are overdue for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine following the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two vaccines.“Mandaviya will hold a meeting to review the progress and planning of Covid-19 vaccination in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry on Monday where the first dose coverage is less than 70%. The aim is to encourage vaccination there,” people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI. Officials say that 43% of India’s population are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 while 82% of the eligible population have received the first dose of the vaccine.India has administered 116.50 crore vaccine doses across 12,041,157 sessions. The nation is aiming to fully inoculate the entire population within the end of this year and have launched mega-vaccination campaigns in a bid to achieve this objective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-hold-meet-to-discuss-low-vaccination-rates-in-these-states-101637497849341.html
21-11-2021||India||Indian Army hoists 76ft tall national flag at 15,000 feet in Ladakh||The Indian Army on Sunday hoisted a 76ft tall flag in Ladakh overlooking the Hanle Valley at an altitude of 15,000 feet. The Fire and Fury Corps of the Indian Army hoisted the flag and shared a video of the event on Twitter. The flag was constructed by the Indian Army and the Flag Foundation of India.#AzadiKaAmritMahotsav A 76 ft tall #NationalFlag at 15000ft constructed by #IA and Flag foundation Of India, hoisted overlooking the #Hanle Valley by #TheUltimateForce. #IA @adgpi @NorthernComd_IA @lg_ladakh @jtnladakh @R_K_Mathur @jtnladakh @LAHDC_LEH @LAHDC_K @FerozKhan_Kgl pic.twitter.com/9lhRpB6jXt“A 76 ft tall national flag at 15000 ft constructed by #IA and Flag Foundation of India, hoisted overlooking the Hanle Valley by #TheUltimateForce,” the Fire and Fury Corps said on Twitter. The Indian Army said that the hoisting of the flag was part of the Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the government’s initiative to commemorate 75 years of Independence of India.In the video, two groups of soldiers are seen saluting the flag while the national anthem plays in the background.The Indian Army hosted several events over the past few months in the region to commemorate 75 years of Independence of India. Earlier this month, the Indian Army’s Chinar Corps conducted a light and sound show to re-enact the historic 'Battle of Shalateng' to commemorate the sacrifices made by Kashmiris and the Indian soldiers in the Battle of Shalateng on November 7, 1947.It also reenacted the scenes of the first Indo-Pak war in Kashmir and the historical Budgam landing on October 27 to celebrate 75 years of induction of the Indian Army to save Jammu & Kashmir from Pakistan invasion in 1947 at an airfield in Kashmir’s Rangreth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-hoists-76ft-tall-national-flag-at-15-000-feet-in-ladakh-101637497171597.html
21-11-2021||India||SKM to organise farmers’ Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will convene MSP Adhikar Mahapanchayat at ecogarden of Lucknow on Monday. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader and SKM member Rakesh Tikait has given a call of Lucknow Chalo (march to Lucknow) on November 22 and invited farmers, labourers and youths to join the Mahapanchayat in a big number.He tweeted on Sunday that the reforms in the agriculture sector that are being talked about by the government are fake. These reforms will bring adversities for farmers, he said. He added that a guarantee to procure crops at the MSP would be the biggest reform for agriculture and farmers.Farmers and movement supporters from different districts of western UP are expected to join the Mahapanchayat on Monday.General secretary of BKU (Asli) Surendra Singh said that farmers confidence is running high after the withdrawal of 3 contentious farm bills, therefore, they are expected to attend the Mahapanchayat in a big number to exhibit their strength.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Choudhary also advised farmers in his ‘Parivartan Sandesh Rally’ in Muzaffarnagar on Saturday to keep up pressure on the government and reiterated that “party was always with the decisions taken by the farmers”.Meanwhile, farmers leaders are reaching out to people in villages to ensure their good turnout in the Mahapanchayat. These leaders are conducting meetings with farmers and explaining why battle needs to be taken further for a guarantee of MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skm-to-organise-farmers-mahapanchayat-in-lucknow-on-monday-101637497418770.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gehlot expands Rajasthan cabinet, 15 ministers sworn in and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gehlot expands Rajasthan cabinet, new ministers take oathIn a major reshuffle of the Rajasthan cabinet, as many as 15 ministers – including 11 cabinet ministers and four ministers of state (MoS) – on Sunday took the oaths for their newfound duties at the legislative assembly in Jaipur. The ANI news agency posted visuals from the swearing-in ceremony – where Congress MLAs, including Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishvendra Singh, and Hemaram Choudhary – could be seen being sworn in as cabinet ministers in the Rajasthan government by the state's governor, Kalraj Mishra. Read MoreUnion Cabinet to meet on Nov 24 to approve repeal of farm lawsThe Union Cabinet is likely to discuss the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws at a meeting on Wednesday, people familiar with the development told HT. They also hinted that the Cabinet is expected to discuss the introduction of a new bill during the Winter Session to repeal the three laws. Read MoreFarm laws to be repealed, but what's next for farmers? Key points from SKM meetThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) held a meeting on Sunday at the Singhu border of the national capital, Delhi, where it discussed the future course of action on farmers' protests. The meeting comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise announcement last week declaring that his government will withdraw the controversial agriculture laws that prompted year-long protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to the administration. Read MoreArmy, navy and IAF get 6 months to respond to theatre command final proposalThe department of military affairs (DMA) has given the Indian Army, Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force service headquarters six months till mid-2022 to respond to its final military theatre commands proposal before commencing the raising of much required rationalised structures for countering adversaries. Read More'You won't hear such statements from Dravid': Gambhir criticises Ravi Shastri; reveals major difference between the twoRavi Shastri left his role as the head coach of Team India earlier this month, following the end of the side's T20 World Cup campaign in the Super 12 stage. Shastri's reign as head coach saw India achieve no.1 ranking in Tests and multiple overseas Test series victories in Australia, as well as wins in England and South Africa. Read MoreMouni Roy's sizzling ethnic look in red lehenga at IFFI 2021 sets Goa on fireThe 52nd International Film Festival of India kickstart in Goa with Salman Khan, Shraddha Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Mouni Roy and other Bollywood celebrities performing at the opening ceremony. Setting fans hearts aflutter with her power-packed performance in Goa, Mouni's smoking hot look in a red lehenga choli left us hooked. Read More2022 Maruti Suzuki Brezza images leak online, show multiple updatesMaruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza is one of the most successful modern cars from the brand. The car has received a facelift since its introduction in the Indian market. Now, the automaker is working on an all-new Maruti Suzuki Brezza, pictures that have been leaked online. Read MoreCowboy Bebop: Why Netflix’s live-action adaptation of cult anime series is a super-flopIs Netflix aware of how badly they have botched up their Cowboy Bebop live-action adaptation? Fans of the classic anime are already hating it. New viewers will either think it an average Netflix sci-fi series such as Altered Carbon or The OA, or at best, a mild curiosity, like Dirk Gently’s Holistic Detective Agency. What is comical is that Netflix is streaming all 26 episodes of the anime as well, so anybody can watch and compare. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gehlot-expands-rajasthan-cabinet-15-ministers-sworn-in-101637493258013.html
21-11-2021||India||40 hurt after being attacked by jackal; villagers kill animal||Nearly 40 people, including women and children were injured, eight of them seriously when a mad jackal attacked them in five villages of two panchayats in Katihar district on Sunday morning. The villagers later killed the animal.“We were working on our farm when the animal attacked and bit us,” Md Afsar Alam, a resident of Jamira village said adding, “The attack was sudden and we were left helpless.” He was discharged from the Barsoi Referral Hospital after treatment.Md Rijwan of Pichhwa village who is still undergoing treatment at Barsoi hospital said, “We were on our way to our paddy field when a jackal attacked us.”Station house officer of Barsoi Arbind Kumar said those seriously injured were rushed to Katihar District Hospital while those who had sustained minor injuries were admitted at Barsoi Referral Hospital. He said the animal was killed by the villagers. He added that five villages of two panchayats Maheshpur and Beltar were worst affected.Five villages where the jackal has created panic include Pichhwa, Baswara, Jamira, Maheshpur and Beltar.At Shahkol village under Dagarua block, the animals attacked thrice during the last one week. The villagers have been spending sleepless nights and are alert even during daytime.Reports of such attacks by animals have come from the villages on the West Bengal border. “,After the forests were cleared the wild animals roam in the area in search of food and they attack people out of frustration,” Purnia-based environmentalist Sumit Anand said and expressed deep concern over the killings of wild animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-hurt-after-being-attacked-by-jackal-villagers-kill-animal-101637494117583.html
21-11-2021||India||Gehlot expands Rajasthan cabinet, new ministers take oath||In a major reshuffle of the Rajasthan cabinet, as many as 15 ministers – including 11 cabinet ministers and four ministers of state (MoS) – on Sunday took oath for their newfound duties at the legislative assembly in Jaipur. News agency ANI posted visuals from the swearing-in ceremony – where Congress MLAs, including Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishvendra Singh, and Hemaram Choudhary – could be seen being sworn in as cabinet ministers in the Rajasthan government by governor Kalraj Mishra.Ramesh Meena, Mamta Bhupesh Bairwa, Bhajan Lal Jatav, and Teekaram Juli take oath as Cabinet ministers in the Rajasthan Govt, at a function in Jaipur pic.twitter.com/vvMsVEOtDGJaipur: Hemaram Choudhary takes oath as a Cabinet minister in the Rajasthan Government pic.twitter.com/JmxZ2BUkNZThe 11 new cabinet ministers include three who have already been elevated from the rank of a minister of state to the cabinet. Three other ministers – Govind Singh Dotasra, Harish Chaudhary, and Raghu Sharma – have been dropped from the Ashok Gehlot cabinet while the rest of the ministers have been retained. This information had earlier in the day been provided by Dotasra, who shared a list of the 15 MLAs administered oath of office on Sunday.The four ministers of state are Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola.In addition to them, 12 new ministers are being inducted in the Rajasthan cabinet. MLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Murari Lal Meena, Zahida Khan, Rajendra Singh Gudha, and Brijendra Ola – who are now part of the cabinet of chief minister Ashok Gehlot after the reshuffle – are seen as Congress leader Sachin Pilot's “loyalists”. Meanwhile, six of the new ministers are seen as belonging to the Gehlot camp.With the addition of these new members, the total number of ministers in the state council will now reach 30, which is incidentally the maximum number of cabinet ministers, including the chief minister, that the state is allowed to have.All the Rajasthan Congress MLAs who swore in as ministers assembled earlier in the day with other leaders at the party office in Jaipur. Govind Singh Dotasra felicitated them at the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee (RPCC) office, while chief minister Ashok Gehlot and AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan, Ajay Maken, addressed them on the responsibilities ahead.All the ministers in Congress-ruled Rajasthan had resigned during a meeting at chief minister Ashok Gehlot's residence in Jaipur on Saturday evening, ahead of the Cabinet reshuffle. Gehlot later met governor Kalraj Mishra at the Raj Bhawan to discuss the future course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-expands-rajasthan-cabinet-new-ministers-take-oath-101637491338984.html
21-11-2021||India||Slow pace of development in Janjatiya Diwas icon Birsa Munda’s village||The Narendra Modi government’s announcement to observe Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary on November 15 as the national ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ has brought the tribal icon back into political limelight but development of his ancestral village of Ulihatu near Jharkhand’s capital of Ranchi has largely remained symbolic.With plenty of landmarks such as airport, stadiums and academic institutions named after the symbol of tribal identity, Birsa Munda is perhaps the most revered figure in Jharkhand’s politics, which is amply reinforced by the fact that the state’s formation day falls on Birsa Jayanti. Every year on that day, top politicians and bureaucrats make a beeline to Ulihatu, around 70 kilometres south of Ranchi, deep inside the hilly and forested terrain under Arki block in Khunti district, known in recent years (2017-18) for its Pathalgadi movement. The ride to Ulihatu from Khunti district headquarters is an easy one, thanks to the 12.5 km double-lane black top road, off the Khunti-Tamar state highway, constructed before Union home minister Amit Shah’s 2017 visit, when he was the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national president. It was past noon when this correspondent entered the Birsa Complex on November 19, a few days after Birsa Jayanti, to find a few workers painting the iron grills of the huge round platform there. Birsa Complex is the state’s showcase tourism project, spread over seven acres of land, housing a boarding school, a hospital and a guest house. The complex has been in the works since 2008 when the school became operational first, but the many years in between have not only failed to mark any significant addition to its proposed grandeur but, to the contrary, left pronounced signs of wear and tear on the structure instead. One of the buildings for the school is now home to a company of the Shahastra Seema Bal (SSB), stationed permanently here as part of the state’s anti-Maoist operations. The school, which aims to teach students from class I to 10th, started in 2008, yet it has only three permanent teachers against the sanctioned strength of 18, said principal Kartik Singh Munda, posted here since 2017. “Till the first lockdown we were given 13 extra temporary teachers who were paid on hourly basis. We have reopened this month and a few students from class 6 and above have returned. Classes remained almost suspended as online teaching was not possible,” he said.The school principal also complained about erratic water supply to the hostel which has 320 students. The workers said they were completing the renovation, including whitewashing and painting work at the complex, which was disrupted by a rainy spell and couldn’t be completed before Birsa Jayanti. “Our Baba (Birsa Munda) has become the face of the state. Every year, top politicians and senior officials come here. But this is the real situation on the ground. Why couldn’t this work start 10 days before the Jyanati,” asked Gangi Munda, granddaughter-in-law of Birsa Munda, pointing at workers taking the measurements of the external boundary and the whitewashing of the back walls of the small hut at the memorial complex. The memorial, with a marble floor, has a small two-room hut. The outside wall of the hut has two marble plaques. One lists the family lineage of Birsa Munda while the second one has names of two former ministers who had laid the foundation stone of the memorial in 2003-04.As per the family tree, Birsa had two siblings, Konta and Kanu Munda. While Birsa was unmarried when he died, the history of Konta Munda is unavailable. Kanu Munda’s grandson Sukhram Munda who lives just next to the memorial is the last recognised living member of Birsa’s family. As a mark of honour, Sukhram and his family have received economic assistance by the state government over the past two decades. In 2007, two sons of Sukhram Munda, Jungle Singh Munda and Kanu Munda were inducted as peons in Khunti district administration, bringing prosperity to the family. Also Read: Rail track blown in Jharkhand’s Latehar, Maoists-link suspectedWhile Jungle Singh Munda and Kanu Munda live in government quarters in Khunti, their parents Sukhram Munda and his wife Lakhmani Devi live in their house next to the memorial. While their house still has an asbestos roof, the floor is tiled and their inner courtyard covered by paver blocks. The tiles and paver blocks were laid in 2017 ahead of Amit Shah’s visit, along with piped water connection that draws water from a solar-power tank. The renewed focus on Birsa Munda this year at the national stage brought a symbolic windfall for Sukhram Munda in an era of growing identity politics. The morning after Birsa Jayanti, Sukhram Munda along with his two sons, was flown to New Delhi by the office of Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda who represents Khunti in Lok Sabha. During his three-day trip, Sukhram was given the honour of inaugurating the Aadi Mahtosav at Dilli Haat, a tour of the Rashtrapati Bhawan besides a health check up at the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Most other residents of Ulihatu still live in kachha houses with most of them still dependent on rain-fed agriculture. While a majority of them speak Mundari, they are reluctant to interact with an ‘outsider’. Shyam Singh Munda, a young man in his early 20s, said he was “tired speaking to even the press as it hardly made any difference”. “I have been seeing this since childhood. Nothing happens. People come once in a year but things remain unchanged,” said Shyam in broken Hindi. On November 15, almost the entire district machinery was at the village with the Sarkar Aapke dwar programme. The 42-day outreach programme for service delivery at panchayat level was inaugurated by the chief minister at an event in Ulihatu itself. Deputy commissioner-cum-district magistrate of Khunti, Shashi Ranjan, said the delay in providing Pucca houses to the villagers was due to villagers demands. “Pucca houses in this village are being provided under Shaheed Gram Vikas Yojna and not under the PM Awas Yojna. The villagers had been demanding bigger houses. Now all formalities have been completed. Few from the village were even given certificates for their entitlements. All houses will be completed soon,” said Ranjan. As per the 2011 census, Ulihatu has 196 families with a population of 1,126. On the Birsa complex, Ranjan said they are all set to make the hospital functional within a fortnight, even as he refused to provide the total cost of the project. “I don’t have the figures of total cost off hand as funds from the tourism department are also involved in it. As far as the lack of teachers in the school is concerned, I will have to check with the education department,” he added. Karia Munda, eight time Parliamentarian of the BJP from Khunti Lok Sabha and one of the tallest tribal leaders in the country, expressed displeasure over the prevailing state of affairs. The Septuagenarian, a former Union minister and the deputy speaker of Lok Sabha, is leading a retired political life since 2019 when he was asked by the party to make way for incumbent Arjun Munda. “It was in mid 90s when the then chief minister Lalu Prasad made a visit to Ullihatu. Then, we used to have a tribal welfare commissioner. With active support from him, I got funds valuing ₹3.5 crore sanctioned for development of Birsa Munda memorial and the complex at around 1996-97. But the funds were not released. After the creation of Jharkhand, we got that money and the development work started,” said Munda. Sukhram Munda, however, expressed hope that the renewed focus on his grandfather on the national stage might bring changes in the life of the tribals across the state. “Tribals need to be given good education and modern training in whichever work they do. Be it farming or poultry or any other work. They should be given proper training and exposure with the best practices in the trade. I keep telling all this to people who come to see me. I am hopeful that things will change,” Munda said on his return to Ranchi airport from New Delhi on Friday, expressing happiness about his lifetime experience of flying and the attention he received in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slow-pace-of-development-in-janjatiya-diwas-icon-birsa-munda-s-village-101637491596980.html
21-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet to meet on Nov 24 to approve repeal of farm laws||The Union Cabinet is likely to discuss the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws at a meeting on Wednesday, people familiar with the development told HT. They also hinted that the Cabinet is expected to discuss the introduction of a new bill during the Winter Session to repeal the three laws.During his address to the nation on the occasion of Guru Parab on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government's decision to withdraw the three farm bills.The government introduced the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 during Parliament’s Monsoon Session in 2020. Soon after the introduction of the laws, hundreds and thousands of farmers gathered at Delhi’s border from neighbouring Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for almost a year demanding the repeal of these laws.In a meeting held earlier in the day at Delhi’s Tikri border, the farmers' unions said the protests would continue along with the scheduled programmes, such as the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on November 22 and the tractor march to Parliament on the opening day of the Winter Session on November 29.The farmer leaders at Singhu border also said the demand for a minimum support price (MSP) committee, withdrawal of cases and the waiver of pending electricity bills will continue. “We'll write open letter to PM. Pending demands will be mentioned in it - MSP committee, its rights, it's time frame, its duties; Electricity Bill 2020 and withdrawal of cases against farmers. We'll also write to him to sack the minister related to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI following the completion of the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-to-meet-on-nov-24-to-approve-repeal-of-farm-laws-101637489813811.html
21-11-2021||India||Farm laws to be repealed, but what's next for farmers? Key points from SKM meet||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) held a meeting on Sunday at the Singhu border of the national capital, Delhi, where it discussed the future course of action on farmers' protests. The meeting comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's surprise announcement last week declaring that his government will withdraw the controversial agriculture laws that prompted year-long protests from tens of thousands of farmers and posed a significant political challenge to the administration.The Union Cabinet is likely to discuss the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws at a meeting on Wednesday, people familiar with the development told HT. They also hinted that the Cabinet is expected to discuss the introduction of a new bill during the Winter Session to repeal the three laws.Also Read | Union Cabinet to meet on Nov 24 to approve repeal of farm lawsHowever, even though the controversial farm laws were on their way out, the protesting farmers said that the demonstrations would continue until Parliament repealed the three contentious legislation. Sunday's meeting was conducted by the umbrella organisation of farmers' bodies, the SKM, to this effect, where they discussed where the future of the protests lies.Here's all you need to know about the meeting in wake of the repeal of farm laws:Current demandsAs the Centre has agreed to withdraw the three farm laws, the farmers' unions have shifted their focus on minimum support price (MSP), demanding a law on it. The farmers are also demanding compensation for those who lost their lives during the protests, the withdrawal of cases registered against some of them, and also the waiver of pending electricity bills.Also Read | MSP law bigger battle for farmers, govt, say analystsWe'll write open letter to PM. Pending demands will be mentioned in it - MSP committee, its rights, it's time frame, its duties; Electricity Bill 2020 and withdrawal of cases against farmers. We'll also write to him to sack the minister related to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI following the completion of the meeting.Parliament march on November 29The farmers have decided to go ahead with a planned march to the Parliament on November 29 to observe the passage of one year of anti-farm law agitations, the SKM said.“We discussed the repeal of the farm laws,” said farmer leader Balbir Singh. “A few decisions were taken. The SKM's predefined programmes will continue as it is – a ‘Kisan panchayat’ in Lucknow on November 22, gatherings at all borders on November 26, and a march to the Parliament on the 29th.”“For a decision on further developments, another meeting of the SKM will be held on November 27,” he added. “The decision will be taken on the basis of the situation until then.”Farmers' ‘mahapanchayat’ to be held on MondayThe umbrella body of farmers' unions will also be holding a ‘mahapanchayat’ on Monday in Lucknow, the capital city of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, in a show of strength days after the Prime Minister's announcement of repealing the three farm laws.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that the agricultural reforms are not going to stop the plight of the peasants. “The biggest reform for the farmers and agriculture will be to make a law pertaining to the MSP,” he wrote in a tweet from his handle on the social microblogging website.Removal of Ajay Mishra as Union ministerThe farmers in Uttar Pradesh are also demanding the removal of Ajay Kumar Mishra, the Union minister of state for home affairs, in connection with the violence that had erupted in the state's Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3, when farmers were protesting the visit of deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to Mishra's native place. Four farmers were run over by a vehicle while four others, including a journalist, a driver and two BJP workers, were killed in the ensuing violence||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-to-be-repealed-but-what-s-next-for-farmers-key-points-from-skm-meet-101637486119156.html
21-11-2021||India||'Time will tell...': Owaisi tight-lipped on details of 'alliance' ahead of UP polls||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said his party is in talks with “one or two parties” for an alliance for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls even as he refrained from divulging details on it.Owaisi also exuded confidence in his party's victory in the next year's assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, where the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party has been in power since 2017.“Our party has decided to contest elections on 100 seats. We're in talks with one or two more parties and time will tell if we form an alliance or not. We're in a position to win the elections," news agency ANI quoted Owaisi as saying in Lucknow.Owaisi had earlier said his party was in talks with Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party leader Shivpal Yadav, and suggested he was in talks with the president of Azad Samaj Party Chandra Shekhar Azad.Also read | Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM to set up base in Rajasthan, contest 2023 assembly polls"We are in talks with Shivpal Yadav. I've also met Chandra Shekhar once. We are in talks with other parties too," ANI quoted Owaisi as saying on October 28.Owaisi also asserted that AIMIM's candidates for the assembly polls won't be from the Muslim community only, "but from across the communities".Elections to 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP received a landslide victory by securing 312 assembly seats, and registering a 39.67% vote share.The AIMIM, which fielded candidates on 38 seats, drew a blank in the previous Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, while the Samajwadi Party bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 and the Congress could manage to win only seven seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-will-tell-owaisi-tight-lipped-on-details-of-alliance-ahead-of-up-polls-101637485262770.html
21-11-2021||India||Devotees allowed to visit Sabarimala in batches after temporary ban lifted||Pilgrimage to Kerala’s Sabarimala temple limped to normalcy after the Pathanamthitta district administration on Saturday permitted the pilgrims to trek to the hills where the shrine is located. The temple authorities had on Friday issued an order to temporarily halt the pilgrimage to the Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala in view of incessant rainfall in Kerala as well as several of its neighbouring states.Heavy rainfall caused water levels in major rivers such as Pamba in Kerala to rise. However, the decision to resume the pilgrimage was taken after the temple authorities noted on Saturday that no major rainfall was reported in the region, especially in the hilly region surrounding the temple.Citing an official statement, news agency PTI reported that the reopening order was issued by district collector Divya S Iyer, who also permitted devotees stranded in Nilackal to trek to Sabarimala and offer prayers.A discussion regarding the resumption of pilgrimage took place between Iyer, the chairperson of the district disaster management authority, and Arjun Pandyan, the additional district magistrate of Sabarimala, on Saturday.An official of the Travancore Devaswom Board said the pilgrimage resumed on Saturday morning, adding that due to the partial shutdown of the shrine, the place is “witnessing heavy footfall.”“Around 20,000 people have booked for visiting the temple today alone,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.Two shutters of the Pamba dam were raised and authorities have appealed to people living in the low-lying areas on the banks of rivers to take precautions.The Sabarimala temple opened on November 16 for the two-month-long annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku pilgrimage.Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has been witnessing incessant rain, which has so far claimed the lives of at least 25 people, even as dozens remain missing. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force have been deployed in the state and thousands of people have been moved to relief camps.On Saturday, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of flood-hit regions in Chittoor YSR districts to take stock of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-allowed-to-visit-sabarimala-in-batches-after-temporary-ban-lifted-101637487163705.html
21-11-2021||India||Speed of over 30 knots, equipped with indigenous weapons: Know more about INS Visakhapatnam||INS Visakhapatnam, the first stealth-guided missile destroyer ship of Project 15B, was commissioned on Sunday at the naval dock in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh.Addressing the commissioning ceremony, Rajnath Singh said that with the successful commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam, there should be no doubts that India in future will not only build ships for itself but also for the entire world.Also Read| In a boost to Indian Navy, Rajnath Singh commissions INS Visakhapatnam“Not just Make in India, we will also accomplish the dream of Make for the World,” the defence minister said during the ceremony.The Centre earlier said in a statement that INS Visakhapatnam will reaffirm India’s presence amongst an elite group of countries with the capability to design and build advanced warships.Here is what you need to know more about the destroyer ship: 1. INS Visakhapatnam was constructed using indigenous steel DMR 249A. It is among the largest destroyers made in the country and has an overall length of 163 metre and displacement of over 7,400 tonne.2. The ship is capable of undertaking multifarious tasks and missions spanning the full spectrum of maritime warfare.3. INS Visakhapatnam is equipped with major indigenous weapons such as indigenous medium range surface to air missile systems, surface to surface missiles, torpedo tubes and launchers.4. It also has medium and short-range guns, anti-submarine rockets and advanced electronic warfare and communication suits. Also Read| ‘Will give fitting reply if anyone tries to occupy our land’: Rajnath Singh5. The ship has a capacity of accommodating 312 crew members and has an endurance of 4,000 nautical miles.6. It is propelled by a powerful combined gas and gas propulsion which enables the speed of more than 30 knots. The ship can also embark by a powerful combined gas and gas propulsion which enables.7. INS Visakhapatnam comprises a very high level of automation along with sophisticated digital networks. It also has a combat management system and an integrated platform management system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-commissions-ins-visakhapatnam-know-more-about-the-destroyer-ship-101637480640418.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Need of the hour is…’: Top expert weighs in over need for booster shots of Covid vaccine||A top expert said on Sunday the government needs to focus on vaccinating more and more people against coronavirus disease rather than expanding the eligibility for booster shots of Covid-19 vaccines to get additional protection.“If you ask me, the need of the hour is to attain 80 per cent coverage or more among the individuals with 2 doses of the vaccine. Reaching out to over 80 per cent of eligible individuals is public health priority now,” Dr Samiran Panda, the head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), told news agency ANI.So far, the cumulative doses administered in the country under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive of the government has exceeded 1.165 billion. “So, policy formulation and decisions are based on scientific evidence. Right now, the scientific evidence from within the country does not underline the need for a booster dose. Public health considerations are on the priority now,” Panda said.Also read | ICMR DG says India watching Covid vaccination among children in other countriesThe epidemiologist said that the Union ministry of health and family welfare is guided by scientific evidence and also advised by NTAGI. “These are advisory bodies and considered by the ministry and the respective departments to develop a policy,” he added.The situation has been under control as India has been reporting nearly 11,000 Covid-19 cases every day. Government data shows that the daily rise in new Covid-19 infections has been below 20,000 for 44 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 147 consecutive days now.Also read | Now, service providers can check a customer's Covid vaccination status on CoWINOn Sunday, India logged 10,488 new infections in the last 24 hours taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 34,510,413, according to the health ministry. The health ministry also said that with 313 fresh fatalities, the death toll has risen to 465,662.The government has said it committed to amplifying India's vaccine coverage and expanding its scope to the far ends of the country. The vaccination drive has been ramped up with the help of increased availability of Covid-19 vaccines, its advance visibility to the states and Union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the supply chain, it has also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-booster-shots-of-covid-19-vaccine-top-expert-weighs-in-101637482451834.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sachin Pilot ‘happy’ with Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sachin Pilot ‘happy’ with Rajasthan Cabinet rejig after 5 aides includedAhead of the major Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan, Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Sunday said that the decision to induct new ministers has been taken by the party and leadership after discussions. Read more.Kerala adoption row: Andhra couple hand over babyA baby who was allegedly given away for adoption without the mother’s consent was handed over to a joint team of Kerala Child Welfare Council and the state police on Saturday by the foster parents, who were given its custody in August this year. Read more.After BJP leaders hint farm laws may be brought back, SP talks about ‘truth'The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise announcement that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws brought in last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states and at the borders of Delhi. Read more.'Hope to play my last T20 match..': What Dhoni said at CSK's IPL win celebrationDhoni, however, said he does not know 'whether it is next year or in five years' time’. Watch.China tennis star Peng Shuai ‘smiles, waves at audience’ in new videoIn yet another new video shared by Chinese state media on Sunday, missing tennis star Peng Shuai was seen attending the final match of a teenagers’ tournament. Read more.Maruti to steer clear of diesel cars, to make petrol cars more fuel efficientMaruti Suzuki has decided to stay away from diesel vehicle segment and rather focus on making its petrol vehicles more fuel efficient. Read more.‘Win the toss, win the game’: Former Australia captain Ian Chappell points out ‘major flaws’ of T20 World CupFormer Australia skipper Ian Chappell stated that the recently-concluded T20 World Cup, which was won by Aaron Finch's Australia, saw more teams trying to chase as toss played a major role in handing advantage to the side batting second. Read more.Samantha Ruth Prabhu is drooling on 'this outfit.' So are weSamantha Ruth Prabhu is making our weekend better. Read more.Anand Mahindra uses memes to dismiss quote falsely attributed to himAnand Mahindra recently took to Twitter to share a post dismissing a quote falsely attributed to him. Read more.IFFI 2021: Salman Khan brings the house down with Dabangg moves, Ranveer Singh is his energetic self. WatchThe International Film Festival of India (IFFI) kicked off its 52nd edition in Goa with star-studded performances, including Salman Khan, Ranveer Singh, Shraddha Kapoor, Mouni Roy and Riteish Deshmukh-Genelia D’Souza. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sachin-pilot-happy-with-rajasthan-cabinet-reshuffle-101637477286417.html
21-11-2021||India||‘If govt changed in 2014, then..’: Nawab Malik tweets suggestion to farmers as they mull step ahead||Maharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday offered a suggestion to protesting farmers even as the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre announced the new farm laws will be repealed.Taking to Twitter, Nawab Malik said that if the central government could be changed in 2014 over the “bogus” issues of corruption and circulation of fake money then the legitimate and honest movement of the protesting farmers can remove it from power once again.Also Read| Farm unions say won’t end agitation until all demands met“Keep on fighting, you will win,” Malik's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read, in what is seen as his direct message to the farmers, who have been protesting against the three farm laws since November last year.भ्रष्टाचार और कला धन के फर्जी आंदोलन से २०१४ में अगर सरकार बदली जा सकती हैं, तो किसानों के जायज़ और इमानदार आंदोलन से भी सरकार बदली जा सकती हैं.लड़ाई जारी रखिए, जीत जरूर होगी#FarmersProtest #FarmLawsPrime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three farm laws on Friday and said that they were meant to benefit the farmers but the latter could not be convinced despite the Centre's best efforts.Malik, who has been at loggerheads with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Aryan Khan drugs-on-cruise case, alleged on Friday that PM Modi never spoke with the opposition parties or farmer leaders over the farm laws.Also Read| PM Modi says will scrap all three farm laws"Now, they have realised that a major political change is taking place in the country and its indications could be seen in Uttar Pradesh elections next year," Malik said and saluted the protesting farmers along with those who were martyred in the ongoing agitation.Meanwhile, farmer unions have said that their protests will continue until their pending demands of a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, rollback of the power bill and air quality ordinance are met by the Centre.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is holding a meeting on Sunday where talks might be held on the issue of farmers who have died and withdrawal of cases against protesting farmers among other issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-govt-changed-in-2014-then-ncp-neta-s-advice-as-farmers-mull-step-ahead-101637475432139.html
21-11-2021||India||India will soon build ships for the world: Rajnath Singh after commissioning INS Visakhapatnam||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday there’s “no doubt” that India will be building ships “not only for our own needs but also the needs of all over the world” as he commissioned INS Visakhapatnam into the Indian Navy.He added that the system features of INS Visakhapatnam are not only going to meet the needs of today but also that of the of the future. “Its commissioning reminds us of our ancient, medieval India's maritime power, shipbuilding skills and glorious history,” Singh added.During his address to the gathering after the commissioning at the naval dockyard in Mumbai, Singh said that India envisions an Indo-Pacific region that is based on rules, has freedom of navigation, and universal rules, “in which the interest of all the participating countries are protected.”Singh noted that India being an important nation in the “security” of the Indo-Pacific region, the role of the Indian Navy “becomes more important.”Citing reports that by 2023, the expenditure on security around the globe will reach $2.1 trillion, the defence minister said that India now has the “full opportunity” to make complete use of its “capabilities” and move towards making the nation “an indigenous shipbuilding hub.”Singh hailed the Indian Navy's “consistent efforts” to take part in several outreach programmes of industries and increase indigenised items under ‘float’, ‘move’ and ‘fight’ categories. “It is important for us to maintain the momentum of the success we have achieved so far,” the defence minister added during his address.Also Read | Indian Navy gets first of four stealth guided destroyer built at Mazgaon DockWith the help of Make in India initiatives, he pointed out, the Indian Navy has provided 76 per cent Air Operations Net (AON), and 66 per cent cost-basis contracts to the country's vendors in 2014. Furthermore, indigenisation of about 90 per cent of Naval Ammunition has also happened.The INS Visakhapatnam, one of the four stealth guided-missile destroyer ships under Project 15B, has been indigenously manufactured by the Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders and the government has said that it will add significant strength to its Make in India endeavour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-boost-to-indian-navy-rajnath-singh-commissions-ins-visakhapatnam-101637475441593.html
21-11-2021||India||Indian Railways to run special trains on Christmas, New Year. Details here||The Indian Railways has announced it will operate a few special trains around Christmas break and New Year in view of an increased rush around the festive season. Passengers can check the detailed schedule and train timings of the additional trains on the official website of the Indian Railways.“For detailed timings of above trains please visit www.enquiry.indianrail.gov.in or download NTES App,” the Indian Railways said in an official release.How to book tickets?Passengers can book their tickets at any Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters as well as through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. The booking of the special trains will commence on November 20, the Indian Railways said.Train timings and other detailsTwo special trains have been announced so far by the Indian Railways.Train number 01596: The Madgaon Junction-Panvel Special will leave from Madgaon Junction at 4pm every Sunday and reach Panvel at 3:15am on the next day. The services will be available from November 21, 2021, to January 2, 2022.Train number 01595: Panvel-Madgaon Junction Special will leave from Panvel at 6:05am and reach Madgaon Junction at 6:45pm on the same day.The train will operate every Monday from November 22, 2021, to January 3, 2022.The train will halt at Karmali, Thivim, Sawantwadi Road, Kudal, Sindhudurg, Kankavali, Vaibhavwadi Road, Rajapur Road, Adavali, Ratnagiri, Sangameshwar Road, Sawarda, Chiplun, Khed, Mangaon and Roha stations, the release stated.All Covid-19 protocols including wearing masks, sanitisation, social distancing and others, as issued by the state and central government will be strictly followed inside the trains and at railway platforms, the release added.Recently, the Indian Railways announced the resumption of cooked meals by IRCTC on all train journeys. The decision was taken as a step towards achieving the pre-pandemic normalcy in view of Covid-19 cases having significantly declined in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-run-special-trains-on-christmas-new-year-details-here-101637475191994.html
21-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: Andhra couple hand over baby||A baby who was allegedly given away for adoption without the mother’s consent was handed over to a joint team of Kerala Child Welfare Council and the state police on Saturday by the foster parents, who were given its custody in August this year. The baby will be brought to Thiruvananthapuram by Sunday evening and a DNA test will be done on Monday to establish its parentage, as per the instructions of Kerala Child Welfare Committee, a senior official of the social welfare ministry said. The child welfare panel’s order was the result of a petition filed by 23 year old Anupama S Chandran, a former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI), who had alleged that her boy born in October 2020 was secretively given away for adoption by her parents.  Chandran had claimed that her father, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Unions), “kidnapped” her child since he was against her marriage to K Ajith, who hails from a Dalit family. She also alleged that some officials of the child welfare council were involved in the plot too. She is now relieved that her child is coming back.“I am really relieved. Our six-month struggle led to some results. But I have a reservation that the same department officials who gave my baby for adoption flouting all norms were given the charge of bringing him back,” said Chandran, adding that she planned to continue her stand-in protest outside the office of the state council of child welfare, till the officials, who allegedly colluded with her parents, were punished. Also Read: Merely being in love doesn’t count as consent for sex, rules Kerala high courtShe has also accused the police of ignoring her several complaints till her case got highlighted in the media, turning into a big controversy, following which six people including her parents were booked. Her father C S Jayachandran has, however, so far rejected the allegations and claimed that the baby was sent to a government-run children’s home with his daughter’s consent.“I did not do any harm to the baby and entrusted it in safe hands with her consent,” he told a news channel. Chandran says she was made to sign on a stamp paper under duress. Chandran said she was forced to hit the street after all her attempts including to get CPM politburo members to intervene failed. The controversy has put the ruling party and the government’s role into question since chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the party have refused to intervene in the matter despite appeals, terming it “a family affair”. To make matters worse, fisheries minister Saji Cherian was quoted saying that Chandran’s parents had “done only what everyone will do in the society.” Legal experts have said that even after the DNA test are conducted, Chandran will have to wait till a court quashes the earlier adoption certificate and the completion of other formalities take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-andhra-couple-handover-baby-101637475155378.html
21-11-2021||India||Sachin Pilot ‘happy’ with Rajasthan Cabinet rejig after 5 aides included||Ahead of the major Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan, Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Sunday said that the decision to induct new ministers has been taken by the party and leadership after discussions. Expressing satisfaction over the induction of new ministers in the Cabinet, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan said he is happy that the party high command and state government took cognisance of the issues raised by him time and again.“The step taken by the party and leadership after discussions is sending a positive message across the state. We had raised this issue time and again. I'm happy that party, high command and state Govt took cognisance of it,” Pilot told a media briefing.The new Cabinet will have five ministers from the Pilot camp -- MLAs Hemaram Choudhary, Vishvendra Singh, Murari Lal Meena, Ramesh Meena and Brijendra Ola. 15 ministers to take oath in Rajasthan today as Congress seeks to strike balanceReports suggest that Congress wanted to avoid a Punjab-like crisis in Rajasthan amid an ongoing tussle between the factions of Pilot and chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot, however, has dismissed the reports of factionalism, saying the decisions of the reshuffle has been taken together.“Congress is working under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. Party workers will have to work together to bring forth misdeeds of BJP before people. There are no factions in the party. The decisions (of cabinet reshuffle) have been taken together,” he said.Pilot said the inclusion of 4 Dalit MLAs in the new Cabinet shows that Congress and the state government want greater representation for scheduled castes, backward and poor. Pointing to the representation for tribals, the Congress leader said it was a necessary step by the party and the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-happy-with-rajasthan-cabinet-rejig-after-5-aides-included-101637473134738.html
21-11-2021||India||'Truth of BJP who made false apology to farmers': SP as speculation about bringing back farm laws emerges||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise announcement that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws brought in last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states and at the borders of Delhi.Taking to Twitter, the SP alleged that the Centre will bring back the farm laws again once the elections, scheduled to be held in five states, are over.Also Read| PM Modi says will scrap all three farm lawsThe party’s comments came on the back of remarks by BJP leader Sakshi Maharaj and Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, who said on Saturday that the Centre has only repealed the farm laws at present.“The government tried to explain to farmers the pros of farm laws. But they were adamant about repeal. The government felt that it should be taken back and formed again later if needed but right now they should repeal as farmers are demanding,” Rajasthan governor Mishra told news agency ANI on Saturday.While Sakshi Maharaj said that the laws had nothing to do with the upcoming elections in many states, adding, "they are repealed, they can come back, they can be re-drafted."#WATCH | BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj says, "Bills(Farm Laws)have got nothing to do with polls...For PM Modi, nation comes first. Bills come, they're repealed, they can come back, they can be re-drafted. I thank PM that he chose nation over Bill&dealt a blow to wrong intentions."(20.11) pic.twitter.com/IIs8QCp4tyTagging the statements of both Kalraj Mishra and Sakshi Maharaj, the SP said that this is the truth of the BJP who made a false apology to the farmers.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his televised speech that the constitutional process to repeal the farm laws will be completed during the Winter Session of Parliament. “Today, I have come to tell you, the whole country, that we have decided to withdraw all three agricultural laws," PM Modi said on Friday.
21-11-2021||India||Odisha court seeks call details of law minister’s aides in double murder case||A Cuttack court on Saturday asked the Odisha police to submit call detail records of three accused including two aides of law minister Pratap Jena, who was under scanner in the case of the twin murders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Cuttack early this year. The court also slammed the police for failure to submit a progress report in the case.The court of judicial magistrate first class in Salipur area of Cuttack sought call detail records (CDR) of Mahanga panchayat samiti chairman Sarat Nayak and Bapi Biswal, known as Jena’s representative in his assembly constituency, apart from Prafulla Biswal, the main accused who died in a road accident in February this year.The court said that since telecom companies maintain electronic call records only for a year, the inspector of Mahanga police station needed to take immediate steps to collect and preserve the CDRs of the three accused for the period between December 2020 and February 2021.On January 2 this year, Kulamani Baral, 75, and in-charge of Salepur mandal of the BJP and former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti was hacked to death along with his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral near Jankoti village. Baral had reportedly been raising the issue of ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders’ alleged involvement in misappropriation of funds forhousing of poorunder thePMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana). Though police booked law minister Pratap Jena and 12 others in the twin murder case following an FIR by Kulamani’s son, his name was subsequently dropped from the charge sheet.Also Read: Odisha allows jatra shows with a maximum audience of 2000 peopleIn August this year, the court asked for a fresh probe into the case following a petition against the exclusion of law minister’s name from the charge sheet. When contacted, Jena said he had no comments to offer.Baral’s son Ramakanta, who filed the petition before the court had alleged that the investigating officer did not examine real witnesses to shield the minister. The investigating officer in his charge sheet had said that the call detail records of all the accused were verified and it showed they didn’t receive any calls from Pratap Jena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-court-seeks-call-details-of-law-minister-s-aides-in-double-murder-case-101637470174694.html
21-11-2021||India||India logs 10,488 fresh Covid-19 cases, 313 deaths in last 24 hours||India on Sunday registered 10,488 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the country's total caseload to 34,510,413, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll climbed to 465,662 with 313 more fatalities related to Covid-19 in the same period, according to the data updated at 8am.At the same time, the number of active cases of Covid-19 declined by 2154 in the past 24 hours to 122,714, the lowest since March last year, showed the health ministry's bulletin.Notably, active cases remained at 0.36 per cent of the total infections once again while the total recoveries rose to 33,922,037. The daily positivity rate, at 0.98 per cent, remained less than 2 per cent for the last 48 days, the health ministry also said.India's recovery rate now stands at 98.30 per cent, the highest since March 2020. The daily rise in Covid-19 infections has been below 20,000 for 44 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases for 147 consecutive days now.Meanwhile, Kerala continued to report the highest surge in infections with 6,075 new Covid-19 cases and 32 deaths on Saturday. The state's total caseload rose to 50,95,924 while the death toll stood at 37,299.A total of 63,16,49,378 samples have been tested for Covid-19 infections so far, of which, 10,74,099 were tested on Saturday, the Indian Council of Medical Research said.The country has administered as many as 1,16,50,55,210 vaccinations to date.At the same time, coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation around the world remains a concern with the recent rise in infections in Europe, which has emerged as the new global epicentre of the pandemic. The latest restrictions included Austria announcing a nationwide lockdown, one of the most dramatic measures in recent months. Meanwhile, Netherlands has also resorted to partial lockdown.On the other hand, Germany is considering a lockdown as vaccinations alone have failed to contain the infections. Germany reported over 42,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 75 related deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-10-488-fresh-covid-19-cases-313-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101637466127794.html
21-11-2021||India||India Covid situation stable amid worrying surge in infections in Europe||While India's coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation continues to be in control, the worrying rise in infections in Europe, the new global epicentre of the pandemic, has raised fresh concerns. Several European countries have tightened restrictions, with Austria announcing a nationwide lockdown, one of the most dramatic measures in recent months.The Netherlands has also resorted to partial lockdown and is now planning to put some restrictions on unvaccinated individuals, triggering protests from angry citizens. The protests against the Covid curbs turned violent Friday night as the Dutch police fired warning shots and deployed a water cannon to push back the crowd. Without providing details about the ammunition used, the police said that two people were injured “related to the fired shots”.Germany is the latest European nation to warn about a possible lockdown as vaccination alone has failed to contain the infections. According to Robert Koch Institute, Germany reported over 42,000 fresh Covid-19 cases and 75 related deaths in the last 24 hours.India logs 10,488 fresh Covid-19 cases, 313 deaths in last 24 hoursDuring a news conference, German health minister Jens Spahn was asked whether Europe's largest economy could rule out an Austria-style full lockdown."We are now in a situation - even if this produces a news alert - where we can't rule anything out,” Spahn replied. "We are in a national emergency.”India, meanwhile, is witnessing a recovery rate of over 98.2%, the highest since March 2020. The daily infections have hovered around 10,000 this week as vaccination numbers continue to grow. On Saturday, India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed the 116 crore milestone. More than 60 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses had been administered till 7 pm on Saturday, with the daily vaccination tally expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports by late night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dramatic-measures-to-contain-covid-in-europe-situation-remains-stable-in-india-101637463910209.html
21-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh tops in cleanliness for 3rd consecutive year||Chhattisgarh on Saturday was adjudged the “cleanest state” in the country for the third consecutive year in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Central government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Chhattisgarh was also awarded the “best state” prize in Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge 2021.The survey is done through third party assessment under various parameters such as citizens’ feedback on door-to-door garbage collection, scientific disposal of waste, open defecation free city and garbage free city etc. On the basis of the assessment, states and cities are ranked. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel received the award from President Ram Nath Kovind at the Swachh Amrit Mahotsav held at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi and said that the credit goes to 2.5 crore people of the state. “I would especially like to give credit to the women of the state, who have created a new culture of cleanliness from cities to villages,”Baghel said.“Chhattisgarh is the only state where more than 9,000 cleanliness ‘didis’ are collecting 1,600 tonnes of wet and dry waste from houses and scientifically disposing them off. The Centre has also declared Chhattisgarh as the first ODF++ state of the country,” a press note issued by the public relation department stated.According to the urban affairs ministry, ODF++ recognition is achieved if at any point of the day, not a single person is found defecating and/or urinating in the open, all community and public toilets are functional and well maintained, and faecal sludge/septage and sewage is safely managed and treated, with no discharging and/or dumping of untreated faecal sludge/septage and sewage in drains, water bodies or open areas.Officials in Chhattisgarh said that more than 10,000 women played a very big role in maintaining cleanliness in the state.“In more than 7,500 Gauthans of villages, about 5,000 self-help groups are engaged in improving the environment through various activities. The state government took the initiative of connecting the cleanliness campaign with the flagship Narva-Garwa-Ghurva-Bari program.The state emphasised on the ban on single use plastic, worked on the basis of 6-R Policy to encourage rethink, reuse, recycle, repair, reduce, refuge, which reduced the amount of new waste generation, built community and public toilets,faecal sludge treatment plants,” said a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer.Also Read | Swachh Survekshan 2021: Indore bags cleanest city tag for fifth consecutive yearSwachhata Didis went door-to-door and trained people to keep wet and dry waste separately. A toll free number 1100 was set up for addressing sanitation related complaints within 24 hours and all public and community toilets were linked to Google which could be located with a simple search on smartphones, the official added.Alarmelmangai D, secretary, Urban Administration and Development Department also singled out the SHG workers for the achievement.“...It is their dedicated hard work and efforts which differentiates us from the other competitive states, time and again we have proved that the human touch can outperform any mechanised model and the Chhattisgarh model of decentralised waste management operated by 10,000 female SHG workers has proved it right, again for the consecutive third time in a row,” the secretary said.“As a next step will be to move forward in preparing vermi-compost from cow dung for making the zero-landfill model in the solid waste sector,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-tops-in-cleanliness-for-3rd-consecutive-year-101637465974272.html
21-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indian Navy to commission INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Navy to commission 'vigilant', 'valiant' INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai todayThe Indian Navy will on Sunday commission the INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first ship of Project 15B, at the naval dockyard in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh as the chief guest at the ceremony. Read moreRajasthan cabinet reshuffle: List of probable ministers to be sworn in todayAs many as 15 ministers, including four existing ministers, are likely to take oath on Sunday as Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot is all set to rejig his cabinet to dispel months of tensions between him and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Read moreRain fury in AP: At least 25 dead, dozens missing. What we know so farAs parts of southern states continued to witness heavy rains due to a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal, the Indian Air Force, NDRF, SDRF, police and fire services personnel scrambled to save lives. Read moreAnushka Ranjan-Aditya Seal sangeet: Bride glows in red, Alia Bhatt and Raveena Tandon deck up for partyActors Aditya Seal and Anushka Ranjan are all set to get married on Sunday. The couple celebrated their wedding with a sangeet ceremony in Mumbai on Saturday evening. Read moreRohit Sharma on verge of breaking Virat Kohli's huge T20I record for IndiaIndia captain Rohit Sharma is in sublime form scoring 48 and 55 in the two matches he played in the three-match T20I series against New Zealand so far. Read moreGabriella Demetriades' video of 'Pilates at home' is all the weekend fitness inspo we needGabriella Demetriades kickstarted her weekend with a dose of fitness. On Saturday, Gabriella shared an Instagram reel where she can be seen taking up multiple fitness routines with her fitness trainer Talia guiding her through the entire process. Watch hereKulgam: Terrorist gunned down, nearly 60 students evacuated from encounter siteSecurity forces killed an unidentified terrorist in J&K’s Kulgam district on Saturday. The terrorist killed was identified as district commander of Hizbul mujahideen, as per reports. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-navy-commissions-ins-visakhapatnam-in-mumbai-101637464129727.html
21-11-2021||India||Ex-girlfriend of Nashville Christmas day bomber last year files suit over reward||The ex-girlfriend of the man who detonated an explosive in downtown Nashville last Christmas has filed a lawsuit, saying she should receive $284,000 in rewards offered after the blast.Pamela Perry filed suit Friday in Davidson County Chancery Court seeking the reward because she came forward “at great personal risk to aid law enforcement in identifying” Anthony Warner as the bomber, news outlets reported.Warner parked an RV in the middle of a Nashville tourist district early on the morning of Dec. 25 before setting off the blast that killed him, injured several others and heavily damaged dozens of buildings, including a key AT&T network facility. The explosion disrupted phone and data service for days over hundreds of miles (kilometers).After the blast, Camping World CEO Marcus Lemonis offered a $250,000 reward and Nashville Convention and Visitors Corp. offered $34,500 to anyone who came forward with information identifying the bomber.The Nashville Convention and Visitors Corp. gave the $34,500 it raised to law enforcement organizations including the Metro Nashville Police Department.On Friday, convention officials said they hadn't seen the lawsuit and couldn't comment, but CEO Butch Spyridon told WTVF-TV in May that hundreds of tips were called in and an FBI report thanked law enforcement but didn't identify citizens who gave tips.“I don’t have documentation to say this helped more than anything else,” Spyridon said.A spokesperson for Marcus Lemonis told WTVF that the reward was for information leading to the “capture and conviction” of the person responsible. Warner died in the blast, so he was neither captured or convicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exgirlfriend-of-nashville-christmas-day-bomber-last-year-files-suit-over-reward-101637463952849.html
21-11-2021||India||Rain fury in Andhra Pradesh: At least 25 dead, dozens missing. What we know so far||As parts of southern states continued to witness heavy rains due to a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal, the Indian Air Force, NDRF, SDRF, police and fire services personnel scrambled to save lives. At least 25 people, including an SDRF personnel, have died and dozens remain missing in rain-related incidents in Andhra Pradesh.At least five persons, including two children, were killed after an under-construction building in Kadiri town in Anantapuramu district collapsed due to incessant rain.On Saturday, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in the Chittoor and YSR districts to assess the damage. He inspected the severely damaged Veligallu and Annamayya project areas and also surveyed Pincha projects and the areas affected by the Cheyyeru River."He directed officials to take immediate sanitation measures in Tirupati town and prepare a master plan on the drainage system in the city to take appropriate action," the chief minister’s office said.Meanwhile, teams of NDRF and SDRF have been deployed in flooded areas and thousands of people have been shifted to relief camps.The situation in Tirupati town has remained grim but the scene on the holy Tirumala Hills has improved. On Saturday, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams allowed vehicular traffic on the ghat roads and pilgrims who booked tickets online were also allowed for darshan of Lord Venkateswara.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted ‘light’ to ‘moderate’ rainfall over the weekend in southern states, including Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka as the deep depression formed in the Bay of Bengal gradually weakens and continues to move west-northwestwards."Depression over the Bay of Bengal moved west-northwest wards and crossed north Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts between Puducherry and Chennai on November 19. It then moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a 'Well Marked Low-Pressure Area' over north interior Tamil Nadu and adjoining Karnataka and Rayalaseema. It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and weaken further gradually during the next 24 hours," IMD said in a statement on Saturday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-fury-in-andra-pradesh-at-least-25-dead-dozens-missing-what-we-know-so-far-101637461560713.html
21-11-2021||India||CV Raman death anniversary: Remembering Nobel prize-winning Indian physicist||Today marks the 51st death anniversary of Nobel-prize winning physicist Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman, commonly known as CV Raman. Born in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli on November 7, 1888, the Nobel laureate’s initial research work as a student was in the field of optics and acoustic to which he dedicated his entire career.Immersed in an academic atmosphere from an early age due to his father’s profession, CV Raman won his first gold medal in physics in 1904 in his B.A. examination. He joined the Indian Finance Department in 1907 after obtaining his M.A. degree but continued to carry out research in the laboratory of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science at Calcutta.During his affiliation with Calcutta University in 1930, he was awarded Nobel Prize in Physics "for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the effect named after him." He later became a professor at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, in 1933 where he worked for 15 years. In 1948, the physicist established and endowed the Raman Institute of Research, of which he became the director.His workIn 1928, Raman discovered that a small portion of the light, which scatters after meeting particles that are smaller than the light’s wavelength, acquires other wavelengths than that of the original light. It was because some of the incoming photons' energy can be transferred to a molecule, giving it a higher level of energy. The phenomenon of exchange of energy and a change in light’s direction was named after the scientist, known as the Raman effect. The phenomenon is used to analyze different types of material.Raman was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1924 and was knighted in 1929.He died in Bengaluru, then Bangalore, on November 21, 1970.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cv-raman-death-anniversary-remembering-nobel-prize-winning-indian-physicist-101637456949012.html
21-11-2021||India||Navy to commission 'vigilant', 'valiant' INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai today||The Indian Navy will on Sunday commission the INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first ship of Project 15B, at the naval dockyard in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh as the chief guest at the ceremony.“Will be in Mumbai tomorrow, 21st November. Looking forward to attending the commissioning ceremony of INS Visakhapatnam. The event marks the formal induction of the first of the four ‘Visakhapatnam’ class destroyers, into the Indian Navy,” Singh tweeted on Saturday.According to a statement on Saturday, the commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam will reaffirm India's presence amongst an elite group of nations with the capability to design and build advanced warships.Besides indigenous equipment in the 'float' and 'move' categories, the destroyer ship is also equipped with major indigenous weapons such as indigenous medium range surface to air missile systems, surface to surface missiles, torpedo tubes and launchers.Also Read| Indian Navy to get first stealth guided destroyer. All about INS Visakhapatnam"We are ready for INS Visakhapatnam's commissioning. Our indigenous content is the highest today. After commissioning, we will continue with a few more trials and will be one with the fleet," Captain Birendra Singh Bains, the commanding officer (designate) of INS Visakhapatnam, told news agency ANI on Saturday.She is vigilant,She is valiant,She shall always be victorious! India’s first indigenous P15 Bravo destroyer ‘Visakhapatnam’ ready for commissioning. Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh to attend the ceremony in Mumbai today. @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/p19NXxy6uaThe Indian Navy will also commission the submarine Vela on November 25 and chief of naval staff Admiral Karambir Singh will be the chief guest at the commissioning ceremony. Vela will be the fourth submarine of project 75.“Six Submarines are being constructed under Project-75. With the commissioning of Vela, the project would have crossed the halfway mark,” the statement said on Saturday.Also Read| Indian Navy gets first of four stealth guided destroyer built at Mazgaon DockIt added that the commissioning of INS Visakhapatnam and submarine Vela will be major milestones showcasing the Indigenous capacity to build complex combat platforms. “This will enhance our capacity and firepower to address the threats both in the above water and underwater domains,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-to-commission-ins-visakhapatnam-in-mumbai-today-101637453111656.html
21-11-2021||NA||BREAKING: 4 killed, 8 injured in accident on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Kerala adoption row: Baby arrives in Kerala, DNA test tomorrowA baby who was allegedly given for adoption without the mother's consent arrived in Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram late tonight. A DNA test would be conducted tomorrow to confirm real parents. The baby has been entrusted to Child Welfare Council.Click here to know moreRussian President Putin gets Covid booster jabRussian President Vladimir Putin said on Sunday he had had a third dose of a Covid vaccine, as the country struggles with a fresh wave of the virus. "I had it two hours ago," AFP quoted Putin as saying on state television channel Rossiya 24.At least 4 killed, 8 injured in accident on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highwayFour people were killed and 8 others injured in a collision between a van and a container truck on Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway in Manor area of Palghar, Maharashtra today: Palghar PoliceRajasthan government appoints 6 MLAs as advisors to CM Ashok Gehlot, reports ANIAfter Cabinet reshuffle, the Rajasthan government on Sunday appointed six MLAs – Jitendra Singh, Babulal Nagar, Rajkumar Sharma, Sanyam Lodha, Ramkesh Meena, and Danish Abrar –  as advisors to chief minister Ashok Gehlot, reports news agency ANI.Shah to lay foundation stone of Rani Gaidinliu Tribal Freedom Fighters Museum in ManipurUnion home minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of Rani Gaidinliu Tribal Freedom Fighters Museum in Manipur's Tamenglong district through video conferencing on Monday, news agency PTI reported.Over 15 TMC MPs seek meeting with Amit Shah tonight, reports ANIA delegation of over 15 Trinamool Congress MPs will reach New Delhi tonight. “They have sought an appointment with the Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the alleged police brutality in Tripura,” news agency ANI quoted TMC sources as saying.The sources added that the MPs will also sit on a dharna from Monday morning in the national capital.Tripura Police detains TMC leader Sayani GhoshTripura Police has detained Bengal TMC leader Sayani Ghosh for questioning after a complaint by a ruling BJP worker that she had disturbed a street corner meeting of Tripura CM Biplab Deb, PTI reported.‘Govt running on agenda of pub, party, peg’: BJP MLA on Maharashtra govt's decision to cut excise duty on imported foreign liquorMaharashtra BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said on Sunday that the MVA government in the state is “running on the agenda of pub, party and peg,” according to ANI. His statement comes after the state government decided to cut excise duty on imported foreign liquor by 50 per cent.BJP leaders participate in ‘mahapadyatra’ in Andhra against YSRCP govt's tri-capital formulaBJP leaders participate in 'mahapadyatra' organised by farmers of Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh against the tri-capital formula proposed by the YSRCP government. "Amaravati should be the only capital of the state," BJP national general secretary D Purandeswari told ANI.Nigerian drug peddler sent to custody till Nov 25 after drugs' recoveryMumbai Crime Branch on Saturday held a Nigerian drug peddler with 5kg of MD drug and 200 grams of cocaine valued at ₹5.4 crore in the illegal market, from Chembur-Shivadi Road. He was then produced before a court, which sent him to the custody till November 25, ANI reported.10-feet long Burmese python rescued from residential area in BengalForest officials in West Bengal's Siliguri on Sunday rescued a 10-feet long Burmese python from a residential area in Fulbari area, ANI reported.Bengal BJP vice president Pratap Banerjee appointed party's in-charge of election management panel for KMC pollsWest Bengal BJP vice president Pratap Banerjee has been appointed as the in-charge of the party's election management committee for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, ANI reported.Former minister Brijendra Singh Ola take oath in Rajasthan cabinetFormer minister Brijendra Singh Ola, son of Sis Ram Ola, take oath as Rajasthan cabinet ministers.Mamta Bhairava, ex minister Vishvendra Singh also take oath as Rajasthan cabinet ministersMamta Bhupesh Bhairava take oath as a minister in Rajasthan cabinet. Former minister Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, who were removed during political crisis last year, also take oath.Four more Congress MLAs take oath as cabinet ministers in RajasthanCongress MLAs Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, and Vishvendra Singh take oath as cabinet ministers in Rajasthan government by Governor Kalraj Mishra, ANI reports.Hemaram Choudhary takes oath as Rajasthan cabinet ministerJaipur: Hemaram Choudhary takes oath as a Cabinet minister in the Rajasthan Government pic.twitter.com/JmxZ2BUkNZHemaram Choudhary takes oath as a cabinet minister in the Rajasthan government.Contribution to governance of those who couldn't be inducted is no less than those who've been made ministers: Gehlot on cabinet rejigRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said that the contribution to the governance of the state of those who could not be inducted in the cabinet is “no less than those who have been made ministers today,” according to ANI.Cabinet to take up withdrawal of three farm laws for approval on WednesdayCabinet is likely to take up withdrawal of three farm laws for approval on Wednesday. The bills for withdrawal will then be introduced in the upcoming Winter Parliament session, GOI sources revealed to ANI.Another meeting of SKM to be held on November 27Farmer leader says March to For a decision on further developments, another meeting of SKM will be held on 27th Nov. Decision will be taken on the basis of the situation until then: Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal at Singhu borderFarmer leader says march to Parliament on Nov 29 to go ahead as scheduledWe discussed repeal of farm laws. After this, some decisions were taken.SKM's predecided programs will continue as it is - Kisan panchayat in Lucknow on 22nd, gatherings at all borders on 26th and march to Parliament on 29th: Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal at Singhu border pic.twitter.com/KqeUY2Nzi7Farmer leader Balbir Singh said on Sunday that the SKM's pre-decided programmes will continue as it is. “Kisan panchayat in Lucknow on November 22, gatherings at all borders on 26, and march to Parliament on 29,” he told ANI.Meeting of farmers' union at Singhu border ends#UPDATE | Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) meeting, that was going on at Singhu border, concludes.A meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which was held at the Singhu border, has concluded, according to news agency ANI. Will begin Tirth Yatra Yojana in U'khand, says Arvind KejriwalDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national convener Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that if his party forms the government in Uttarakhand, then Tirth Yatra Yojana will begin in the state just like in Delhi. “We'll facilitate free 'darshan' of Lord Ram in Ayodhya. For Muslims, we'll have the provision of visiting Ajmer Sharif and for Sikhs to Kartarpur Sahib. It'll be free,” Kejriwal said. ‘If govt changed in 2014, then..’: NCP neta's advice as farmers mull step aheadMaharashtra minority minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Sunday offered a suggestion to protesting farmers even as the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre announced the new farm laws will be repealed. Read moreFarm laws were forcefully imposed, says Sachin PilotPeople were beaten up, booked & called naxals, terrorists. Laws have been withdrawn after the matter couldn't be settled. Nation has seen that BJP failed on all fronts, be it inflation or farm laws. People are suffering, they'll give reply to Govt in upcoming polls: Sachin Pilot pic.twitter.com/tRBHb2hNaHCongress leader Sachin Pilot said on Sunday that the Centre's three farm laws were forcefully imposed on people without any discussion, an agitation went on for a year, adding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had to apologise and withdraw them at the end after immense political pressure. Defence minister Rajnath Singh commissions INS VisakhapatnamDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday commissioned the stealth guided missile destroyer INS Visakhapatnam at the naval dockyard in Mumbai.Police commissionerate system to be implemented in Bhopal, Indore: MP CM Chouhanभौगोलिक दृष्टि से भी महानगरों का विस्तार हो रहा है और जनसंख्या भी लगातार बढ़ रही है।इसलिए कानून और व्यवस्था की कुछ नई समस्याएं पैदा हो रही हैं। उनके समाधान और अपराधियों पर नियंत्रण के लिए हमने फैसला किया है।Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday that a police ommissionerate system will be implemented in Bhopal and Indore. After BJP leaders hint farm laws may be brought back, SP talks about ‘truth'The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Sunday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a surprise announcement that the Centre will repeal the three farm laws brought in last year that set off protests by tens of thousands of farmers across several states and at the borders of Delhi. Read moreU'khand has made up its mind to give opportunity to a new party: AAPPeople can see the development in Delhi in past few years. So, people of Uttarakhand have made up their minds to give opportunity to a new party this time. We'll speak to the people. We'll hold a press conference today: Delhi CM & AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal,in Dehradun pic.twitter.com/cPlxorKYOmDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP's) national conevener Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that poll-bound Uttarakhand has made up its mind to give opportunity to a new political party. We'll speak to the people. We'll hold a press conference today, Kejriwal, who is on a one-day visit to the state, told reporters. Video shot by activist fresh proof of China's atrocities against UyghursChina, which has faced global provocation over the coronavirus pandemic, the recent standoff with the Philippines in South China and rising tensions with Taiwan, is now making news for the dreadful treatment of the Uyghur Muslim minority community at concentration camps in the Xinjiang province. Read moreLibraries in Hong Kong remove 29 books about Tiananmen massacreLibraries in Hong Kong have removed 29 of 149 books about the 1989 Tiananmen massacre. According to the Hong Kong Free Press, the remaining 120 books are immdiately available for borrowing. The move comes as the pro-China authorities in Hong Kong have intensified their crackdown on the pro-democracy movement. Over 1.07 million samples tested for Covid-19 in India in last 24 hours: ICMRA total of 63,16,49,378 samples tested for #COVID19 up to 20th November 2021. Of these, 10,74,099 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pic.twitter.com/SbooGnDUuiThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Sunday that 1,074,099 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count has climbed to 631,649,378.India reports 10,488 new Covid-19 cases, 313 more deathsIndia on Sunday reported 10,488 new Covid-19 cases and 313 more deaths, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 34,510,413 and 465,662 respectively, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 8am. Massive fire breaks out in North TripuraNorth Tripura District | Massive fire engulfed around 18 houses at the Hampsapara Bru camp, under the Panisagar subdivision, reportedly due to an electric short circuit. Affected families have been shifted & are being provided necessary help from the State administration. pic.twitter.com/WnxrSSd9xXA massive fire broke out in North Tripura which engulfed around 18 houses at the Hampsapara Bru camp.Delhi's air quality in 'very poor' categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 347 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-IndiaIndian Navy to commission INS Visakhapatnam in Mumbai todayThe Indian Navy will on Sunday commission the INS Visakhapatnam, which is the first ship of Project 15B, at the naval dockyard in Mumbai in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh as the chief guest at the ceremony. Read moreAhead of winter session of Parliament, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to visit Delhi from November 22 -25West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will embark on a three-day visit to the national capital from Monday, days ahead of the winter session of Parliament. Previously, Banerjee visited Delhi in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-21-2021-101637455431389.html
21-11-2021||India||World Television Day 2021: History, significance and all you need to know||World Television Day is celebrated across the globe on November 21 to mark the increasing impact of the early 20th-century invention in the contemporary world. The UN General Assembly proclaimed November 21 as World Television Day to recognise the impact of the ‘idiot box’ on decision making by bringing the world attention to conflicts and its potential role in sharpening the focus on other major issues.“World Television Day is not so much a celebration of the tool, but rather the philosophy which it represents. Television represents a symbol for communication and globalization in the contemporary world,” says the United Nations’ website.The UN General Assembly decided November 21 to be marked as World Television Day since the first World Television Forum was held on November 21-22 in 1996. Leading media figures met for the two-day summit to discuss the growing significance of television and to consider how they might enhance their cooperation. The medium was acknowledged as a major tool for informing, channelling and influencing public opinion.World Television Day: What makes ‘idiot box’ so lovedWhile the digital medium has emerged as a major platform to create, post and consume content, television continues to be the single largest source of video consumption and the number of households with television sets continue to rise globally.“The interaction between emerging and traditional forms of broadcast creates a great opportunity to raise awareness about the important issues facing our communities and our planet,” the UN website says.Invented in 1924 by John Logie Baird, the electronic device was introduced in India after almost three decades with the help of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation. The government owned-Doordarshan remained the only national channel for the next three decades before private and foreign broadcasters were allowed to engage in limited operations under the new economic reforms introduced by the Narsimha Rao government in 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-television-day-2021-history-significance-and-all-you-need-to-know-101637453697423.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Aim to make India powerhouse of cinema’: Anurag Thakur||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday promised to expand the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) and scale up regional festivals to make India the powerhouse of post-production.“Our vision is not limited to the event of IFFI and should not be taken as a standalone event….We aim to make India a powerhouse of content creation, especially regional cinema, by scaling up regional festivals. We aim to make India the post-production hub for the world,” Thakur said at the 52nd edition of the IFFI, which started in Goa on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aim-to-make-india-powerhouse-of-cinema-anurag-thakur-101637443508398.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Will give fitting reply if anyone tries to occupy our land’: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said India wants good relations with its neighbours but warned that it will give a fitting reply to any country that attempts to occupy even an inch of its land.Singh, a senior BJP leader, was in poll-bound Uttarakhand to launch the second leg of the ‘Shaheed Samman Yatra’ from Jhaulkhet Moonakot in Pithoragarh district.“We want good ties with our neighbours. India has never attacked any country. Neither has it ever occupied a foreign territory. Having good ties with neighbours has been India’s culture but some people don’t understand this. I don’t know whether it is their habit or temperament,” he said. Naming Pakistan, Singh said it keeps trying to destabilise India through terrorist activities and a stern message has already been given to it.“We have given a clear message that if it cross its limits, we will just not retaliate on the borders but can even cross over into its territory and do surgical and airstrikes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-fitting-reply-if-anyone-tries-to-occupy-our-land-rajnath-singh-101637443274482.html
21-11-2021||India||PMK notice won’t stand, says judge who inspired ‘Jai Bhim’||Tamil Nadu political party Patttali Makkal Katchi’s (PMK’s) notice to makers of popular film Jai Bhim holds no legal standing, said former Madras high court judge Justice (retd) K Chandru, whose 1993 court case became the basis of the movie. “There is nothing like defaming an amorphous group. It should be specific in a defamation law,” Chandru said, adding that the movie states it’s fictional and has a certification from the censor board. Notwithstanding the controversies that the film chose to depict the tribals as Irulars and not the original Kurula tribe, the PMK and their parent body, the Vanniyar Sangam, said that the film shows their community (and core vote bank), the Vanniyars, in poor light. PMK leader and former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss struck first, demanding answers from Tamil actor Suriya, who plays Chandru’s role and has produced the movie. PMK’s ally, BJP’s former national secretary H Raja criticised Suriya – who has been vocal against the Union government’s NEET and NEP. “The person who says that our children shouldn’t study three languages (under NEP) will release his movie (Jai Bhim) in five languages. Let’s understand the selfish lot,” Raja tweeted earlier in November. PMK has been on a warpath since. On November 18, Vanniyar Sangam wrote to the information and broadcasting ministry to not consider Jai Bhim for any awards. On November 15, the Vanniyar Sangam sent a legal notice to the makers of the film and OTT platform, Amazon Prime seeking ₹5 crores in damages. The film isn’t in theatres as yet. Chennai police have deployed armed policemen at Suriya’s residence after PMK members announced a cash award for attacking him. Their grouse is that the name of the sub-inspector who beats Rajakannu to death has been changed from Anthonysamy to Gurumurthy in the film, which they say is a reference to a prominent Vanniyar leader named Guru. “You have projected the said wicked person, a wrongdoer, as if he belonged to Vanniyar community thereby imputing that the members of the Vanniyar community are prone to commit wrong and illegal things while in real life, the said sub-inspector does not belong to Vanniyar Community,” PMK’s legal notice read. Also, a symbol of the Vanniyar community has been used in one of the scenes with the sub-inspector, which was subsequently replaced with another symbol. Chandru quotes a similar contempt case from 2012, which he dismissed as a Madras HC judge. The case was filed by a practising Madras HC advocate aggrieved by an article in a Tamil newspaper Dina Malar that published a story titled, “Vanniyars are becoming Gounders (another caste higher in the hierarchy)”. In his order then, Chandru had quoted the work of M N Srinivas, a sociologist from the Delhi School of Economics, who described caste structure and mobility through a concept called Sanskritization as academic background for the news item. Chandru also refuted allegations that the film causes enmity between communities. He said that the only living names that the film retained are his and that of investigating officer I Periyasamy, who submitted a report to the court confirming police brutality. Periyasamy is now 88-years-old living in Pollachi. Since Rajakannu is deceased his name was retained too. The film is directed by Tamil journalist S Gnanavel, who knew Chandru through his work and listened to his story during a train journey they took together. The case has been taken up in the film, but it’s still a work of fiction and has obtained a censor board certificate accordingly, said Chandru. Chandru’s life in law (Subhead)“If the scene shifts to the court I’ll be happy because it is a rational forum where the law will speak and not muscle,” said Chandru. This world view of Chandru’s inspired him to study law, take up human rights cases and eventually pass landmark judgements. The signboard outside his Mylapore office in Chennai that says ‘please do not remove your footwear’ is an example of his divergent cultural standpoint. One of his traits that became a subject of discussion is the story of how on his retirement day as a Justice in 2013, he submitted a declaration of his assets, handed over his official car and took a train back home. The day he had assumed charge as a judge in 2009, his house bell rang at 6.30 am. “The then chief justice had sent the car so early to wait so that I wouldn’t take a train,” Chandru recalled. Every home he took up in Chennai, whether in Mylapore or Mandaveli, was to be close to the train station. In July 1993, when Chandru was an advocate in the Madras HC, he was invited to speak at a teacher’s conference in Neyveli. It was there, when an activist, having seen posters of the event, brought a Kurava tribal woman Parvati to meet him. Her husband, Rajakannu was falsely accused of stealing jewellery and was beaten to confess to the crime until he died in police custody. But police had told Parvati that he escaped. Since Chandru had to take a bus at 5.30 pm that evening back to Chennai, Parvati visited him in the city later and narrated her ordeal. Chandru took up the case pro-bono, built evidence which turned it into a murder case and in 1996, the court, in its interim order, gave monetary compensation and government land for Parvati. This is the portion that was made into the film, though the original case went on for 11 years and culminated in 2004 in another district sessions court. While the case was ongoing in 1996, Chandru had written about it in detail for Tamil magazines such as Ananda Vikatan and Kalki. “But it is being talked about only now. After the film’s release, the original judgment has been downloaded more than 4000 times,” Chandru said. Parvati has moved to Chennai with her children and grandchildren where she continues to live in squalor in a slum in suburban Mugalivakkam. During the crucial moments of the case, police had offered Parvati a bribe of ₹1 lakh. “When they offered her a thousand times the monthly earnings, she said to speak to my lawyer. I have not seen such a heroic tribal woman,” Chandru recalled. On what has changed since the 1993 case began, Chandru said the issues remain the same if not worse. “Barbarism has equally increased,” he said, citing the Sathankulam case in Thoothukudi district in 2020, where a father and son duo Jayaraj and Bennicks died in police custody. “As a lawyer, I would have dealt with 15-20 lock-up deaths, torture and encounter (extrajudicial killings),” he said, adding, “After so many years when I became a judge, I handled more than 45 such cases. That is three times more.” He said this training, however, helped him be determined not to delay judgments in such cases. “Parvati’s case took nine months. But similar cases that came before me took only 3 to 4 months,” he said. “This exposure – that such things do happen is required for judges. We can’t stop the recurrence. But we can show timely relief. Parvati got ₹4.5 lakh compensation. In my court, all the victims got ₹8-10 lakhs.” During his six and a half year tenure as judge, he disposed of 96,000 cases in total. The retired judge, who is now engaged in arbitration and teaching law, is writing his yet to be titled biography on his 50 years of experience with Indian judicial system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmknotice-won-t-stand-says-judge-who-inspired-jai-bhim-101637438257257.html
21-11-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot inducts 12 new faces in Cabinet rejig, promotes 3 ministers||Fulfilling the long pending demand of a cabinet reshuffle, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday declared the names of new ministers, elevating three state minsters to cabinet rank.Hours after collecting resignation letters from the ministers in his Council of Ministers at a meeting at his residence and after meeting the Governor, the list of new ministers was released by Gehlot’s office.The cabinet rejig is expected to happen on Sunday afternoon.Three state ministers – Women and Child Welfare minister Mamta Bhupesh, Labour minister Tika Ram Julee, and Bhajan Lal Jatav have been elevated to Cabinet rank.Former Tourism Minister Vishwendra Singh and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ramesh Meena have been re-inducted in the Cabinet. They were dropped along with former deputy CM Sachin Pilot in July 2020.The new faces to be inducted with cabinet rank are –Hemaram Choudhary, Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya, Ram Lal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Vishwendra Singh, Ramesh Meena, Mamta Bhupesh, Bhajan Lal Jatav, Tika Ram Julee, Govind Meghwal and Shakuntala Rawat.Four new ministers will be inducted at the state level – Zahida, Brajendra Ola, Rajendra Gudha and Murari Lal Meena.A senior party leader said of the 12 new faces to be inducted, four are believed to be from the Pilot camp – Hemaram Choudhary, Vishwendra, Ramesh Meena, and Brajendra Ola.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-inducts-12-new-faces-in-cabinet-rejig-promotes-3-ministers-101637436087708.html
21-11-2021||India||Many still missing in Andhra floods||The official death toll from rain-related incidents in Rayalaseema and south coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh since Friday morning has been put at 24 and the number of missing persons at 17, even as heavy rain continued to pound several parts of the state for the third consecutive day on Saturday.Unconfirmed reports, however, said over 30 persons, who were believed to have been washed away in floods in Kadapa and Chittoor districts, are yet to be traced. Rescue operations were still underway to find the missing persons, an official bulletin from the state disaster management authority said.Officials confirmed 13 bodies had been recovered from the flash floods caused due to the breaching of the reservoir of Annamayya project on the Cheyyeru river in Pulaputhur village of Nandaluru block in Kadapa district on Friday morning. The floods inundated several villages such as Gundluru, Seshamambapuram, Akepadu and Mandapalli.“In all, 7 NDRF and 9 SDRF teams have been deployed for search and rescue operations in flood-affected districts. Two helicopters were also deployed in Anantapur and Kadapa districts and over 100 who were stranded have been rescued,” the bulletin said.In Chittoor district, bodies of four persons, who were washed away in the floods caused due to overflowing of the Balijapalli tank in Bangarupalyam block. The whereabouts of four others who were washed away in Jeevagram village of Renigunta block near Tirupati are not yet known.In Kadiri town of Anantapur district, seven persons, including two children, died due to the collapse of an under-construction building on an adjacent building in the early hours of Saturday. One person each in Anantapur and Nellore are still missing.More than 2,500 buffaloes, goats and other livestock were also washed away in the flood-affected districts of Rayalaseema.The official bulletin said 1,316 villages were badly affected and a few completely inundated, displacing nearly 24,000 people. As many as 1,549 houses were completely damaged due to flash floods.Authorities set up 243 relief camps and provided shelter to 22,593 people who were evacuated from the affected areas. Preliminary estimates said 151,047 acres of agricultural crops had been damaged.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Chittoor and Kadapa districts on Saturday afternoon. He had a glimpse of the damage caused by heavy rain in Kadapa, Renigunta, Tirupati town, Peruru project and Swarnamukhi river areas, along with inundated areas affected by the Papagni and Penna rivers.He also inspected the Veligallu and Annamayya project area, which was severely damaged. He instructed officials to complete the estimation of crop damage and take up measures to support the farmers. The chief minister directed authorities to provide immediate financial assistance to flood-hit households and to assist them while they were returning home. He announced ex gratia payment of ₹5 lakh to the families of those who died.The South Central Railway announced the cancellation of the Chennai Central-Tirupati train and the Guntakal-Tirupati train on Saturday owing to heavy rain and suspension of tracks between the Renigunta-Pudi section of Chennai division of Southern Railway.In Tirupati, several residential areas continued to be flooded and the shrine management is not allowing two-wheelers on the ghat road to Tirumala as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-still-missing-in-andhra-floods-101637430206361.html
21-11-2021||India||Farm unions say won’t end agitation until all demands met||Farm unions said on Saturday that they would continue their agitation across states until all their “rightful demands”, including a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, were met by the government. The farmers’ resolution came a day after the central government said it would repeal the three farm laws that cultivators say will jeopardise their livelihoods.A statement from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella platform for farm unions, said cultivators would gather in Lucknow in thousands for a mahapanchayat on November 22 to demand a legal guarantee on MSP. An MSP is a floor rate for farm produce meant to help avoid distress sale.The SKM also criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for skipping any comment on the MSP issue while announcing his decision on Friday to roll back the farm laws in a nationally televised speech.“While the Prime Minister of India announced his government’s decision to repeal the three black farm laws, he chose to remain silent on the pending demands of farmers,” a joint statement of key farm unions said.The SKM also demanded the sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son had been arrested after his vehicle ploughed through farmers returning from a protest in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the incident. The farm unions said, besides a law on MSPs, they want all cases filed against farmers to be withdrawn unconditionally.Farmers will gather in large numbers at all protest sites on the first anniversary of the farmers’ agitation on November 26, the SKM said. The farmers’ demonstrations at toll plazas and near the Parliament for the entire duration of the winter session beginning November 29 will be held as planned, the unions said.On November 28, the unions are also slated to hold a large rally at Mumbai’s Azad Maidan under the banner of the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, in which over 100 farm and labour organisations will participate.In his speech to the nation on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his government would repeal all three agricultural laws enacted last year that had set off tough protests and street battles by tens of thousands of farmers.The laws the government said would be annulled were aimed to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreement.Farm unions say the legislation would leave them at the mercy of large corporations, leaving them with little bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws came ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.“The Modi government has refused to acknowledge the high human cost that was imposed on the protesters due to its adamant and egoistic behaviour,” the SKM said in its fresh resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-say-won-t-end-agitation-until-all-demands-met-101637429368146.html
21-11-2021||India||No evidence that Aryan conspired: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has rubbished the claim of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, and others arrested in the cruise ship drug raid case had hatched a conspiracy to commit offences involving commercial quantities.A single-judge bench of justice Nitin W Sambre said in his 14-page order, which became available on Saturday, that there was no evidence to suggest existence of any conspiracy. The judge said merely because Aryan and others, including his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, were travelling together on the cruise by itself cannot be termed as foundation for a conspiracy, as contemplated under Section 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985.Justice Sambre on October 29 granted bail to the trio, arrested by the NCB on October 3. Acting on a specific tip-off, a team of NCB officials, headed by the agency’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on October 2 searched certain passengers slated to take a holiday cruise to Goa from the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai and their rooms booked on the vessel.During searches, the agency claimed to have seized multiple drugs, including 13 grams of cocaine, five grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstasy) and ₹1.33 lakh in cash from the cruise vessel.The NCB team intercepted 14 persons and after hours of interrogation placed Aryan, 23, Arbaaz, 26, and Dhamecha, 28, under arrest in the afternoon of October 3. Subsequently, the agency arrested 17 more persons in connection with the raid.The trio moved the high court after their bail pleas were rejected by the special NDPS court. Opposing their bail, the NCB claimed that the accused were part of a larger conspiracy. The agency relied on Aryan’s WhatsApp chats to claim that he was in touch with some foreign drug supplier and the chats referred to “hard drugs” and “bulk quantities”.Justice Sambre, however, found nothing incriminating in the WhatsApp chats.“After having gone through the WhatsApp chats extracted from Applicant/Accused no. 1’s phone (Aryan’s phone), nothing objectionable could be noticed to suggest that Applicant nos. 1 & 2 (Arbaaz) or all three applicants (Aryan, Arbaaz and Munmun) along with other accused persons in agreement had meeting of minds and had hatched conspiracy,” said the judge.“There is hardly any positive evidence on record to convince this Court that all the accused persons with common intention agreed to commit unlawful acts,” said the court. “Rather the investigation carried out till this date suggests that Applicant/Accused nos. 1 & 2 were travelling independent of Applicant/Accused no. 3 and there was no meeting of minds on the aforesaid issue.”The court also refused to accept the NCB’s contention that both Aryan and Arbaaz had in their statements to the agency officials admitted that they were going to consume the six grams of charas, purportedly found on Arbaaz on the cruise ship and that itself amounted to an offence under the NDPS Act.In this regard, justice Sambre said in terms of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in Tofan Singh’s case, statements recorded by the NCB under Section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be taken into consideration as evidence and can at the most be used for the purpose of the agency’s investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-that-aryan-conspired-bombay-hc-101637429367500.html
21-11-2021||India||IITs start quota-based faculty recruitment in senior positions||Following directions from the Union government, the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), for the first time, started advertising quota-based posts for recruitment in senior positions such as associate professors and professors. The IITs, having autonomy in the recruitment process, were earlier reserving posts while recruiting faculty at the entry-level of assistant professors.According to the previous norms, there was no SC/ST/OBC quota for recruiting at senior positions at the IITs for courses other than humanities and management. At the entry-level also, in case the IITs were unable to find suitable candidates for the reserved posts, they had the authority to de-reserve the post after a year. This has hit the diversity among teachers at the IITs.As per the data shared by the ministry of education in Parliament in 2018, of the 6,043 faculty members working at the IITs, only 149 were from Scheduled Caste (SC) and 21 from Schedule Tribe (ST). A parliamentary panel had criticised the poor representation of reserved quota candidates in centrally funded technical institutes last year.In November last year, the ministry asked the IITs to extend the reservation to senior positions, and the institute had also been prohibited from “de-reserving” the reserved post after a year. As per the central law, government institutes are required to implement a reservation of 27% in teaching staff for OBC candidates, 15% for SC and 7.5% for ST candidates.In August this year, the ministry of education instructed all centrally funded higher education institutes, such as the IITs, the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) to fill all the vacancies including reserved ones in “mission mode”.Between September and November, several IITs, including IIT-Bombay, IIT-Delhi, IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Madras, and IIT-BHU, have advertised faculty posts at all the levels inviting applications to fill posts reserved for SC, ST, OBC, EWS, and disabled candidates.“(The) Institute specifically encourages applicants from SC/ST/OBC category as well as persons with disability to apply for these positions,” stated an advertisement published by IIT-D on its website calling applications for faculty positions at the professor and associate professor levels.Similarly, IIT-Kanpur in its advertisement inviting applications for various faculty positions said, “Reservation is applicable as per government of India norms. The institute also encourages applications from qualified women candidates...The reserved category candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.”A senior official at the IIT-D, who wished not to be named, said, “The IITs were already hiring suitable SC/ST/OBC candidates at the higher positions but now that the government has asked IITs to extend the reservation to all faculty posts, the institutes are trying their best to find suitable candidates and fill the positions. The major change this time is the revocation of the de-reservation system. What will happen if we are not able to find meritorious candidates on reserved posts? So far, we were able to de-reserve these positions and now it is not possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-centre-s-directions-iits-start-quota-based-faculty-recruitment-in-senior-positions-101637429186908.html
21-11-2021||India||Despite Bengal debacle, Congress, Left eye alliance for Manipur elections||The electoral debacle of a seat pact between Congress and Left parties in the West Bengal assembly elections may not be a deterrent for the two sides to stitch another understanding in Manipur where assembly polls are due next year. Congress and Left parties’ leaders confirmed that talks are at a nascent stage but both sides are keen on a pact. A meeting between the two parties is also set to take place at the CPI office here on Sunday.“The shape and nature of the pact is yet to be finalised. But talks are on,” CPI general secretary D Raja said. The Congress for the longest part in the history of the northeastern state enjoys 35.1% popular votes. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got more than 36% votes in the 2017 assembly elections. The CPI and CPIM, now marginal entities in the state’s politics, had just 0.74% and 0.01% votes, respectively, in the last polls. The Congress’ interest in a pact with Left parties mainly stems from the fact that the two outfits, especially the CPI, have cadres in all parts of the state. “An Olympic medal winner’s father is a Left party worker in Manipur,” a Congress worker, who did not wish to be named, pointed out. “The Left parties might not be able to win a seat on their own but in an alliance, it can brighten the prospects of both sides,” a senior Congress leader, involved in the northeast affairs, said on condition of anonymity.In the West Bengal polls held in May this year, the Congress and the Left parties drew a blank for the first time in a tight fight between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. The two sides have been staunch rivals in Kerala, where the Left defeated the Congress in the April assembly polls, defying the trend of change in state government every five years. A senior Congress leader pointed out that the talks for a pact in Manipur with otherwise ‘weak’ political parties should also be seen as party leader Rahul Gandhi’s keenness to engage with the Left. “Last year, the TMC was keen to join hands with the Congress to elect a common candidate for a Rajya Sabha seat. They had also finalised former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar’s name when Rahul preferred to ally with the Left parties to elect former Kolkata mayor Bikash Bhattacharya,” another senior leader said, seeking anonymity.The Congress and the Left are also working together at the national level to put up an opposition front against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-bengal-debacle-congress-left-eye-alliance-for-manipur-elections-101637429127077.html
21-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu teen dies by suicide, hints at sexual harassment in note: Police||A 17-year-old girl in Tamil Nadu allegedly died by suicide, leaving behind a note indicating she might have been sexually assaulted, the police said.The 17-year-old was found dead at her home, and a handwritten note recovered from her read, “I should be the last girl to die of sexual harassment,” the police added.“We have sent the note to a handwriting expert for verification,” said Karur’s superintendent of police P Sundaravadivel. A case of unnatural death has been filed under section 174 of the CrPC, but since the note has not named any perpetrator of sexual harassment, the police are further investigating to find out the perpetrator in the alleged sexual harassment case, an official said. Six teams of police have begun questioning the friends of the deceased, the two schools she studied in, her teachers, family. The police are also going through her social media accounts.“Based on her YouTube searches, we have found suicidal tendencies,” said a police officer not wishing to be named. “In 2018, she lost her father. And recently her grandmother died, too. She has been living with her mother.”Karur police said that in the course of their investigations if they find a perpetrator guilty of having sexually harassed the girl, they would alter the case and add sections of the POCSO Act.When asked if this was a copycat suicide similar to the recent case in Coimbatore, the police denied it. This is the second such case in Tamil Nadu in November.In the Coimbatore suicide case, the police arrested her school teacher on charges of sexually assaulting her between March and May earlier this year and for abetment to suicide. The school principal was also arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 for failing to take action. Police are verifying a handwritten letter retrieved from her that names two people, which has not been revealed.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-teen-dies-by-suicide-hints-at-sexual-harassment-in-notepolice-101637429007080.html
21-11-2021||India||‘Define anti-national attitude; bring laws to counter fake news’: House panel||From seeking a definition of what constitutes an “anti-national” attitude, to asking the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) to explore a better system for evaluating television rating points, and introducing dedicated laws to counter fake news, the parliamentary panel on Information and Technology (IT) has recommended a host of reforms for traditional as well as digital media platforms, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The panel, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, feels that it is “a matter of grave concern that media, which was once the most trusted weapon in the hands of the citizenry in our democracy and acted as trustees of the public interest, is gradually losing its credibility and integrity where values and morality are being compromised,” one of the people aware of the recommendations, asking not to be named. The report is set to be tabled in the winter session of the Parliament, which starts November 29. The issues addressed in the report include instances of violations of code of conduct of ethics by the media in the form of paid news, fake news, TRP manipulation, media trials, sensationalism and biased reporting. “(These) have placed a big question mark on its (media) credibility in the minds of people which is not a good sign for the healthy democracy. A healthy democracy thrives on participation of the public, which is only possible through circulation of accurate information by responsible media,” the person added. The report commends the government bring in new social media and intermediary guidelines, but has also sought feedback from the I&B ministry regarding how well the objectives of introducing them have been achieved. “The Committee hopes that these guidelines will go a long way in regulating digital media content and both the ministries will work coherently and in tandem to ensure that the code for ethics is followed by digital media also,” the person said. The panel has also been informed that there are discussions underway to introduce an umbrella statute for the media sector covering print, electronic and online platforms. The matter is under examination. The Union government is considering an umbrella legislation for all traditional and digital media companies to ensure a level playing field, HT reported on August 17. The law is proposed to cover print and electronic media, digital media, cinema, even so-called over-the-top or OTT platforms such as Netflix and Hotstar. The committee also noted continued concerns about fake news in some newspapers. “The Committee, however finds to their utmost concern, that the erring newspapers tend to repeat the same mistakes, even after being censured by the Press Council of India (PCI), till action is taken by the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) to withhold government advertisements to that particular newspaper for a certain period of time as per the Government of India’s Policy,” the person said. During 2016, 2017 and 2020, a total of 105 cases were censured by the PCI, out of which 73 cases led to suspensions by the BOC. The committee would expect the ministry/PCI to strengthen the enforcement mechanism of the PCI so that all its orders are acted upon,” the person said. It has also suggested expanding the membership of the PCI to include people from several states to ensure fair representation. The panel, said the above quoted person, was also informed by the PCI that several complaints were received against electronic media by the media body, but action was not taken since it doesn’t fall under their purview, “So, PCI feels it is advisable that something “parallel (to PCI)” be set up for the entire media i.e. newspapers and periodicals in print or other form, e-newspapers, news portals, social media and any other platform of news dissemination, besides electronic media. The PCI has made recommendations to the government to enact a single legislation so as to cover all the aforesaid media, in line with the Press Council Act, 1978,” the person said. Referring to rule 6(1)(e) of the Cable Network Rules, 2014, which bars the broadcasting of anything that, among other things, promotes ‘anti-national attitudes’, the panel suggested that term be broadly defined to remove any ambiguity in interpretation. The parliamentary committee has also expressed its dissatisfaction with the present system of measuring of TRPs and has drawn the ministry’s attention to the “recent reported episodes of manipulation of TRPs by some TV channels rigging the devices used by BARC”. “This has put a big question mark on the objectivity, accuracy, efficacy and transparency of the current system and clearly indicates how the ratings can be manipulated by some channels in connivance with the BARC officials. While taking a serious view of this, the Committee desires the Ministry to look into the entire process of the TRP system and identify a solution for a more transparent and accountable system for measuring TRPs,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/define-anti-national-attitude-bring-laws-to-counter-fake-news-house-panel-recommendations-for-media-101637428828179.html
21-11-2021||India||Swachh Survekshan 2021: Indore bags cleanest city tag for fifth consecutive year||Madhya Pradesh’s Indore was adjudged the cleanest city for the fifth consecutive year by Swachh Survekshan 2021, the central government’s annual cleanliness survey to promote sanitation in urban centres under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Chhattisgarh retained the first position in the “cleanest state” title.The results of the survey were announced by President Ram Nath Kovind, who gave away the awards in the presence of Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and others at the ‘Swachh Amrit Mahotsav’, at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi on Saturday.Surat and Vijayawada were ranked as the second and third cleanest cities, respectively, with a population of over 1 million. New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was adjudged the cleanest city with a population of below 1 million, while Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati bagged the second and third place in the same category, respectively. The NDMC area also ranked first in the “India’s cleanest small city” category having a population between 1 lakh and 3 lakh.Among states having more than 100 urban local bodies (ULBs), Maharashtra was ranked the second cleanest after Chhattisgarh, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Bihar was the worst performer in this category.Jharkhand, for the second time, was given the cleanest state award in the “less than 100 ULBs category”. This was followed by Haryana and Goa. Meghalaya was at the bottom of the list in this segment.“Mahatma Gandhi used to say that cleanliness is next to godliness… Safai Mitras and sanitation workers have continuously rendered their services even during the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is committed to ensure that the life of no sanitation worker is put at risk due to unsafe cleaning practices,” the President said in his address.“On October 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban 2.0 with the goal of making all cities waste-free by 2026. It is obvious that a garbage-free city requires houses, streets and localities to remain garbage-free. The responsibility of the success of this campaign lies with the government as well as all the citizens. We have to ensure that everyone segregates wet and dry waste at home,” he added.Puri said the achievements under the Swachh Bharat Mission (urban) have been the result of unprecedented collective efforts.“This is also reflected in the massive growth of the Swachh Survekshan which began as a pilot in 2016 among 73 cities. The next few years will be dedicated to focusing on holistic cleanliness, i.e. clean air, clean land, and clean water,” he said.With the participation of 4,320 cities, the MOHUA said that the sixth edition of Swachh Survekshan has become the world’s largest urban cleanliness survey.In its debut survey in 2016, the Centre had witnessed the participation of 73 cities. The number gradually rose to 434 in the following year.In 2018, the scale of survey and intensity of participation increased with 4,203 cities and in 2019, the ministry covered 4,237 cities. In 2020, it marginally increased to 4,242.“Despite the on-ground challenges posed by Covid-19, a team of over 2,000 assessors visited over 65,000 wards in a record time of 28 days. This year’s Survekshan, participated by 4,320 cities, also saw an unprecedented number of citizens’ feedback – over 5 crores, compared to 1.87 cores last year. SS 2021 has also helped identify over 6,000 innovations and best practices in sanitation and waste management from across the urban India,” the ministry said in a statementMaharashtra bagged a total of 92 awards, the highest by any state, followed by Chhattisgarh with 67 awards. Additionally, under the Prerak Daaur Samman, a new performance category introduced under Swachh Survekshan 2021, five cities – Indore, Surat, Navi Mumbai, NDMC and Tirupati were categorized as ‘Divya’ (Platinum).Delhi’s north, east and south municipal corporations continued to perform abysmally.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North DMC) ranked 45 among 48 civic bodies having a population above one million. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) ranked 40, while South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) secured the highest rank of 31.Last year, the EDMC had ranked 46 among 47 local bodies in this category in Swachh Survekshan. The south and north had ranked 31 and 43, respectively.Among the cleanest districts, Surat (Gujarat) bagged the first place followed by Indore (MP) and the NDMC area (New Delhi).Karnataka and Mizoram were adjudged the “fastest mover states” in the big (more than 100 ULBs) and small (less than 100 ULBs) state category, respectively.Hoshangabad (Madhya Pradesh) with a jump of 274 ranks from 361st position in the 2020 rankings to the 87th position this year has also secured a place among the top 100 cities.In the population category of ‘less than 1 lakh’ for cities, the top three spots went to Maharashtra’s Vita, Lonavala, and Sasvad cities. Varanasi topped as the “Best Ganga Town”, while Ahmedabad Cantonment won the title of “India’s Cleanest Cantonment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-2021-indore-bags-cleanest-city-tag-for-fifth-consecutive-year-chhattisgarh-cleanest-state-101637428826963.html
21-11-2021||India||Sidhu refers to Imran Khan as ‘elder brother’, BJP hits out at Congress||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday stoked a controversy after he referred to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan as “bada bhai” (elder brother) during his visit to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur. A purported video of Sidhu being welcomed by a Pakistani official on behalf of Khan showed the Congress leader saying Khan was like a “bada bhai” to him and that he loved him a lot.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra called the reference a serious matter of concern for Indians. “Rahul Gandhi’s favourite Navjot Singh Sidhu calls Pakistan PM Imran Khan his “bada bhai”. Last time, he hugged Gen Bajwa, Pakistan Army’s Chief, heaped praises. Is it any surprise that the Gandhi siblings chose a Pakistan loving Sidhu over veteran Amarinder Singh?” Patra said.In 2018, Sidhu was criticised for hugging Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa during Imran Khan’s oath ceremony when the latter became prime minister. Sidhu had attended the event as a special guest of Khan.Sidhu dismissed the criticism by the BJP. “Let BJP say whatever they want...,” he told reporters at the border point in Gurdaspur. The Congress leader, however, also came under criticism of his own party for his remark.“Imran Khan may be anybody’s elder brother but for India, he is that cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones arms & narcotics into Punjab & sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K. Have we forgotten the martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon?” Congress leader and Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-refers-to-imran-khan-as-elder-brother-bjp-hits-out-at-congress-101637428767273.html
21-11-2021||India||CBI charges Mahant Narendra Giri's aide, two others with abetting his suicide||Two months after the death of Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a charge sheet in a local court here against Anand Giri and two others booked for abetment to suicide.According to the CBI charge sheet, Anand, a disciple of Narendra Giri, Prasad, a priest of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj, and Tiwari, son of Prasad, have been charged under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The federal investigating agency has relied on statements of 154 witnesses.On Saturday, Chief Judicial Magistrate Harendra Nath, after perusal of the charge sheet, said there were sufficient grounds for taking cognizance against the three. The accused, Anand Giri, Adya Prasad and Sandeep Tiwari, who attended the proceedings virtually from jail, did not raise any objection.On September 20, Narendra Giri was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Baghambari Math in Prayagraj. Police also recovered a purported suicide note, naming Anand Giri and two others, from the site of the incident.Subsequently, a first information report (FIR) was lodged against Anand Giri and two others under IPC Section 306 at Georgetown police station in Prayagraj.The state government set up a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the matter. However, the matter was later handed over to CBI.Earlier this month, Prayagraj district court rejected the bail application of Anand Giri, who has been lodged in Naini Central Jail here since September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahant-narendra-giri-death-cbi-charges-seer-s-aide-two-others-with-abetting-his-suicide-101637428588446.html
21-11-2021||India||Murder, suicide, no regrets: Tale of hate crime in Madhya Pradesh||A 25-year-old woman was raped and killed by her father on November 6, allegedly angered by her inter-caste marriage to a 21-year-old man 18 months ago. Their eight-month-old son, suffering from pneumonia, was also found dead near the woman’s body in a forest in Madhya Pradesh’s Sehore district on November 14. Five days later, the husband allegedly died by suicide, unable to bear the trauma. Yet, for both families, there was no remorse. Family members of the 21-year-old man from an OBC (other backward caste) community told HT that he got married a year and a half ago with the 25-year-old woman, who belonged to a scheduled caste (SC), after eloping. At the time, the families tried to locate them and even filed a missing person’s complaint at the Bilkisganj police station in Sehore. When the police found them, the couple told them that they were married and wanted to begin their life afresh. “The woman’s father, 55, a farmer by profession, threatened the couple that he would kill them if they ever tried to come back to him or meet him. The man’s family also refused to accept the woman from the scheduled caste and the couple started living separately in the same village. The woman gave birth to a baby eight months ago and the man’s family accepted the baby, but not the woman,” said Sameer Yadav, additional superintendent of police, Sehore. “This Diwali, the woman’s husband, who used to work at a tent house, had to go to Raipur, Chhattisgarh for a month. The woman was alone at her home and decided to celebrate Diwali with her elder sister in the Ratibad area in Bhopal. She also thought of getting in touch with her parents,” said the officer. However, the infant developed pneumonia and on the night of November 5, died. The elder sister then informed their father and brother, and on the pretext of burying the baby, they took the 25-year-old to the Samsgarh forest nearby. “This is where the woman was killed. The father raped her before strangulating her,” a senior police official said. The matter came to light after the bodies of the woman and her baby were found in Samsgarh forest on November 14. The woman’s husband informed the police that the woman didn’t have a mobile phone and she last contacted him via the mobile number of the landlord of her sister on Diwali. The man had then called the landlord wanting to speak to his wife, but the landlord told him that his wife had returned home. On Friday, unable to bear the burden of his wife and child’s death, the man died by suicide. The man’s paternal uncle told HT, “In the villages, caste matters a great deal. The woman belonged to a village which is just 15 km away from us. The villagers knew about the caste of woman and they were not ready to accept the inter-caste marriage.” “She used to live separately in her house. The family was trying to accept her but before it could happen, she died. The family is definitely shocked after the incident but they are not sympathetic towards the couple. They still feel they had committed a big mistake,” said the uncle. The family members of the woman refused to speak to the media. But, the woman’s father, who is lodged in jail, has no regrets, a senior police officer said. An investigating officer from Bhopal, Sudesh Tiwari, said, “The father has no regret. He said he knew his daughter’s fate. She deserved it. Her baby died because God wanted to give him a chance to take revenge.” “During interrogation for hours, the man was smiling all the time and said he did what is correct. I told him that I had never seen a heartless man like him and he said that death and rape was nothing compared to pain the woman gave to him and his entire family. She died once but her inter-caste marriage killed his family every day as relatives had started avoiding them and used to mock him,” said Tiwari. The woman’s village panchayat secretary, Dinesh Kaleriya said, “I don’t know much about the family but nobody mocked about the marriage of the woman in the village. The father himself used to feel offended. Now, the family had gone to some other place and there is a lock at the house.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-suicide-no-regrets-tale-of-hate-crime-in-madhya-pradesh-101637428526915.html
21-11-2021||India||PM attends DGPs’ conference; focus on tackling Maoists and cybercrime||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday attended the conference of DGPs at the UP Police headquarters, where Maoist violence, counter-terrorism challenges and cybercrime were some of the issues that figured prominently, officials said.Union home minister Amit Shah, who inaugurated the three-day conference on Friday, was also present, along with DGs of central police organisations and 350 other senior police officers. The prime minister sat through the deliberations in the entire session on Saturday, an official said.The conference, organised by the Intelligence Bureau, is being held in a hybrid format this year, and restricted entry to select government officials were allowed. The DGPs of states and other police organisations attended the conference physically here, while the remaining invitees participated virtually from 37 different locations across the country.Senior government officials said the PM Modi would also participate in the conference on Sunday and stay at Raj Bhavan on Saturday. They, however, remained tight-lipped over the proceedings at the conference.The area around the state police headquarters remained under tight vigil during the PM’s stay throughout the day.Since 2014, the prime minister has taken a keen interest in the conference of DGPs/IGs and attended such meets.Earlier on Friday, Union home minister Amit Shah inaugurated the conference. He appreciated the role played by security forces and their sacrifices during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.In his address, he laid stress on better coordination between the state police and other central agencies. He also urged the delegates for timely implementations of suggestions discussed during the conference. He emphasised the need to focus on security-related issues, including coastal security, left-wing extremism, narcotics trafficking, cyber-crime and border area management.This year, for the first time, over 200 officers of different ranks from various states/UTs were requested to submit papers on contemporary security issues being deliberated at the conference.The conference has been organised in Guwahati in 2014, Dhordo, Rann of Kutch in 2015, National Police Academy, Hyderabad in 2016, BSF Academy, Tekanpur (Madhya Pradesh) in 2017, Kevadiya (Gujarat) in 2018 and IISER, Pune in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-attends-dgps-conference-focus-on-tackling-maoists-and-cybercrime-101637428468083.html
21-11-2021||India||Varun Gandhi asks PM Modi to take action against minister in Lakhimpur incident||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider “appropriately strict action” against the union minister who is connected to the violence that erupted in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 that left eight dead and urged him to accept farmers’ demand for statutory guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Gandhi also requested the Prime Minister to consider paying ₹1 crore compensation each to the families of farmers who died during the year-long protest against the three farm laws. In a letter to PM Modi, Gandhi blamed “provocative” statements made by several senior party colleagues for instigating the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri. “This heartbreaking incident is a blemish on our democracy. It is my request to you that appropriately strict action is taken against the union minister who has been connected to this incident, so that there is a fair enquiry,” Gandhi wrote in the letter that he shared on Twitter. Though the BJP MP did not name anyone, but his letter refers to minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish has been named as a prime accused in the case and is currently in custody. Earlier, he had shared a purported video of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which a car is seen running over protesters. While four farmers were killed in the incident, a local journalist, two BJP workers and a driver of Ashish Mishra were killed in subsequent violence. Gandhi, the BJP MP from Pilibhit in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, who had earlier urged the government to take a lenient view of the farmers’ agitation, has also sought dropping all “politically motivated false FIRs” that were filed against the farmers who were part of the anti-farm law protests for over a year. “I believe if this decision has been taken earlier, all these innocent lives would not have been lost. It is my humble request to you that while expressing condolences to the families of the farmer brothers and sisters who were martyred in the movement, a compensation of ₹1 crore each be announced for them,” he said in the letter. On Friday, PM Modi announced that the government will set in motion the process of repealing the three farm laws that saw protracted protests by some farmer groups in Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP. Gandhi has also backed the farmers’ demand of making MSP legally binding. “There are more than 85% small and marginal farmers in our country for the empowerment of these farmers we have to ensure that they get remunerative prices for their crops. This movement will not end without the resolution of this demand and there will be wide spread anger amongst them, which will continue to emerge in one form or the other,” he wrote, seeking statutory guarantee of MSP for their crops. “…Democracy runs on constitutionality, discourse and empathy. The famers expect you to solve their problems in a sensitive and timely manner,” Gandhi further wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-asks-pm-modi-to-take-action-against-minister-in-lakhimpur-kheri-case-101637428466918.html
21-11-2021||India||Repeal of farm laws not for political gains: BJP||The Centre’s decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws that were strongly opposed by a section of farmers for over a year is not a mere tactic for political gains but a manifestation of the government’s commitment to move forward with all sections, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders said on Saturday. The party also believes that there has been no loss of face for the Centre or a dent in its image as that of a “decisive government” after the rollback of the laws. “The repeal of the farm laws or putting on hold the land acquisition bill is not sidestepping our ideology for popular support or gains in elections. These were decisions based on various factors, including the ramifications that the (ongoing) protests could have on the internal security of the nation. After all, there were attempts by divisive elements to associate with the farmers’ stir,” a Punjab-based BJP leader said, requesting anonymity.Taking a swipe at the Congress for summing the decision as a climbdown by the ruling party, the BJP said the government had at least not succumbed to appeasement of any community.“This is not our Shah Bano moment. This is a decision related to economic and developmental issues and the Prime Minister realised that it would be difficult to pull through reforms if the government has not been able to successfully convince a section of people,” a senior party leader said, also requesting anonymity.The Shah Bano jibe was aimed at the Congress and, more particularly, at the Gandhi family, which has been vocal in its criticism of the farm laws. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that “the country’s farmers have defeated arrogance with their satyagraha. Jai Hind, Jai Hind’s farmers”. In 1986, the Congress government, headed by then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, had overturned the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Shah Bano case on granting alimony to a divorced Muslim woman by passing the Muslim Women (Protection on Divorce) Act. The BJP has often used the case as an illustration to accuse the Congress of alleged minority appeasement. The issue was also the mainstay of the BJP’s argument while making efforts to outlaw the practice of instant triple talaq.Responding to the BJP’s Shah Bano jibe, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said: “This is nothing but bogus bravado. It is a humiliating backtrack for the Prime Minister because of the tenacity of farmers.”Opposition parties said the rollback is a reminder that legislation cannot be cleared on the basis of a brute majority alone.“The government has lost face as it has realised that on the basis of 303 (Lok Sabha MPs) and by bulldozing Parliament, they cannot get their way. This incident in contemporary history has taught us that if we bulldoze Parliament, the streets, the villages and the bylanes will throw up new Parliaments,” Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha said.The decision to repeal the farm laws came six years after the government agreed to put on hold an ordinance that would make it easier for companies to procure agricultural land, following widespread protests by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-not-for-political-gains-bjp-101637428167046.html
21-11-2021||India||Satya Pal Malik interview: Was ready to quit post to raise issues of farmers||Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik, who hails from western Uttar Pradesh, had been vociferously opposing the three contentious farm laws, repeatedly warning the Centre of its repercussions.Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the laws on Friday, the governor on Saturday told HT’s Sunita Aron that the Centre will also have to relent on the farmers’ demand on minimum support price (MSP). Edited excerpts:While holding a constitutional position, you were opposing the government on the farm laws? Do you think it was proper?People actually don’t understand constitutional rights and obligations. In no way a constitutional position compels you to seal your lips. Even ex-president Dr Rajendra Prasad, despite holding a constitutional position, opposed former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s Hindu Code Bill. There are many such instances when presidents have refused to be a rubber stamp. Thus, there is no restriction even on governors to air their views concerning public welfare. In any way, I was ready to relinquish my post, if so required, to raise a burning issue that harshly impacted the farming community.Are we living in an era of reforms? Then why so much opposition to agriculture reforms when there is also a view that the farm laws would have helped the farmers in the long run?No, I come from the same community and fully understand the issues involved. Yeh kisan ki zameen ko hathiyane ka mudda tha ( It was an issue of forcibly capturing the land of the farmers). Now, after the withdrawal of the farm laws, the farmers will feel safe.Does it seem your voice reached Prime Minister Narendra Modi?Yes, I am very thankful to the Prime Minister for taking a decision in the farmers’ interest at an appropriate time. I am equally grateful to farmers, who despite the hardships, kept their year-long agitation peaceful.The issues are settled although some farmers are reiterating their demand for legal sanctity to MSP.The crux of the issue remains unresolved. Legal sanctity for MSP was their main demand and I don’t think the farmers would relent or call off their agitation till that is done.MSP was given some time in the late 1960s. Don’t you think some reforms are required over a period of time?Despite the MSPs, farmers still have to do large-scale distress selling of their crop. Once the MSP is legalised, at least price protection will be guaranteed.You have been in touch with people in power as well as the farmers. Will you again initiate a dialogue on MSP?No, not immediately. Akalmand ko ishara hi kafi hota hai (hints are enough for intelligent people). The government will have to eventually concede to their demand on MSP also.Did the government have an option to give MSP sanctity instead of rolling back the laws?Yes, the government had the option and it also knew nothing short of that would be acceptable to farmers. The farmers will not end their strike till they get their MSP.Why did the Prime Minister take one year to withdraw the bills?As Gujarat chief minister, Narendra Modi always favoured MSP but after his shift from Gujarat to New Delhi, his views changed.What changed his views?I don’t want to define the reasons.Do you think BJP would now harvest votes in the impending UP elections?Yes, to some extent in West UP, as it would temper down the farmers’ anger and animosity against the BJP. In the rest of UP, there are other issues that the party will confront like Hathras, Lakhimpur Kheri violence, et al.Are you planning to return to active politics?No, I plan to write books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satya-pal-malik-interview-was-ready-to-quit-post-to-raise-issues-of-farmers-101637428106886.html
21-11-2021||Today's||In defence, the twin transformations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on his traditional Diwali visit to the frontline troops, made an impassioned plea for change, while arguing that modes of warfare are currently in transition. Indeed, after decades of somewhat circular and tiresome debates, India’s military establishment seems to be hurtling through rapid change. This has been made possible primarily through the creation of the offices of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) and that of the department of military affairs (DMA). The latter, in particular, opens up the possibility of a transformation of the ministry of defence which, institutionally, has been a moribund organisation designed for a bygone era. These twin simultaneous transformations, of the defence ministry and military headquarters, are long overdue.However, to be truly effective, the military needs to cut down on certain existing structures and reimagine its approach to human resource management. In turn, the civilian bureaucracy needs reforms to usher in greater expertise and explore other creative measures to enhance both military effectiveness and fiscal efficiency. Unfortunately, thus far, there is very little indication that such deep-rooted changes are being imagined by either the military or civilian bureaucracies. Therefore, politicians, who have been singularly responsible for ongoing reforms, need to focus on initiating deep-rooted, organisational change.There are several queries, some of critical importance to India’s military power, that arise from the current attempt at defence reform. The first, and unsurprisingly, the most contentious one, is that of establishing joint commands. As is well known, the military commands of all three services are geographically dispersed even though they may share roughly similar operating environments. At a recent event, the CDS, General Bipin Rawat, detailed the proposed solution — “17 single-service commands that currently exist would be combined into just four geographical commands”.That appears logically sound. However, there is need for greater clarity on command and control. For instance, would these commands follow the American model wherein they report directly to the defence minister and the CDS functions as the chief military adviser? Or as in the British system, is there a need for a permanent joint headquarters with a greater operational role for the CDS? Some argue that India’s case is sui generis and it will adopt its own approach, but the principles of joint structures with clear lines of command and control are universal. These apply to all large militaries — American, British, Chinese, and Russian. There is, therefore, a need for greater clarity on the operational lines of command for these proposed joint commands.A related query is on the rationalisation of existing structures. To begin with, one must question whether the services will need separate military commands. Indeed, Colonel Vivek Chadha, who recently wrote an authoritative book on joint commands titled Integration of the Indian Armed Forces: The Way Ahead, tells me that “for theater commands to function effectively, it is imperative to optimise and where necessary cut down on existing structures. The most logical reduction is for the services to lose their command headquarters.” Retaining command headquarters, with newly established joint commands, therefore, defies logical sense. Unless, of course, the dominant interest is to retain senior officer billets.The focus, so far, seems to mainly be on institutional reforms; however, a critical, if less talked about, element is human resource development. Simply put, how does the military prepare mid- and senior-level officers for posts in these newly created joint organisations? By tradition, and in its incentive structures, thus far, military officers have been imbued with a single service approach. It would be unfair to expect such officers to, with a proverbial flip of the switch, suddenly understand and embrace joint war-fighting or even hold positions in the necessarily bureaucratic DMA. Once again, mirroring the experience of other countries, civilian leaders need to step in to change military promotion and officer management policies. More specifically, there is a need to incentivise tenures in joint organisations and usher in a process of greater specialisation within the otherwise generalist officer cadre. In addition, there is a need to fashion creative policies to better utilise officers who do not clear promotion boards, an unavoidable feature of the steeply pyramidical military structures. In tandem with these changes, there is a need to think through the changes necessary on the civilian side of the ministry of defence. So far, the plaintive, if futile, cry among reformists was the need to usher in greater civilian expertise within the ministry. However, with the creation of DMA, an organisation without equal in any other democracy, we are in uncharted territory as to the true purpose, and function of the civilian component in the ministry. While this is currently under debate, it is worthwhile considering whether the office of the defence minister needs to be augmented to allow for an independent assessment of issues if, say, there is a disagreement between the services, the defence secretary and the CDS. It is unclear if such a measure is currently under consideration. India’s political establishment deserves significant credit for the twin transformations currently underway — both within the military and in the ministry. Indeed, it has displayed bold leadership in pushing through measures such as the recent corporatisation of the ordnance factories. However, implementing branch and root reform will require partnering with reformist officers to usher in the necessary institutional and managerial arrangements to best match India’s security challenges. Anit Mukherjee is an associate professor at RSIS, Nanyang Technological University in Singapore and a non-resident fellow at Centre for Social and Economic Progress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-twin-transformation-in-india-s-defence-101637505338797.html
21-11-2021||Today's||After the repeal, a set of new questions||On Guru Nanak Jayanti, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi announced the repeal of all three farm laws. But this does not necessarily mean that there will be a happy ending immediately, going by a tweet from Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait. He said, “…the agitation will not be withdrawn immediately. We will wait for the day when farm laws will be repealed in Parliament. Along with MSP, the government should have also discussed other issues with farmers.” Other farm movement leaders have also expressed similar views. But how long will they drag out this agitation?
21-11-2021||Today's||Steel and aluminium can unlock the US-India trade agenda||On November 22, Indian commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal is set to meet his American counterpart, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai for the Trade Policy Forum (TPF), the first time that it has been held since 2018. The meeting marks the first opportunity under the Joe Biden administration for India and the US to try to untangle some of the thorny market access issues that have plagued their trade relationship.
21-11-2021||Editorials||A new deal for agriculture||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing that the government will pilot the repeal of the three farm laws, it is time for the Indian political class to look ahead. Irrespective of one’s views on the farm laws that now lie shelved, there is a consensus among all stakeholders that Indian agriculture needs a reset. The debate is on the terms of the reset and the process of enabling it. The experience of the past year should not bury the idea of reforms, but instead lead to a new conversation, which takes into account all viewpoints, and is truly democratic in spirit. Only that can lead to a sustainable change.
21-11-2021||Editorials||POCSO Act: Why the SC’s ruling is critical||The Supreme Court (SC) on November 18 overturned an atrocious interpretation by the Bombay High Court (HC) of Section 7 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, which ruled that only skin-to-skin contact constituted sexual assault. The specious logic was that the child was clothed at the time of the assault. The SC made it clear that it is sexual intent that constitutes the offence of sexual assault. The SC rightly held that this absurdly narrow interpretation would destroy the intent of the far-reaching law, which is meant to protect children. The HC’s ruling suggests that if the victim was clothed, as was reportedly the case of the child in question, or if the offender was wearing gloves or any other material while carrying out the assault, he could escape the full punishment under the law. The accused was given just one year of imprisonment under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code while the penalty for the crime, which falls under Section 7 of the POCSO Act, is three years of rigorous imprisonment.
