23-11-2021||Lucknow||New HC bench in Agra - first increase jurisdiction of Lucknow HC: President OBA||The Oudh Bar Association (OBA) of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has requested the Union government to increase the jurisdiction of the Lucknow high court before taking any decision related to the constitution of the new bench of the high court in Agra.The Union law minister Kiren Rijiju had recently said that the Centre was considering setting up a new bench of the high court in Agra. Increasing the territorial jurisdiction of the Lucknow high court is a long-pending demand of lawyers of Lucknow. They have been demanding to bring Bareilly, Moradabad and Kanpur divisions under the Lucknow high court’s jurisdiction. Even lawyers’ associations of all districts in these three divisions have demanded to change their jurisdiction from Allahabad to Lucknow. The OBA is an apex body of Lucknow high court lawyers.“The executive committee meeting of the Oudh Bar Association was convened on Monday. We have passed a resolution for increasing the jurisdiction of the Lucknow high court,” said Rakesh Chaudhary, president, OBA. “It is a long-pending demand of the OBA. The Centre must increase the jurisdiction of the Lucknow high court before taking any decision related to the constitution of a new bench of the high court in Agra,” added Chaudhary. The meeting was convened after the recent statement of Kiren Rijiju related to the Centre considering setting up a new bench of the high court in Agra. “The Lucknow high court has the finest infrastructure and the city is centrally located. For litigants of Kanpur, Bareilly and Moradabad divisions it is easy to approach Lucknow as compared to Allahabad,” pointed out Chaudhary. “A large number of bar associations across the state want their jurisdiction to be shifted to Lucknow from Allahabad. They also want the GST and the Educational Services Tribunal also in Lucknow,” said Amrendra Nath Tripathi, general secretary, OBA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-hc-bench-in-agra-first-increase-jurisdiction-of-lucknow-hc-president-oba-101637692075125.html
23-11-2021||Pune||MP Bapat to chair Pune Airport Advisory Committee meet on Wednesday||PUNE The Pune Airport Advisory Committee will meet at the VVIP circuit house on Wednesday. MP Girish Bapat, who is chairman of committee, will chair the meeting.“Various topics will be discussed at the meeting. On priority, the ropening of the airport 24×7 will be discussed. The airport is expected to start full fledged operations from December 1,” said an airport official on the request of anonymity.Bapat will speak with the media at 1pm.Many topics remain to be discussed by the advisory committe as the airport reopened after a 16-day break on October 30.“The work on the multilevel parking and new terminal is going on at good speed and it will finish in time,” said the official.Talks will be also about international flights which are expected to start from January 1, 2022. Purandar airport will be also a topic of discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mp-bapat-to-chair-pune-airport-advisory-committee-meet-on-wednesday-101637691954918.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||Campaign in Lucknow to speed up vaccination against Covid||Lucknow The health department is still alert when it comes to checking the spread of corona in the state capital. As part of the door-to-door campaign to create awareness about corona, the health workers are making people aware about the benefits of vaccination. According to officials of the health department, the campaign will be intensified in rural areas.Additional chief medical officer, Lucknow Dr MK Singh said, “About 86 per cent of the capital’s population has received the first shot of the vaccine. About 45.6 percent of the population has received both doses of the vaccine. About 14 percent of people over the age of 18 have not taken a single dose of the vaccine. This number is about five lakh. All such people are being motivated to take the jab to control the spread of the pandemic.” He said, “All the 10 rural and eight urban CHCs are carrying out vaccination all seven days a week, including Sundays.” 1 1 new dengue cases As many as 11 new dengue patients were found in Indira Nagar, Aliganj, NK Road, Tooriaganj, Chander Nagar, BKT, Sarojini Nagar and Gosainganj areas of the city. Thirty-three teams of the health department surveyed 4084 houses for checking possibilities of dengue larvae and one house was served notice for allowing breeding of mosquitoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/campaign-in-lucknow-to-speed-up-vaccination-against-covid-101637691775854.html
23-11-2021||Other||Odisha’s tribal cannabis growers set conditions for not growing the crop||Amid massive exercise by the Odisha government to destroy cannabis plantations across the states, around 1000 tribals in 35 villages of the erstwhile Maoist hotbed of Swabhiman Anchal of Malkangiri district have demanded remunerative prices for their harvest such as turmeric, black gram, peanuts, finger millets, black pepper as a condition for putting a stop to growing cannabis in their farms, officials said. For over a week, the Malkangiri police have been going after cannabis plantations in the Swabhiman Anchal area of the district which used to be a Maoist hotbed till a couple of years ago. In the last week, Malkangiri police and excise officials have destroyed cannabis plantation over 250 acres in Swabhiman Anchal where most of the cannabis is grown but remained out of bounds for police till due to increased Maoist activities there. The Malkangiri police have so far destroyed cannabis plants worth ₹200 crore.On Monday, the tribals of Dhuliput and Ralegada grampanchayat inside the Swabhiman Anchal area staged a protest at the panchayat headquarters of Dhuliput demanding remunerative prices of various vegetables and spices that they would grow as well as enrol them in several government schemes if they were to stop cultivating the cannabis plants.“Though we know that cultivating cannabis is illegal, for years we had no other option as cannabis grown on our fields used to have ready buyers outside. Now we have been told that the police are going to destroy all our cannabis plantations. How are we going to survive,” asked Narayan Hantal, a tribal from Ralegada panchayat.“If we don’t grow vegetables and spices on our farms instead of cannabis, then the government should give us remunerative prices. We also need houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and benefits under several government schemes to abandon cannabis farming.”Another villager, Kamalu Hantal said though farmers grow vegetables, turmeric, finger millets, lentils, they do not get a good price from the local market. “We urge the government to declare MSP for crops like turmeric, ragi, lentils and vegetables and only then people of Swabhiman Anchal will stop growing cannabis plants,” said Hantal.In areas like Swabhiman Anchal where cannabis is one of the main crops for tribals, the season starts in September, just as the monsoon begins to withdraw. Though cannabis farming is more difficult than farming paddy or millets due to the large amount of water it needs and the care it requires, the earning is more. Cannabis costs anything between ₹500 and ₹1,000 for 10 grams, which works out to ₹50,000 to ₹1,00,000 a kg.The risks are also too high as anyone farming cannabis can be jailed for up to 10 years and fined up to ₹1 lakh under Section 20 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act that was enacted in 1985 replacing the Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930. But with Maoists calling the shots in the region for more than three decades and allegedly taking a cut from the trade, the area became a safe haven for such plantations.Last month, The Hindustan Times had reported how farmers in the Maoist belt risked jail to grow cannabis. Even as the law enforcement agencies went after the cannabis plantations seizing cannabis and destroying the plantations, the business continues to flourish. Last year, Odisha seized 1549 quintals of cannabis, the highest in the country while this year, more than 1500 quintals have been confiscated till October. Reacting to the conditions set by the tribals in the two panchayats, Block Development Officer of Chitrakonda, Rahul Mandol, said the district administration is reaching out to villages with alternative crops such as turmeric, banana and mushroom. “Through several government initiatives, we are trying to promote vegetable farming in Swabhiman Anchal. The government would look into their request for good prices for their farm produce,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odishas-tribal-cannabis-growers-set-conditions-for-not-growing-the-crop-101637691296188.html
23-11-2021||Pune||HIA asks MIDC to relocate waste plant proposed near Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park||PUNE At a Zilla Udyog Mitra meeting held on Tuesday at the Collector’s office, the Hinjawadi Industries Association (HIA) asked the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to change the location of a proposed waste management plant near the Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park. Representatives from HIA emphasised the shifting of the location as new companies have been developed near the proposed site. “This was not the forum to raise this issue, but the topic came up. We have also written to MIDC about it. The location is too close to the companies and this why we have requested a rethink about location. Now it is up to MIDC to consider this,” said Col (retd) Charanjeet Singh Bhogal, chief operating officer, HIA. HIA is an informal collaborative platform for IT/ITES and other companies located in the Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park in Hinjewadi about 18 km from Pune city. A representative from HIA said that the companies have raised concerns about the location of the waste processing plant and fear that once it comes up it would create an unhygienic situation in the area. According to MIDC officials a change of location is not a easy task. An officer, on the condition of anonymity, said: “The process to set up the waste management plant has already been initiated and when the location was finalised we had consulted all the stake holders. In the dues course if other buildings have come up there, how is it possible to change the location immediately? We will set up a meeting with them and will discuss this issue once again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hia-asks-midc-to-relocate-waste-plant-proposed-near-rajiv-gandhi-infotech-park-101637690816194.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||Parties must unite on issues of corruption, unemployment: Mulayam||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav on Tuesday called upon political parties to come together on the issues of corruption, unemployment and inflation, and said if everyone is united, there will be development in the country. He was addressing a gathering at a programme organised to launch a book titled ‘Rajniti ke us Paar’, a compilation of works of party general secretary Professor Ram Gopal Yadav and other socialist leaders.Leaders from the Congress, Left parties, Aam Aadmi Party, Rashtriya Janta Dal and a few others were also present on the occasion. “There are issues of inflation, corruption and unemployment, and I am happy that people in India have taken up each of these issues. I am happy that the whole country (representatives of political parties) is sitting here and I thank Professor Ram Gopal for bringing them all together,” he said at the event organised at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan here. The SP founder and chief patron also said he was happy to see that everybody had gathered for the event, keeping aside their political affiliations. Besides SP leaders, Communist Party of India national secretary Atul Kumar Anjan, Congress leader and former MP Pramod Tiwari, Aam Aadmi Party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh, RJD MP Manoj Jha were present at the programme. “It would have had been great if some BJP members too had joined such an event,” said noted Hindi poet Kumar Vishwas, the chief guest at the event, who unveiled the book. SOME HUMOUR FROM MULAYAM At the onset of his speech interspersed with poetry, Kumar Vishwas tried to clear the air, saying that there already was some speculation in Delhi (about his joining the Samajwadi Party) as he was going to be with SP leaders. Once an AAP leader, Kumar Vishwas denied harbouring any such intentions. However, Mulayam, after listening to Vishwas’ speech and poetry, made a comment which first tickled the funny bone of people in the gathering and at the same time fanned speculations that Vishwas denied. After Vishwas, former SP MP and poet Udai Pratap came to recite a poem, but before that he said: “Moments earlier, while I was seated, Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) whispered into my ears: ‘If Kumar Vishwas is not in any other political party, then why not get him into the Samajwadi Party).” The comment and its timing (soon after Vishwas’ denial) turned out to be hilarious.Kumar Vishwas (as AAP candidate) had contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls, unsuccessfully, against Congress’ Rahul Gandhi in Amethi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/parties-must-unite-on-issues-of-corruption-unemployment-mulayam-101637690456360.html
23-11-2021||Pune||NCP’s Shinde loses Satara coop bank polls; supporters ransack office||PUNE Angry supporters of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Shashikant Shinde hurled stones at the party office in western Maharashtra’s Satara, after Shinde lost a poll for the post of director on the board of the Satara District Cooperative Bank, results for which were declared on Tuesday.Shinde lost by one vote to NCP rebel Dyandev Ranjane and as the news spread, a group of Shinde supporters reached the NCP office in Satara city and pelted stones, police said.Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Shinde said about seven to eight Shinde supporters were detained.Shinde, a member of the Maharashtra legislative council, and loyal to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, later apologised for his supporters’ actions, saying he was a committed worker of the NCP and its chief Sharad Pawar.“I apologise for whatever has happened as workers reacted in an emotional outburst. I appeal [to] my supporters to exercise restraint. I lost the polls by a margin of one vote. There was a conspiracy behind my defeat and it will be exposed in the coming days. At the same time, I was a bit lax during the polls which cost me dearly. However, I must clarify that for me, NCP, Sharad Pawar, and Ajit Pawar are everything,” said Shinde.The polls was for 21 seats on the board of directors for the cooperative bank and 11 of these were elected unopposed, leaving 10 posts for which the polls were held. The polls for cooperative banks are crucial as these institutions play an important role in funding cooperative sugar mills and other industries controlled by political leaders.Post victory, Ranjane expressed gratitude to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA, Shivendraraje Bhosale, for his support.Besides Shinde, Shiv Sena leader and minister of state for home, Shambhuraje Desai too suffered a loss. Desai was defeated by former minister Vikramsingh Patankar’s son Satyajit Patankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncps-shinde-loses-satara-coop-bank-polls-supporters-ransack-office-101637690455214.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||UP polls: BSP to not release manifesto this time||Lucknow: The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will not release a manifesto for the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. Instead, the party has decided to go to the people with the achievements of the BSP governments. Addressing a press conference in the state unit office on Tuesday, BSP president Mayawati said unlike rival political parties, the BSP preferred to work at the grass roots level. Rather than release a manifesto before the assembly election, the party had decided to go to the polls with the performance of its governments. Releasing the folder of the achievements of the four BSP governments ( 1995, 1997, 2002 and 2007) in power Mayawati said the party had prepared the folder to remind the people of the development and welfare schemes launched by its governments. Through this folder, the public would be informed about the work done at the ground level in Uttar Pradesh when the BSP was in power. Other parties were projecting the work done by Bahujan Samaj Party by changing the forms and names, she said. The BJP government was merely flaunting its false promises and projects limited to paper through advertisements, while the BSP had worked for the people at the grassroots level, she said. The party workers would take the folders highlighting the work done by the BSP government to each household. Through this the party would also convey to the people the work that would be done for the development of Uttar Pradesh and welfare of the masses at grass roots level if the BSP formed the government in 2022. The BSP government would again take Uttar Pradesh on the path of development, she said. Mayawati said her party would focus on the 86 reserved seats in the upcoming assembly elections in UP. In Uttar Pradesh, out of the 403 assembly seats, 84 are reserved for Schedule Castes and 2 for Schedule Tribes. A review of all the reserved assembly seats was done in a meeting with the party office-bearers in the state unit office. The party was drawing a strategy to win all the reserved seats, Mayawati said. The party will also focus on the upper caste people, especially from the Brahmin community, on the reserved seats. BSP national general secretary SC Mishra had been entrusted with the task to win the support of the upper caste- Brahmin voters for the victory of the party candidates, she said. “I have faith in the assembly segment in charge and assembly segment presidents. Like the 2007 assembly elections, they will work to ensure victory of the BSP with a huge majority,” she said. Mayawati said on October 9, on the occasion of death anniversary of Kanshi Ram, instructions were issued to all the district presidents to constitute party cadre (polling booth committees) in their respective districts, to hold their meetings in closed rooms and to review the work of the office-bearers of the various committees, she said Lauding the effort of the party office-bearers, Mayawati said from October 21, all the party workers and office-bearers had done a good job according to the guidelines given by her . The cadre constituted for remaining polling booth committees was being reviewed by the office-bearers, she said. A review of the committees constituted in the four divisions of western UP was done. All the committee members and office-bearers were doing good work at the ground level, she said. “The central government has withdrawn the three agricultural laws. I had demanded withdrawal of the farm laws several times and drawn the attention of the central government through tweets as well. The central government should hold talks with the farmers to resolve their small problems, so that the farmers can happily return home,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-polls-bsp-to-not-release-manifesto-this-time-101637690394989.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Man found dead on railway tracks near Badli village underpass in outer Delhi||A 40-year-old man was found dead beside the railway tracks near Badli village underpass in outer Delhi area on Tuesday morning.A senior police official said that the deceased man was identified as Mohammad Kaushar, a labourer from Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. On Monday night, a speeding train allegedly hit him while he was trying to cross the tracks, police said, adding that it appeared to be an accident. A crushed mobile phone belonging to the victim was also recovered from the spot. DCP (Outer North) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said they received a PCR call at Samaypur Badli police station around 9am regarding a body by the railway tracks. Policemen, along with a crime team and forensic experts, reached the spot, he said.“Prima facie, it was observed that injuries on the right side of the skull and right thigh of the victim were caused after being hit by a moving train. It appears to be an accident and proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC have been initiated,” said DCP Yadav.The labourer is survived by his wife and four children. His wife works as a domestic help, police said, adding that the body will be handed over to the family after an autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-near-badli-village-underpass-in-outer-delhi-101637690335058.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Snatcher arrested from Delhi’s Shahdara||A 27-year-old snatcher has been arrested from Shahdara. He has confessed to having committed more than 100 snatchings in the east and northeast parts of the city, police said.DCP Shahdara, R Sathiyasundaram, said that for the last six months, the police regular PCR calls from various areas of Shahdara, northeast and east districts of Delhi complaining that a man on a red Yamaha FZ motorcycle has been snatching mobile phones on a very regular basis.Accordingly, they created a team to nab the biker.On Monday, they received information that the biker will cross the Chintamani Chowk in Seemapuri area. The team laid a trap there and arrested him.Police identified him as one Adil Malik (27), and said he used a stolen motorcycle to commit the crimes. Police said that his younger brother Adnan Malik was also a snatcher and was arrested by the staff of Vivek Vihar police station five months ago.Adil was a fitness freak and invested a lot of money he made through stealing into his fitness regime. “He was arrested before for a similar offence and admitted that he has committed over a 100 snatchings since he was released from jail in May,” said the DCP.Police said that a total of 22 cases have been solved with his arrest. Further investigation of this case is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snatcher-arrested-from-delhi-s-shahdara-101637690216288.html
23-11-2021||Pune||PMC GB clears Rs2 crore for sculpture of Ram in Ambegaon||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s general body, on Monday, approved a Rs2 crore fund to erect a sculpture of Ram in Ambegoan. Bharatiya Janata Party’s elected member Varsha Tapkir proposed the sculpture. Tapkir said, “It is a demand from the citizens. Prabhu Shree Ram is an idol for all. I proposed it from my ward development fund.”Earlier when the Standing Committee approved the same proposal, opposition parties criticised it, but at the general body meeting it get approved. Ram sculptures are a noticeable trademark of the ruling BJP in the city. This sculpture in Ambegaon will be the third such statue in the city, after statues at the Ambil odha near Tresure Park, Sahakarnagar, and another one in Kothrud near Raja Mantri garden, all BJP strongholds.Rs1 crore for development work in Bhima KoregaonThe Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday approved Rs1 crore for development and gardening at the Jay Stambh in Bhima Koregaon.Every year on January 1, thousands of people visit Bhima Koregaon.The Jay Stambh was erected by the British government in 1821 in memory of soldiers who fought against the Peshwas at Koregaon Bhima on January 1, 1818.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-gb-clears-rs2-crore-for-sculpture-of-ram-in-ambegaon-101637690215082.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up govt for halting process to recruit new IHBAS director||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought to know from the state government as to why it has stopped the process of recruitment of a new director for the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS).A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, while hearing a plea challenging the extension of tenure granted to IHBAS director NG Desai after he attained the age of 65 years, was informed that despite an assurance that the process of appointing a new director will be concluded before November 30, the current director’s tenure was extended till October 18, 2022, or when he attains 67 years of age. Expressing its displeasure, the court said the government’s conduct was an “overreach” and amounted to contempt of court.The counsel for the petitioner Tej Bahadur Singh said respondents have disobeyed the court’s earlier order, which asked the authorities to complete the selection process without unnecessary delay, and urged that the official concerned be summoned to court. While Delhi government counsel sought time to get instructions, counsel for IBHAS said in 2019 itself, the authorities concerned had passed a resolution that the age of retirement of IBHAS director would be 67 years.“File reply (as to) why new recruitment process assured by the respondent has stopped. There is a violation of that order (passed in September). They (Delhi government) will show us why that process was stopped,” said the bench and posted the matter for hearing to December 23.The petitioner, a former employee of the institute, challenged the extension of Desai’s tenure on the grounds that he turned 65 years in October 2020 and thus could not continue in the post without the Lt-Governor’s approval.He claimed that the present director of the institute was appointed to the post in 2016, for five years or up to the age of 65 years, whichever was earlier. The petition has sought the quashing of the communications issued in October 2020, extending the tenure of the director, and directing the Delhi government to relieve him of his post. It has also sought quashing of all decisions, including the appointment of joint director, administration, taken by the director after he attained the age of 65 years.On September 23, the Delhi government told the court that it had issued an advertisement for the selection of director of IHBAS, and according to the constitution of a screening committee, all applications will be duly processed.It was stated that the entire process of selection was likely to be completed by November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-govt-for-halting-process-to-recruit-new-ihbas-director-101637690095320.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||After Nadda, Rajnath, Amit Shah to galvanise booth presidents||LUCKNOW: With Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav inking pact with Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and on the verge of seat-sharing agreement with its old partner Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has stepped up preparations for meetings with booth presidents in these regions. The party is also set to launch rath yatras which would traverse through important assembly segments in rural areas and connect with farmers, party leaders said. The rath yatras were also discussed at the BJP’s core committee meeting at the UP BJP headquarters in Lucknow. The meeting was attended by party chief JP Nadda who has now wound up his meetings with booth presidents in Gorakhpur and Kanpur. Next, defence minister Rajnath Singh is scheduled to address meetings in Avadh (Sitapur) and Kashi (Jaunpur) regions, possibly on November 25 and 27 and union home minister Amit Shah will be arriving later for meetings in Braj and Pashchim (west UP) regions. “SP’s pact with SBSP and RLD is a good strategic move in east and west, but we have also cemented pacts with allies like Nishad Party and Apna Dal along with several smaller caste-based groups who have limited but strategic appeal in their communities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tours have begun in UP and as elections near and campaign peaks up, you will see the shift towards us in a big way because Modi’s popularity remains unmatched,” said a UP BJP leader. “Gorakhpur is the chief minister’s region while Kanpur also comprises key Bundelkhand belt where the BJP had won all the 19 assembly seats and now faces the task of retaining its 2017 feat. Likewise, Kashi region also comprises Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency and given the SP’s tie-up with SBSP, the BJP would want to do well here. Similarly, Avadh region comprises Ayodhya and organization-wise Kashi and Avadh are the largest regions of the BJP. The Braj and Pashchim are tricky, especially the Pashchim (west UP) belt, the epicenter of farmers’ agitation where despite withdrawal of farm laws, the farmers have still not relented. The SP is on the verge of a pact with RLD in west UP,” said a senior BJP leader, explaining why the three top leaders had been tasked with connecting with booth presidents in these regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-nadda-rajnath-amit-shah-to-galvanise-booth-presidents-101637689854901.html
23-11-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM announces ₹10,000 relief for waterlogged and damaged houses in Bengaluru||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday announced ₹10,000 compensation for those whose houses were affected or damaged due to heavy rainfall and flooding in Bengaluru’s Yelahanka area, news agency PTI reported.The announcement came after Bommai’s visit to the waterlogged Kendriya Vihar Apartment in Yelahanka. “I have ordered the release of ₹10,000 today itself for those who had to suffer due to water entering their homes. About 400 houses are affected in the Yelahanka area [while] about 10km of main road and 20km of interior roads are also damaged,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by PTI.He further said that funds would be released immediately for repair work after an estimate of the damage to infrastructure is prepared. Bommai said that incessant rainfall over the past three days resulted in the overflowing of Yelahanka lake and the floodwater submerging the houses in Kendriya Vihar Apartment and its surrounding areas.Noting that water inundated the basement of the apartment “up to four-to-five feet” and a drainage system would be required, Bommai said the “national highways authority would be approached to get the necessary clearance” for taking up the work as the drains passed the highway, PTI reported.Bommai said that overflowing of Yelahanka lake, which is connected to 11 additional lakes, led to the same situation in all the waterbodies in the Yelahanka region.Kendriya Vihar Apartment complex comprises as many as 600 homes and houses more than 1,600 people. Owing to heavy rainfall, residents of the apartment were forced to shift to other locations, with large SUVs and tractors deployed to help them in the process.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with Bommai to take stock of the flood situation in the Silicon Valley of India as well as the entire state. “The PM assured all possible support from the Centre,” Bommai tweeted.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its latest bulletin has forecasted light to moderate “fairly widespread” rainfall over south interior Karnataka for the next five days till November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-announces-rs-10-000-relief-for-waterlogged-houses-in-bengaluru-101637689432638.html
23-11-2021||Pune||PMC institutes 4-member committee to probe fake bills worth Rs1 crore||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, appointed a four-member committee to conduct a departmental inquiry into the fake bills worth Rs1 crore which were submitted for electric work carried out at four crematoriums in the city during the Covid-19 pandemic. The PMC has already filed a police case in the matter. Additional municipal commissione Kunal Khemnar said, “The vigiliance department head Rajendra Muthe head this committee and they need to submit a report by December 3. The committee can summon any person or officer related to the case.”Allegedly 10 PMC officers signed bills worth ₹1 crore bills for the electric work at the crematoriums. When the audit department pointed out that these works were carried out without any estimates or tenders, it was found no work had happened on the ground. Officers working with the electric department claimed that the signatures and stamps on the bills are fake. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar after filing the police case said, “This is a very serious incident and the administration will ensure the guilty are punished. We are doing a departmental as well as police inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-institutes-4-member-committee-to-probe-fake-bills-worth-rs1-crore-101637689734851.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Civic activists, NGOs ask PMC to stop spending money on jute bags, benches||PUNE Civic activists and various organisation have demanded that municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar should not spend money on items like benches, garbage containers and jute bags, even though the general body has cleared the expenditure for the same. During the peaks of the Covid-19 pandemic the commissioner had banned elected members from unnecessary spending on garbage containers, jute bags and the installation of benches at various locations in the city. The NGO Parivartan claimed that a survey conducted allegedly showed expenditure on said items not being audited. At the general body meeting on Monday, all elected party members unanimously approved a proposal to start expenditure on the said items, approving a total buget of Rs5 lakh for each listed item. Civic activist Vivek Velankar in a letter to the municipal commissioner said: “Though elected members approved it, stop this unnecessary spending.” The City Eye organsation has also written a letter to the commissioner saying, “Every year elected members purchased jute bags. An audit will find that as per the records, jute bags purchased are more than the city’s population. But, hardly a few people got the bags. It means in the name of jute bags, all this money is going in to someone’s pocket, as there is no audit for same.” Parivartan’s Indraneel Sadalge said, “If the elected members want to procure all this, they should stop putting their names on it. If the administration banned elected members claiming to drive purchases from tax payers’ money, it will stop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-activists-ngos-ask-pmc-to-stop-spending-money-on-jute-bags-benches-101637689494996.html
23-11-2021||Pune||State minister Tope sounds alert: Covid-19 cases rising among those aged below 20 years||PUNE As the number of new Covid-19 cases and active cases has gone down, the state government decided to reopen schools from October 4, a month before the Diwali celebrations kicked in. However, now state health minister, Rajesh Tope, has sounded an alert that more new Covid-19 cases are being reported among the younger population. As per data from the Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD) for Maharashtra, of the 32,719 new Covid-19 cases reported in the state, 3,945 are from the age group of below 20 years. On Monday, during a press briefing in Jalna, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that more Covid-19 cases are being reported among the younger population, those aged between 11-20 years and so the centre must begin vaccination for this population. He said, “Over the last 20 days, 1,000 children have been affected by Covid-19. While the symptoms are mild, they can still infect other members of the family. So we have asked the central government to start vaccinating children in the age group of 11-18 years, as well as to give booster doses to the elderly.” Tope also added that in most of these cases the children are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. As per the MEDD data, in the past one month alone, between October 23 and November 23, the state reported 2,875 new Covid-19 cases in the age group between 11-20 years, while in the age group between 0-10 years, 1,070 new Covid-19 cases were reported. One of the causes for the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in children could have been the reopening of schools, for Classes 5-12.As per the MEDD data, about 7.46% of the cases reported in the state belong to the 11-20 age group and 3.19% belong to the 0-10 age group. However, of the total 6,655,308 cases reported in the state, the highest percentage is still from the age group between 31-40 years who account for 22.21%, followed by the 21-30-year group who account for 17.90% of the total cases, and then, the 41-50-year age group who account for 17.85% of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-minister-tope-sounds-alert-covid-19-cases-rising-among-those-aged-below-20-years-101637689134841.html
23-11-2021||Other||Hyderabad zoo staff rescue man from prohibited African Lion's moat area||Staff rescued and handed over to the police a man who was walking on the boulders of the African Lion moat area at the Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad on Tuesday."Lions are released in the exhibited enclosure at Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad which is an absolutely prohibited area. The man was rescued and caught by the zoo staff," a statement said.
23-11-2021||Lucknow||Noida int’l airport will be biggest in Asia: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the proposed Noida international airport in Jewar would be ready by 2024. He also said that being developed with an estimated investment of ₹34,000 crore, the airport will create jobs for the youth and will be the biggest in Asia. Yogi expressed these views at Jewar after his meeting with top officials and party leaders ahead of November 25 event in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the mega project at Ranhera village along the Yamuna Expressway. He said the airport was being promised to people of the region for the last 30-35 years.“But our government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi started working seriously since 2017. And now we are going to lay the foundation stone of this project that will benefit entire UP, particularly Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hapur and other adjoining areas,” the CM added.“Since 2017, we have been working on 11 new airports to connect at least 80 cities of the state via air. Earlier, only 25 cities were connected with air connectivity through two airports. We have fast-tracked the infrastructure growth and put the state on the path of development,” Yogi said.“Noida International airport will be completed as per the scheduled deadline of 2024 and create huge opportunities in the state thereby changing the business dynamics in this region,” the CM said while briefing the media after the meeting.He said that UP already had airports in Lucknow and Varanasi. “We have also started work at Kushinagar and in Ayodhya. Now, Jewar will be fifth International airport in UP boosting growth,” he said.The CM further said, “We are developing a film city near airport, defence corridor to boost manufacturing in Aligarh. Besides, electronic city, dedicated freight corridor and other infrastructure projects are being expedited to put the state on the path of development.”Earlier, Yogi reached Ranhera at 4:30pm, inspected the event site and held a meeting with Noida International Airport Limited, police, administrative officials and senior party leaders before leaving.Party’s top brass has also directed local MLAs, MPs and other leaders in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Aligarh among other districts to get in touch with workers for a ‘grand show’ at airport foundation stone laying ceremony. Yogi also took a meeting with UP civil aviation minister Nand Gopal Nandi, BJP state president Swatanra Dev Singh, western UP BJP regional president Mohit Beniwal among other leaders and discussed preparations for the foundation laying event with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/noida-int-l-airport-will-be-biggest-in-asia-up-cm-101637688417763.html
23-11-2021||Other||Odisha poultry farm owner alleges loud DJ music killed 63 of his birds||The owner of a poultry farm in Odisha’s Balasore district has alleged that at least 60 broiler chickens in his farm died due to loud music coming from a bridegroom party that came to his village.Ranjit Parida of Kandagaradi village under Nilagiri police station area of Balasore district on Monday filed an FIR alleging that 63 broiler chickens in his farm died due to loud music played by the bridegroom party during the marriage procession on Sunday night.“At about 11 pm on Sunday, the bridegroom party from the nearby village of Maitapur arrived at my village with the DJ music playing loudly. The bridegroom party also blasted high-intensity firecrackers. As the sound was too much to bear for the 2000 broiler chickens on my farm, I requested people in the marriage procession to lower the volume. However, they all seemed to be drunk and verbally abused me. The terrified chickens in my farm started running around in fear and an hour later I found 63 chickens dead,” said Parida.The poultry farmer said when he asked the family of the bride the next morning about the death of poultry birds, they refused to compensate.“I lost around 180 kg of chicken due to the loud sound as the birds probably died of shock,” said Parida. Nilagiri police station inspector-in-charge Droupadi Das said she has called both Parida and his neighbour for a discussion on the complaint.Professor Suryakanta Mishra, a noted zoology professor who had authored a book on animal behaviour, said loud noise does increase the risk of cardiovascular disease in humans as well as birds. “Chickens are governed by a circadian rhythm that is controlled by the natural light/dark cycle of day and night. As such, chickens mostly rest and are inactive at night, especially when it is dark. Sudden excitement or stress due to loud DJ music can disrupt their biological clock leading to death,” said Mishra.In 2019, the Allahabad High Court issued a blanket ban on disc jockeys (DJs) in Uttar Pradesh, calling them a “serious threat to human health”. “Even if they are operated at the minimum level of the sound it is beyond permissible limits under the Schedule of the Rules, 2000. A DJ is made up of several amplifiers and the joint sound emitted by them is more than a thousand decibels,” the HC had said, calling DJs a “serious threat to human health, particularly children, senior citizens and patients admitted in the hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-poultry-farm-owner-alleges-loud-dj-music-killed-63-of-his-birds-101637688416645.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||PM has done unprecedented work for Sikhs, farmers: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Tuesday said no other leader till date had done the kind of work that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had done for the Sikh community and farmers.Paying his obeisance at the Namdev Gurdwara here along with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Nadda also credited the PM with ensuring that copies of Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib reached India from Afghanistan. Forty-four Afghan Sikhs carrying three copies of the Guru Granth Sahib reached India on a special flight on August 24 after the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan earlier that month.Nadda was in Kanpur to inaugurate six BJP regional offices and to take stock of the booth level preparations with various other leaders in Kanpur-Bundelkhand region.The BJP president also said the PM ensured that perpetrators of 1984 anti-Sikh riots were punished. “The prime minister has sent those involved in anti-Sikh riots to jail no matter how influential they were,” he said. His meeting with Sikh community leaders came weeks after eight people, including four Sikh farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3.Later, addressing booth presidents of three divisions (Kanpur-Bundelkhand region) including Kanpur, Jhansi and Chitrakoot, he said the total number of polling booths in the country was 10.40 lakh. “The BJP has presence in 8.50 lakh booths. In days to come, the party will cover the remaining ones,” Nadda added.Attacking the Opposition, he said the BJP cared for nationalism while for others family was the priority. “We talk of nationalism and they (Opposition) keep remembering Jinnah. We have to teach these followers of Jinnah a lesson,” the BJP chief said.Stepping up the attack without naming any party, he said the followers of Jinnah were confined to a family when the BJP workers were helping people during both Covid wave. “We have to remember that such parties have nothing to do with public welfare or development. We have given such parties a befitting reply,” he said.On farmers, he said the PM was the biggest well-wisher of farmers and had done his best for them. “Many leaders called themselves farmer leaders and exploited the farmers for years but the fact remains that the PM has been their biggest well-wisher. As the election draw closer, the Congress is again talking of loan waiver which is a gimmick,” Nadda said.Having a total 57 assembly seats, the Kanpur-Bundelkhand region has 22,143 booths. The BJP is yet to constitute a booth level unit in 900 booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-has-done-unprecedented-work-for-sikhs-farmers-nadda-101637687817135.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||17-year-old boy rapes woman, kills her and then set her private parts on fire||A 17-year-old boy has been arrested for allegedly raping and killing a woman in the Dwarka area of Delhi, news agency ANI reported citing the police on Tuesday.According to the news agency, the Delhi Police was informed that the body of a woman was found in the drain near a garbage heap on November 15. After investigating the case, they arrested the accused on the charge of murder on November 17.Later, the accused informed the police during an interrogation that he also raped the woman. The boy told interrogators that he strangled her and set her private parts on fire to destroy evidence, ANI reported.Also read | In 95% of rapes, the culprit is an acquaintance. Design the right strategiesA special team formed to investigate the case has questioned about 2700 people and checked CCTV cameras, according to ANI. As a special team started investigating the case, it sent the victim's photo to different WhatsApp groups.The victim was identified after the photo was seen by her family.According to ANI, the police have not received the post-mortem report yet but officials said they have charged the boy with rape. Further investigation is underway, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17yearold-boy-rapes-woman-kills-her-and-then-set-her-private-parts-on-fire-101637686755415.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||After Tikait’s ‘warning’, MoS Mishra removed from Kheri sugar mills’ events||A day after Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said farmers will take their sugarcane meant for two Lakhimpur Kheri sugar mills to the office of the district magistrate if Union minister of state (MoS) Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni inaugurated the mills in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, the management of two cooperative sugar mills in Belrayan and Sampurna Nagar of Kheri district changed their crushing season opening programme on Tuesday.Mishra’ son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the October 3 Tikunia violence at Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. Ashish Mishra is currently in jail.In their revised programme issued on Tuesday, general manager/secretary of the two cooperative sugar units said, “Kheri district magistrate, who is also the administrator of the two sugar mills, will inaugurate the crushing season in Sarju Cooperative Sugar Mill in Belrayan at 9am on Wednesday and at 11am at Kisan Cooperative Sugar Mill in Sampurna Nagar in the presence of farmers and the shareholders.” Earlier, MoS for home Ajay Mishra was to inaugurate the crushing season at the two sugar units.Speaking at the Kisan Mahapanchayat convened by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions, in Lucknow on Monday, Tikait had also said, “The arrest of Ajay Mishra Teni is our important demand.”Meanwhile, some local BJP leaders close to MoS Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni said the union minister was already occupied in his pre-scheduled programmes out of district owing to which he was not available for the inauguration ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-tikait-s-warning-mos-mishra-removed-from-kheri-sugar-mills-events-101637687394466.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set to miss 100% first dose deadline||Maharashtra is set to miss its target of inoculating all 91.4 million eligible beneficiaries in the state with the first dose by November 30. As per the CoWin dashboard – the central database of all vaccination information in India – Maharashtra had administered 71,741,672 first doses until November 23, which is 19.65 million (or 21.51%) short of the target. On November 2, ahead of a vaccination review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced that the state should complete 100 percent first dose coverage by November 30. “Vaccination tends to prevent infection and also blunts the effects of virus,” he said then. “Citizens should take both the doses. Even though cases have been coming down, the threat of Covid-19 still exists and we cannot let our guard down.” On Tuesday, November 23, senior state officials said they may have to revise the target date to December 15. To achieve the target by November 30, the state will have to administer 2.8 million jabs a day in the next seven days. It looks unlikely, though. In the last 32 days, (October 22 to November 22), the state averaged 428,467 doses a day. State immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai said Diwali festivities at the beginning of the month led to a dip in vaccination, but it has gained pace in the last few days. On November 23, the state administered 716,571 doses, according to the CoWin dashboard. The state’s tally for both doses is 108,445,421, of which 36,703,749 are fully vaccinated beneficiaries. A senior official added that till November 4, the number of first doses administered daily was more than the second dose. Since then, the second dose numbers have exceeded the first dose. “This is mainly due to the long gap (84 days) between the two Covishield vaccine doses,” the official said on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media. “Those who took their shot in August and September are due now. Besides, there is vaccine hesitancy to some degree in some communities. District administrations have been directed to employ initiatives and programmes to tackle this,” he added. Earlier in November, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the government had roped in actor Salman Khan to help overcome the perceived vaccine hesitancy in the Muslim community. Last week, the actor released a video urging people to not fall prey to rumours about Covid vaccines, and encouraged them to get inoculated at the earliest. HT reached out to Tope over the phone and text messages, but he was unavailable for a comment. According to state officials, vaccination numbers are low in tribal-dominated districts such as Palghar, Nandurbar, Gadchiroli and Amravati. Dr Desai, the state immunisation officer, added that besides hesitancy, citizens are not as worried as they used to be due to the drop in daily cases. “Vaccine apprehension may have reduced, but people have also become lax now due to low viral activity,” Desai said. “In tribal areas, the post-Dussehra migration could be a factor for the low numbers. We have adequate stock of vaccines and syringes. We will achieve 100% first dose coverage by next month, if not at the end of November.” According to senior health department officials, the vaccination drive – which began on January 16 this year – is lagging in several districts. Twenty-two of the 36 districts in the state have lower first dose coverage than the state’s average. Akola, Nandurbar, Beed and Amravati, for instance, have vaccinated only around 55% of the eligible population with the first dose, while the state’s coverage is 78.49%. Struggling to expand vaccination coverage, Aurangabad’s district administration had earlier directed fair price shops, gas agencies and petrol pumps to check vaccination certificates of customers. The district collector had recently also ordered that people who have not taken a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed entry at historic sites and monuments in the city. Other districts, too, have announced similar restrictions on unvaccinated residents. Dhule and Nandurbar have prohibited the entry of the unvaccinated people in government buildings, while in Chandrapur, shopkeepers have put posters declaring entry for vaccinated people only. Some districts have even restricted entry in banks. However, the state government does not plan to enforce vaccination on its citizens. The senior anonymous official quoted above added, “Central government has said that vaccination is voluntary. The local administration is free to execute initiatives and incentive-based approaches to boost their numbers. The state government is unlikely to make it mandatory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-to-miss-100-first-dose-deadline-101637687215547.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Ugandan women arrested for smuggling ₹20cr worth heroin||Mumbai The airport customs department has arrested two foreigners with Uganda passports for smuggling nearly four kilograms of heroin worth ₹20 crore in the city through Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Monday.The accused women are a mother-daughter duo, who brought the contraband from Sudan and was supposed to deliver it to a person in Mumbai, the probe has revealed.Kyangera Fatuma (45), and Mansimbe Zyanah (27) travelled from Juba (Sudan) to Dubai and then from Dubai to Mumbai.The customs officials intercepted the women after receiving a tip-off. They scanned their items of baggage and recovered 3.91 kg of heroin worth around ₹20 crore. Preliminary inquiries indicate that the two hail from a poor financial background. They were contacted by international drug traffickers for smuggling the substance for a hefty commission, a customs source said. Traffickers generally target such vulnerable individuals to act as their ‘mules’. The two bags containing narcotics contraband were given to them in Sudan by a racket member identified as one Saas Salikari. Customs officials are now trying to get details of the person who was supposed to take the delivery of the consignment in Mumbai.The accused women have been arrested under relevant sections of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. They were produced before a city court on Tuesday and then remanded to judicial custody.As per rules, the commercial quantity for heroin is 250grams. As more than the commercial quantity of heroin has been seized from the two women, they are now facing a case that involves punishment of up to 20 years of imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ugandan-women-arrested-for-smuggling-rs-20cr-worth-heroin-101637686974736.html
23-11-2021||Other||9 held for using cloned cheques to swindle funds from Himachal temple||Nine persons were arrested for allegedly cloning cheques to swindle funds from a temple trust in Himachal Pradesh. The accused were arrested from near Bhudki area in Gyanpur of Bhadohi on Monday evening, said police. A cloned cheque worth ₹2.40 crore, car and a scooty were recovered from them.“On November 16, a cheque worth ₹2 crore 40 lakh of Baba Balak Nath Temple Trust in Himachal Pradesh was deposited in the bank account of one rug house proprietor Om Prakash Maurya and Pramod Maurya at HDFC Bank branch Gyanpur of Bhadohi district by Devendra Pratap Singh and Abhishek Pathak,” said Dr Anil Kumar, Superintendent of Police Bhadohi.Kumar said that the bank branch manager examined the cheque and found it was cloned. He lodged an FIR at Gyanpur police station.SP said that a police team, including crime branch sleuths, was constituted to investigate the case.The team arrested 9 persons, including Khushnud Khan, Devendra Pratap Singh, Rahul alias Sonu alias David, Ramchandra, Vindeshwari Prasad Pandey, Yogendra Bhushan Srivastava, Dharmendra Pandey, Abhishek Pathak, and Shailesh Kumar Upadhyay.The police team is further looking for Vicky Pandey and Vikram Singh who were also the accused in the case. During interrogation, they confessed to have making cloned cheques for cheating the people, the SP said. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-held-for-using-cloned-cheques-to-swindle-funds-from-himachal-temple-101637686554813.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder connived with Akalis, BJP to harm Punjab’s interests, says CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday accused his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh of conniving with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the BJP to harm the interests of the state. Addressing a gathering in the Banga constituency of SBS Nagar district, the CM said, “They will contest the next elections jointly to benefit the BJP. During his tenure, Amarinder secured the interests of the Badal family and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by jeopardising the interests of Punjab. Due to this, the Congress MLAs ousted him. The new party floated by Amarinder is also aimed at benefitting the Akalis and BJP.” He accused the Akalis of ignoring the interests of the SCs, saying they deliberately allotted the BSP weak seats to help the BJP win from there. “Our government has already reined in the sand and transport mafias and now it’s the turn of the cable mafia being run by the Badal family,” he added.Channi termed Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal as a rumour-monger who is least bothered about Punjab. Sings praises of his principal secretaryThe CM showered praises on his principal secretary Hussan Lal who hails from SBS Nagar district. “I always search for good officers from every district and he is one of them. I am thankful to the district for giving us an officer like Lal who is taking care of my entire work with full diligence. I have sent him to the district with the full powers of the CM to get things done,” said Channi, who is MLA from the Chamkaur Sahib constituency. The statement is being seen many as a hint by the CM to field Lal as Congress candidate from the Banga (reserved) constituency in the upcoming assembly elections. Lal, a 1995-batch IAS officer and a scheduled caste, hails from Raipur Nangal village of Balachaur sub-division and is set to retire from the service the next year. Lal, who also briefly addressed the gathering, said he studied in the local government school that had no building in the initial years. Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh too appreciated Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-connived-with-akalis-bjp-to-harm-punjab-s-interests-says-cmchanni-101637686435400.html
23-11-2021||Other||Agra lawyer files case against Kangana Ranaut||A case has been filed against actress Kangana Ranaut before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court in Agra on Tuesday. A civil court lawyer in Agra Rama Shankar Sharma has filed the case. Sharma is also president of Rajeev Gandhi Bar Association and a Congressman. The Court has sought a report from New Agra police station and has fixed November 25 as next date in case. The complainant has also impleaded Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the case. The complainant alleged that the actress has hurt his feelings when she said that freedom of nation was the outcome of beggary. The lawyer also objected to comments that she made on preaching’s of Mahatma Gandhi. “Kangana had been making such anti-national statements and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not stopped her from doing so thus he too is impleaded as an accused in the case,” said Sharma. The Court fixed November 25 as the next date in the case and has sought report from New Agra police station regarding the case, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-lawyer-files-case-against-kangana-ranaut-101637686254984.html
23-11-2021||Other||Allahabad University admissions to UG courses start from today||The admissions to various undergraduate courses of Allahabad University (AU) will start from Wednesday.Director (admission cell) of AU, Prof IR Siddiqui said that admissions would be conducted through offline mode through counseling held at the Pravesh Bhavan of AU. “Following the Covid guidelines, the admission process will be completed on the same day for eligible students by conducting counselling, asking for options of subjects by the candidates and their depositing of fees”, said Prof Siddiqui. The candidates have been asked to report for counseling at 9.30 am. The details of class wise seats in the courses will be displayed on the big screen at the Pravesh Bhavan so that the candidates can give their choices accordingly.Admissions will be given as per the availability of seats and merit. Candidates will be able to pay the fee by cash, credit or debit cards and through payment apps. Admission for BCom would start from November 25, for BA from November 28 and for BSc Home Science, from November 29. Necessary facilities are being ensured for the candidates at the Pravesh Bhavan, he added. The director has appealed to the candidates to compulsorily wear masks and carry hand and surface sanitizers with them.To start with, varsity would conduct admissions in BSc (Biology) group and candidates who have scored 187 or more marks in the undergraduate admission test (UGAT) will be given admission, said central varsity officials.From this year, admission would also be conducted for the four new professional courses. The Institute of Professional Studies (IPS) will offer five-year integrated BCA-MCA, five-year integrated MSc Food Technology, three-year BVoc in Media Production besides a five-year, three-year BVoc in Software Development course. At the same time, with the addition of sociology subject in BA, the options for the students have increased. Last year, there were 96 combinations in BA whereas from this year 100 subject combinations will be available.Department-wise admission will be given in 30 different courses of postgraduate including MEd, LLM and MCom at AU. According to Prof Siddiqui, the results will start coming in three-four days which will be sent to the respective departments in the first week of December and then the admission process will start.AU will give admission on total 12,360 seats including undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses.Of these, 4660 seats are for BA, for BSc Mathematics there are 769 seats, for BSc Bio it is 385 and for BSc Home Science 58. For BCom admission would be done for 723 seats, for BPA 113, for BFA 78, BA-LLB 150 and LLB 375. Prof IR Siddiqui said that an amount of ₹51 would be taken for medical insurance.About the course wise fee, director admission said that per annum fee for BA (with lab) would be ₹1175, BA (without lab) ₹975, BCom ₹975, BSc (with lab) ₹1125, BPA ₹2305 and for BFA the annual fee is ₹4226. The director further said that for admissions in Bachelor of Performing Arts (BPA), fewer applications have been received as compared to number of seats. In this course, around 70 candidates have applied against 113 seats.PHOTO CAPTION: Allahabad University campus (HT File Photo)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-admissions-to-ug-courses-start-from-today-101637685894702.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Seeking justice for his guru, Mahant Balbeer Giri performing daily prayers||Ever since his anointment as the mahant of Baghambari Gaddi, Swami Balbeer Giri has been performing daily prayers at Bade Hanuman Temple and visiting various temples of Prayagraj and neighbouring districts with the aim of praying for the peace of the departed soul of his guru Mahant Narendra Giri as well as punishment for those responsible for the death of the former Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief.The then ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan in a room of his ashram on September 20. The CBI, which was entrusted with the task of investigating the death, has recently filed a chargesheet in the CJM court of Prayagraj against Anand Giri, Adya Prasad and Sandeep Tiwari on the charges of abetment of suicide of Narendra Giri. Anand Giri was disciple of Narendra Giri, Adya Prasad was the priest of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj and Sandeep is son of Adya.“From the very next day of being entrusted the task of succeeding my guru (Mahant Narendra Giri), I have been visiting temples and religious places of Prayagraj. Although as per Mahabharat, this place has around 7 crores pilgrimage sites but it is unfortunate that we have forgotten our traditions and hence not even 500 prominent sites exist to be visited. Still, I have made up my aim not to miss any big or small site in and around Prayagraj to thank the almighty and pray that culprits responsible for death of guru get their due,” said Balbeer Giri. Giri further said apart from ‘Shanti’ of the soul of his guru, the visits to the temples, abhisheks and other rituals are being performed by him with the wish that the culprits behind guruji’s death are punished. “Whoever is guilty should be punished and that is why I am visiting temples of Lord Shiva continuously,” he added. In the sequence, Giri has already offered prayers at prominent Shiva temples, including Dashashmedh Temple, Someshwar Mahadev Temple, Padila Mahadev etc. Last week, he was in Varanasi to visit Kashi Vishvanath temple. “Seven ‘Vedpathi’ Brahmins always accompany me for performing abhishek for the peace of my departed guru’s soul,” said Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-seeking-justice-for-his-guru-mahant-balbeer-giri-performing-daily-prayers-101637685837003.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||State seeks three months extension for chief secretary Sitaram Kunte||The Maharashtra government has sent a proposal to the Centre, seeking an extension for chief secretary Sitaram Kunte for three months. Kunte, who is set to retire on November 30, was appointed to the post on February 28. The Centre is expected to decide on the same in a couple of days.Manukumar Srivastava, additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Sujata Saunik, ACS, general administration department, Manoj Saunik, ACS, finance, are the frontrunners for the top post. Srivastava is a 1986 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, while Sauniks are from the 1987 batch.Kunte, an officer from the 1985 batch, took charge after the retirement of Sanjay Kumar as the chief secretary. He was holding the position of additional chief secretary for home at that time.In his career, Kunte has held several key positions in the Maharashtra government. His most known tenure was as the municipal commissioner of Mumbai between 2012-15. He served in the finance, planning and environment departments among others.Last time, the then chief secretary Ajoy Mehta got two extensions, one in the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led government and second in the current dispensation. In 2019, Mehta was due to retire on September 30 when he was given an unusual six months extension in view of the state Assembly polls, following a request by the Fadnavis government. The Centre again gave him an extension of three months following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. He retired in June last year.DGP Pandey may continue his tenure till June 2022Although the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) has not empanelled the acting director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey in the three names it has recommended to the state government, the state is likely to continue him on the post. Though the appointment of the DGP is to be from the three names recommended by the UPSC, as per the SC verdict in the Prakash Singh case, many state governments have overruled the recommendation. The UPSC has empanelled Rajnish Seth, Hemant Nagrale and K Venkatesham for the post. “It is an unacceptable provision, as it overpowers the authority of the state government. This is happening for the first time with us that the officers we want to appoint on the post are not featured in the list of three recommended names. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is unlikely to replace him and Pandey is likely to continue his tenure till June 2022,” said a senior official from the home department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-seeks-three-months-extension-for-chief-secretary-sitaram-kunte-101637685774490.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Tiger kills woman in Gadchiroli||Nagpur In another incident of man-animal conflict, a tiger killed a woman in the tribal district of Gadchiroli district on Tuesday. According to reports, a 60-year-old woman was attacked and killed by a tiger in Churchura village of Porla forest range under Armori tehsil in Gadchiroli district on Tuesday afternoon. The incident happened when the victim, Indira Atram, had gone to the jungle along with other women of the village to collect fodder for cattle. When the women were cutting grass, the big cat attacked Atram and tried to drag her into the jungle. Other women accompanying her started shouting and somehow managed to bring her out of the forest. But Atram succumbed to her injuries. Kishore Mankar, the conservator of forests, Gadchiroli, informed that her body has been sent for a post mortem. The forest department will also provide the necessary compensation to the family members.On November 20, a tigress mauled and killed a forest guard in Tadoba tiger project near Armori in the neighbouring Chandrapur district. The incident occurred when Swati Dhumane (38), the forest guard, was supervising the routine work of daily wage workers in Kolar area of the reserve forest. The tigress pounced on Swati and dragged her inside the jungle. Later, CM Uddhav Thackeray announced a ₹15 lakh compensation to Swati’s family and a job for her husband Sandeep Sonkamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tiger-kills-woman-in-gadchiroli-101637685655156.html
23-11-2021||Other||Varanasi becoming development model for the country: Minister||Tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari said on Tuesday that Kashi, where development was being carried out while maintaining the ancient city’s antiquity, was becoming a model for the country.The minister said this while inaugurating development works worth ₹2 crore including those at Jwarhareshwar Mahadev in Jaitpura and at Bageshwari Mata Temple in Varanasi.At Jwarhareshwar Mahadev temple development works worth 34 lakh would be carried and works worth ₹9 lakh would be done at Bageshwari Mata temple.The minister said interlocking pathways, a hall, and a toilet block have been built for the devotees at these temples and these facilities will be very useful for the devotees who come there.Tiwari said ongoing development was changing the picture of Kashi. “The people living here as well as those who visit here from different areas have started getting benefits of these development works,” he said while asking officials to ensure timely completion of projects.“The officers should conduct inspection. Any kind of negligence or laxity found during onsite inspection would not to be tolerated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-becoming-development-model-for-the-country-minister-101637685596826.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Cricketer Harbhajan Singh sells Mumbai apartment for ₹17.58 crore||Cricketer Harbhajan Singh has sold his 2,830 square feet apartment in Rustomjee Elements, Andheri, to JBC International LLP for ₹17.58 crore. According to documents scanned by real estate data analytical and research firm Zapkey.com, the former Indian cricketer paid a stamp duty of ₹87.90 lakh on the transaction. The sale was registered on November 18. Singh had purchased the property in December 2017 from Rustomjee and made the registration in March 2018. According to Sandeep Reddy, co-founder, Zapkey.com, there has been a rise in transactions in the luxury segment. “As the realty market improves, we are seeing increasing sales in high-end apartments,” said Reddy. Rustomjee Elements is a 3-acre premium project consisting of 3, 4 and 5-BHK (bedroom, hall and kitchen) high-end apartments, equipped with all modern amenities.As the situation in realty sector improves, several luxury apartments that were languishing for a long time are being sold off, according to insiders from the industry. Like Singh, many cricketers have invested in several high-end properties in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cricketer-harbhajan-singh-sells-mumbai-apartment-for-17-58-crore-101637685054999.html
23-11-2021||Kolkata||‘Abdicating mandate’: Guv Dhankhar’s sharp message to Bengal election official||KOLKATA: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday asked West Bengal state election commissioner Saurabh Das not to become “an extension” of the Mamata Banerjee governmen, observing that he has received numerous inputs indicating that the State Election Commission (SEC) has abdicated its constitutional mandate and authority and was toeing the Mamata Banerjee government’s line.Dhankhar, who summoned Saurabh Das to Raj Bhawan on Tuesday afternoon, conveyed his observations at their meeting and followed it up with a letter to the official mandated to conduct panchayat and urban civic body polls.The governor also nudged the state election commission to hold simultaneous polls in all civic bodies, underlining that it was the SEC which initially proposed to hold elections to all civic body elections at the same time. “The overwhelming political inputs are for the same. There does not appear any rationale for any deviation thereof,” Dhankhar said in his two-page letter which he also posted on Twitter.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state’s main opposition force, has demanded simultaneous elections to all civic bodies. The BJP has also petitioned the Calcutta high court to seek simultaneous elections to all civic bodies across the state’s 23 districts on a single day. The high court is scheduled to hear the petition again on Wedneday.The state government wants to hold the polls in phases, starting with Kolkata and Howrah on December 19.In his letter a day before the high court hearing, Dhankhar said: “It is imperative at your end to ensure that constitutional mandate (to act independent of the state government) is regarded both in letter and spirit, and I am sure you will bear this in mind”.Dhankhar summarised the key points from his meeting and letter in a string of tweets.“Cautioned Shri Saurav Das that SEC @MamataOfficial toeing the line of State Government and be merely its executing agency, would be an outrage of Constitution as also unwholesome for the democratic process. It will run down essence and spirit of constitutional provisions in Part IXA.”He also underlined that SEC’s authority to take decisions on the civic elections were on par with the Election Commission of India (EC) and “should be non-partisan, independent and effective and not an extension of govt”.To be sure, governor Dhankhar has not signed off on the law cleared by the Bengal assembly to split the Howrah corporation zone so that a new civic body can be formed at Bally.“We hope the governor will sign the bill soon,” said parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee.Responding to Dhankhar’s interaction with the state’s top election official and his public posts, TMC minister Tapas Roy said: “The governor can always give advice to anyone but he surely knows that the state election commission is an independent body, just like the Election Commission of India.”The TMC controls most of the civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over two years ago but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic.All political parties have started preparing for the polls and the search for candidates has begun in Kolkata and Howrah where elections will be held first unless the high court passes an order against the government’s decision. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Transparency and accountability will be the main criteria during our search for candidates.”Though the BJP was the first to form election committees for Kolkata and Howrah, some party leaders acknowledged that differences over the selection of its members did surface.On November 17, BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar announced that an 18-member committee has been formed for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation election with Arjun Singh, Lok Sabha member from Barrakpore in North 24 Parganas, Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, Lok Sabha member from Purulia district and Anindya Banerjee, a new state vice-president, as observers.Former union minister Dinesh Trivedi, who left the TMC and switched allegiance in March, was made head of the election committee for Kolkata.On Sunday, another state vice-president, Pratap Banerjee, was put in charge of the committee by Majumdar after some leaders demanded that a BJP old-timer from Kolkata be inducted as leader of the team.TMC leaders said their party will focus on candidates with a proven track record and a clean image.“The top leadership will take the final call but we are not expecting to see too many new candidates in Kolkata because most of our councillors have performed well,” a TMC south Kolkata unit leader said on condition of anonymity.Of the 144 councillor seats in Kolkata, the CPI(M) may contest around 90, said its Kolkata leaders. Six months ago, neither the Left nor Congress could win any assembly seat for the first time since Independence.Since civic body polls have not been held in 2019, elected heads of the civic boards were appointed as administrators. For example, minister Firhad Hakim, who was the mayor of Kolkata, continues as head of the administrative board of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/dont-toe-govt-line-on-civic-polls-guv-cautions-bengal-election-official-101637684214551.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Avighna Park fire: Blacklist audit agency, act against flat owner, probe report suggests||The investigation report into the level four fire reported in 60 storey high-rise Avighna Park last month has suggested blacklisting of the firefighting audit agency and action against the owner for carrying out unauthorised alterations in the flat that caught fire, claiming the life of security personnel. According to officials, the report is submitted to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief IS Chahal for final approval. A senior official not wishing to be named said, “We have recommended appropriate action for making alterations in the flat that contributed to the fire and have also suggested blacklisting of the firm that certified the fire safety equipment. The water from the firefighting system had to be activated manually to ensure there is required force of water for firefighting.” Further, recommendations in the report also include putting a check on wooden materials used in flats for interior decoration works and empanelling of the interior design firms on the lines of how structural auditors are empanelled currently, said officials. On October 22, a level four fire was reported in a flat on the 19th floor of Avighna Park, a 60 storey building at Curry Road. Dozens of citizens were rescued safely, but a 30-year-old security guard lost his life in the incident. The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), earlier this month, in a preliminary report, had said that the cause of the fire is short-circuit. However, the final report was awaited. According to officials, on inspecting the flat it was found that a lot of wooden material was used by the interior decorators. This led to the blaze spreading rapidly. The recommendations also include a need for the formation of two wings in the fire brigade. One arm can be assigned firefighting and another to inspect structures and issue notices periodically for violations. The report has also likely suggested conducting periodic electrical audits in premises of housing societies, considering the maximum of fire incidents are due to short circuits. The BMC has also written to the public work department (PWD)’s electrical division to develop a mechanism for regulating housing societies to conduct electrical audits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/avighna-park-fire-blacklist-audit-agency-act-against-flat-owner-probe-report-suggests-101637683315032.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district sees 208 new cases, four deaths||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 208 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,022 deaths and 2,027 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 49,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 463 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 367,309 and the death toll stood at 6,952 as four more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 102 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 522,635 and the death toll stood at 9,212 as no more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 43 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 269,555 and the toll stood at 3,509 as no more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 49,738 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 12,772,427. Of which 8,014,987 are first doses and 4,757,440 are second doses. A total of 645 sites saw vaccination of which 501 were government centres and 144 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-sees-208-new-cases-four-deaths-101637683074400.html
23-11-2021||Patna||Bihar education minister skips award function at Raj Bhawan as graft charges fly against VCs||Bihar’s higher education minister and officials on Monday stayed away from a function at Governor’s House to felicitate best teachers and students in higher education, indicating a rift between the state government and the Raj Bhawan over running of state universities, in a repeat of the situation that prevailed in 2012-13 that led to a face-off between the two in Supreme Court and resulted in subsequent quashing of all appointments of vice chancellors then.There was no education department representative at the Raj Bhawan function to present Chancellor’s Awards -2019-20 to the best VC, best principal, best teacher and the best student. Though the move to award best performers was initiated in 2018 during the term of former Bihar governor Lalji Tandon, the first function was scheduled in 2021 just as the institutions opened after 18-month disruption due to Covid-19 pandemic.Things became clear on Monday evening itself when the VC of Patna-based Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University (MMHAPU), Prof Md Qudus, in a rare instance, wrote directly to the chief minister, levelling corruption allegations against Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) VC SP Singh, who has been chosen for the best VC award and presently holds charge of three state universities. Three months ago, Singh held the charge of four universities, including MMHAPU.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary parried the question on his absence from the Raj Bhawan function, but said the government or the department was no way involved with the institution of awards or selection of awardees at any stage. “It is entirely Chancellor’s function. We don’t know what period of performance has been considered for award and if the various categories of award conform to the advertisement,” he said. It is rare that no top official or minister attended the Raj Bhawan function on higher education.Even the Raj Bhawan did not mention about presence of dignitaries in the invitation card which just read: “The Governor of Bihar will confer the Chancellor’s Awards at an esteemed ceremony at Rajendra Mandapam, Raj Bhawan”. It was sent to principals and others. The function was earlier planned for November 16, but was later rescheduled to November 23 due to “unavoidable reasons”.On the charges against the awardee VC, Choudhary said it was natural to expect a thorough probe. “It is all about public perception. If charges of corruption are consistently being levelled, and that too from people within the system, there must be an inquiry to clear the doubts. Higher education needs to be clean,” he said.Social analyst Prof NK Choudhary said there was more to the entire episode than met the eye. “It is CM vs Governor for oneupmanship. It is unfortunate. The fight is for control of higher education. The fact is neither can escape the responsibility for the mess in the higher education. The government has also not played its part as it should have. The buck stops at the government in a democratic system,” he said.Amid the raging controversy over corruption in varsities of Bihar following raids at the office and residence of Magadh University (Bodh Gaya) VC Rajendra Prasad, Qudus’s letter has become another flashpoint. Congress leader Rajesh Rathore said the CM must take Qudus letter seriously and recommend a CBI probe into the allegations. BJP MLA Gyanendra Singh Gyanu said the “Raj Bhawan was responsible for appointment of corrupt VCs”.In his letter, which has been accessed by HT, Qudus has cited coercion and intimidation for illegal payment to non-existing outsourced staff and inflated bills of answer sheets, the orders for which “were placed by registrar Dr Habibur Rahman at the behest of the then acting VC the day (August 19) his appointment letter was issued”. SP Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Talking to HT, Qudus said that after getting his appointment letter from the Raj Bhawan, he went straight to the university for joining, where the registrar told him he could officially join on August 23 only due to “order from above”. “I thought there might be some order for all VCs, but later discovered that four days were used for all the pre-planned activities,” he has alleged. MMHAPU university registrar Dr Habibur Rahman said, “Whatever has been done is as per laid down provisions and requirement. The decisions were taken by his predecessor and he had the authority. After 1.60 lakh answer books, another order for 40,000 practical answer books were placed. As far as his joining is concerned, he came quite late, around 8 pm, as he got stuck in traffic jam. There was a call from Raj Bhawan that all VCs should join the same day on November 23 to maintain symmetry. If he knew there was so much wrong, he should not have waited for close to three months to raise it.” The VC has also pointed to “murky deal” with a Lucknow-based supplier for supply of 1.60 lakh answer sheets at inflated price of ₹16/copy by the acting VC prior to him, and another order was placed by the registrar in October without his knowledge for 40,000 answer sheets at ₹30/copy, while the same cost barely ₹7/copy earlier. “The supplier, however, supplied 1.60 lakh answer sheets,” he has written, levelling allegations against his own university registrar for being hand in glove with his predecessor in the shady deals.Qudus said he had written to the Raj Bhawan for replacement of the registrar Dr Habibir Rahman and controller Prof Shaukat Ali, who is from Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga). The acting VC, SP Singh, was also from LNMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-education-minister-skips-award-function-at-raj-bhawan-as-graft-charges-fly-against-vcs-101637682774440.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police book Kangana Ranaut for hurting sentiments of Sikh community||Khar police on Tuesday registered a first information report (FIR) against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community by using “derogatory language” in her social media posts. The FIR was registered on the basis of a joint complaint given on Monday by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Gurdwara Management Committee (DGMC), New Delhi; Amarjeet Singh Sandhu of Shri Gurusingh Sabha Gurudwara, Dadar, and Jaspalsingh Siddhu, president of supreme council of Navi Mumbai Gurudwaras. Officers at Khar police station said Ranaut, 34, has been booked under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code. In his statement to the police, Sandhu, 47, said that on November 21, Ranaut had made derogatory remarks about Sikh community in her post on Instagram and that her post was intended to insult the religion and its followers. He alleged that Ranaut had insulted the community by terming its members as “Khalistanis” and by using foul language by stating that “late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had crushed them like mosquitos” and thus hurt the religious sentiments of the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-book-kangana-ranaut-for-hurting-sentiments-of-sikh-community-101637682594310.html
23-11-2021||Patna||Fodder scam case: Lalu appears before CBI court, exempted from further physical appearance||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) national president Lalu Prasad on Tuesday appeared before a special CBI court here in connection with a fodder scam but was granted exemption from personal appearance from the next hearing fixed for November 30.The special court of additional district judge Prajesh Kumar, on November 16, had served summons to Prasad, asking him to make a personal appearance in the court. The case pertains to excess withdrawals worth ₹47 lakh from the government treasury in Banka and Bhagalpur districts when Prasad was the chief minister of Bihar. The RJD president is the only accused who physically appeared before the court while 21 others appeared through their lawyers.Prasad’s counsel Sudhir Sinha pleaded with the court for an exemption from physically appearances as his client had been ailing for long. “The special judge granted him the reprieve, saying his counsel could represent him from the next hearing fixed on November 30. On the next date, the court will examine over 200 witnesses,” said Sinha. The CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) had registered a case in this regard on March 27, 1996. Later, it filed a charge sheet naming 44 accused, including Prasad and former CM Jagannath Mishra. In March 2012, the special CBI court framed charges against the 28 accused while 16 died during the trial. Of the 44 accused, only 22 accused are alive. Six more, including Jagannath Mishra and former animal husbandry minister Vidya Sagar Nishad, died after the charges were framed. After appearing before court on Tuesday, Prasad visited St Joseph Convent School and met with the authorities. Sisters Sangita and Rashmi told media persons that it was a personal visit of Lalu Prasad to the school. “We (teachers) have a long and old relationship with Lalu Ji. We cannot disclose anything regarding our meeting as it was of a personal kind,” said the sisters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fodder-scam-case-lalu-appears-before-cbi-court-exempted-from-further-physical-appearance-101637682354467.html
23-11-2021||Patna||Maoists’ blow up mobile tower, community centre in Aurangabad||Maoists blew up a mobile tower and a community centre-cum panchayat bhawan in Bihar’s Aurangabad district Monday midnight, police said on Tuesday. The blasts were triggered during the 72-hour bandh call given by the ultras in four states- Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh - to protest the arrest of CPI(Maoist) politburo member Prashant Bose alias Kishan da, his wife Sheela Marandi and four aides in Saraikela district and the encounter in Maharashtra’s Gadhchiroli on November 13where 26 Maoists were killed.Scores of CPI (Maoist) ultras entered Jurahi village falling under Madanpur police station in Aurangabad district, which is close to the Jharkhand border, just past midnight and blew up the community centre building and a mobile tower, said Aurangabad SP Kantesh Mishra on Tuesday. The SP added that though the tower was badly damaged, no one was injured as the building was empty when the high-intensity blast occurred.The Maoists later disappeared into the nearby forest raising slogans against the government and security forces. The sound of the explosion created panic among the locals. According to villagers, attack was apparently aimed at snapping telecom network to disrupt flow of information about their activities to security agencies.Meanwhile, the 72-hour bandh call given by the Maoists, which began from November 22/23, evoked mixed response in the state. Though normal life was hit in some rural areas, urban areas were largely unaffected. In Barachatti and Sherghati sub-division of Gaya district, shops and business establishments were closed and traffic including on the 100 km stretch of Grand Trunk road (NH-2) was very thin. Several markets in Aurangabad, Arwal, Jehanabad, Nawada, Jamui, Lakhisarai and Munger districts remained closed largely due to fear.“The state police headquarters has directed all superintendents of police to be on high alert and increase vigilance on soft targets like railway tracks and government installations across the state,” said a senior police official of state police headquarters.Rail divisions across the state have also been asked to stay on alert during the 72-hour bandh. The rail section which are likely to be worst affected are Kiul and Jhajha falling under Danapur division and the Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay-Sasaram-Gaya rail section falling under Dhanbad division, saidchief public relation officer (CPRO) of East Central railway.Rajesh Kumar, the chief public relation officer of East Central Railway said that speed of trains in sensitive areas has been reduced to 75kmph from the normal 110-130kmph after Maoists blew up a portion of a railway track at Latehar (Jharkhand) and West Singhbhum districts on Saturday. According to the CPRO, speed restriction between 7pm to 6am and deployment of RPF and GRP personnel in important trains are among several safety steps that railways will implement during this period.Earlier on Saturday suspected members of banned CPI (Maoist) blew up portions of railway tracks at Latehar and West Singhbhum districts and disrupted train services on Barkakana-Garhwa and Howrah-Mumbai routes.“Railway tracks and bridges have been put under strict vigil from security point of view. Day and night patrolling has also been intensified. All necessary precautions are being taken to run passenger and goods trains safely,” Rajesh said.RPF security commissioner, IG, S Mayank said an advisory has been issued and security personnel have been directed to focus on the Grand Chord line, which runs from Asansol to Deen Dayal Upadhyay junctions via Dhanbad and Gaya..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maoists-blow-up-mobile-tower-community-centre-in-aurangabad-101637682238907.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||PAPs, those eligible under Basic Service for Urban Poor scheme in Kalyan, Dombivli may be given free flats: Minister Shinde to KDMC||The residents affected by road-widening projects and those eligible under Basic Service for Urban Poor (BSUP) scheme in Kalyan-Dombivli might get flats free of cost. Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, has given directives to the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) for the same. KDMC had planned to build 7,272 flats in different parts of Kalyan and Dombivli under the BSUP project in 2006-07. Out of this, KDMC has allotted flats to 1,995 eligible beneficiaries. Meanwhile 4,500 flats, which are ready, are yet to be given. There are thousands of residents in Kalyan-Dombivli affected by road-widening and other projects. In Dombivli’s Dattanagar, out of the 436 listed beneficiaries, only 26 were termed as eligible by the civic body. Shinde has asked the civic body to again conduct a survey of the beneficiaries. If the affected person produces even one of the documents related to the previous property that was demolished, the civic body should allot the BSUP flat to such persons.“There was a direction from the minister to allot the flats to the beneficiaries and Project Affected Persons (PAPs). KDMC will take a decision on the same,” said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/paps-those-eligible-under-basic-service-for-urban-poor-scheme-in-kalyan-dombivli-may-be-given-free-flats-minister-shinde-to-kdmc-101637682237728.html
23-11-2021||Noida||Noida international airport to become operational by 2024, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the proposed Noida international airport in Jewar would be ready for flights to take off and land by 2024.He stressed once the airport becomes operational, Uttar Pradesh would be the only state in India to have five international air transit hubs.“Being developed with an estimated investment of ₹34,000 crore, this airport will create employment opportunities for over one lakh people,” the chief minister said at a public event earlier in the day.Preparations were in full swing as the Uttar Pradesh government is gearing for the grounbreaking and foundation laying ceremony of the Noida international airport on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to be present at the mega event.The Noida international airport is set to come up at Jewar in Gautam Buddh Nagar. Located 72km from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, 40km from Noida and about the similar distance from the multi-modal logistics hub at Dadri, the airport is conceived as the multi-modal connectivity hub owing to its proximity to the existing Yamuna Expressway and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and will also be linked to Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabhgarh in Haryana's Faridabad district.The Noida international airport is being designed to serve more than 12 million passengers every year, with the potential capacity to 70 million passengers by the end of Phase 4 of the project.The airport will be expanded after every phase depending on the passenger growth and traffic and is expected to be completed in the next 36 months.According to the release, the work on the international airport in Ayodhya is in full swing with services slated to start early next year.Modi inaugurated the Kushinagar international airport in Uttar Pradesh last month, the third such apart from the existing airports in Lucknow and Varanasi. The fourth international airport in Uttar Pradesh is proposed to come up in Ayodhya Airport by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-international-airport-to-become-operational-by-2024-says-yogi-adityanath-101637680088005.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Couple stages kidnap of 4-year-old, husband arrested by Khandeshwar police||Khandeshwar police have arrested a 25-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh for kidnapping and trying to extort ₹10 lakh from his wife’s uncle. The accused, Vipin Agrahari and his wife, Shalu Singh (20), staged a kidnap and tried to extort the money as ransom from her uncle, Vinayak Singh (39), by kidnapping his four-year-old son.Agrahari and Shalu were fed up with the alleged frequent casteist slurs and taunts by her family over marrying a ‘lower caste’ man and wanted to teach her family a lesson. Shalu had been staying with her uncle for close to a week. On Monday evening, she stepped out with her four-year-old cousin on the pretext of buying medicine. After a few hours, Vinayak and his wife started getting calls for ransom to release the duo. He rushed to Khandeshwar police station and registered a complaint.Police investigations revealed that Shalu, her cousin and Agrahari had taken a train to CST, then to Bandra and while at Khar, Navi Mumbai police reached the place and nabbed them in the wee hours of Monday.Initially, police believed that Shalu was a victim in the case. It was discovered that she too was a party to the plot. “We would be making Shalu a co-accused in the case and would arrest her,” an officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/couple-stages-kidnap-of-4-year-old-husband-arrested-by-khandeshwar-police-101637680434383.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Railways links UTS with CoWIN to enable commuters to book tickets from mobiles||Fully vaccinated passengers will be able to book local train tickets and passes from Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) from Wednesday as the railways has linked the mobile application with CoWIN app.Passengers who have a universal pass issued against their fully vaccination status will be able to book tickets and suburban railway passes from UTS app. The universal pass can be obtained through the special desks set up at the suburban railway stations or on http://epassmsdma.mahait.org/ “Railways have enabled the UTS mobile app to be tweaked for the issuance of the tickets and passes to those holding the universal pass of the Maharashtra government. This will allow fully vaccinated train commuters to book tickets from their phones,” said Anil Kumar Lahori, general manager, Central Railway. Only fully vaccinated passengers, after a completion of a period of 14 days following their second dose, are allowed to travel by local trains on Central and Western Railways. Commuters need to obtain the universal pass issued to fully vaccinated citizens. Train services were suspended for the general public on April 15 after the second Covid-19 wave hit Mumbai and other parts of the state. The services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers from August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-links-uts-with-cowin-to-enable-commuters-to-book-tickets-from-mobiles-101637680014579.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||11k more UG engineering aspirants register for admissions this year||Mumbai Registrations to undergraduate engineering institutes in the state ended over the weekend and official figures shared by the state common entrance test (CET) cell have highlighted that registrations have gone up by over 11,000 this year compared to the last. From the 96,337 students who registered for admissions in 2020-21, the number stands at 1,07,732 for the 2021-22 academic year. “Originally, registrations to BTech courses had ended on November 18, but we received requests from several students seeking extension of registration dates. The figures are higher because, unlike last year, when students were stuck in their respective hometowns, more students are open to moving out and applying for institutes away from home,” said a senior official from the state CET cell. Last year, admissions to most professional courses started in December due to pending petitions in the Supreme Court against reservation quotas. This year, while other courses have already started the registration process, only medical and para-medical course admissions are delayed. “This year, the financial status of families is better and so is the job sector, so more students are opting for BTech courses,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra. The first merit list in the common admission process (CAP) will be announced on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11k-more-ug-engineering-aspirants-register-for-admissions-this-year-101637679359148.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM lying on power tariff cut, consumers still paying same: Akali MLA Majithia||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday said the consumers were still paying electricity bills as per the old rates and that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s claim on having slashed power rates by ₹3 per unit was a “blatant lie”. Producing new bills received by consumers at a press conference in Amritsar, Majithia said Channi was trying to deceive Punjabis as was done by Amarinder Singh by making false promises. Channi had even gone one step further by taking credit for the reduction of power bills by spending crores of rupees advertising a lie, he added.The cabinet also cleared the proposal of slashing power rates following which posters were put up everywhere, he said. “But the truth is entirely different. The power tariff has not been reduced in any category,” the MLA said.He said the CM had lied by stating that the erstwhile SAD-BJP government had entered a power purchase agreement (PPA) with renewable energy producers to buy electricity at ₹17.28 per unit. “The matter of the fact is that the Central Electricity Commission during the tenure of then Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had decided the tariff of ₹17.28 per unit for a project of 9 megawatt for which the central government bore the cost of ₹12.50 per unit,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-lying-on-power-tariff-cut-consumers-still-paying-same-akali-mlamajithia-101637679357709.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Anand Teltumbde seeks temporary bail after brother Milind’s death||Dr Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has sought temporary bail for 15 days, from December 4, after the death of his brother Milind, who was killed in an encounter with C60 commandos in Gadchiroli. Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court has directed the investigating agency to reply to the plea. In the plea filed through advocate Neeraj Yadav, Teltumbde has mentioned that he is the eldest child of Bapurao and Anasuya Teltumbde and has four brothers and three sisters. He added that he comes from a family of respected repute and is married to Dr BR Ambedkar’s granddaughter. One of his youngest sisters has retired as a principal of a college in Nagpur. The 71-year-old added that he came to know that his youngest brother Milind, also wanted in the Elgar Parishad case, was killed on November 13, 2021. He said the family had lost contact with Milind in the mid-1990s and he too had no contact with him since then. Teltumbde has further stated that his mother is 90 years old and at such time of bereavement in the family, the applicant being the eldest in the family, not only his presence by the side of the mother and his siblings would be of great moral support, but also gathering of all family members would be a solace to each of them. The special NIA court judge Dr DE Kothalikar has posted the matter for hearing on December 1. Milind was accused of being in-charge of Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh (MMC) Zone of the CPI(M) and was also cited as an accused in the Elgar Parishad case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-anand-teltumbde-seeks-temporary-bail-after-brother-milind-s-death-101637678994214.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||DGP Pandey’s interaction with Param Bir Singh proves that state tried to protect Anil Deshmukh: CBI to HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), while responding to the petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking the constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a retired judge, informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey’s interaction with former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh was proof that the state was trying to protect former home minister Anil Deshmukh, against whom there are allegations of corruption. The CBI further added that the fact that the state was trying to shield chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and DGP Pandey from recording statements were enough grounds for Singh to feel apprehensive and be fearful of being victimised. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the petition filed by the state, seeking transfer of the CBI investigation into the first information report (FIR) filed by it on April 21 to a retired judge-headed SIT, was informed by additional solicitor-general Aman Lekhi for CBI that there was mala fide in the intention of the state government in seeking the transfer of the investigation. Referring to the issue, raised in the petition of the purported harassment of Kunte and Pandey by the CBI by issuing them summons, Lekhi submitted that as both officials were in the know and were part of the issue of posting and transfer of police officers, hence they were being summoned to record their statements. However, the state did not want their statements to be recorded and hence was resorting to accusations of harassment against CBI. “They may be the top officials of the state, but they are not above the law. The state forgets that no one is above the law and by filing the petition, it is trying to derail the investigation,” said Lekhi. He said that the claim of harassment of the officials was not valid as the CBI had given the officers the option of recording their statements in Mumbai. Lekhi added that the assumption by the state that their officers would be made to admit material that would go against Deshmukh, was sufficient to prove the malice intended by the state in the petition. Lekhi then refuted the claim by the state government that Pandey had been appointed as DGP only after the alleged instances of the offences had been committed and hence his statement could not have bearing on the CBI investigation. “Pandey’s statement is not pertaining to the corruption allegations against Deshmukh but his conversation with Singh, transcripts of which show that Pandey had tried to advise Singh to withdraw the letter written by him to the chief minister on March 20,” said Lekhi. Lekhi submitted that the conversation showed that Pandey on behalf of the state, was trying to weaken the case against Deshmukh, and in its wake was also trying to undo the intention of the HC order of April 5, wherein the court had found a need for an investigation into the corruption allegations against Deshmukh by an external agency. In light of these submissions, Lekhi informed the bench that in such a situation Singh had a valid reason to be apprehensive of appearing before the state investigating authorities and was not responding to the summons issued to him. On a query by the bench as to when the arguments on behalf of CBI would be completed, as Lekhi had already argued for around five hours, the court was assured that the same would be completed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dgp-pandey-s-interaction-with-param-bir-singh-proves-that-state-tried-to-protect-anil-deshmukh-cbi-to-hc-101637678934224.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu exposing Punjab CM Channi’s false promises, Congress suppressing his voice: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was exposing false promises made by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government in the state and that his party (Sidhu’s) party was trying to suppress his voice. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar on the second day of his two-day visit to Punjab, the AAP supremo, who was accompanied by party’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, state affairs incharge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha, praised the “courage shown by Sidhu in doing so from the stage”. “Yesterday, CM Channi claimed that his government has ended the sand mafia and reduced the prices of sand. Soon after, Mr Sidhu said this was wrong and he (Channi) was lying. He highlighted that the mafia is still operating and sand is being sold at old prices. I salute his courage,” said Kejriwal.Sidhu is raising people-centric issues, he said, adding that first it was Captain (Amarinder Singh) and now it’s Channi who is suppressing his voice. The Punjab CM hasn’t fulfilled his promises like giving free electricity to the people and constructing mohalla clinics, he said. “Corruption is still rampant in the state,” the AAP leader claimed. Responding to a query, Kejriwal clarified that he himself was not a CM candidate. “Every party usually declares its CM candidate a few weeks before the elections. But we will do so before other parties,” he said. He claimed that many Congress leaders were in touch with them and wanted to join AAP but they won’t accept “garbage”. “Two or three Congress MPs and nearly 25 MLAs want to join our party. This is dirty politics we will not indulge in it,” he said on MLAs leaving the AAP.The AAP leader said it was not right to call ₹1,000 per month each to women, free education, medical treatment and electricity as freebies. “In western countries, it is called social security. We have decided is that the government facilities that ministers and MLAs enjoy for free will be given to the general public,” he said. 8 guarantees to teachers for education reformsKejriwal called upon all teachers to join the AAP’s campaign to transform government schools in Punjab like Delhi. He said the plight of government schools and teachers in Punjab was unfortunate. He promised 8 guarantees to teachers for comprehensive reforms in the state’s education sector if the AAP forms government in 2022. The guarantees includes creating a Delhi-like environment in schools, regularising outsourced and contractual teachers, implementing a transparent transfer policy, ban on non-teaching work being assigned to teachers, regular hiring on vacant posts, sending teachers abroad for training, a transparent policy for new promotions and providing cashless medical facilities for teachers and their family.Later, interacting with traders and industrialists from Amritsar and surrounding areas, he promised to set up a commission, abolish ‘inspector raj’, fixing VAT refunds, ensuring power supply, setting up of ‘Punjab bazaar’ portal, and construction and development of focal points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-exposing-punjab-channi-s-false-promises-congress-suppressing-his-voice-kejriwal-101637678815874.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||City college stops online classes temporarily, students enraged||Students of a city college were shocked when the management informed them of their decision to cancel all online classes and resume offline classes from November 23. However, the college management said that they have assured students that the decision is temporary and online classes will continue for the current semester.On Tuesday, undergraduate degree students of Ramniranjan Jhunjhunwala College in Ghatkopar were forced to attend physical classes as the institute refused to share links for the online ones. “Many of us are not yet fully vaccinated and those below 18 are yet to get a single dose. How can the college call for physical classes in the name of experiment?” asked a student.“No other college in the city has forced students to attend offline lectures, so, how can this particular institute take such a call? Some of my classmates are still in their hometowns because they haven’t received their second vaccine, but the management refused to entertain any queries,” said another student.While the agitated students took to social media to share their concerns, the college management stated that the move is temporary. “We called for physical classes in order to gauge the number of vaccinated students and at the same time, also ensure that practical sessions are attended physically because many complained that they didn’t understand certain concepts. We will be conducting the semester in a hybrid mode only because several students are yet to be fully vaccinated,” said a senior official from the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-college-stops-online-classes-temporarily-students-enraged-101637678334278.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Travel by first class compartment on Mumbai locals likely to get cheaper||In what can be called as a move targeted to increase the footfall in first class compartments of local trains, the Indian Railways is expected to reduce the fares of single and return journey tickets of first class coaches.The reduced fares are expected to be approved by the Union railway ministry by the end of December or early January. However, the fare structure of season railway passes will not be changed. The reduction in the fares has a political angle to it. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is eyeing to wrest power in the Brihammumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) by winning the civic elections that are scheduled early next year, has been believably pushing for the revised fares. Recently, the party had organised a major event at Mumbai Central station during a function chaired by Union minister of state for railways Raosaheb Danve. Many key leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, had attended the function. The fares of the first class compartment will be at par with those of the Metro trains finalised by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). However, the fares will be lower than those of the single journey fares of air-conditioned (AC) local trains. “We have proposed a reduction in the fares of AC local trains along with revising the prices of single journey tickets of first class compartments. The fare structure and the planning for its implementation are being worked out in the railway ministry and a decision is expected by December or January,” said a senior Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation (MRVC) official.In October, MRVC had proposed the restructuring of fares and reducing them in a bid to gain passengers. Passenger associations have welcomed the fare revision and stated that the reduction in ticket prices would be a bonanza for passengers.“Not many passengers travel by first class compartments. The fare reduction will increase the number of passengers travelling by the compartment. However, the season pass holders of the first class compartment could be impacted, during the peak hours. We expect the decision to be taken before BMC election that is slated to be held in January-February next year,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/travel-by-first-class-compartment-on-mumbai-locals-likely-to-get-cheaper-101637678094029.html
23-11-2021||Dehradun||Akhada Parishad reminds Uttarakhand govt about Nov 30 deadline, then a warning||HARIDWAR: A top body of seers, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, on Tuesday threatened to launch an agitation if the Uttarakhand government does not abolish the Char Dham Devasthanam Board by November 30, the deadline agreed to by the Uttarakhand government to resolve the matter ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the state earlier this month.Mahant Ravindra Puri of the Bairagi faction-led Akhada Parishad, the apex decision-making body of the country’s 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders, said once the deadline expires, the seers will not enter into talks with the government on scrapping the Char Dham Board and will launch a pan-India agitation.The top seer also cautioned other state governments against enacting similar laws that seek to manage or acquire management of shrines, temples and muths, or monastic institutions. There is no need to disturb the centuries-old traditional practices where temple priests, committed stakeholders and local devotees manage shrines.“When such a tradition exists for centuries and which has been successful, why are governments trying to fiddle with such practices which affect the interests of priests and temple stakeholders. Uttarakhand government should abolish the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board and hand the reins back to priests,” Mahant Ravindra Puri said on Tuesday.The seers are opposed to the 2019 law that set up a board to manage the affairs of the four Char Dham shrines, Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, and 47 other temples. Former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who played a key role in enacting the law, was stopped from praying at the shrine in Kedarnath on November 1 by angry priests. He also asked his successor Pushkar Singh Dhami not to back down in face of pressure from the seers, warning that it will create problems for future governments.Pushkar Singh Dhami hasn’t spelt out his stand on the law yet. But after meeting the agitating priests ahead of PM Modi’s November 5 visit to Kedarnath, his cabinet colleague and Uttarakhand government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said the priests have been assured that the matter related to Char Dham Board will be resolved by the government by November 30.Rajendra Das general secretary of Akhara Parishad and head of Nirmohi Akhara said the concern around government interference and acquiring management of shrines and temples was also discussed at a national convention attended by saints and seers in Delhi Kalika Muth, Kalkaji temple.Das said the Uttarakhand government should follow the example set by the Centre which has decided to repeal the three farm laws in view of the opposition by the governments and scrap the Char Dham Devasthanam Board soon.Doiwala lawmaker and former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the Char Dham board was formed in the long-term interest of all, and for transparent, better management of Char Dham and associated 47 temples.Congress general secretary Harish Rawat said that just as his party was with farmers opposing the three farm laws, it is also backing the saints and priests against the state government interference in managing the revered Char Dham shrines.A petition filed in the Uttarakhand high court that sought government takeover of the Char Dham temples through the board was dismissed in July last year. The high court ruled ownership of the temple properties will vest with Char Dham shrines and the power of the board will be confined only to the administration and management of the properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/akhada-parishad-reminds-uttarakhand-govt-about-nov-30-deadline-then-a-warning-101637673353840.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi befooling people with lies, war on mafia a sham: Sukhbir Badal||Terming Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s proclaimed war on the mafia raj a sham, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday accused the CM of “befooling the people of Punjab with his “lies and fake promises”. Addressing a rally in favour of party candidate Sohan Singh Thandal in Chabbewal , Badal asked, “With tainted ministers in his cabinet, how can Channi check corrupt practices?” he questioned. Stating that the Congress could not escape the blame of wrongdoings by simply changing the chief minister he questioned as to why Channi remained silent on key issues when he was a minister in the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government. Once the elections are over, Channi will not be seen anywhere, he claimed. Sukhbir also came down heavily on Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for making big announcements for people of Punjab. “Let him first implement these schemes in Delhi and only then we will believe him. He is a liar of all times,” he said. Cautioning people against making wrong choices, he said that SAD was the only local party which was not remote-controlled from Delhi. “The Akali Dal is your foundation. If you weaken your base, you are bound to suffer,” he told the gathering, exhorting them to vote for his party. Later, he said there was no significance of the possible alliance of Amarinder Singh’s Lok Congress Party, the BJP and the Sanyukt Akali Dal. “You can add as many ciphers as you like but the net result is bound to be zero,” he quipped. He said the SAD-BSP alliance was going to stay for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-slams-punjab-cm-channi-calls-him-biggest-mafia-illegal-coloniser-101637672997913.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||SP, RLD seal poll alliance; formal declaration soon||LUCKNOW The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Tuesday sealed an alliance for the 2022 UP Assembly polls and also discussed the seat-sharing formula, said people aware of the development in both the parties.“Now, the alliance is likely to be declared formally within a day or two,” said Anil Dubey, RLD national secretary and spokesperson.The alliance between the two long-standing partners in UP was a foregone conclusion as both Akhilesh Yadav, president of the principal opposition party in UP and Jayant Chaudhary, president of the RLD, a largely western UP support base party, had frequently been saying that the alliance was almost final and will be announced formally before the end of November.“The alliance was finalised in a meeting between Jayant and Akhilesh at the latter’s residence on Tuesday. The meeting lasted nearly two hours,” said an RLD leader.The RLD is likely to contest 30-40 seats (mostly in western UP) in alliance with the SP, said sources. Both Akhilesh and Jayant tweeted their pictures after the end of the meeting. In a tweet in Hindi, Akhilesh said: “Towards the change with Shri Jayant Chaudhary.” Jayant also tweeted: “Badhtey kadam (steps forward).”The SP has already announced an alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar’s eastern UP based Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SPSP) and a few small parties, including the Mahan Dal. Alliances with more small parties are in the offing including his politically estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L). Since the loss in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Samajwadi Party had been reiterating that it would not ally with any big party because of the bitter experiences in the past (with Congress in 2017 UP Assembly polls and with Bahujan Samaj Party in 2019 Lok Sabha polls).The RLD enjoys support among farmers of western UP and is on the same page with the SP on the issue of opposing the Centre’s three farm laws. Experts said the RLD’s prospects in western UP regions look improved since the farmers’ agitation after the central government introduced the three contentious laws.The RLD and the SP have been constant companions since the 2017 UP assembly elections and contested all the assembly and Lok Sabha bypolls together since then.“This alliance seems mature with their long-standing partnership and no discord ever surfacing between the two. Both the leaders also exude the same wavelength and both parties are likely to gain in 2022 polls,” said professor SK Dwivedi, political analyst and former HoD, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-rld-seal-poll-alliance-formal-declaration-soon-101637672633868.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Cyber cops bust sextortion racket that targeted Shiv Sena MLA||Mumbai Mumbai crime branch cyber police station has busted a sextortion racket that targeted a Shiv Sena MLA and arrested a 33-year-old from Bharatpur district of Rajasthan. The arrested accused has been identified as Mausamdeen Mev, a resident of Sikari village of Bharatpur district. “Mev, a class 8 dropout from a farmer’s family, is the mastermind behind the racket and operates from the Bharatpur district located near the borders of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh,” said Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber wing). According to the police, the accused posed as a woman and befriended the complainant on Facebook. Later under the pretext of seeking his help, contacted the MLA on his WhatsApp on October 20 and sent him a message. After the MLA agreed to help her, the accused induced him to talk to her over a video call. “Using the latest technology, Mev morphed the video call recording to make it look obscene. The accused then threatened to defame the complainant by making the video public and demanded money,” said DCP Karandikar. The MLA approached the West Region Cyber police station where an FIR was registered on October 23, the officer added. The Cyber police obtained details of the mobile number and located the suspect in Rajasthan. On Monday, the suspect was apprehended with the help of the local police. “We have busted the entire fraud racket that is suspected of having similarly cheated dozens of others. We have identified two more accused members of the racket and are looking for them,” Karandikar said. Mev has been booked under Sections 384 (extortion), 500 (criminal defamation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and 66 C (identity theft) and 66 D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) and 67 (Publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyber-cops-bust-sextortion-racket-that-targeted-shiv-sena-mla-101637671733572.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||NCB raids shops in Nanded, seizes 111-kg poppy straw, 1.4kg of opium||NCB raids shops in Nanded, seizes 111-kg poppy straw, 1.4kg of opium The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested three persons for allegedly running a drug unit from three shops located at Kamtha in Nanded district. “The raid at the shops in Kamtha has been going on since Monday, following specific information. We have seized 111kg of poppy straw, 1.4kg of opium and cash worth ₹1.55 lakh,” said NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. NCB also seized two grinding machines that were being used for grinding poppy seeds, an electronic scale and note-counting machines from the shops. For the past two weeks, a Mumbai NCB team has been tracking down drug suppliers and peddlers who are active in Nanded, Jalna and Aurangabad districts of the Marathwada region. On November 15, the agency had seized a total of 1,127kg of marijuana worth ₹5.63 crore at Manjram in Nanded and arrested two persons in the case. They had also seized a 12-wheeler truck, and learnt during the interrogation of the accused that the consignment had come from Andhra Pradesh and was to be delivered in Jalgaon. Poppy straw and opium are raw materials used for producing heroin. Opium is obtained from unripe poppy seedpods, which exude milky latex that coagulates and changes colour, tuning into a gum-like brown mass upon exposure to air. This raw opium is treated further to obtain derivatives –contraband materials such as morphine, codeine and heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-raids-shops-in-nanded-seizes-111-kg-poppy-straw-1-4kg-of-opium-101637671013605.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||Int’l human trafficking racket: Arrested Rohingyas grilled over SA-based Bangladeshi kingpin||LUCKNOW The UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) cross-questioned two Rohingyas arrested from Kolkata in connection with an international human trafficking racket busted on Sunday to extract information about the South Africa based kingpin of the racket, said police officials on Tuesday. Two accused, Mohd Jameel, 40, and Noor Ameen, 28, residents of Myanmar, were in eight days’ custody of the ATS since Tuesday morning. The Lucknow ATS court granted their custody remand on Monday for their interrogation, said officials. A police official said the investigators prepared a questionnaire focused on extracting details about a South Africa-based Bangladeshi national Saeed and a London-based Indian national Gurpreet Singh, who were operating the racket sitting several kilometres away from here. “Saeed, who had stayed in India for a few years, is suspected to be the kingpin of the racket and Gurpreet Singh is his main aide. He was allegedly in direct contact with Mohd Jameel,” he said. Tightening the noose around Saeed and Gurpreet Singh may help expose the wider network across the country. The two arrested accused had revealed some crucial details about the kingpin and his links following which further investigation was on, said the official. So far, nine members of this racket had been arrested from different parts of the country. The ATS official said the arrested persons were members of a widespread international network of human traffickers operating from South Africa and London. He said the traffickers helped Bangladeshi nationals get Hindu names and Indian passports by preparing fake address proofs like Aadhaar card and voter ID cards. He also said that the Bangladeshi nationals were later sent to different countries as Indian nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/intl-human-trafficking-racket-arrested-rohingyas-grilled-over-sa-based-bangladeshi-kingpin-101637670653654.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||High court refuses to restore bail to builder arrested for duping flat buyers||The Bombay high court (HC) last week dismissed a plea filed by city builder Gurunath Phondekar of Vaidehi Akash Housing, who was arrested by the economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police in 2017 for duping several flat buyers, challenging cancellation of bail granted to him.According to EOW officials, the builder had agreed to undertake a slum rehabilitation project at Andheri and had accepted considerable amounts from buyers of flats, even receipt of commencement certificate from the planning authority. Later, the society removed Vaidehi Akash Housing after noticing that the project had not progressed at all.On August 14, 2017, the magisterial court granted bail to the builder as he claimed to have settled the matter and agreed to deposit ₹174.49 crore – the amount involved in the purported cheating.Later in January 2018, he moved the court for modification of the bail order, contending that the settlement amount was ₹85.90 crore and not ₹174.49 crore, as mentioned in the bail order. Acting on his plea, on January 11, 2018, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) court modified the bail order and reduced the amount to be deposited by Phondekar to ₹85.90 crore.Two months later, he filed yet another application and sought further modification in the bail order. This time, he claimed that he had undertaken the redevelopment of four societies and expected to make a profit of about ₹1,419.59 crore – indicating that he had assets much more than the total liability and requested the court to create a charge of ₹85.90 crore on his properties – the balance floor space index (FSI) of the four societies – instead of compelling him to deposit the amount in court.Accordingly, on March 20, 2018, the court modified the bail order and ordered him to create a charge on his “properties.”The ACMM court on October 1, 2021, cancelled bail granted to Phondekar after the investigating officer of the case pointed out that he had misled the court and he did not own any balance FSI in the four societies.The builder had moved the high court challenging the magisterial court order, contending that a drastic step of cancelling his bail should not have been taken on the mere failure of complying with a condition. He urged high court to grant him a breathing space of a year to deposit the amount. A single-judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre on November 15, rejected his plea, noticing that he did not deposit the amount although chances were given to him even during the pendency of the plea before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-refuses-to-restore-bail-to-builder-arrested-for-duping-flat-buyers-101637669453520.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||‘Absconding’, says court order pasted outside Param Bir Singh's Mumbai house||A Mumbai court order, declaring former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh as 'absconding’, was pasted outside his flat in the city’s Juhu area on Tuesday.According to the order, a complaint has been made before the court under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) related to extortion and criminal conspiracy and the court is satisfied that Singh has absconded or concealed himself to avoid the service of the warrant."Singh is required to appear before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Esplanade, Mumbai or investigating officer to answer the said complaint within 30 days," reads the order issued by the court, according to news agency PTI.The “absconding” order comes a day after the Supreme Court on Monday provided Param Bir Singh protection from arrest in alleged extortion cases after the officer said he is “very much in the country”.Singh, the second most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) serving officer in Maharashtra, also informed the top court that he is willing to submit to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any agency other than Maharashtra police.A Supreme Court bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, sought responses from CBI and the Maharashtra government on Param Bir Singh’s plea to transfer probe into the six first information reports (FIRs) from Mumbai Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It fixed the matter for hearing next on December 6.The bench also asked the 56-year-old Singh to join the investigation by the Mumbai Police and issued notices to the Maharashtra government and CBI on the officer’s plea. It has fixed the matter for hearing next on December 6.Also read | Param Bir Singh case: A look back at other top cops on the runSix cases of corruption and extortion were filed against Singh after he wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray levelling corruption and misconduct against the then home minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh.Param Bir Singh was declared a proclaimed offender by a Mumbai court last week after he remained elusive since March this year and did not show up before the trial court despite several notices and warrants issued against him.The crime branch of the Mumbai Police is investigating an extortion case registered in Goregaon in northwest Mumbai in August this year. Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and four others have been named in the first information report (FIR) for extortion.Also read | A small pawn, says Sachin Waze as panel grills him in money laundering caseRestaurateur Bimal Agarwal has alleged in his complaint that the accused extorted  ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of his outlets. The crime branch arrested Vaze, Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel after it took over the investigation.Singh, a 1988-batch IPS officer, was removed as the Mumbai Police commissioner on March 17 and was made the general commander of Maharashtra State Home Guard after he levelled allegations against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/-absconding-says-court-order-pasted-outside-param-bir-singh-s-mumbai-house-101637668516310.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Learning the ropes in a world of grown-ups||Conversations always turn to children – especially when meeting other women with kids the same age as yours. With teenaged kids in the background, mothers end up whispering and sharing parenting horrors! With a 14-year-old appearing for the dreadful Class 9 half-yearly exams, “second-guessing” is now my middle name. Meeting other mothers with the same doubts, of their kids not being smart enough to face the real world, took me back many years. Did I get special lessons as a young adult? How did I manage? One instance of learning to cope stands out prominently. As a college student at Delhi University, I lost my most valuable DTC bus pass. If getting it issued in the first place was difficult, getting a duplicate was taking it four steps ahead. The college clerk asked me to submit an application along with an “affy-daffy”. I confidently came home and asked my father to get the legal document made but was disappointed to know that he chose to declare me an adult at that very moment. I was asked to visit the Patiala House court, find a notary, buy a stamp-paper, get the document typed and stamped! It was a challenging adventure that I took head-on along with the unstinted support from my closest friends. All details were planned meticulously – from the bus-route to reaching the court complex to the grown-up Indian outfits to be worn. And there we were – outside the gates of the formidable courts – looking at the chaos inside. All our grown-up pretence vanished when we saw a police van with undertrials being parked at a distance. We exchanged nervous looks and gathered courage to ask the nearest person for directions to a notary. He was kind enough to escort us to one – while crossing unending rows of kiosks with typewriters and what seemed like thousands of people. I was soon explaining to a notary that the college had asked for an “affy-daffy” and he immediately got down to work. It didn’t take too long before the prized paper was handed over to me. It’s only after it was handed over to me that we foolishly discovered that it was actually called an affidavit! Nevertheless, it was a great accomplishment to hold the prized paper, beautifully adorned with bright round blue stamps. On hindsight, it truly was a great learning experience. I’m glad that my father nudged me to get it on my own. A few years later, when I joined service and attested affidavits as a young executive magistrate, I remembered the incident fondly. I truly understood the value of the papers I was signing and how these would help the applicants meet important requirements. And now as a teenager’s mother, I draw reassurance from this memory, knowing that my son too shall learn as he achieves small tasks in the “grown-up” world. parneetshergill@gmail.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based Punjab-cadre IAS officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/learning-the-ropes-in-a-world-of-grownups-101637668853525.html
23-11-2021||Bhopal||MP to sell alcohol made from mahua flower as ‘heritage liquor’||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced that under a new excise policy being devised by the state government, liquor made from mahua flower would be sold as “heritage liquor”, news agency ANI reported.Addressing a gathering during the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas in Mandla district on Monday, Chouhan said under the new excise policy, it won't be illegal anymore to produce liquor from mahua in a "traditional way".“It will be sold in liquor shops with the name of ‘heritage liquor,’ which would be a source of employment and income for the tribal people who have been making and consuming it," the chief minister said.The chief minister spoke about several other schemes for the welfare of the tribal communities in the state. One among them was sanctioning ₹613 crore to provide tap water to each and every household of 446 villages of Mandla and Dindori.Congress, however, slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Madhya Pradesh government’s decision to start the sale of 'heritage liquor', calling it a "moral decline" of the party."It is unfortunate that the government has taken the decision to legalise ‘kacchi sharab’ when more than 50 people have lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor,” Congress spokesperson KK Mishra was quoted as saying by ANI.This comes after it was recently reported that the Madhya Pradesh government is planning to impose a surcharge on liquor and other services offered by local bodies to generate ₹100 crore for meeting the expenses of operating cow shelters in the state.Earlier this year, Chouhan said that his government aims to ban liquor in the state, and announced the proposal to run a “liquor-free campaign” to urge the people to stop consuming alcohol and turn Madhya Pradesh into a “good state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-sell-alcohol-made-from-mahua-flower-as-heritage-liquor-101637666277694.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||1971 Indo-Pak War: Why Dacca was not a military objective||The refugee deluge into India triggered by the Pakistan army’s ruthless crackdown on March 25, 1971, created an unprecedented socio-economic crisis. The lukewarm response of the international community to persuade Pakistan for a political settlement catalysed India’s propensity towards military intervention to return the refugees to their homeland and liberate Bangladesh. The Indian Army, learning from the 1965 war experience, factored in the likely international pressure besides the traditional terrain and relative military capabilities in planning the offensive. Considering that the international community would impose an early ceasefire, India strategised a swift multi-pronged offensive into East Pakistan to capture substantial territory with Khulna and Chittagong ports as the principal military objectives and install a provisional Bangladesh government. It appreciated that the rapid offensive and effective blockading would forestall any outside assistance, leading to the eventual liberation of East Pakistan. As a prelude to the war, India, from October onwards, conducted synchronised military activities along the borders and intensified harassing tasks in the interior. Pakistan army, discerning India’s intention to install a puppet government, denuded the interior and strengthened the border towns. The army did not specify Dacca (now Dhaka) as a military objective. Nor was it even earmarked as a contingency task. The army considered the capture of Dacca by crossing either the Padma, Yamuna, or Meghna rivers as an ambitious proposition in the face of enemy opposition. Major general KK Singh, the director of military operations, felt that “the Indian Army with its inherent inhibitions against anything unorthodox and a speedier manoeuvre was ill-suited for attempting the capture of Dacca”. General Sam Manekshaw, the Indian Army chief, overruling the Eastern Command’s proposal to keep Dacca as the final objective, emphasised the significance of capturing Khulna and Chittagong ports to render Dacca militarily untenable. The scarcity of enormous water crossing resources was a significant constraint. Regrettably, the army did not consider the availability of air assets in their armoury. Securing the surrender of Pakistani forces India, unsure of its military capability and apprehensive of international pressure to impose an early ceasefire, opted to secure the geographical space instead of the nerve centre of Dacca. It pushed the army to fight attrition battles to capture insignificant tactical objectives. Then, how did the Indian Army secure the surrender of the Pakistani forces in Dacca and the liberation of Bangladesh? The threat of US intervention, likely intensifying of world pressure, and Dacca falling within the army’s reach convinced India to modify its plan. The Indian military’s rapid progress and the vetoing of the US-sponsored Security Council resolution by the USSR on December 5 for a ceasefire, and withdrawal of forces, rattled the US. Secretary of state Henry Kissinger said: “We have Indian-Soviet collusion, raping a friend of ours.” Believing Pakistan’s dismemberment would adversely impact the stillborn relationship with China, Kissinger advocated some demonstrative capability to support Pakistan. The US’s unsuccessful attempt to pressure China to amass troops on the borders to scare India prompted it to arm-twist the USSR, threatening it with a global escalation should it not support the cessation of hostilities and withdrawal of Indian forces from East Pakistan. It spread a false narrative of having credible inputs of India’s cabinet meeting to dismember West Pakistan after liberating Bangladesh. Giving effect to the escalation narrative, it simultaneously despatched its Seventh Fleet, comprising an aircraft carrier to the Bay of Bengal, on December 10. Russia, after that, began to tow the US narrative. Battlefield progress emboldened India Meanwhile, the significant battlefield progress emboldened India to capture Dacca. Lieutenant general Sagat Singh, the dynamic 4 Corps commander, grabbed the opportunity to exploit the success of securing the eastern bank of the Meghna river by December 9. The army, employing helicopters and river crafts, built up almost a division-sized force across the Meghna by December 12. It airdropped a parachute battalion at Tangail on December 11. The master-stroke of this brilliant manoeuvre set the stage for the capture of Dacca. The Indian Navy carried out extensive bombing of Pakistan naval assets to render them ineffective for use by the US Seventh Fleet. The Indian Air Force launched a successful airstrike at the governor’s house on December 14. Targeting the enemy’s fragile state of mind, India intensified its psychological pressure on the Pakistan army to surrender; which was desperately looking for an UN-sponsored ceasefire as a face-saver. A failed UN resolution and a walkout Time was of utmost essence. Poland, with the apparent backing of the USSR, tabled a resolution in the Security Council on December 15 that called upon India and Pakistan to accept an immediate ceasefire, withdraw forces from each other’s territory, renounce claims to any occupied territories, and transfer power to the elected representatives in East Pakistan. The passage of the resolution before the capture of Dacca would have deprived India of securing the Pakistani forces’ surrender and liberating Bangladesh smoothly. Fortunately, the resolution failed. ZA Bhutto, the foreign minister of Pakistan, driven by self-interest for political ascendancy by shaming its armed forces, condemned the UN Security Council for not acting on time. He tore the resolution and walked out of the session, ending any further discussion. Five Indian Army brigades, in the meantime, encircled Dacca with four infantry battalions and an armoured squadron entering the city by December 16 afternoon. With the UN resolution dead and the Indian Army entering Dacca, the Pakistan army had no option but to surrender on December 16, 1971. In the final analysis, the international pressure did not restrain India from securing Dacca. The successful execution of the military manoeuvre across the Meghna river, underestimated in the planning stage, made the Pakistani position militarily untenable. jagbircheema@yahoo.co.in The writer is vice-chancellor of The Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University, Patiala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1971-indo-pak-war-why-dacca-was-not-a-military-objective-101637665973266.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Safety of child passengers still a concern||PUNE The earliest memories of children growing up in cities like Pune include rides sitting on the petrol tank of a motorcycle, standing in the front on a scooter, or even sitting pillion facing the back to get a good view of the surrounding.Though they provide relatively cheap and convenient mobility, motorised two-wheelers used in India are not designed for carrying children as passengers. Despite the swift growth in the popularity and sales of bikes and scooters in India over the last few decades, no legislation is in place so far specifically keeping in mind the safety of children as passengers on motorised two-wheelers. This oversight has had a tremendous human cost.Therefore, the intent of a new draft rule from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) on safety standards for children on a motorised two-wheeler addressing the age group of zero to four years is highly relevant. The draft rules, published in October 2021 with a month-long period for inputs from the public, about the use of a safety harness for attaching the child to the driver of the motorcycle, the use of a crash helmet for child passengers aged between nine months and four years. The draft rule further suggests the use of a bicycle helmet of a specified European standard till such time that specifications are developed for India. The draft specifies that the speed of a motorcycle with a child up to four years of age will not be more than 40 kmph.The Road Safety Network, a group of civil society organisations, advocating for evidence-based and participatory governance, arranged discussions on the draft rules. The participating road safety experts, industry representatives, product designers, representatives from schools, parents, and civil society organisations appreciated the attention of the MoRTH on this issue.However, a clear message was that the rule-making process should not be done hastily. Almost all aspects of the design of the safety equipment need research and methods of implementation need deliberation, given the role of motorised two-wheelers in the Indian context.There is little research and testing on the use of safety harnesses and crash helmets for children of age zero to four years nationally or internationally. The apprehension is that untested equipment may do more harm than good. The driver has little control over the child resting behind, who may lean to a side or fall asleep, and displacement of the harness due to jerks, etc.The draft rule suggests using bicycle helmets as an interim measure. However, bicycle or sports helmets for infants and toddlers are not designed and manufactured for higher speeds but tricycles and play. Using these as alternatives may give a false sense of safety and lead to negligence.The speed limit for a two-wheeler carrying a child of age up to four years may be kept at 25 km per hour, as specified for school zones. Other options should be developed including in the design of vehicles, the safety gear for children and storage of the safety gear, considering the Indian scenario.Research and crash investigations should be commissioned as there is little information about the types of injuries among children of this age group in road crashes. The age group zero to four years should be added as a category in the new accidents reporting system being put in place by MoRTH in all states. Over time, the road accidents in India report published every year by the MoRTH should carry this information.Research and testing institutes should scientifically test the different options of safety equipment, including harnesses and child helmets as has been done for child restraint systems for use in cars.Currently, even the test guidelines for the transport of this age group on two-wheelers in the Indian context may not be well-developed.Child specialists must be consulted about adopting safety harnesses and helmets for children in the age brackets of zero to nine months, nine months to two years and two to four years considering the child’s body, spine, skeleton, muscles, and skin, among others. Similarly, a full-face helmet should be checked for the possibility of suffocation, claustrophobia, sleeping, motion sickness, etc.If child safety harnesses and helmets are found safe in the research, it would help if these could be provided free upon producing proof of having a young child. It will be beneficial for some parents especially from rural areas and economically weaker groups.Government must make budget provisions for extensive outreach on child road safety. Expecting and new parents must be counselled on child road safety by paediatricians and childcare centres, and information platforms set up for the same. Given that test answers are often ‘mugged up’, it would also be useful to include child road safety among the ‘most expected questions’ in the driving licence tests.The MoRTH notified the constitution of the National Road Safety Board in September 2021. The board would be the appropriate institution to oversee research and development of the safety standards for children on motorised two-wheelers. MoRTH should also facilitate comprehensive public deliberation on this sensitive and important topic.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-safety-of-child-passengers-still-a-concern-101637665853790.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai NCB officer's wife files plaint over screenshots of chats shared by Nawab Malik||Kranti Redkar Wankhede, the wife of Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, filed an online complaint with the Mumbai Police on Tuesday over the screenshots of some WhatsApp chats tweeted by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik.In her complaint, Redkar claimed that a fake Twitter handle has been created with her photo to publish “fake” chat conversations. “The screenshot of the said fake chat has been tweeted by Nawab Malik from his Twitter handle without verifying,” news agency ANI quoted Redkar as writing in her complaint.Earlier in the day, Nawab Malik took to Twitter to share the purported conversation between a handle claiming to be Kranti Redkar Wankhede's and one ‘Captain Jack Sparrow’, in which the two were talking about alleged links between the minister and India's most-wanted terrorist Dawood Ibrahim.What a Joke, I received this morning. Enjoy... Have a nice day everyone pic.twitter.com/tTCLqwp0avSoon after, Kranti Redkar Wankhede posted the screenshots on Twitter and claimed they were ‘fake’. These chats are falsely created and utterly FAKE. I have had no such conversations with anyone EVER. Once again the posts made without verifying. Lodging a complaint MUMBAI CYBER CRIME CELL. Don’t worry supporters this is not our culture or our language too. pic.twitter.com/LL4SS3iaG9Malik is at loggerheads with Sameer Wankhede and his family ever since the NCB conducted a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2, and detained several people, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, and his friend Arbaaz Seth Merchant, for allegedly possessing drugs. ALSO READ | Nawab Malik says cruise party was a plot to 'kidnap' Aryan Khan for ransomMalik levelled allegations of corruption and extortion against the NCB officer Sameer Wankhede and even claimed that he forged his caste documents to get the job. The minister posted photos of Wankhede's previous marriage with Shabana Quraishi to claim he is a Muslim by faith but falsely showed himself as belonging to Scheduled Castes to secure the job as an IRS officer. Wankhede has repeatedly denied the claims and released caste certificates of several of his family members, showing they are Mahars, a Scheduled Caste.Sameer Wankhede's father, Dnyandev, moved the Bombay high court urging the court to restrain the Maharashtra minister from posting defamatory statements against him and his family on social media. However, the high court on Monday refused to impose a blanket ban on Malik from making public statements or posting tweets seemingly targetting the NCB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-officer-s-wife-files-plaint-over-screenshots-of-chats-shared-by-nawab-malik-101637662055674.html
23-11-2021||Jaipur||Former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje begins tour of six districts||Former Rajasthan chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vasundhara Raje on Tuesday began a four-day tour of six districts from Chittorgarh’s Sanwaliya Temple. She will visit eight prominent temples in Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Banswara, Rajsamand, Bhilawara and Ajmer. Raje will conclude the tour at the Ajmer Dargah.A leader familiar with the matter said Raje’s tour was long pending firstly due to Covid-19 and later her daughter-in-law was unwell. The visit is only to pay condolence to family members of party leaders, the leader said and added all are aware of Raje’s fondness for visiting temples. He added that there will be no public meeting during the four-day tour.Raje visited temples in Bharatpur on her birthday in March and flood affected areas of Kota and Jhalawar in August.Also Read: ‘Only a person loved by all communities,’ says Vasundhara Raje on BJP’s CM faceA BJP lawmaker, who did not want to be named, said no matter what people close to her call the tour, but it is to do with the 2023 assembly elections. “She made a similar attempt in March when she took out a two-day yatra in the Bharatpur region in a possible attempt to show her strength on the occasion of her birthday.” He said of former and present lawmakers joined her. “The issue was also raised with the central leadership.”Ruling Congress leader Archana Sharma called Raje the only face of the BJP that masses recognise. Sharma added BJP was sidelining Raje. “Her tour indicates that she has decided to lead...on her own. The factionalism and no respect for seniors in the BJP is evident.”Political analyst Manish Godha said such visits are like warming up activities before the polls. He added the fresh tour will also boost BJP workers’ morale. “This yatra is also to strengthen her political relevance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/former-rajasthan-cm-vasundhara-raje-begins-tour-of-six-districts-101637662252993.html
23-11-2021||Bhopal||Vegetables, fruits pinch pockets in MP owing to fuel price hike||Prices of vegetables and fruits in Madhya Pradesh have significantly gone up owing to the unstoppable hike in fuel prices that have affected the transportation costs. In Bhopal, petrol was priced at ₹107.43 per litre as of Tuesday morning, while diesel was being sold at ₹91.04 for every litre."The rise in the vegetable prices is affecting our monthly budget. We are having trouble managing our savings. I think the government should find a solution to this issue," Anil Sharma, a local resident from the capital city, told news agency ANI.Abhay Gokhale, another resident said, "The vegetable sellers and the customers are in trouble. The farmers are not getting the due amount for their produce. The transportation costs have also seen a spike. The government should look into this matter so that farmers receive their dues. Setting up cooperatives is the only solution to this problem."Petrol and diesel prices in India, which are linked to the fluctuations in their international benchmarks, have been frozen since November 4 after the Union government reduced central levies on fuel by ₹5 and ₹10 a litre, respectively.While the prices have remained stable, they continue to burn a hole in commoner's pockets. Not just commuters, but the price hike has gravely affected traders, too.Rajesh Gupta, a trader in Bhopal, told ANI, "Due to rising fuel prices, the transportation costs have gone up. Earlier, the auto drivers used to charge ₹200-250 to come from farms to the city. But now, they charge ₹550-600 for the same.""Tomatoes and lady fingers are selling for ₹80 a kilo. Peas fetch ₹120 for each kilo. The farmers are unable to afford the transportation charge, so they are selling their vegetables at their places. The agricultural commission imposed on traders is affecting our sales," he said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/vegetables-fruits-pinch-pockets-in-mp-owing-to-fuel-price-hike-101637655863266.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||MSRTC strike: Black paint thrown on Maha transport minister Anil Parab’s house||Around four to five Janshakti Sangathan workers, who are protesting over the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) strike issue, smeared black oil paint on the official residence of state transport minister Anil Parab on Tuesday.According to a video clip shared by news agency ANI, the Janshakti Sangathan workers were removed from the premises of Parab’s house and have now been detained.#WATCH | Mumbai: Black oil paint thrown on the official residence of Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab, by 4-5 Janshakti Sangathan workers protesting over the State Transport strike issue, who are now detained. pic.twitter.com/gF99ZZBC4qThis comes after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday held a meeting with Parab, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, and MSRTC officers to discuss the demands of the striking workers. According to reports, Parab said that the meeting focused on finding a solution in which the workers’ demands as well as passengers’ convenience will be catered to.The strike by MSRTC workers has been ongoing since October 27 and though it was called off later, some staffers continued the agitation, impacting operations of MSRTC bus fleet and revenue generation. A report published in Hindustan Times two weeks ago showed that the state transport corporation has suffered losses to the tune of ₹126.49 crore, with the daily average loss pegged between ₹10 crore and ₹25 crore.The striking unions began the stir following the delay in the payment of their salaries and deaths of several staffers by suicide in the past one year. They have been demanding a salary hike, merger of MSRTC with the Maharashtra government, and increase in dearness and house rent allowances.Meanwhile, the Bombay high court has ordered the protesting MSRTC employees to consider the inconvenience their stir was causing to the state’s students and villagers. It has also asked each of the 26 striking unions to meet the three-member panel constituted by the court, and put forth their grievances and demands before it over the next few days.The high court has sought a preliminary report from the panel on December 20, and also asked the striking staffers to come up with a resolution by the same timeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/msrtc-strike-black-paint-thrown-on-maha-transport-minister-amil-parab-s-house-101637659717403.html
23-11-2021||Bangalore||PM Modi calls up Bommai, discusses flood situation in Karnataka||In a phone call with Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked about the flood situation in the state as well as in the capital, Bengaluru. Several parts of Karnataka have been hit by unusually heavy rainfall over the last one month. “Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodiji spoke to me on the flood situation caused by heavy rains in the state. PM expressed grief over the loss of lives and deep concern over the crop damages. The PM assured all possible support from the Centre,” Bommai tweeted. The telephone call between Modi and Bommai came a day after images and videos of flooded residential areas in Bengaluru, considered India’s technology capital, were circulating on social media. Also Read: Bengaluru, Chennai flooded as rain batters southern states; 34 dead in AndhraKendriya Vihar, an apartment complex with 600 homes and over 1,600 people, was deeply impacted by heavy downpours, forcing residents to move to other locations. In the Yelahanka zone of Bengaluru, water from heavy rains rose to over four feet, disrupting normal life. Tractors and large SUVs were deployed to move people out of the locality. Bommai visited the affected area on Tuesday. “There are two ‘Raja Kaluves’ (storm water drains). But they are small and the outflow is significantly large,” Bommai said, adding that he has instructed authorities to urgently tackle the situation.The CM also visited the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) where waterlogging damaged research equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/pm-modi-calls-up-bommai-discusses-flood-situation-in-karnataka-101637659492866.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kripal Parmar quits as Himachal BJP vice-president||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Himachal suffered a setback on Tuesday on the eve of its state executive meet when its vice-president and former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar quit the post. Also read: Himachal extends deadline for second dose of Covid vaccination to Dec 3“I Kripal Parmar, vice-president, Himachal BJP, am sending my resignation from the party post. Kindly accept it. I will explain the reason in separate letters,” he posted on Facebook in a letter addressed to state party president Suresh Kashyap. Parmar was denied the BJP ticket for the Fatehpur assembly byelection in October. The BJP had fielded Baldev Thakur from Fatehpur, replacing Parmar, who was the party candidate in the 2017 assembly elections. Though he did not contest as an independent after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur persuaded him, but he stayed away from the campaigning. BJP candidate Baldev Thakur lost the byelection to Bhawani Singh Pathania of the Congress by more than 5,000 votes. The BJP executive meet, starting on Wednesday, will outline the reason for its defeat in the byelections from Mandi parliamentary constituency and Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai. Dictatorship in party: Parmar on BJP Parmar was posting cryptic posts on his Facebook page for quite some time, an indication that he may take a major step. “Meri awaj kisi shor mei doob gayi; meri khamoshi door tak sunai degi (My voice was drowned in the din but my silence will be heard far away,” he posted on Monday. When contacted, he said there was dictatorship in the party. “Senior leaders are being humiliated. Nobody listens to our grievances whether it is the chief minister, state party president or general secretary (organisation). I also took up some issues with the core committee but was ignored. It is better to quit from the party post and work as a worker,” said Parmar, clarifying that he was not leaving the party. The party and the chief minister are yet to respond to his resignation. Parmar was the Rajya Sabha member from Himachal Pradesh from 2000-06.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kripal-parmar-quits-as-himachal-bjp-vicepresident-101637657632694.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘If we start doing it…’: Kejriwal claims many Punjab Congress MLAs, MPs in touch with AAP||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal insisted on Tuesday that several MLAs and MPs from Punjab's ruling Congress are in touch with his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) but will not be inducted, as he campaigned in Amritsar for the upcoming assembly elections in the state, which are likely to take place early next year.Also Read | 'Congress trying to suppress Navjot Sidhu's voice': Kejriwal in Punjab“Many people in the Congress are in touch with us, but we don't want to take their garbage. If we start doing it, then I challenge you that 25 Congress MLAs would join us by evening. Their 25 MLAs and two-three MPs are in touch and want to join us,” Kejriwal said, according to news agency ANI. Many people in Congress are in touch with us but we don't want to take their garbage. If we start doing it then I challenge you that 25 Congress MLAs (in Punjab) would join us by evening. Their 25 MLAs & 2-3 MPs are in touch & want to join us: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in Amritsar pic.twitter.com/g7cMBKwkqRThe Delhi CM, whose AAP is the principal opposition party in Punjab despite only being formed in 2012, has been campaigning aggressively in the border state. He has also made frequent visits to two other poll-bound states--Uttarakhand and Goa--both of which will vote around the same time as Punjab.However, it is the northern state where Kejriwal has campaigned most actively, announcing a host of schemes to attract the voters. On Monday, he said that if voted to power, the Aam Aadmi Party would pay ₹1000 per month to every adult woman in the state. Then, on Tuesday, on the second and final day of his current visit, he announced eight guarantees for the teachers of the sta.Also Read | Time bound promotion, cashless medical facility: Arvind Kejriwal’s 8 guarantees for teachers in PunjabKejriwal has also targeted his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, describing the latter as ‘fake Kejriwal’ for allegedly making the same promises as being made by the AAP in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/if-we-start-doing-it-kejriwal-claims-many-punjab-congress-mlas-mps-in-touch-with-aap-101637654753859.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Time bound promotion, cashless medical facility: Arvind Kejriwal’s 8 guarantees for teachers in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convener Arvind Kejriwal announced eight guarantees for the teachers of Punjab, as it aims to sit in the saddle in poll-bound state next year.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar on Tuesday, Kejriwal, who started his two-day visit to Punjab from Monday, said, “Teachers are a very important and respected part of any society. I put before you eight guarantees for the teachers of Punjab.”Kejriwal said that the first guarantee will be that all teachers will be given a suitable working environment.The second guarantee which Kejriwal gave is that all contractual teachers will be regularised.Also Read| 'Congress trying to suppress Navjot Sidhu's voice': Kejriwal in Punjab“The third guarantee is that we will change the transfer policy and it will be transparent.”The fourth guarantee which Kejriwal gave is that teachers will not perform any non-teaching jobs.The fifth guarantee of the AAP is that there are a lot of teaching vacancies in Punjab but teachers are still unemployed. “All vacancies will be filled,” Kejriwal told reporters on Tuesday.All teachers in the state will also be trained from abroad or management institutes like the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Kejriwal’s sixth guarantee in Punjab said.Under the AAP’s seventh guarantee, Kejriwal assured that there will be time-bound promotions for teachers.The eighth and final guarantee of the AAP is a cashless medical facility for teachers and their family members.At the start of the press conference, Kejriwal said on Tuesday that he had been speaking to teachers for the last one month who pointed out that the condition of government schools in Punjab is extremely bad. “As many as 2.4 million children are studying in government schools and their future is in danger. The teachers told me that there are many schools where there are no teachers,” he said.Also Read|  ₹1,000 per month aid to women if AAP wins Punjab polls: KejriwalThe Delhi chief minister also pointed out that before the AAP's rule, schools in the national capital were also in a bad state. After seven years, remarkable work has been done in government schools of Delhi, Kejriwal said, adding, the model is being discussed not just in India, but the entire world.“We want to bring reforms in government schools of Punjab as we did in Delhi.”Kejriwal also targeted the ruling Congress government in Punjab and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states for not doing anything to improve the condition of government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-poll-bound-punjab-arvind-kejriwal-gives-8-guarantees-for-teachers-101637649938880.html
23-11-2021||Jaipur||Alwar Municipal Council chairperson, son held for taking bribe worth ₹80,000||The chairperson of Alwar Municipal Council and her son were on Monday arrested allegedly for taking bribe of ₹80,000, an Anti-Corruption Bureau spokesperson said.Accused Beena Gupta and her son Kuldeep Gupta had demanded bribe of ₹3.50 lakh as a commission for development works done in the area.The complaint was verified and Kuldeep was arrested red-handed taking bribe of ₹80,000 and Beena was also subsequently arrested.A case has been registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/alwar-municipal-council-chairperson-son-held-for-taking-bribe-worth-rs-80000-101637650077710.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s great rat hunt and why it matters to you||In August, when eight-year-old Sameer Shaikh complained of muscle pain, his uncle Chand, a 32-year-old carpenter who he stayed with him in Govandi, thought the child perhaps exerted a little too much while playing that day.However, when Sameer developed high fever, his parents who were based in Uttar Pradesh, asked Chand to get a blood test done. The test revealed that Sameer’s white blood cell (WBC) count was dangerously low, which meant he needed to be hospitalised immediately.The first two hospitals that Chand took Sameer to couldn’t admit him - there were no Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds available. Chand was finally able to admit him at Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General (LTMG) hospital in Sion. But by then Sameer’s condition had deteriorated considerably.On August 19, Sameer went into an acute respiratory distress syndrome and died. The child succumbed to leptospirosis.“We don’t know how he got the infection and how his condition deteriorated so quickly,” Chand later said, recalling Sameer’s tragic death.Sameer is among 70 people in Mumbai who have died from leptospirosis - a bacterial infection that spreads via the urine of infected animals such as rats and cattle - since 2015, the highest mortality in monsoon-related diseases.In comparison, dengue and malaria - both mosquito-borne viral infections - killed 55 and 38 people, respectively, during the same period.Also Read: Trash mountains: another type of Mumbai high riseIn congested urban areas such as Mumbai, rats are known to be the main source of leptospirosis in humans as well as in animals.Dr Radha Gulati Ghildiyal, head of paediatrics at LTMG hospital, said muscle pain is typical of leptospirosis. When children report this symptom along with fever, doctors usually suspect leptospirosis or dengue as the cause. “Mortality is seen only in patients who come in very late, typically four to five days after symptoms first appear,” the doctor said.Leptospirosis is caused by the leptospira bacteria that can enter the human body through cuts, abrasions or open wounds. Cases typically surface during the monsoon season, especially after floods and waterlogging.Overflowing sewers and lack of hygiene often lead to rat urine mixing with accumulated water, which commuters are forced to wade into.Chemical warfare“Even one human life lost to leptospirosis is a concern for us,” said Mumbai’s insecticide officer Dr Rajan Naringrekar, who is in charge of containing the rat population in the city.At least 1,000 rats are killed in the city every day. The civic body hires rat killers who hunt and kill rats at night. At least 14 out of the 24 wards in the city have rat killers on night duty. But the corporation’s mainstay, though, is poison baiting - poison-laden wheat balls made with chemical compounds that rats feed on and die.Around 25gmof zinc phosphide is mixed with a kilogram of wheat flour and 300- 350 pellets are made that are then pushed into numerous burrows. Zinc phosphide works as a poison. The civic body uses 100-130kg of zinc phosphide every year as part of its mission to kill rats.The task of mixing the chemical compound with wheat flour is done by “rat labourers”. The Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) has 137 such permanent employees who make that mix every day and put the pellets in burrows spread across the city’s 24 wards. While rat labourers cover areas assigned to them on a daily basis, they are often asked to focus on areas where residents complain of rampant rat menace. The work of the rat labourers is supervised by junior overseers in each ward.The civic body also mixes bromadiolone, a rodenticide that is highly toxic for mammals, with the flour; it uses nearly 70kg of it every year. During the monsoon season, the poisoned wheat pellets often get washed away as water inundates the burrows.The civic body then tries out something else: it relies on readymade tablets of aluminium phosphide that release poisonous fumes that kill rodents. Nearly 1,500kg of aluminium phosphide tablets are used annually.Watching out for the plagueThe civic body needs to be vigilant about bubonic plague, a bacterial infection caused by the bite from an infected rodent flea, which had killed millions in erstwhile Bombay at the turn of the previous century.The first official case of plague was detected in the city on September 23, 1896. The pandemic spread like wildfire as the British authorities opened quarantine centres, and washed streets and homes with sea water in a bid to flush out rats that had overrun the city. The episode triggered a mass exodus, and in the following years, millions died from the plague.As of now, there are no estimates of the rat population in Mumbai. But the insecticide department is certain that the numbers have not increased. “If at all, we have managed to keep the numbers plateaued despite growing congestion in the city,” said Naringrekar.He attributes the plateauing of numbers to a series of measures put in place by his department to rid the city of rats. About 300,000 to 400,000 rats are killed annually in Mumbai using these various interventions.Getting his hands dirtyEvery day at noon, three tempos line up at a civic compound in Lower Parel carrying dead rats from all the wards of Mumbai. Labourers unload gunny bags of dead rats, count the numbers, and update a ward-wise log.Once counting concludes, 34-year-old lab technician Pravin Ghuge steps in. Armed with rubber gloves, a mask and a lab coat, Ghuge carefully picks up some dead rats from various wards and takes them to a room in the compound. He proceeds to dissect a rat. He places a tiny piece of rat liver on a glass slide. He stains the spot on the slide with a chemical solution and observes it under a microscope. He searches for a safety pin-like appearance of yersinia pestis, the bacteria that causes plague.Ghuge, who holds a Master of Science in microbiology and has been working as a lab technician, dissecting rats since 2009, hasn’t seen any trace of the plague yet.“It’s not exactly a great feeling to dig your hands through a pile of dead rats every day, but it’s the job that I have been tasked with and I have to do it,” Gughe said. “This was my first posting. I have asked for a change many times,” said the Thane-resident who is father to a five-year-old. “My biggest fear is being exposed to infections myself, and taking it back home. There could be so many pathogens on the rodents that I may be exposed to every day.”In some ways, Ghuge is a key barrier between the city and the deadly bacterial infection that once killed millions. He has been mandated to dissect at least 10% of the daily collection of dead rats. But with just one technician for screening, won’t it be easy to miss an infected rat among the thousands?“It’s less likely to miss such an outbreak,” argued Naringrekar. “If the infection surfaces, the first alarming signs will be a large number of rat deaths or what is known as ‘rat fall’, without any apparent reason or intervention. That would be our main signal,” he said.In an outbreak of plague, typically an unusually high number of rodents die first as the infection spreads among them. The bacterium that causes the plague, Yersinia pestis, is found in rodent fleas that feed on the rodents’ blood. After the plague-stricken rodents die, the fleas turn to other hosts such as humans and other animals.Community interventionsMumbai’s civic body uses what the department head called a “4D formula” to tackle rats - deny entry (rat-proof buildings, pipes), deny shelter (discard clutter, scrap), deny food (properly dispose garbage) and destruction (trapping, poison-baiting, fumigation, which is done under the insecticide department’s watch).“In areas such as Nepean Sea Road and Malabar Hill, one may rarely find rats other than in sewers. This is because all the buildings have rat-proofing and there is cleanliness,” said Naringrekar, who has been working at the insecticide department since 1989.Rat-proofing involves creating stoppers (like a circular aluminium sheet) on pipes that run up a residential building, and sealing the gaps between pipes and the structure itself, so that the rodents can’t climb up and enter people’s homes. Since 2019, the department has been rat-proofing all civic-run hospitals. Work at Kandivli’s Shatabdi Hospital is over, and it is currently going on at LTMG Hospital. Next in line is Nair Hospital.“Unfortunately, public behaviour is responsible for creating conducive environment for rats to thrive. People give them ample of food in the form of unclean premises, littering and haphazardly disposing of garbage. They provide them shelter in the clutter that accumulates everywhere,” Naringrekar said.‘Rats breed at a great speed’“Rats breed at a great speed. Their gestation period is only about 21 days and they have large litters - anywhere between six and 14,” Naringrekar said, adding that while his department works to ensure that the rat population doesn’t go up, a change in public behaviour is the only factor than can lead to a decline in numbers. “Cleanliness and hygiene are crucial to keeping rats at bay.”Diseases such as leptospirosis, malaria, gastroenteritis, Hepatitis A and E, and dengue continue to flourish in Mumbai. Cumulatively, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, these diseases have killed 173 people since 2015.The civic body undertakes awareness campaigns, such as putting up hoardings to warn citizens about leptospirosis and other diseases during the monsoon season. As far as leptospirosis is concerned, the civic body’s campaigns are focused on taking doxycycline - the antibiotic drug that works against the infection - as preventive medication if someone has waded through floodwaters.Sameer’s family is still clueless as to how exactly the child contracted the infection. Tragically, his uncle blames himself for the death.“Doctors asked me if Sameer had walked in water. But I had been protecting him, since I was responsible for his safety. He played with some friends just outside our house. He never went far,” Chand recounted. “I don’t think he had come in contact with sewer water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-great-rat-hunt-and-why-it-matters-to-you-101637652052925.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurants say cheers to the new ‘progressive’ excise policy||New DelhiWith the government exiting the liquor business in Delhi, and the new excise policy having come into effect, wining and dining in Delhi is all set to shift, especially as 850 swanky walk-in liquor vends become the focal point of alcohol dispensing for both gastropubs, restaurants and individual buyers. As restaurant owners in Delhi still await clarity on liquor prices, reduced drinking age limit, and being open till 3am, as the new policy allows, they call the new excise regime a “progressive” one. Yet to be implemented, the new policy has the F&B industry still tinkering with its nuts and bolts.Stock as per demand“We still haven’t covered our Covid-induced losses, but this policy will help, because now I can order limited liquor. Initially I had to buy whole cases, now I can procure just a bottle or two of what’s in less demand among diners. So, I can maintain my cash flows accordingly,” says Satyajit Dhingra, Chief Regional Officer - North of Impresario Handmade Restaurants, the parent company of SOCIAL and Smoke House Deli. Target customer aged 21-25Arjun Dawar, owner of Uncultured and 1 Oak Cafe And Bar, says the concept of partying in Delhi will change. He says: “One thing that is done is reducing age limit and allowing it to be open till 3 am. Running a business till late would do us good. What used to happen is people used to come to dine-in, and then go somewhere where they could party till late. We lost customers, it hampered business, but now that partying money is more likely to be spent at the dine-in place itself, since it’s open. As we’d be allowed to serve till late night, we’d be able to cut down some Covid-19 losses. Also, the age group between 21-25 is a good spender now, so we can target those customers.”Multiple bars in same spaceVikramjit Roy, co-founder of The Tangra Project says: “Holistically, it is much more progressive that what existed earlier. Now, alcohol can also be served in outside areas. If you had a large restaurant and wanted more than one bar dispensing liquor, earlier it was not permissible, but now it is.”Hefty side-costs to remain open till 3 amMentioning a big con, Roy says: “The ‘open to 3 am’ bit is advantageous to a certain category of restaurants. It’s unclear as to how restaurants inside malls can be open till 3 am at no-cost. Inside a mall, it’s not possible that the mall complex would keep all its facilities like elevators, escalators, washrooms and parking open till 3 am. If it is, it will come at a hefty cost. Unless you are a stand-alone restaurant in a stand-alone space, staying open till 3 am comes with other factors.”A change in license fee: For the good, for the badVarun Puri, cofounder of Duty Free Bar, which has outlets in Delhi, Gurugram and Noida explains: “The license fee have been revised according to the total restaurant area. Under 1000 square feet, the fee is ₹five lakh, from 1000-2500 sq feet it is ₹15 lakh and above 2500 sq ft, it is ₹25 lakh. For some, the fee was increased, but for someone sitting in Khan Market with a 900 sq feet space, the license fee is just ₹five lakh annually! So, it goes both ways. The new policy is a very progressive policy and was the need of the hour, it was last revised in the Capital for the first time after 1998.” Explaining how procurement will work, he adds: “As a restauranter, since I have to procure supplies from a liquor shop, I will look for the one which offers me the best price. If there is an offer I receive, I’d pass on the benefit to the consumer in the form of price. A master moveCalling the policy “a master move”, Lokesh Sukhija, who owns Lord of the Drinks and Openhouse, among other spaces, says: “The new policy will stop alcohol pouring illegally in the city, due to the price difference of liquor between Gurugram and Noida”. Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurants-say-cheers-to-the-new-progressive-excise-policy-101637646417378.html
23-11-2021||Kolkata||Bengal govt freeing up beds reserved for Covid-19 patients as daily cases fall||With the daily count of fresh coronavirus cases declining, the West Bengal government has started to free up hospital beds that had been reserved in various state-run and private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The beds that are being freed up will now be available for non-Covid patients. “District authorities have been asked to keep one or two hospitals or wards with adequate critical care units, high dependency units (HDU) and paediatric intensive care units (ICU) to treat Covid-19 patients. The remaining hospitals, which were earlier being used to treat such patients, may [now] be used for non-Covid patients,” said a senior health department official. In May, just after the assembly polls, when the daily count of Covid-19 cases was around 20,000, the state had reserved around 21,900 beds in about 228 hospitals, including state-run and private facilities. More than 2,700 ICU and HDU beds and around 1,300 ventilators had been reserved for Covid-19 patients. West Bengal is now reporting around 600 to 800 fresh daily Covid-19 cases. On Monday, 615 new cases were reported with Kolkata registering 173 new infections.Also Read: ‘No scientific evidence…’: ICMR chief on need for booster shots of Covid-19 jabsSeveral districts such as Alipurduar, Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Bankura and East Midnapore and a few others reported less than 10 fresh cases. “The state had set up around 200 safe homes with more than 11,500 beds. Barring one or two in each of the 23 districts, the rest have been asked to close down temporarily. Covid-19 volunteers who were deployed in various hospitals have been released. Medical staff including doctors and nurses deployed in Covid hospitals were being withdrawn to be stationed at hospitals from where they were sent in,” the official said. Daily cases had shot up after the festive season in the state in October and had nearly touched the 1,000-mark with health experts blaming the spike on gatherings during the Durga Puja. “Covid-19 safety protocols were rampantly flouted during the festive season. Many were not wearing masks, leaving aside social distancing and sanitising. We still don’t have any room for complacency,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of an expert committee set up last year to advise chief minister Mamata Banerjee on the pandemic situation. Health department officials said that even though hospital beds were being freed up and safe homes were being asked to close down temporarily, the equipment installed for treating Covid-19 patients is not being dismantled yet. “The number of Covid-19 cases is now under control compared to what it was during the peak of the second surge. Hence, the number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients is being scaled down to treat non-Covid patients. There is no room for complacency, though,” said another state health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-govt-freeing-up-beds-reserved-for-covid-19-patients-as-daily-cases-fall-101637644252272.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||UP govt likely to rename Yamuna Expressway after former PM Vajpayee||The political slugfest over expressways in Uttar Pradesh, ahead of next year's assembly elections, may intensify in the coming days as the Yogi Adityanath-led state government is likely to rename the Yamuna Expressway after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. According to a report in Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to announce the new name on November 25, at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Noida International Airport in Jewar.Also Read | Will inaugurate ‘Samajwadi Purvanchal Expressway’ in symbolic way: AkhileshIf indeed renamed after the late former PM, the expressway will not be the first project in Uttar Pradesh to bear the name of the co-founder of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In November 2018, nearly three months after Vajpayee's demise, the Yogi government renamed the Ekana International Cricket Stadium in the state capital Lucknow as ‘Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee International Cricket Stadium.’Since March 2017, when the current BJP government came to power in UP, it has changed names of several towns and railway stations, including renaming Allahabad as Prayagraj and Faizabad as Ayodhya. In its most recent move, on October 23, the ruling dispensation rechristened the Faizabad Railway Junction as Ayodhya Cantt.Also Read | Faizabad railway station to be known as Ayodhya Cantt, announces Yogi AdityanathThe six-lane Yamuna Expressway, which has a length of 165 kilometres, was inaugurated on August 9, 2012, by then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party (SP). Its construction began in 2007 under the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) government led by then CM Mayawati. The route connects Greater Noida with Agra, and is thus also sometimes known as the ‘Taj Expressway.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-likely-to-rename-yamuna-expressway-after-former-pm-vajpayee-101637639990924.html
23-11-2021||Kolkata||ED attaches assets worth ₹42cr of Kolkata-based firm in alleged bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday attached assets worth ₹42 crore of Kolkata-based Shree Mahalaxmi Corporation Pvt Ltd for allegedly defrauding the State Bank of India (SBI) to the tune of ₹164 crore. The attached assets include 11 immovable properties belonging to the firm’s directors.The ED had initiated a money-laundering investigation based on an FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2017 against Shree Mahalaxmi Corporation, its directors and others for allegedly defrauding the SBI by availing a loan based on forged documents and using the money for a purpose other than what it was sanctioned for.According to the ED, the loan amount of ₹164 crore was allegedly diverted after it was rotated among multiple bank accounts, which were made to look like genuine business transactions.Also Read: Efforts being made to defame CBI, ED: BJP on privilege motion in Narada case“It was further revealed that various letters of credit (LCs) were opened in the name of certain companies against the credit facilities and the same were discounted on the basis of forged invoices, challans etc. The LC proceeds were thereafter laundered and siphoned off,” the ED said in a statement.On Monday, the ED also arrested promoter-director of Kolkata-based steel maker Ramsarup Industries, Ashish Jhunjhunwala, for allegedly defrauding a nationalised bank of ₹184.43 crore.The investigation involved search operations that were carried out at five locations in Kolkaata, following which evidence allegedly related to “bogus” transactions was found, the ED said.Jhunjhunwala was arrested on Thursday after the search operations and produced before a special court in Kolkata, which sent him to ED custody for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ed-attaches-assets-worth-42cr-of-kolkata-based-firm-in-alleged-bank-fraud-case-101637641132063.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||CBI imposes ₹10.2 crore fine on man in customs fraud case||Eighteen years after a case was registered, a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Monday sentenced a person to six years of rigorous imprisonment and fined him ₹10.2 crore for customs duty drawback fraud committed by submitting forged export documents.Following the sentencing by special CBI judge S U Wadgaonkar, the main beneficiary of the fraud, identified as Krishna Kumar Gupta, has been sentenced to six years under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and if he doesn’t pay the fine of ₹10.2 crore, he will be sentenced to 18 more months.The court further sentenced Gupta, aged 62, to two years and imposed on him a fine of ₹10 lakh for conspiracy and using a forged document.The court sentenced another individual identified as Sudhir Mandal to three years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of ₹3 lakh, and two employees of Bank of India’s Cotton Exchange branch in Fort area - Vasant Parkhe and Sunil Jadhav - to one year each under the Prevention of Corruption Act. They have been fined ₹1 lakh each.Also Read: State’s plea to transfer Anil Deshmukh’s case to SIT has no grounds: CBI to HCThe CBI’s economic offences wing (EOW) had registered a case for cheating, conspiracy, and using as genuine a forged document under the Prevention of Corruption Act in March 2003. The CBI had named 11 companies and two individuals, Gupta and Mandal, along with unnamed customs and Bank of India officials in the complaint.The CBI had alleged in its complaint that Gupta and Mandal along with customs and bank officials entered into criminal conspiracy, stating that their objective was to cheat the union government by dishonestly claiming customs duty drawback from the customs department by submitting forged export documents.The accused used 11 fictitious firms to prepare false export documents in their names. By submitting such documents to the customs department, they managed to obtain 26 customs duty drawback cheques worth more than ₹2 crore. The accused submitted 66 shipping bills to the drawback department of Mumbai Customs in order to claim fraudulent duty drawback, the CBI stated.The agency alleged that no actual exports were made by any of the 11 fictitious firms, and the cheques obtained were deposited in the bank account of a proprietary firm of Mandal on Gupta’s instructions. The export document submitted to the customs department was forged and duty drawback was claimed in connivance with unnamed customs officials, it had been alleged.Special public prosecutor Jeetendra Sharma, appearing for the investigating agency, argued that the fraud had been perpetuated starting in 1998.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-imposes-10-2-crore-fine-on-man-in-customs-fraud-case-101637637531445.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM tells police to increase night patrolling to improve law, order||In order to further improve the law and order situation in Punjab, state deputy chief minister S Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday issued strict instructions to the police to increase night patrolling.Office of the Punjab deputy chief minister in an official statement informed that at least one third of the Gazetted Officers in each Commissionerate/District will be deputed for patrolling as per the roster, who will be personally reviewed daily by the deputy chief minister through video call.Randhawa, who also holds charge of the home department, informed it has come to his notice that adequate police patrolling was not carried out during the night. He directed all the Commissioners and SSPs to prepare a duty roster of Gazetted Officers in their respective Commissionerates/Districts.Randhawa said that at least one-third of the officers should be on patrolling duty during the night. "I can randomly check the location of the duty officer at any time by making a video call to the concerned", said the Deputy Chief Minister, adding that security of the state would not be compromised at any cost and strict action would be initiated against the negligent officer.Meanwhile, Principal Secretary Home Anurag Verma has issued letters to the DGP, ADGP (Law & Order), Commissioners and SSPs in this regard asking them to follow the directions of the Deputy Chief Minister in true spirit. He said that the Commissioner and SSPs have also been asked to send a copy of the roster to the ADGP (Law & Order) who would consolidate the roster of all districts and further send the copy to the Deputy Chief Minister, Home Secretary and DGP by 5 pm daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-tells-police-to-increase-night-patrolling-to-improve-law-order-101637636309499.html
23-11-2021||Bangalore||K'taka rains: CM orders transfer of crop loss compensation to farmers' accounts||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed the officials to transfer the compensation amount for the heavy losses of crops suffered due to the destruction caused by incessant rains to affected farmers' accounts immediately after accessing the details being uploaded to Relief App based on the GPS survey.Speaking to the media during his visit to rain-affected areas of Kolar district on Monday, the chief minister said, "Incessant rains have caused huge losses to standing crops in the state. GPS based survey of the destruction is on and the details were being uploaded to Relief App. Officials had been instructed to transfer the compensation amount to affected farmers' accounts immediately after accessing the details."Starting from Narasapura, the Chief Minister extensively toured the Kolar district and said, "I have seen extensive damage to Ragi, vegetables, horticulture and floriculture crops. Floodwaters from the Mudavadi irrigation tank has cut-off road connectivity in the area. About 790 houses have been completely or extensively damaged. Agri Crops in 48,333 hectares and horticulture crops in 6966 hectares have been affected, 189km length of roads and 34 bridges have been damaged according to preliminary reports."The chief minister said that there was no crunch of funds for relief operations as ₹684 crore was available in District Collectors' PD accounts in the state.He also announced that a sum of ₹5 lakh would be paid as compensation for completely damaged houses and ₹3 lakh for partially damaged houses in three instalments. District Collectors have been instructed to disburse the first instalment of ₹1 lakh immediately.Bommai further said that the state government has released ₹500 crore for the repair of damaged roads and bridges. Schools and Anganvadis too had suffered damages and their repair would be taken up through the NDRF fund.The rains have caused extensive damage to Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagar, Hassan district.Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts have many large and minor irrigation tanks, the Chief Minister noted and assured funds for their repair and maintenance."Officials have been instructed to clear the encroachments on these tanks. Conduct survey of tanks, put up fencing around them to preserve them," Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-rains-cm-orders-transfer-of-crop-loss-compensation-to-farmers-accounts-101637629358785.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Narrow lanes and dirty stains in Chandigarh’s ward 15||Lack of cleanliness and dilapidated parks are among the key issues being faced by the residents of ward number 15 of Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC).The ward comprises the rehabilitation colony, Dhanas, and Sarangpur. Sarangpur will participate in the election for the first time after becoming a part of Chandigarh MC in 2018.In both localities, residents said that nothing much has improved over the years. Being a part of Chandigarh, residents here expect the same facility as in other parts of the city.In rehabilitation colony, Dhanas, the most common view is dilapidated parks and dirty streets. The locality has many parks but most of them are in a poor state and are now being used to park vehicles.Narrow streets and clogged sewers are another common problem here, especially during monsoon. Residents also demand clean drinking water, while stating that the supply from tubewells is visibly dirty. They also say that the water pressure is low due to which those living on upper floors face hassles.Jatinder Kumar, 32, a resident of rehabilitation colony, said, “I have been here for the last seven years and the dirty surroundings are irksome. We also want 24X7 water supply.”“Parks are in a poor condition and there is no space for recreational activities for children. With no parking space, people usually park their vehicles in parks. There are no speed breakers on main streets of the locality which puts children in danger,” said Monu, 37, a resident of rehabilitation colony.The situation is equally bad in Sarangpur. Residents say that becoming a part of Chandigarh MC has not been helped them much over the last two years. They say that garbage collection vehicles do not enter the narrow lanes and residents have to themselves carry the garbage to the collection vehicles parked on main roads. Residents here also complained about inadequate parking spaces.Lakhmir Singh, 66, a retired army subedar, who resides in Sarangpur, said, “Water is supplied only in mornings and evenings, there should be supply the afternoon as well. The streets are not clean and the blocked sewer lines also affect the cleanliness of the area.”Youngsters in Sarangpur say the sports stadium in the village is of no use to them as they are asked to get registration cards to enter the ground.Gurwinder Singh, 30, a farmer of Sarangpur, said, “Residents are asked to get registration cards to enter the sports stadium. It should be open for locals. Our civic issues should be resolved.”Know your ward:Localities: Sarangpur and Rehabilitation Colony, Dhanas.General wardVoter: 25,000 (Approx.)Key issues:Poor sanitation and lack of parking spaceDilapidated parks and streetsFoul smelling water and choked sewers.Local voices:I have been here for the last seven years and we face a number of civic problems here. The surroundings are dirty and water supply should be made 24x7. ---- Jatinder Kumar, 32, resident, rehabilitation colony, Dhanas.There is no cleanliness in our locality and parks are in a poor state. The condition is extremely poor. ----- Geeta, 40, homemaker, rehabilitation colony Dhanas.There should be water supply in the afternoons too. Residents bear the brunt of unclean There are no regular cleanliness of streets and residents also have to face problems of sewerage blockage. ----Lakhmir Singh, 60, retired army subedar in Sarangpur.The residents are asked to get registration cards to enter into the sports stadium. It should be open for locals. ----- Gurwinder Singh, 30, local farmer in Sarangpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/narrow-lanes-and-dirty-stains-in-chandigarh-s-ward-15-101637618089651.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: HPSC official taken to his office as vigilance searches continue||The state vigilance bureau on Monday took Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) deputy secretary Anil Nagar, who along with two others was arrested for tampering with the marks of candidates of dental surgeons’ exam, to his office to conduct more searches. Till date, the bureau has recovered ₹3.3 crore from the accused. Monday’s searches started around 3pm and continued till 9:30pm. The vigilance team seized 22 original exam sheets of preliminary HCS Exam-2021, its carbon copies and 14 original examination sheets of dental surgeons’ examination, 2021. Nagar’s four-day long police remand will end on Tuesday and he will be produced in the local court. The vigilance is likely to ask for an extension of the police remand.The others arrested are Ashwani Sharma, a resident of Jhajjar, and Naveen Kumar, a resident of Bhiwani.Nagar is a 2016-batch officer, who was posted as HPSC deputy secretary in March 2021. Earlier, he was posted as joint director, administration, secondary education, Haryana, and deputy secretary to government, Haryana, school education department.The FIR was registered on November 17, after Naveen Kumar, a government employee, was caught red-handed while accepting ₹20 lakh. Based on his confession and other evidence, the vigilance officials arrested Ashwani Sharma and seized ₹1.07 crore during a search at his house.According to the vigilance, Sharma was a “private player”, who received money on Nagar’s behalf. A trap was laid and Nagar was arrested while accepting the money from Sharma on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-hpsc-official-taken-to-his-office-as-vigilance-searches-continue-101637617729611.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||No new Covid case in Mohali, daily count of Chandigarh tricity area 11||In a major relief, no fresh Covid-19 infection surfaced in Mohali on Monday. The district had previously recorded zero cases on November 5. The tricity tally, however, stood at 11 as Panchkula reported seven new cases, its highest single-day count of the month, and Chandigarh logged four new infections.In good news, there was no Covid fatality in any of the three jurisdictions. So far in November, Mohali has reported three fatalities while no death has been reported from Chandigarh or Panchkula this month.Tricity’s active cases tally stands at 85, with 35 patients still being infected in Mohali, 32 in Chandigarh, and 18 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,410 positive cases, of which 64,558 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,909. Among these, 67,803 patients have recovered and 1,071 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,804 includes 30,407 recoveries and 379 casualties. 46 dengue infections in tricity Despite a dip in temperature, tricity continues to be under the grip of dengue with 46 more infections being reported on Monday. Of the total, 22 cases surfaced in Mohali, followed by 18 in Chandigarh and six in Panchkula. No dengue death was reported on the day.Mohali’s dengue count so far stands at 3,772 while the death count is 37. Chandigarh has recorded 1,391 cases and three fatalities this year. Panchkula’s case tally stands at 858, with one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-new-covid-case-in-mohali-daily-count-of-chandigarh-tricity-area-11-101637617489506.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Drunk man stabs 16-year-old boy with knife||A man was arrested for stabbing a 16-year-old boy in Dadumajra Colony on Sunday. The accused, Amit alias Petal, 34, a resident of Sector 38 (West), is notorious for picking up fights in an inebriated state. The complainant, a Class-10 student, said the accused had been hurling abuses at him for two days. When the complainant objected, the accused fought with the teenager, and had to be pacified by the neighbours. On Sunday, around 10am, the accused came to the complainant’s house and stabbed him. His arm was almost severed in the attack and he was rushed to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-drunk-man-stabs-16-year-old-boy-with-knife-101637617309466.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PU students protest, demand online exams||The student bodies at Panjab University (PU) held a protest outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Monday demanding that upcoming semester exams be conducted in online mode.The protest was organised by the Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), Students For Society (SFS) and others. The students in their statement said if the university authorities do not fulfil their demand, the protest will be intensified. They also submitted a memorandum to the university.PU has said they are planning to hold the upcoming semester exam in offline mode. However, the university is yet to announce its final decision. The exams are scheduled to be held in December.Students said as the teaching for the current semester was held in online mode, the exams should also be held in the same mode. “Now with the exams approaching, the university said they were planning to hold the exam in offline mode. The students demanded an online examination as there was online teaching,” students said.However, they said the next semester should be started in offline mode by reopening the university for all students.Meanwhile, the university is also planning to use online proctoring in case the exams are held online. A meeting of the panel was held on Monday to recommend the specifications for the tendering process for the proctoring service. It is likely that human proctoring will be in place if the university goes ahead with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pu-students-protest-demand-online-exams-101637617079596.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali CIA arrests 3 Himachal men with 200 gram heroin; case under NDPS Act registered||Baljinder Singh, inspector, crime investigating agency (CIA), Mohali, said on a tip-off, the police arrested three persons with 200 grams of heroin. A Swift Dzire car has also been recovered. The accused have been identified as Ranjit Singh, alias Labu (25), a resident of Mandi in Himachal Pardesh, Desraj, alias Desu (32), a resident of Mandi, and Harish Kumar (23) of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh.A case has been registered against all three under the NDPS Act at the Sadar Kurali police station.The officer said after the tip-off, a naka was laid on the Kharar-Kurali road as they were going to supply heroin to customers in Chandigarh and Mohali.During questioning, they admitted that they bring heroin from Delhi at a cheaper rate and then sell it at higher rates in Mohali and Chandigarh.Man held for gamblingInspector Balwinder Singh, in charge, CIA staff, said on a tip-off the police arrested a person engaged in gambling in Kharar and recovered ₹4,500 from him.The accused has been identified as a 25-year-old Badal resident. He is working as a scrap dealer. The police have arrested him and a case under the Gambling Act has been registered against him at the Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-cia-arrests-3-himachal-men-with-200-gram-heroin-case-under-ndps-act-registered-101637617076774.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Invest Punjab, PSO-RGAI sign MoU to promote investments in renewable gas sector in Punjab||To promote the setting up of biofuel projects and compressed biogas plants in the state, Invest Punjab on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Punjab State Office-Renewable Gas Association of India (PSO-RGAI).The MoU is intended to create an investment facilitation platform on behalf of the industry stakeholders to promote growth and investments in the renewable gas sector. The Renewable Gas Association of India (RGAI) is set up to offer expertise and guidance to society to find the best solutions for improving and maximising renewable gas production and usage and thus encouraging green and sustainable growth.Ashish Kumar, managing director of VERBIO India Private Limited, said renewable gas could emerge as one of the most promising industrial sectors with sustainable and all-inclusive growth for Punjab.“With an annual surplus volume of 20-25 mio tons of agricultural residue, most of which is burnt, leads to ~31 MMT of GHG emissions in a span of less than 75 days (mid-September to November-end). This mammoth volume of waste could be the next big opportunity for Punjab in the form of the renewable gas sector,” he said.Maninder Singh, general secretary of the RGAI said, “We will encourage renewable gas produced from all feedstocks, using competing and sustainable technologies for all end-use applications. This will help to scale up the potential primarily due to the abundance of unutilised agriculture feedstock – an estimated 140 million tonnes of agricultural residues are generated annually – supported by growing consumption of the CNG and bio-CNG, the most cost-effective fuel compared to petrol or diesel in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-invest-punjab-pso-rgai-sign-mou-to-promote-investments-in-renewable-gas-sector-in-punjab-101637617075670.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Open Ladies Championship: Over 100 golfers to vie for top honours at Chandigarh Golf Club||Over 100 golfers will be competing in the 27th Punjab Open Ladies Championship 2021 to be held at the Chandigarh Golf Club greens from November 23 to 25. The event stands as one of the biggest amateur tournaments as it grooms and prepares potential women golfers. Golfers like Aditi Ashok, who hogged the limelight with her dashing performance in the Tokyo Olympics 2020, had also participated in the Punjab Open Ladies Championship in the past. It is part of the ladies’ golf tour which is held in New Delhi, Mumbai, Noida, Bengaluru, Kolkata and other cities of India. In the three-day tournament, a cut is applied after the first two days. “It is a proud moment for the Chandigarh Golf Club that the Punjab Open Ladies Championship is being held with phenomenal participation. Due to the pandemic, a lot of time was lost. It is great to have so many women golfers keen on taking the course and going for the title,” said Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president of Chandigarh Golf Club. While golfer as young as eight-year-old Ojaswini Saraswat will be seen in action, 84-year-old Gurbinder Johl will also be taking part in the competition.Ashu Bachitter, captain, Chandigarh Golf Club, said, “We have seen golfers like Aditi Ashok in action during the tournament in the past. Today she is India’s top woman golfer. This tournament is a perfect platform for aspiring women golfers. We are hoping to witness tremendous sporting tussle on the field during the event.” Arvind Bajaj, captain, Chandigarh Golf Club course, will do the ceremonial tee-off on November 23. Meanwhile, the minister of agriculture, Punjab, Randeep Singh Nabha will be the chief guest for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-open-ladies-championship-over-100-golfers-to-vie-for-top-honours-at-chandigarh-golf-club-101637617074742.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 178 terminated National Health Mission employees submit rejoining requests||All 178 National Health Mission (NHM) workers had submitted written apologies and assurance to rejoin duties on their previous salaries, the UT health department said on Monday, adding that the department will take at least five days to decide on their reinstating. “The health department has received all the applications. However, the screening committee, comprising of the medical superintendent of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, NHM nodal officer and district family welfare officer, will scrutinise the applications. The demands of the workers will be checked, besides their explanations on to why they went on a strike without prior notice. The committee will decide on reinstating in the next five days,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh. “The sudden strike by NHM employees had hampered the health facilities. Even then, we have asked them to join their duties. Twelve employees had requested and given us written explanations and we have already taken back their termination. While the decision will be made on the rest of the 166 employees,” she further said.While inviting the applications from NHM employees, the health department had clearly mentioned that the guidelines issued by the Central government for service conditions, including pay to NHM staff, will be strictly followed. Also, the NHM workers conduct will remain under strict watch for the next six months. In case of any indiscipline or poor performance, their contractual appointment may be terminated again without any notice.Around 500 NHM employees, working under the UT health department as doctors, paramedical staff and managerial employees include nursing officers, pharmacy officers, auxiliary nurse midwives, lab technicians, dental technicians and other Group-4 staffers, have been working for salaries lower than the approved minimum wages since 2013.Earlier in August, over 300 NHM workers went on indefinite leave for 12 days to press their demand for equal wages for equal work. Following the continuous protest, the UT administration had given a written assurance of a salary hike. The department had then offered revised working conditions for them against the salary hike. However, the services of the NHM workers were terminated on October 28, after they went on a strike without giving prior intimation, to press for salaries at DC rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-178-terminated-national-health-mission-employees-submit-rejoining-requests-101637617072137.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Satvik Singla, Mankeerat Kaur enter tennis pre-quarters||Chandigarh’s Satvik Singla outplayed Haryana’s Trishubh 6-4,6-4 in the boys’ U-18 first-round match to enter the pre-quarters during the All India Tennis Association U-18 National Ranking Championship being held at Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur, on Monday. In the girls’ U-18 first-round matches, Punjabs Agampreet Kaur outclassed Snigdha Pandey of Uttarakhand 6-2,6-0 while Mankeerat Kaur ousted Anika 6-2,6-2 to enter the pre-quarters. ResultsUnder-18 boys’ (first round): Agnivesh Bharadwaj (HR) bt Tanav Gupta (CH) 6-2,6-0, Satvik Singla (CH) bt Trishubh (HR) 6-4,6-4, Harmanjit Singh (PB) bt Hridey Malothra (HR) 6-0,6-0, Anhad Singh Oberai (PB) bt Jujhar Singh (PB)6-3,6-2, Aniruddh Sangra (CH) bt Suryansh Nagar(MH) 6-1,6-0, Akshat Dhull (HR) bt Aryan Aggarwal (PB) 6-0,6-2, Sahajpreet Singh Bajwa (PB) Tarun Sharma (HP)6-0,6-1;Under-18 girls’ (first round):Agampreet Kaur (PB) bt Snigdha Pandey (UK)6-2,6-0, Mankeerat Kaur (PB) bt Anika (PB) 6-2,6-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-satvik-singla-mankeerat-kaur-enter-tennis-prequarters-101637617069763.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Stopped from drinking liquor, man stabs wife in thigh, held||Stopped from consuming liquor, a man stabbed his wife in the thigh and fled, leaving her injured, in Attawa village of Chandigarh. The incident took place on Saturday night, and the accused was arrested and later let off on bail.Complainant, Baby, 30, said she got married to the accused, Dinesh Dass, 12 years ago. The couple has two children and they live in a rented accommodation. While Baby works as a domestic help, Dass is a carpenter. She said that due to Dass’ alcoholism, it gets difficult for her to manage the household expenses. Besides, he also used to thrash her under the influence of liquor. On November 20, around 11pm, when Dass was consuming liquor, Baby told him to stop, which enraged him. In a fit of rage, he allegedly went to the kitchen, picked up a vegetable-cutting knife and stabbed her in the thigh. In pain, Baby screamed for help and collapsed on the bed but the accused fled the spot. Later, her sister-in-law Poonam took her to Government Medical Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, for treatment. On Baby’s complaint, a case under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. Police recovered the knife used in the crime and also produced the accused in court. He was let off on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-stopped-from-drinking-liquor-man-stabs-wife-in-thigh-held-101637616589480.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Moony night in a qabristan||It is midnight. People here are sleeping. They have been asleep for a long time, though some have closed their eyes more recently than others. You can tell that by the fresh earth heaped upon their resting place.This is the vast Batla House Qabristan in south Delhi, next to Jamia Millia Islamia University. No stars are twinkling in the smoggy black sky, but tonight’s perfectly round white moon is shining like a frangipani in bloom. Its milky glow is falling discreetly upon the headstones, which are jutting out of the graveyard messy and uneven, like an infant’s growing teeth. The moonshine is illuminating the graves gently, turning their mud-covered surface to something more solid-like, as if they were some kind of rocks peculiar to the uninhabited lunar landscape. The graveyard is spread across a succession of slopes, with only a few portions lit up with electric lamps. A great majority of the graves remain unseen in the absence of light—they are decipherable only because they are darker than the imperfect darkness around them. Many of the gravestones are inscribed with the names of their dead. Due to the overlapping darkness and light, some words are visible, and some are not.The first instinct on entering any cemetry tends to be of reverence towards the dead. On coming across a recent grave, one might fleetingly think of the buried person’s loved ones, whose grief is still new. Additionally, in such a place, the inevitability of one’s own erasure hits home with a new limpidity.It is a different experience, however, to visit a graveyard in a moony night such as this. With not even a bird or a squirrel to be spotted, the entire place is lying in absolute stillness, like a landscape painting in which nothing moves but which nevertheless moves the senses through its mute panorama.Just across the walls of the graveyard standsthe Jamia Millia Islamia Metro station. The train service has stopped for the day but parts of the station are lit up in blinding white. The bulky edifice appears like a neighbouring planet, too remote to reach. Suddenly, along the graveyard’s dusty pathway, appears a man in black pathan suit. He is speaking loudly into his mobile phone, ranting about the “servant problem.” Meanwhile, the moon is blocked by a lazily drifting cloud. It reappears moments later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-moony-night-in-a-qabristan-101637615965335.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh teachers say won’t be possible to seat students as per Covid norms for term exams||Even as Term 1 exams for board classes have already started for minor subjects and will be soon held for the major subjects as well, teachers are claiming it won’t be possible to seat students according to Covid norms in some of the government schools of the city. However, officials have assured that the situation is under control.Members of the UT Cadre Educational Employees Union said, “If we seat only 12 students per class then there are not enough classrooms in some schools of the city, especially for subjects like English, for which all students will turn up at the same time. There also won’t be enough invigilators to hold these exams.”Even though the official notification for the term one exams doesn’t specify the number of students allowed per class, officials of the UT education department have confirmed that up to 24 students per class will be allowed. Director school education Palika Arora said, “We will be able to hold exams as per the CBSE guidelines. Even labs can be opened up if required and we have enough teachers to act as invigilators.”Teachers are also complaining about the extra work that they will have to put in to conduct these exams, especially on days with major subjects. A teacher described how the exam paper will be sent to schools only an hour before the exam starts. “Most schools have only one printer which can be insufficient for exams of major subjects. We will have to print the OMR sheet on which students will answer. Teachers will have to check them and upload marks online which will also take time. On days with two exams, it will be difficult for the teachers,” a teacher said.Meanwhile, officials have assured that all such anticipated problems will be checked beforehand to ensure that it doesn’t affect students and the conduct of the examinations. Term 1 exams are a part of the new pattern of marking introduced for board classes from this year with multiple-choice questions. The Term 2 exams will similarly be conducted between March-April and will feature both subjective and objective questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-teachers-say-won-t-be-possible-to-seat-students-as-per-covid-norms-for-term-exams-101637615509785.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 27-year-old man dies in Kharar road mishap||In a hit-and-run case, a 27-year-old man was killed on Sunday evening where an unknown vehicle hit his motorcycle near Gharuan village in Kharar.The deceased has been identified as Amandeep Singh of Gharuan.As per information, Amandeep was going home on his motorcycle and his uncle Jasmer Singh was behind him on another bike. In a statement to the police, Jasmer Singh said when they reached near Gharuan, a recklessly driven car hit Amandeep’s bike after which he fell down and suffered head injuries. He was rushed to the civil hospital, Kharar, from where he was referred to the Government Multispecialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to injuries on Monday. The car driver fled from the scene. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC against the unknown car driver. After the post-mortem, the body has been handed over to the family members.42-year-old killed in hit-and-run case
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested with fake currency in Balongi||A man was arrested with fake currency having a face value of ₹69,000 from Balongi on Monday.Identified as Nawab alias Feroz of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, police said he works as the caretaker of a paying guest facility in Balongi. Police also recovered a laptop, colour printer, and high quality paper from his possession. Balongi station house (SHO) officer, inspector Rajpal Singh Gill said following a tip-off about counterfeit currency being printed at a house in Balongi, police raided the premises and found that the information was correct. During preliminary interrogation, police learnt that Nawab was addicted to opium, poppy husk and husk liquid. He revealed that a Hisar resident, Bijender, who was once residing in Balongi, had taught him about printing counterfeit currency. Nawab has been printing counterfeit currency for the last three months, said police. Inspector Gill said, “He has been printing counterfeit currencies of ₹100, ₹200, ₹500, and ₹2,000 and used to embed a green wire inside the paper to make it look like real currency. He then used the currency in local markets,” he added. The accused was produced before the court and sent to two-day police remand. Nawab and Bijender have been booked under Sections 489-A, 489-B, 489-C and 489-D of the Indian Penal Code at Balongi police station. Police have launched a manhunt for Bijender and also looking into who was supply the paper and peripherals to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-arrested-with-fake-currency-in-balongi-101637615389842.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Capital’s evening air improves to ‘poor’ as winds get stronger||Even though Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) stayed in the “very poor” zone according to the central pollution control agency’s 4pm bulletin, the city’s pollution levels improved sharply through the evening on the back of stronger winds to enter the “poor” zone.Monday was also the first day this November when visibility improved to beyond 3,000 metres in Palam, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The air quality index (AQI) readings did not cross the 300 mark in at least 10 stations, owing to a combination of strong surface winds and low contribution from stubble burning. The overall AQI of Delhi was 311 at 4pm on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a climbdown from Sunday’s reading of 349. This reading dropped further to 288 at 10pm, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. Weather analysts said wind speeds touched 25km/hr during Monday, helping disperse pollutants.IMD said this is the first time this month that visibility has gone beyond the 3,000 metres mark in Delhi, ranging between 1,500 and 3,200 metres during the day in Palam. Agencies forecast strong surface winds to continue on Tuesday as well, and the air quality to improve to the ”poor” category, provided the fire count remains low.According to the Union earth ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), 909 fire counts were recorded across the northern plains in the past 24 hours, with the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM 2.5 share pegged at 6%.PM 2.5 are fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters that are generally 2.5 microns, or about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair.“Local surface winds were relatively high on Monday and similar winds are expected on Tuesday. Air quality is expected to improve to the ‘poor’ category in the next two days; however, wind speed is expected to drop after November 24, which may lead to worse air quality,” said Gufran Beig, founder and project director, Safar.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 27.5 degrees Celsius (°C) on Monday – one degree above normal, while the minimum was recorded at 11.4°C, normal for this time of the year. Mercury is set to fall in the coming days, the IMD said, dropping to 10°C by Wednesday. “This was the first November day, when visibility was over 3,000 metres at the Palam station. Wind speeds ranged between 15-25km/hr. However, by November 24, wind speeds will drop considerably,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at the IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capitals-evening-air-improves-to-poor-as-winds-get-stronger-101637614656057.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||J&K DSP dies of post-Covid complications||A deputy superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday died of post-Covid complications here. Ajay Sharma, 53, of Reasi, was admitted to Jammu GMC on November 18. “He was tested positive for Covid on the day he was hospitalised,” said an official. He had tested negative in his recent RT-PCR test, but succumbed due to comorbidities. The police officer is survived by two sons, daughter, wife and mother. J&K DGP Dilbag Singh has deeply condoled the demise Ajay Sharma and expressed his sympathy with the bereaved family. Sharma had joined the Jammu and Kashmir Police in 1990 as a sub-inspector. 160 fresh cases detected in J&KMeanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir reported 160 fresh Covid infections and a death on Monday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 128 were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 32 infections. As many as 16 districts saw single digit or zero cases. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 195 with active cases reaching 1,665. The total recoveries reached 3,29,401 and recovery rate stood at 98.17%. J&K’s overall caseload is 3,35,528 and the death toll is 4,462. Three die of virus in HPHimachal Pradesh recorded 110 new corona cases on Monday, taking its cumulative tally to 2,26,505 while the death toll reached 3,817 after three patients died of the infection. The active case count came down to 875 while the recoveries have reached 2,21,796 after 142 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 51,705 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,836 cases and Shimla with 27,737 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-dsp-dies-of-post-covid-complications-101637614730191.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: Dhaba owner among 6 booked for thrashing scribe||Six persons, including the owner of Sethi dhaba in Zirakpur, have been booked for allegedly thrashing a journalist of a vernacular daily, and hurting religious sentiments.The dhaba owner, Vijay Kumar alias Sonu Sethi, had been booked in August as well for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by recording and distributing a video purportedly showing women dancing to religious hymns in a derogatory manner. On Sunday evening, Sethi and five others allegedly assaulted and robbed a scribe, identified as Sukhwinder Singh Saini, who had gone to his dhaba to cover a story. Zirakpur station house officer, Onkar Singh Brar, said, “We have booked six persons, including the owner of Sethi dhaba. They have been charged for looting, injuring, and taking off the turban of a journalist.” In his police complaint, Saini alleged he was working on a story about an illegal LCD installed in front of Sethi dhaba, when the owner and his accomplices came and started thrashing him. In the melee, his turban was tossed. Saini immediately informed the cops after which, a team of policemen rescued him. The scribe said that Sethi even threatened to kill him before fleeing the spot. Investigating officer, Balwinder Singh said the accused have been booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of a class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 382 (theft), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341(wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, Sethi, in a social media post, alleged that Saini had been harassing and blackmailing him over an LCD set up outside his dhaba. He also alleged that the case has been registered against him due to Saini’s proximity to the station house officer of Zirakpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-dhaba-owner-among-6-booked-for-thrashing-scribe-101637614729213.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ramnagar infant deaths: J&K govt orders relief to victims’ next of kin||The J&K administration has finally ordered compensation of ₹3 lakh each to the families of 12 infants, who died after consuming spurious cough syrup in Ramnagar area of Udhampur district in Jammu. “The order passed by the health and medical education department is only a small step in the direction of providing succour to the families of infant victims and also a victory for common masses, who suffered due to lack of medical care and official negligence,” said Sukesh C Khajuria, a social activist who fought a lone battle for justice to the victims. The health and medical education department in its order dated November 16 directed to release a sum of ₹36 lakh for 12 infant victims of spurious drugs in Ramnagar area following the approval granted by the administrative council headed by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha in its meeting held on October 7. The J&K administration’s decision to pay compensation came after the directions of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in its orders dated January 18 and July 19, 2021 on a petition filed by Khajuria. The J&K High Court has not only rejected the plea of the administration against payment of compensation ordered by NHRC, but also passed strictures against the conduct of the bureaucracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ramnagar-infant-deaths-j-k-govt-orders-relief-to-victims-next-of-kin-101637614490353.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||After poor show in Swachh survey, Chandigarh admn repatriates medical officer of health||Heads have started rolling in the aftermath of Chandigarh’s poor performance in Swachh Survekshan 2021 (SS2021). The UT administration on Monday repatriated Dr Amrit Pal Singh Warring, under whose watch as medical officer of health (MOH), Chandigarh municipal corporation slipped in the Swachh rankings. UT adviser Dharam Pal on Monday said the MC and administration officials will be held accountable for the city’s poor performance in the survey.“Everything is under review. As and when we discover that there has been a lapse on the part of any official, we will fix responsibility. This is a warning to other officers too. You can’t come to Chandigarh, enjoy and leave,” said Pal. Warring was on deputation to the city from the Punjab government. The terms of the officers on deputation to the city will be linked to their performance. “If their performance is not satisfactory, their tenure will not be extended, and these can be ended prematurely too,” said Pal.On the officers from state and AGMUT cadres, Pal, said, “Chandigarh has a traditional arrangement with Punjab, Haryana and AGMUT on deputation of officers. We have no problem from which state the officers are coming if they are performing well. But, if an arrangement is not working, we will have no hesitation in looking for other alternative arrangements.”Warring debarred from UTOn Monday, Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit relieved Warring with immediate effect and also debarred him from ever holding any post in Chandigarh administration in future.Following up on the recommendation to chargesheet Warring, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra on Monday requested the adviser to repatriate Warring immediately. Mitra highlighted the “failures” during his tenure in terms of not floating the mechanical and manual sweeping contract in time, leading to four-month extension for the present company, which is set to cost the MC ₹16.50 crore.Earlier, the commissioner had proposed a chargesheet for major penalty against the MOH for delay in outsourcing drivers for 96 vehicles. The delay in the tender for outsourcing 122 drivers resulted in 96 garbage collection vehicles lying idle.The administration will also forward the chargesheet against Warring to the Punjab government, said Pal.“Due to his less-than-desirable efforts on the sanitation front, Chandigarh has fallen from 16 to 66 in the Swacch Survekshan ranking of 2021,” added Mitra.Warring didn’t respond to multiple calls and messages.Preparing for next year“We are going to have a hard review on November 24 because we don’t have much time for the next survey. It will probably be scheduled in January or February next year. We really have to pull up our socks and see how well we can do as we are in the middle of an election. We will try our best to improve on the parameters,” said the UT adviser. In November 24 meeting, the responsibility of the MC and administration’s officials for different parameters will be fixed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-poor-show-in-swachh-survey-chandigarh-admn-repatriates-medical-officer-of-health-101637614489123.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kidnapping of ragpickers’ son: Accused had left Ludhiana before cops could initiate probe||Police are struggling to find leads in the kidnapping of a ragpicker’s infant son, and scanning of CCTV footage has revealed that the accused had left the city before the police could reach the spot and initiate an investigation. Upon scanning around 300 CCTV cameras installed, the police found that the car, in which the accused had kidnapped the infant, was seen on the national highway moving towards Jalandhar, and have sough assistance from their counterparts in Phillaur, Jalandhar and Kapurthala.The kidnappers’ car was last seen moving towards Bahadur ke before disappearing from the coverage of CCTVs. The police have already asked the Regional Transport Authority to provide details of owners of all Alto cars registered as taxis to trace the accused.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Dharmpal Juneja said the police will not leave any stone unturned to trace the accused and ensure the recovery of the infant.A car-borne woman and her male aide had kidnapped a ragpicker’s four-month-old son from the Grain Market near Jalandhar Bypass on Friday night. The accused had approached the family on the pretext of donating woollens and food for the children. An FIR was lodged against unidentified accused at the Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kidnapping-of-ragpickers-son-accused-had-left-ludhiana-before-cops-could-initiate-probe-101637614429058.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||MeT predicts light snow in Kashmir’s upper reaches on Nov 25||Kashmir is observing sub-zero temperatures at many places as the weather department has predicted light snowfall in next few days.Srinagar recorded another cold night with temperature dropping to minus 1.6°C last night. Pahalgam, a famous tourist place, recorded a lowest of minus 3.7°C — the coldest place in Kashmir. Gulmarg recorded a minimum of minus 0.8°C.Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dry weather till the end of this month, but there is possibility of rain and snow within next couple of days. “The weather is most likely to remain cold and dry till the end of November in entire Jammu and Kashmir. However, there is 40% to 50% chance of very light snowfall over extreme north Kashmir on November 25. Overall, there is no forecast for any major weather event for next two weeks,” said a senior official of IMD in Srinagar.The Valley is currently witnessing foggy conditions owing to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. IMD officials said the temperatures will keep dipping till a western disturbance will change the dry weather condition. The cold temperature has led to disruption in power supply owing to overuse of electricity across Kashmir. Officials said the electricity usage has increased that has led to frequent shutdowns across Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-predicts-light-snow-in-kashmir-s-upper-reaches-on-nov-25-101637614309273.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||MCDs prepone budgets ahead of polls||The three municipal corporations are slated to present their annual budgets this month -- the last before the civic bodies elections due to be held in April next year -- with officials saying the exercise has begun early this year to avoid the model code of conduct interfering with budget announcements.Usually, the three corporations presented their budgets in second or third week of December.Senior officials privy to the budget preparations said South Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner Gyanesh Bharti will present the budget on Tuesday, and his counterparts in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and East Delhi Municipal Corporation will table their budgets on November 25 and 26, respectively.All three civic bodies in Delhi are going through an acute financial crunch and running behind on paying salaries to their staff that has led to repeated strikes. No new projects have been implemented in the last couple of years with the Covid pandemic further hitting their financial health. The opposition has blamed the mess on the mismanagement and rampant corruption in the three civic bodies that are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The SDMC which was the only corporation with a surplus till 2018-19, has a current deficit of ₹200 crore. A senior SDMC official who asked not to be named said, “Year after year the municipal commissioner has proposed increasing the existing tax rates and introduction of some new taxes, but the councillors have shot down all such proposals.”Leader of the house, SDMC, Inderjeet Sehrawat agreed that the severe financial stress has affected the functioning of the corporation, but added that the civic body will try to clear public welfare schemes during the budget process by “utilising internal resources”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-prepone-budgets-ahead-of-polls-101637613740045.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress rally in Ludhiana: Forced to walk to venue, wedding guests see red||Dressed to the nines, and decked in their best wedding regalia, hundreds of guests who were headed to marriage halls opposite the Congress’ rally on Monday were forced to park their cars at a distance and walk to the venue. Three marriage halls are located on Gill Road near the Grain Market where chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi addressed the burgeoning crowds. Political stalwarts including Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, and MPs Amar Singh, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Mohammad Sadiq were in attendance at the rally, which was organised in the Atam Nagar constituency by Congress leader Kamaljit Singh Karwal. Heavy traffic jams were witnessed near the rally ground and due to the security bubble around the venue. The guests were stopped at barricades and were allowed to enter after being verified by the cops. Only the vehicles of the grooms and brides were allowed to enter the marriage halls that too after thorough checking by the police. The brother of one of the grooms said, “We never would have booked the venue, had we known about the rally. It is embarrassing for us to see the guests arriving at the wedding after walking a long distance in heals, lehenga, sarees and gowns. Besides, it is not safe for the women to walk long distances while wearing expensive jewels.” Though valet parking was available, many had to park their cars themselves. Rishabh Arora, a guest, said the baratis could not even dance outside the venues due to heavy police deployment.High drama at venueHigh drama was seen at the venue after a minor scuffle broke out between the cops and the Congress councillors, including Ward 3 councillor Vipan Vinayak, as latter was denied entry from main pandal side, following which workers requested Captain Sandeep Sandhu to intervene.The woman who had levelled rape alligations against LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains also held a hoarding outside the rally venue. She accused the Congress of sheltering Bains and demanded his arrested. She alleged that the police had stopped her from entering the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-rally-in-ludhiana-forced-to-walk-to-venue-wedding-guests-see-red-101637614070466.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Families of civilians killed in Hyderpora now root for justice||The families of two civilians, who were killed in Hyderpora operation, are now rooting for justice from J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha after they were successful in getting the bodies of their kin exhumed and perform their funerals. After a week of the killings of Altaf Ahmad Bhat, 48, and Mudasir Gul, 43, during an anti-militancy operation, the two families are now coming to terms with the loss they suffered, particularly after they were forced to come out on roads to demand the bodies of their loved ones. The extended families and relatives of both Bhat and Gul still gather and mourn at their homes in Barzulla in Srinagar and Kanipora in Budgam. “I trust the lieutenant governor’s words. He has announced that an inquiry will be conducted and justice will be served. Somebody should not think that they can get away with a brutal killing and nobody will question them,” said Bhat’s elder brother Abdul Majeed, a contractor by profession. “I am thankful to the lieutenant governor and now I am waiting for capital punishment to the killers of my brother,” he added.The J&K administration has ordered a magisterial probe after questions were raised over the Hyderpora operation carried out by security forces in which four persons, including three J&K residents and a suspected Pakistani, were killed on November 15. The police had claimed that Bhat and Gul were civilians who helped militants and were killed in cross firing, while the other two were Pakistani terrorist Bilal Bhai alias Hyder and a ‘hybrid’ militant, Amir Magray. Bhat was the owner of the shopping complex where the encounter took place while Gul, a doctor and a real estate businessman, had rented rooms there. Magray used to work as an office boy with Gul at the complex. “If the police had inputs and they were so sure, how did they use them as human shields? Why were they put in harm’s way deliberately? ,” asked Bhat’s niece Saima Bhat, a journalist. Bhat is survived by his homemaker wife, two daughters aged 15 and 12, and an 8-year-old son. “My elder cousin is scared how will she face her friends and teachers when they would ask about her father. Would I be able to concentrate in studies, she asks me,” Saima said, adding that there were many things where the police story did not add up. “Even Kashmir IGP said that he regretted my uncle’s killing. Still they did not give us his body immediately and tormented us for 70-80 hours,” she said. ‘No militant was born in our family ever’The family of Mudasir Gul said that no militant was born in their family or extended family ever.“There is no history of militancy in our family or even extended family. Also, we have never voted for any political party till now. We don’t trust anybody,” said Gul’s father Ghulam Mohammad Rather, a retired government employee. He wanted a judicial probe into the killings. “We are thankful to Lieutenant Governor Sinha that he took the initiative and handed over the bodies of innocent civilians. This incident (Hyderpora encounter) should be probed and culprits be punished,” he added.“They were civilians. The police should withdraw their allegations. We want a judicial inquiry, not a magisterial probe. A court-monitored probe can be fair,” he further said. Gul has two children from his wife Raffia — a 10-year-old girl and a son aged five. He also has a one-year-old daughter from his second wife Humaira. Gul’s brother-in-law Showkat Ahmad said they wanted that justice should be delivered, not denied. “His wife is in shock. She is taking anti depressants,” he said. “Gul was such a gentleman. He used to behave as a child with a child and mature with a mature person,” Showkat recalled.Return body of third civilian killed in Hyderpora without any delay: CPI (M)JAMMU Urging the authorities to return the body of Amir Ahmad Magray of Gool in Ramban, the third person killed in Hyderpora last week without any delay, Sham Prasad Kesar, Jammu regional secretary, CPI (M), on Monday demanded a judicial probe into the killing of three civilians.“As it has been proven beyond any doubt that Magray was a civilian, it is huge injustice to his family that they are not even allowed to perform his last rites. When the body of two other civilians killed in Hyderpora were returned, why is the government reluctant to return Magray’s body to his family?” he questioned.“The government must ensure that those involved in the killing of unarmed civilians are brought to book and punished under the law. The probe ordered by the government by an additional district magistrate-rank officer in Hyderpora killings is not enough as it is difficult for a middle-rung officer to prove something which is contrary to the government claims,” he claimed. We demand a judicial and time-bound probe into the gruesome incident which has shaken the whole Jammu and Kashmir, he said, adding that the least the government could do to restore the confidence of people in institutions is to punish the culprits of this heinous crime in a transparent manner.(With inputs from Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-families-of-civilians-killed-in-hyderpora-now-root-for-justice-101637614009961.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Dharamshala’s famous Dal Lake dries up as winter sets in||With the onset of winters, the famous Dal Lake in Naddi village on the outskirts of Dharamshala town has almost dried up — an issue persisting for over a decade and a half, resulting in death of hundreds of fish. Ashok Sharma, a local, said when elders of the village came to the lake this morning, they saw fish stuck in drying mud and perishing. “Some local youth gathered here and started the efforts to save the fish and also informed the administration,” said Sharma.Located 1,775 metre above the sea level amid thick cedar forest, the lake that once had crystal clear water is dying a slow death. The waterbody has gradually lost its storage capacity due to rapid silting and continuous seepage. This has further affected the flora and fauna in its catchment areas. “Almost every winter, the lake dries up and is reduced to a mud pond. The government claims to have spent crores on the lake but in reality, nothing has happened on ground. If they had fixed it why doesn’t the problem go,” asked Sharma, who was visibly angry over the government’s failure to save the water body. Apart from being a tourist destination, the lake also holds importance for locals from religious point of view as they consider it as sacred as Manimahesh Lake in Chamba. The devotees who can’t go to Manimahesh Lake take the holy dip here.Meanwhile, Dharamshala subdivisional magistrate Shilpi Beakta, who visited the spot, said the Jal Shakti department has started the mitigation efforts. “We are pumping water into the lake so that the fish survive. The fish from the lake will be transferred to some other waterbody and then we will look what can be done,” she added. Beakta said she would study the previous reports and also submit a fresh report to the higher authorities. Previous efforts remained futileThe problem of silting and seepage first appeared in mid-2000s. The local administration started desilting and restoration work in 2008, but it instead aggravated the problem as the lake completely dried up. Locals alleged that lake started losing more water rapidly after desilting was done using earthmovers under a joint project carried out by the tourism and forest departments in 2008. An amount of ₹40 lakh was spent on the exercise but it bore negative impact due to restoration work done in unscientific manner and against the advice of geological experts from IIT-Roorkee, who had conducted a research on the lake.Later, a restoration project worth ₹70 lakh was approved to plug the leakage, but that too didn’t work. In 2018, the Centre had sanctioned ₹4 crore for the restoration and beautification of Dal Lake, but no change is visible as of now.Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal said the Jal Shakti department has recharged the waterbody by pumping water into it. “Fish are being transferred. We will conduct an interdepartmental meeting soon to work out a long-term solution to the problem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dharamshalas-famous-dal-lake-dries-up-as-winter-sets-in-101637613769276.html
23-11-2021||Gurugram||2 days after Bhondsi jail clash, authorities shift suspects to different barracks||Two days after a clash in Bhondsi jail left three inmates severely injured, officials shifted other inmates involved in the clash to different barracks to avoid confrontation. Jail officials said they were monitoring the activities of rival gangs and will not allow them out of their barracks at the same time to ensure their safety and security. Harinder Singh, superintendent of Bhondsi jail, said that the suspects have been shifted to a high security cell which is under surveillance and they will not be allowed to come out. “A clash between the two gangs was reported after two years as the inmates have started going to courts for their case hearings and have started fighting, resulting in such incidents,” he said. Police said the inmates, who belong to rival gangs, are still fighting for supremacy despite their gang leaders either having been murdered or lodged in different jails. Members of the Kaushal, Ashok Rathi, Sandeep Gadoli, Binder Gujar, Manjeet Mahal, Rajesh Bawana and Amit Dagar gangs have had several tiffs in jail in the past and have attacked each other several times, said police. Police said these gangs ran extortion rackets, settled land disputes, organised satta games (gambling) and made money through legitimate as well as illegitimate means on a smaller scale, but after the takedown of the Kaushal gang, and murder of Ashok Rathi and Sandeep Gadoli, smaller gangs have been eyeing their space. Jagbir Singh, station house officer of Bhondsi police station, said that several brawls and feuds have been reported in Bhondsi jail in the past too. “Many gangs have joined hands to increase their powers and hold on to their supremacy. They are trying to increase the number of their members by offering young inmates money and essential goods to join them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2-days-after-bhondsi-jail-clash-authorities-shift-suspects-to-different-barracks-101637613649528.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mahavir Kaushik posted as Panchkula DC||Haryana government on Monday posted Fatehabad deputy commissioner Mahavir Kaushik as Panchkula deputy commissioner. Kaushik has replaced Vinay Pratap Singh, who has been appointed as Chandigarh deputy commissioner. A 2011- batch IAS officer, Kaushik is not new to the city as he has earlier served as additional director, urban estate, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mahavir-kaushik-posted-as-panchkula-dc-101637613589124.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||VIP movement causes traffic snarls in Ludhiana||With political heavyweights such as Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Congress state president Navjot Singh Sidhu, and AAP state president Harpal Cheema visiting the city on Monday to woo voters ahead of the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, numerous traffic snarls were witnessed across the city. Due to heavy VIP movement in the city, long traffic jams were reported at Gill Road, Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Bhai Wala Chowk and Ferozpur Road. A few irate commuters were also seen arguing with traffic cops who were trying to regulate traffic through blockades and diversions. “It took me over an hour to reach the Mall Road from Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on my bike, which is ordinarily a 15-minute drive. It was frustrating to drive amid all the traffic chaos,” said Amar Sharma.Blaming mismanagement by the administration and the police for the winding jams, a commuter, Sarita Chawla, said, “The city is already dug up at several places, and to top it all Congress leaders, including the chief minister, and Kejriwal, were holding rallies in Ludhiana on the same day. I had to visit Haibowal Khurd for some urgent work, but decided to return home due the heavy traffic on the roads.” People had to wait a long time near the Grain Market and Gill Road as people had to wait a long time to clear the passage for the VIPs in the Congress rally. Not just the general public, but local Congress leaders to had to suffer due to the traffic chaos and many were late reaching the venue of the rally. Heated arguments also broke out between the cops and the Congress councillors as they were denied entry from the side of the pandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vip-movement-causes-traffic-snarls-in-ludhiana-101637613469904.html
23-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram traffic police impound 114 vehicles, penalise 63 contractors in 3 days||Twenty teams of the traffic police have impounded 114 vehicles and penalised contractors on 63 construction sites in the last three days in a bid to keep a check on the high pollution levels in the city.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, the city recorded an average Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 310 on Monday, better than the AQI reading of 364 on Sunday. Since November 14, the city’s AQI has been in the “very poor” category. Police said their teams are doing the rounds to check air pollution caused by dust emanating from construction sites and submitting reports on a daily basis. They are also penalising drivers/owners of heavy vehicles carrying construction materials if the materials are not covered, leading to pollution, said police. Police said they collected fines totalling to ₹11.15 lakh from contractors at six construction sites over the last three days so far. Trucks, apart from those carrying essentials, are not allowed to enter the Capital until November 26 and have been asked to take the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway towards other states.Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said that they are also spreading awareness at petrol pumps to urge private vehicle users to get their pollution under control (PUC) certificates updated regularly to bring down vehicular pollution across the city. “We are adhering to the National Green Tribunal’s directions and a full-scale drive against petrol and diesel vehicles older than 15 and 10 years, respectively, is continuously going on across the city. We have impounded 82 petrol vehicles, which were more than 15 years old, and 32 diesel vehicles, which were more than 10 years old, in the last three days,” he said. Balhara said they are also focusing on spreading awareness on regular pollution checks as the level of pollution can be brought down by up to 20% if vehicular emissions are controlled. “This year, owners of 3,000 vehicles were fined for not having pollution certificates, and 646 of them were second-time violators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-traffic-police-impound-114-vehicles-penalise-63-contractors-in-3-days-101637613349159.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections on December 24, three-way contest this time||The city is all set for a three-cornered contest as the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) goes to the polls on December 24. Announcing the election schedule on Monday, state election commissioner SK Srivastava said the results will be declared on December 27. “Nominations can be filed from November 27 to December 4 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is December 9,” said Srivastava. He added that with this, the model code of conduct has come into force. The electoral process will be completed by December 30.On the issue of the pending court case regarding ward notification, Srivastava said, “We will follow the directions of the Panjab and Haryana high court in the matter.”On Thursday last week, the HC had orally asked the UT not to announce the election dates, as per UT’s counsel. However, a detailed order in this regard is awaited and the matter is fixed for hearing on Tuesday. The court was hearing a bunch of pleas against notification on ward reservation. Nearly 1 lakh more votersSince 2016, the vote count in Chandigarh has increased from 5.07 lakh to 6.3 lakh. This time around, there are 3.3 lakh male voters, 2.99 lakh female and 17 third gender. The voter count is likely to increase as voter registration is still going on.With the number of wards increasing from 26 to 35, the total number of booths has also been increased from 474 to 694. Covid guidelines were also kept in mind while creating more polling booths, said the state election commissioner.The poll timings will be from 7.30 am to 5 pm. Covid-19 patients who would like to vote would be able to do so during the last one hour of voting.“During the election, strict adherence to the model code of conduct is to be maintained. If it is violated, action will be taken as per the law,” said Srivastava.The campaigning hours will be 10 am to 7 pm every day, and campaign will end 72 hours before the polling day.AAP throws its hat in ring, SAD to fight with its new allyTraditionally, MC elections in Chandigarh were a two-cornered fight between the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This time around, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also in the fray. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which contested the last municipal election as an ally of the BJP, has allied with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) this time.In the outgoing MC house of 26 councillors, BJP has a strength of 20, Congress five and SAD one. While both BJP-SAD and Congress fought on 26 seats, the BSP put up its candidates in 17 wards last time.While the opposition parties are banking on anti-incumbency factor, the ruling BJP will fight on its past five-year performance and development plank. With the election commission rolling out the election schedule, the parties are expected to announce their first list of candidates within a couple of days. During the last elections, a total of 122 candidates were in fray, including 67 independent candidates. Congress state president Subhash Chawla, said, “We welcome the state election commission (SEC)’s decision. We will also request the commission to keep a strict watch on the administration so that it doesn’t help the BJP in the elections.” BJP state president Arun Sood, said, “We are ready for the elections. AAP and Congress tried to delay the elections by filling court cases as they fear the results. We welcome SEC decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-on-december-24-three-way-contest-this-time-101637613289157.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Channi enjoys tea with autowallahs, Kejriwal has dinner at auto driver’s house in Ludhiana||With poll fever gripping Punjab, politicos are busy wooing the ‘classes and masses’ these days. On Monday, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and AAP national convener and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal were seen striking a chord with autowallahs in Ludhiana. Channi, who was on his way to attend Congress rally at the grain market here, made an impromptu stop at Gill Chowk and started talking to the auto drivers, who were visibly surprised to see the unusual guest. Channi, accompanied by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, perched on a wooden bench as he listened to the problems being faced by the auto drivers. The chief minister also relished the tea offered by his hosts. Striking an emotional chord with the crowd, Channi said during his initial days he had also driven an autorickshaw. The CM also promised to issue new registration certificates to them. Later, Kejriwal addressed an ‘Auto Samwad’ programme in the city and promised to solve the problems of auto and taxi drivers if they help the AAP to come to power in Punjab in the upcoming polls. During the programme, Kejriwal was invited for a dinner by an auto driver, Dilip Kumar. The AAP leader accepted the invitation and went to Kumar’s house in Bajwa Nagar here accompanied by state party leaders Bhagwant Mann and Harpal Singh Cheema. After the dinner, Kejriwal tweeted: “Dilip Kumar invited us from the bottom of his heart to his house for dinner today. His family gave so much love. Very tasty food. I have invited his entire family for having food at my home in Delhi now.” Kumar said: “It feels like a dream that Kejriwal ji has come to my home. I am very happy about it. I have no words to express how happy I feel.” Prior to this, the Delhi CM took a ride in Dilip’s autorickshaw. 
23-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram police ready action plan to tackle fog accidents||Gurugram police have identified 25 spots located on stretches such as the National Highway 48, Kundi-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, and Sohna Road where most accidents take place during foggy conditions. Police have now decided to ascertain the exact cause behind accidents at these spots, rectify them, and also increase deployment in a bid to prevent accidents.Last week, a team of traffic police also surveyed some of the locations for the purpose.Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Gurugram traffic police, said they observed that low visibility, combined with traffic violations such as speeding and driving on the wrong side of the road, was resulting in a number of accidents on intersections such as Bilaspur crossing, Dwarka Expressway, Shankar Chowk, Gurugram- Faridabad Road, Tauru crossing, Panchgaon, Sector 17/18 exit, Rajiv Chowk, Pataudi crossing, Hero Honda Chowk, Sohna Road, Sidhrawali exit, KMP Expressway, and Farrukhnagar crossing.“The process of monitoring and surveying fog-related, accident-prone sites is ongoing. However, so far, we’ve made a detailed action plan for road engineering-related improvements at nine locations. We recommended enforcing speed limits, suggested the installation of road markings and signages, along with better enforcement and awareness campaigns to curb accidents,” he said.Balhara said that police will also hold road contractors, consultants, or concessionaires accountable for faulty road design under the Motor Vehicle Act.“We have increased deployment on the stretches known to be dangerous spots and have also recommended changes including the construction of speed breakers which were uneven and large in size, changing the size of roundabouts, installing traffic lights and road markings,” he said.Police expect the survey to be complete by next week.Gurugram traffic police have also written to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to ensure the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway is fog-ready by ensuring medians are properly painted, installing blinker lights at all entry and exit points as well as reflector tapes, CAT-eyes, and road-stud reflectors for ensuring lane-driving.“During December and January, a high number of accidents take place on Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway due to low visibility from foggy conditions. We have directed NHAI to install adequate safety measures that can help commuters maintain lane-driving during low-visibility, spot their exit points in advance, as well as reach out for help in case of a mishap,” said Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP, Gurugram traffic police.Tomar said NHAI has also has been directed to fix LED screens on top of foot overbridges so that they can display helpline numbers and traffic warnings.“As part of routine maintenance, we regularly fix all road safety amenities and will ensure the highways are fog-ready,” said Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-police-ready-action-plan-to-tackle-fog-accidents-101637612989022.html
23-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s air ‘very poor’ for 8th consecutive day, but sees slight improvement||For the eighth consecutive day, Gurugram’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Monday, but recorded a marginal improvement due to increased wind speed, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Weather department officials said they expected the city’s air quality to improve further on Tuesday due to strong surface winds forecasted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, the city recorded an average Air quality Index (AQI) reading of 310 on Monday, better than the AQI reading of 364 on Sunday. Since November 14, the city’s AQI has been in the “very poor” category. An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer (north) for Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said that increased wind speed, which helped in the dispersion of pollutants, along with the implementation of Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures, resulted in a marginal improvement in air quality. He said the AQI was likely to improve further on Tuesday.“We are closely monitoring the weather pattern. Favourable weather conditions, i.e. high surface airspeed helped disperse pollutants on Monday. High wind speed is forecasted on Tuesday and we are anticipating this will help improve the air further. Simultaneously, all agencies concerned are continuing with the enforcement of Grap measures, especially during the night to ensure localised air pollution is kept in check,” said Singh.The IMD bulletin also stated that the air quality is likely to remain in the “moderate” to “poor” category on Tuesday and the “poor” category on Wednesday. The bulletin added that for the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” category with PM2.5 being the predominant pollutant in the region. PM 2.5 are fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters that are generally 2.5 microns, or about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair. According to IMD, Gurugram on Monday recorded a maximum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius (°C) and a and minimum temperature of 10°C with a generally clear sky.The minimum temperature on Tuesday is expected to come down by a degree, the first time the city is likely to record a single-digit temperature this season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-air-very-poor-for-8th-consecutive-day-but-sees-slight-improvement-101637612808980.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pakhowal ROB, RUB project: Amid piling losses, shopkeepers upset over ‘lockdown-like’ situation||The nearly kilometre-long stretch extending from Pakhowal Road to Hero Bakery has remained closed off for almost a year now due to the ongoing construction of the Pakhowal Road railway over bridge and two railway under bridges. However, the protracted project has imperiled the livelihoods of around a dozen shopkeepers, who had set shop in the area. With the project blowing past its deadlines, many traders, primarily tenants, have relocated their businesses, while others are looking for a way out. Likening the situation to the Covid-induced lockdown, traders in the area said they never got a chance to recover from the slump as the footfall remained low due to the ongoing project. Many shopkeepers said that they struggled to pay their stores’ rent and thus had to vacate the premises. “With few customers visiting our shop, and rising inflation, it was difficult to make a livelihood,” a trader, requesting anonymity said, adding that while undertaking projects for the welfare of the public, authorities should be sensitive to the plight of the shopkeepers and make efforts to meet the deadline. Saroj Kumar, a garment shop owner, who was forced to shift his business from the stretch last year, said, “It so happened that the authorities closed the area three days after I opened my shop near the railway crossing. I was forced to shift my shop and around a dozen shopkeepers, and eatery owners have relocated since.” Doubtful about the market ever reviving, he said, “At present, the situation in the market is even worse than the lockdown as there uncertainty over whether the footfall will revive at all as the traffic will be redirected to the over and under bridges. At present, the vehicles can come to a certain point from Hero Bakery Chowk towards the railway crossing, but the commuters avoid the route as they have to make a U-turn afterwards. Even the regular customers have started moving to shops in other areas.” Owner of a sport equipment shop, Mehakpreet Singh, says, “There has been around 30% reduction in business due to the closure of the stretch. The authorities must expedite the project.” Initiated, in December last year, the Pakhowal Road railway over bridge (ROB) and railway under bridge (RUB) project was due to be completed in August. However, several deadlines for completing the project in a phased manner have been missed. It seems unlikely that the December 31 deadline will be met either. Under the project, a 839.83-m long ROB, is being constructed to allow movement of traffic from the Pakhowal Road Canal Bridge to the Hero Bakery Chowk, and a 1,018.46-m long RUB is being constructed from the Pakhowal Road Canal Bridge up to Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar, and another 458.20-m long RUB is being constructed from Hero Bakery Chowk up to the Pakhowal Road canal bridge.“Around 60% of our business has been affected as a few eateries, the owners of which used to purchase kirana (groceries and other sundry items) from our store, have been closed due to low footfall. The situation is reminiscent of the lockdown as no or low footfall is being witnessed. Those who had rented their stores have shifted. I have been able to pull through so far as I own my store. The uncertainty will prevail even after the project is completed,” said Amrik Singh, a kirana store ownerA lottery shop owner Jasmeet Singh said, “ No customer has set foot in our shop since the authorities stopped the movement of all vehicles, including two-wheelers on the stretch. Our regulars call us for tickets, which we have to get delivered at our own cost. We are struggling to make ends meet and therefore want to shift from the area. Only 30% sales were witnessed on Diwali this year, which is peak time for sale of lottery tickets. Authorities should meet their deadlines for our sake!” “Everyday we are suffering huge losses as we can only cater to our regular customers, who avail our services over the phone. Nobody comes to the market and traders are forced to sit idle the while day. Meanwhile, construction work is going on at snail’s pace, with only a few labourers working at the site,” said Harvinder Singh, glass shop owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakhowal-rob-rub-project-amid-piling-losses-shopkeepers-upset-over-lockdown-like-situation-101637612749161.html
23-11-2021||Gurugram||DTCP seals three floors of Gurugram house for violating OC norms||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Monday sealed three unoccupied floors of a house in DLF Phase 2 and cancelled its occupation certificate after they found that its design violated the original plan. The department also lodged a complaint with the police against the owner, after which the police registered a case, said DTCP officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said a team carried out a detailed survey while acting on a complaint which stated that the owner of a house in DLF Phase 2 had constructed many additions to the building after obtaining the occupation certificate. “The team found that the owner of the house had made many illegal constructions in the stilt area, and filled the setbacks (a plain, flat offset in a wall) and cutouts as well. This is a gross violation of the building plan and also these additions were carried out after obtaining occupation certificate. We have sealed unoccupied three floors of the house and lodged a complaint with police. They have registered a case in the matter,” he said. DTCP officials said that violations in individual houses are being treated at par with illegal colonies and the properties are being sealed and cases registered when rampant violations are being found. “We have already formed five teams to carry out inspections in such matters,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-seals-three-floors-of-gurugram-house-for-violating-oc-norms-101637612690184.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Stung by bypoll defeat, Jai Ram huddles with Mandi leaders to dissect verdict||Stung by the bypoll defeat, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur huddled with leaders and workers of the Mandi parliamentary segment to assess the factors that led to the party’s debacle. Overconfidence, infighting, complacent cadres and the failure to nullify the sympathy wave after former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s demise were identified as the key factors which led to the BJP’s loss. The election results had dented the Jai Ram’s image, who was the party’s face not only in the Mandi segment, but three assembly constituencies too. The Congress’ victory was stellar as its candidates won all the four seats. Jai Ram was confident of winning on his home turf Mandi and had even coined the slogan ‘Mandi Humari Thi, Humari Hai, aur Humari Rahegi’ (Mandi was ours, is ours, and will remain ours), but it proved otherwise for the ruling party. In Mandi, its candidate Kargil war veteran Brigadier Khushal Thakur lost to Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh. The slogan smacked of regional bias, the leaders opined. Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts did not favour the BJP either. Jai Ram tried to strike an emotional chord, besides raising the regional sentiments, but it didn’t work as Pratibha defeated Brigadier Thakur by 7,490 votes. The Congress banked on Virbhadra Singh’s sympathy, while it peddled the issue of rising inflation, unemployment and local factors. Personal attacks on Pratibha further solidified the sympathy wave in her favour. The BJP was entirely dependent on Jai Ram to win the home turf. The Congress constantly attacked the government over lack of development and misgovernance. The ruling party was overconfident whereas the ministers and legislators failed to counter the Congress allegations in the elections. Jai Ram had on Sunday convened a meeting of leaders at Pandoh to get their account of the election defeat. The BJP secured a lead of 21,609 from Seraj in the byelection in comparison to a massive lead of 34,000 during the previous Lok Sabha elections when Ramswaroop Sharma trounced former Union minister Sukhram’s grandson Aashray Sharma. Sources privy to the meeting said the CM’s dependence on the coterie of a handful of local leaders led to discontent among his supporters in Seraj. “Elections results shouldn’t be seen as the final assessment of my government. There are several other factors that led to BJP’s defeat in the byelection. The party will deeply analyse these reasons,” Jai Ram told local reporters. “The defeat is a timely alert for the BJP and we will work harder to win the 2022 elections by overcoming our shortcomings,” he added. As per BJP leaders, due to overconfidence, neither the leaders nor the workers mobilised the voters, which resulted in low voting percentage in the BJP strongholds. Also, a section of leaders was critical of the ‘lopsided approach’ in development works.The leaders observed that Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur’s segment Dharampur and CM’s segment Seraj got more preference in development works over other constituencies. The leaders felt that government works were confined to the file and there was little execution on the ground. ‘I accept the blame for the bad results’“The outcome of the bypolls was not as per the expectations. I, as the chief minister, accept the blame for the bad results,” Jai Ram said while addressing a press conference on Monday. “I accept the verdict and acknowledge the shortcomings. The decision in the party is taken collectively,” said the CM, who spent the entire day assessing the factors for the bypoll debacle. “There are certain things that I can share with you while some I keep confined to myself,” said the visibly upset CM. “As in the Centre and the state, we have BJP governments, there was overconfidence,” he added. “I started evaluation from my own Seraj assembly segment. There was a lead of more than 21,000 votes. It could have been better,” he said, adding that vote percentage is different in general assembly elections and bypolls. “One has to make efforts to mobilise voters,” Jai Ram said, and added that the government had carried out development works across the state, but could not connect with the people. He said his party and government will work with more vigour and strengthen itself in the coming days. Jai Ram also made it clear that the bypoll verdict should not be seen as a verdict against his government. Restore subsidy on pesticides, fungicides: Cong MLANewly elect Congress MLA from Jubbal-Kotkhai Rohit Thakur on Monday said the fruit growers in the state are facing economic losses due to the government’s decision to end the subsidy on essential insecticides and fungicides. He said when scab disease had ravaged the apple crop in Himachal in 1982-83, the then Congress government started 50% subsidy on pesticides and fungicides. However, the BJP government scrapped the subsidy in 2020. “In July, HP chief minister had announced to restore the subsidy, but no step has been taken yet. The government should immediately restore the subsidy on pesticides and fungicides and give relief to the apple growers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stung-by-bypoll-defeat-jai-ram-huddles-with-mandi-leaders-to-dissect-verdict-101637612689085.html
23-11-2021||Other||Khalsa College of Education deliberates on Teacher Education||Amritsar Khalsa College of Education (KCE) deliberated on the Teachers Education-Quality Assurance in campus on Monday. The focus was how education being provided to students during Covid times must retain its quality. The seminar-cum-workshop was organised by Canada-based Jagat Punjab Sabha in which chief guest Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, honourary secretary Khalsa College Governing Council spoke about Punjabi language and its historical perspectives. Ajaib Singh Chatha from Brampton gave a clarion call to educators to be role models and symbol of high ethical values for their students. Harpreet Kaur, principal, KCE, emphasised the need to preserve our culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khalsa-college-of-education-deliberates-on-teacher-education-101637612208928.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Grenade blast outside army camp in Punjab’s Pathankot, no damage||A grenade blast occurred outside the gate of an army camp at Pathankot following which an alert was sounded in the border district, police said on Monday. No casualty was reported in the blast that took place on Sunday night, they said. Some unidentified persons on a motorcycle hurled the grenade in front of the Triveni Dwar of the military camp at Dheerapaul here, police said. The blast comes two weeks after a grenade was hurled at the Nawanshahr office of the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) wing of police. The low-intensity explosion, however, had not resulted in any damage. “The CCTV footage obtained from the scene and the roads leading to the spot is being analysed to trace the accused,” Pathankot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Lamba said. Some parts of the hand grenade have been recovered from the site and a forensic team has collected samples, the SSP added. “The explosion was of medium intensity. The armymen on duty, however, had a narrow escape,” Lamba said. The police also suspected that the grenade may have been smuggled from Pakistan, but the SSP did not divulge anything about it citing that the investigation is underway. An alert has been sounded in the area after the blast as the district is prone to the infiltration of terrorists. The Pathankot air force base was attacked by terrorists five years ago. Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday said he has called a meeting of senior officers of the Amritsar border zone and Jalandhar zone on Tuesday to review the law-and-order situation and security in the state. Security at all the checkposts of the district has been tightened. A car with different number plates was found abandoned in the town. The vehicle has been seized. The SSP, however, said, it was not linked with the blast. There were also reports that two suspicious persons were spotted in the Bamyal area of Pathankot, but the police did not confirm it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grenade-blast-outside-army-camp-in-punjab-s-pathankot-no-damage-101637612030167.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Every problem in Punjab can be solved with political will: Manish Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Monday said every problem that Punjab was faced with today could be solved with political will. Interacting with industrialists and traders from Batala and Gurdaspur as part of the party’s dialogue programme ahead of the 2022 state assembly elections, Sisodia said before the formation of AAP government Delhi witnessed 7-hour power cuts but the party achieved the target of round-the-clock electricity supply due to political will. The average income graph of the country was increasing which was affecting the consumers, he said. “The question arises that if the average income has increased, then where is this money going? This clearly means a lack of political will,” the AAP leader added.The government, he said, should maintain cordial relations with the business community as the state and the country would prosper if the businesses flourish. “Traders and retailers in Delhi were afraid of raids and challans besides high taxes. But due to the political will of AAP, the tax was reduced from 12 per cent to 5 and, surprisingly, the government received 1 per cent more tax than last year,” he claimed. The gross domestic product (GDP) in the national capital grew by 13 per cent despite Covid-19 restrictions. “The national per capita income is 1.35 lakh while the same is 3.54 lakh in Delhi. We have started a Skill University in Delhi to address the needs of the entrepreneurs so that the students can get employment as soon as they complete their studies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/every-problem-in-punjab-can-be-solved-with-political-will-manish-sisodia-101637612029115.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Retired officers’ forum asks Punjab farm leaders to take political plunge||A forum of retired IAS, IPS, army and state services officers on Monday urged the farmer leaders to take political plunge in view of the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. In a meeting presided over by the former IAS officers Swaran Singh Boparai and RI Singh, the forum said the people of Punjab were in search of a political alternative.The people’s expectations from the farm leaders, it said, had gone up after the announcement by the Prime Minister to withdraw the three farm laws. “Not to indulge in any political activity was a wise decision of the Punjab-based farmer organisations when they were engaged in the agitation, but after withdrawal of the farm laws people have high expectations from them and they should take part in the political process,” read a resolution passed in the meeting. It was not an easy to fight a prolonged united battle and the success has paved the way for social and economic change in the country, the resolution added. Among those present in the meeting were DS Bains, GS Pandher, Kulbir Singh Sidhu, Iqbal Singh Sidhu, GK Singh, Karamjit Singh Sra and Harkesh Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-officers-forum-asks-punjab-farm-leaders-to-take-political-plunge-101637611856501.html
23-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurgaon Club: A British-era building now only found on maps||Dilapidated and hidden from plain sight by overgrown weeds and trees in Civil Lines is a 90-year-old British era building that houses the Gurgaon Club, a recreational facility set up in the 1930s, which is currently in a state of utter neglect. With its expansive grounds turning into a makeshift garbage dump, the club — which was the pride of the city over the decades gone by — is now adorned with empty packets of chips, plastic bottles and polythene bags.In its heyday, the club catered to Class 1 officers of the administration as well as advocates, judicial and executive officers, and engineers. However, at present, the only giveaway of the history it represents is a single line on the signboard that reads ‘Established since 1930.’ The signboard of the club, although still standing before its boundary wall, is mostly faded and difficult to comprehend.“Similar to all clubs set up across India during the British era, the Gurgaon Club was a place where British officers, advocates and civil servants could step out of their rooms, barracks and use it for recreational purposes. Indoor sports, such as darts, billiards and cards were common, and the place also offered its visitors meals and alcohol. It was set up completely for a non-profit cause,” said Atul Dev, convener, INTACH, Gurgaon chapter.Although marked on navigation maps, the establishment is difficult to spot, a sign of the extent to which it has been overlooked. The courtyard towards the rear end of the premises has started serving as a disposal ground for neglected items, prominent among which are a cart and a three-seater sofa, torn and worn out, which may have been used in the club.Initially owned by the then Gurgaon District Board, the premises were transferred to the Zila Parishad in 1999-2000 after the board was dissolved.During a visit by HT in October, the only persons on the club premises were three men from Jharsa village, who were seated inside one of three rooms, sipping liquor. The door of the room was broken, while the paint was peeling off and the building was riddled with seepage issues. The only pieces of furniture were four plastic chairs, three of which were occupied by the men and the fourth by a stray dog.A second room, interconnected to the first, lay in complete darkness. Upon shining a light, three plastic chairs and a centre table, all stacked one on top of the other, lay in disuse. A kitchen, attached to the room, was bare, with the only sound emanating from a faulty tap that was continuously leaking water.The last room, meanwhile, also did not have any signs of the club’s past. Instead, it seemed to serve as a makeshift housing where a man was sleeping on a charpai. A centre table and a television set, with Haryanvi music playing in the background, were the only other items present on the premises.The only room in the entire premises which seemed to be well maintained was the washroom, which appeared to have been recently renovated and equipped with modern fittings.The men who were present at the club during the visit claimed to be friends of the caretaker and said they had been visiting the premises since the late 2000s. “The club has been neglected for a long time now, few come to visit the place and there are no facilities for recreation anymore anyway. We come here often to play cricket,” said Honey, one of the three men.“The club is in bad shape and has been deteriorating continuously. However, its condition has considerably worsened in the past one and a half years because of the pandemic as nobody pays attention to its upkeep,” he said.With the MCG currently working towards creating a new public club, it seems unlikely that there are plans to renovate or re-establish the Gurgaon Club.“We have plans to revive and renovate the club along with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). We will be taking up this matter with the MCG by the end of this month and further pursue the matter jointly,” said Anu Sheokand, chief executive officer (CEO), Zila Parishad.In the MCG’s ₹36.38 crore plan for a club, a two-storey premises, with spaces reserved for two basement floors for parking, a solar roof to draw power, solar streetlights, and a swimming pool along with rooms reserved for leisure activities, has been mooted.A senior MCG official, from its engineering wing, said that the detailed project report (DPR) has been compiled and is currently being reviewed by a consultant to assess its feasibility.“The plan is to build the club on a 1.8 acre vacant land near DDR Chowk. The DPR is currently being reviewed. Once done, the project will be sent to the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) for perusal. Once ULB also gives its approval, the tendering process will commence,” the official said, requesting anonymity.The official said that the club will have a membership system as a prerequisite to avail of its services.As reflected in the name, the new club will be titled the Gurugram Club, signifying the shift towards the future. However, the 90-year-old Gurgaon Club is a reminder of the era gone by, of a past even before it came to be the Millennium City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurgaon-club-a-british-era-building-now-only-found-on-maps-101637611855446.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man stabs woman with a pair of scissors in Okhla||The Police on Monday arrested a man for killing a 37-year-old woman, allegedly by stabbing her in the neck with a pair of scissors. The man was allegedly angry with the woman for being friends with their male colleague, and killed her over that, the police said.Police said the suspect has been identified as Chand Alam (26), a resident of Okhla. In 2015, he started working in an export company at Pul Prahladpur where he became acquainted with his co-worker a Jharna (37), and they both used to sew clothes.“Both were married but they became friends and started spending time with each other. The woman started demanding money from the suspect, and he began giving her ₹6,000 every month. In February Alam allegedly got to know of Jharna’s closeness to another man, Suraj (single name). This led to a quarrel between them and he stopped giving her the money. Jilted, he allegedly made plans to kill her, which he carried out,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP), south-east, Esha Pandey.On Sunday, Alam met Jharna at the Badarpur bus stop and took her to an abandoned quarter near the railway tracks in Okhla, where he tried to physically assault her, the police said. Then they had an argument over Suraj.“Alam knew that Jharna had scissors in her bag, for cutting clothes at the factory, so he reached for her bag, pulled out the scissors and stabbed her in the neck. After making sure that she had died, he covered her body with a plastic bag, broke her mobile, and threw the pair of scissors and bloodstained clothes into a drain near his house,” said the DCP. A team was immediately formed to crack the case, the official said. “Maximum information from collected through local enquiries and call detail records of the woman’s phone to reveal her connection to Alam and that they were together at the time of her death. The team tried to locate Alam to interrogate him but he had fled his house. Thereafter, several searches were conducted and he was apprehended from Indira Kalyan Vihar in Okhla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-stabs-woman-with-a-pair-of-scissors-in-okhla-101637611728925.html
23-11-2021||Other||CT Institute of Hotel Management holds seven-state food festival||Jalandhar CT Institute of Hotel Management (CTIHM), South Campus, Shahpur, organised a 7-State Food Festival to celebrate the festive season. The states showcased were Jammu and Kashmir; Punjab; Himachal Pradesh; Bihar; Kerala; West Bengal and Leh Ladakh. CT Group co-chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi was the Guest of Honour. CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur’s campus director Rahul Malhotra; dean academics Anupamdeep Sharma; Jasdeep Kaur Dhami and Baljit Kaur, principal, CTIHM were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ct-institute-of-hotel-management-holds-seven-state-food-festival-101637611608984.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder will lose security deposit in assembly elections: Minister Warring||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Monday said that former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political future was “very bleak” and that he would lose his security deposit in the upcoming assembly elections. Warring, who was in Patiala as Satvinder Singh assumed charge as new Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) chairman, said, “Captain Amarinder is very senior to me but he should stop thinking of contesting from anywhere in Punjab. He will meet the same fate even from his home constituency Patiala.” Amarinder had formed a separate party earlier also but his experiment failed miserably then, he added. “We all are here and will see him losing in these polls too. Had I been given the transport ministry in 2017, the private transporter mafia could have been checked and they could have dealt with sternly,” Warring said.While Captain Amarinder didn’t wake up in the past four-and-a-half years, incumbent CM Channi is always available for people, the minister said. The Congress, he said, will contest the assembly elections under the vision of CM Channi and party’s state president Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-amarinder-will-lose-security-deposit-in-assembly-elections-minister-warring-101637611489084.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||2 weeks on, no breakthrough yet in SBS Nagar CIA office grenade blast||It has been two weeks since a grenade blast took place at the crime investigation agency (CIA) office in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, police are yet to make a breakthrough in the case. SBS Nagar deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Davinder Singh said that no arrest was made in the case so far but their teams were working on different angles. Details of investigation could not be disclosed at this stage, he added. A low-intensity grenade exploded on the premises of CIA office on the intervening night of November 7 and 8 even as no one was injured in the incident. The CIA office is located on the SBS Nagar-Jalandhar road, around 2.5-km from the district administration complex in the city. An FIR registered on the statement constable Jagtar Singh, who, along with four others, was on the night duty. “We came out and found the window glass of the head clerk’s office broken and water cooler lying at a distance,” Jagtar said in his complaint. Initially, the cops believed that the compressor of the water cooler had exploded, but they informed senior officials in the morning when shrapnel were found in the vicinity, the FIR states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-weeks-on-no-breakthrough-yet-in-sbs-nagar-cia-office-grenade-blast-101637611309121.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Will scale up checks at construction sites, crack down on violations: Delhi govt||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said construction and demolition (C&D) activities may resume in the capital, after being barred forfive days even though educational institutions will stay closed till further orders. The minister said that the ban on construction work has been lifted to “not further inconvenience the labourers”, but added that strict vigilance at all 585 sites in the city will be maintained to ensure that dust-control measures are implemented. Any violation may lead to halting of work, said Rai, who also pointed out that there has been an overall improvement in the air quality in the capital with several stations on Monday reporting air quality in the poor zone. Delhi recorded an average AQI of 311 (very poor), but it dropped to 299 by 8.30pm, data from CPCB’s Sameer app showed. The Delhi government on Sunday extended the ban on the entry of trucks, except those carrying essential items till November 26. It also allowed the staff of all Delhi government and affiliated offices work from home, but the directions that were approved late Sunday evening by the lieutenant governor’s office, did not say anything about the status of construction activities. In a separate order on Sunday, the government’s directorate of education said that all educational institutions in the national capital will stay shut till further orders. However, online classes may continue, it added. The directions had to be issued since the restrictions on schools, entry of trucks into the city and construction activities imposed by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR were expiring on Sunday night. The CAQM, which issued the directions on November 16, will hold a review of the measures on Wednesday. On November 13, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced closure of schools for a week in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution, hours after the Supreme Court slammed the state and central governments and ordered them to take “emergent steps” to curb pollution. Later, the CAQM issued guidelines for the national capital region after a meeting that was held on the orders of the apex court. Rai on Monday said they may allow CNG trucks into Delhi, after a review meeting of all government departments to at 12pm on November 24. “Based on the air quality and the forecast ahead, we will look into allowing CNG trucks into Delhi. Similarly, we may extend or remove other existing bans, depending on the situation,” he said.“We will issue notices later, but construction work will be immediately halted and a penalty will be imposed on the spot, if any construction site, public or private is found not adhering to our 14-point guidelines. The ban has been removed as air quality is already improving and the labour force was starting to face inconvenience,” said Rai. The 14-point guidelines include installation of wind-breakers, sprinkling of water and using anti-smog guns at construction sites with an area of over 20,000sqm. Public transport boostReferring to a recent analysis carried out by the Centre for Science and Environment, which said that local sources contributed 31% of the total air pollution in Delhi between October 24 and November 8, Rai said at least half of pollution by the local sources comes from exhaust of the vehicles. He added that government is taking measures to encourage the use of public transport. He said 1,000 CNG buses have hired to boost DTC fleet, and the permission to standing passengers in both DTC buses and Metro trains has enhanced carrying capacity. “The buses will have the words ‘Paryavaran Bus Sewa’ written on them and they will function like any other existing DTC bus service. We request the general public to avoid using their own vehicles and to travel using these public transport services,” said Rai. The minister added that DTC will run special bus service to CGO complex and the Central Secretariat for the central government employees. The minister said existing measures such as sprinkling of water, cracking down on old diesel and petrol vehicles, vehicles not having a valid PUC certificate and the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign will continue. “The crackdown on 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles is still continuing, along with a PUC check which has seen 4,000 people be fined. We have also increased the capacity of water sprinkling, with around 500 tankers at use. At Delhi’s 13 pollution hot spots, the fire brigade is spraying water so that dust pollution can be controlled there,” he said, stating Delhi government’s ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign will continue till December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-scale-up-checks-at-construction-sites-crack-down-on-violations-delhi-govt-101637611188928.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pathankot grenade attack: Security upped, search operations launched in Punjab’s border districts||The Punjab districts bordering Pakistan were put on high alert on Monday with the state police increasing security vigil and strengthening the second line of defence along the international border in the wake of a grenade blast in Pathankot early morning. Besides increasing manpower at the check-points along the border, special search operations were launched in cities and adjoining areas. Also, station house officers (SHOs) and in-charges of all wings of police were directed to conduct raids and arrest the wanted criminals at large. The grenade blast took place near Triveni Gate in the Pathankot cantonment, spreading panic among residents and sending the security agencies into a tizzy. The incident occurred nearly a fortnight after a tiffin bomb was seized and three persons were arrested in a Ferozepur village. Tiffin bombs, smuggled from across the border, were also seized in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Fazilka districts around three months ago.In Amritsar city, additional deputy commissioner of police (detective) Jugraj Singh along with other senior police officials launched a search operation on Monday afternoon and impounded at least five vehicles. “All teams have been put on alert and the nakas along the border have been strengthened,” said Amritsar-rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rakesh Kaushal.Tarn Taran SSP Harwinder Singh Virk said besides increasing the manpower at all sensitive points, especially in the border areas, they have also enhanced the shift timings of the personnel on duty. Batala SSP Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “Directions have been issued to prepare a list of wanted criminals who have been evading arrest. Police teams have been directed to search all suspected vehicles, especially those coming from the border side. Our technical teams are also keeping strict watch on suspicious people.”Another police official, who didn’t wish to be named, said they increased their coordination with the Border Security Force (BSF) to keep a close watch on all activities along the border. State home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has also called a meeting of senior police officials to check the security measures, it was learnt. A police official, however, said the meeting was already scheduled, but the security-related issues were likely to be discussed on priority in the wake of the Pathankot incident.A BSF official said keeping in view the increased drone activities from across the border, they have already enhanced their security and vigil along the border. “Anti-drone technology will soon be installed along the border,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pathankot-grenade-attack-security-upped-search-operations-launched-in-punjab-s-border-districts-101637610952224.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Kasturba hospital docs to go on ‘pen-down strike’ over salary delays||The resident doctors association (RDA) of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Kasturba hospital have announced a three-hour daily “pen-down strike” from Tuesday, and warned that it will turn into a full strike from Friday if their grievances, including on salary delays, are not addressed.A strike notice issued by the RDA on Monday stated that doctors will undertake the “pen-down” strike between 9am and 12 noon from Tuesday. RDA president Dr Sunil Kumar said that routine and emergency services will be stopped from Friday. “Despite repeated strikes and assurances of regularisation of our salaries, no solid action has been taken by the higher authorities... The civic body had provided us a written assurance that the salaries will be paid on time but they have gone back on their word,” he said.The strike notice has also demanded a hike in the dearness allowance that was scheduled to be implemented since July 2021. Dr Kumar said that both East and South Delhi municipal corporations have cleared the DA hike but the North MCD has cited a financial crisis to delay the implementation. One of the biggest maternity hospitals in the Walled City, the 450-bed Kasturba hospital records over 16,000 child births every year. RDA members said that the hospital treats 400-500 patients each day.The standing committee chairman of the north corporation Jogi Ram Jain said the corporation is trying its best to clear the outstanding dues of the healthcare workers. “We have recently issued the salaries for the month of September and the current pendency is only for October, which will be cleared soon. The protest seems politically motivated and the unions are being encouraged by Aam Aadmi Party to create chaos,” Jain said. Leader of the opposition in North MCD Vikas Goyal said that the financial crisis in the corporation is due to misgovernance and corruption by BJP. “They keep blaming the AAP-led Delhi government for their financial crisis but they have carried out nothing in the last 15 years of rule in the MCD due to which they are unable to pay even the salaries of doctors and nurses,” he said.The paramedic staff and nurses in the Hindu Rao hospital are also protesting due to the delays in salaries. HT had earlier reported that the contractor’s association in SDMC areas have announced a strike due to non-payment of dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhikasturba-hospital-docs-to-go-on-pen-down-strike-over-salary-delays-101637610948942.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||MPD-2041: Political parties raise mixed land use, Zone O problems in hearing||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) organised a public hearing on Monday to collect the feedback of elected representatives and political parties on the draft Master Plan of Delhi, 2041 (MPD-2041). The session is part of DDA’s ongoing public discussions, which started last month, to finalise the new vision document that will be the blueprint for the city’s development in the next two decades.On Monday, elected representatives raised the issue regarding mixed land use in residential areas, provisions for street vendors, and provisions for proper planning in urbanised villages, among other issues. They also raised the issue of reconsidering the height restriction of buildings in plotted areas in the Capital.Nearly 35 elected representatives and political party leaders were invited for the session, DDA officials said.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, said he has raised the issue of development of urbanised villages. “The master plan should have some provision for planned development of urbanised villages. I also raised the issue of removing unauthorised colonies and villages from zone O. Due to the provisions in the present master plan (MPD-2021), several unauthorised colonies fall in Zone O — he land planning zone which encompasses the Yamuna floodplains, where the National Green Tribunal has decreed a status quo — due to which the PM-UDAY scheme is not being implemented.”Congress leader Narender Nath, who was head of Delhi Congress committee on the master plan, said he couldn’t log on for the meeting, while Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said he had no information from the DDA regarding the meeting.Nath said, “We wanted to raise the issue, but couldn’t attend the meeting due to technical reasons. We have given a detailed submission on the new master plan and have raised the issue of unauthorised colonies, and provisions for street vendors. Despite a law being in place, vendors still don’t have a dedicated space.”A senior DDA official said all members have been informed about the meeting and a notice has been put up on DDA website.“We have got several suggestions from elected representatives. This includes provision for mixed land use in plotted residential areas, increase in floor area ratio of both residential and commercial buildings, upgrade of physical infrastructure, increase in building heights, and relaxation in parking norms, among others,” said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mpd2041-political-parties-raise-mixed-land-use-zone-o-problems-in-hearing-101637610708876.html
23-11-2021||Other||Man shoots self after woman rejects proposal||Jalandhar A 21-year-old man, Arvinder Singh, of Ferozepur district, shot himself with a licensed revolver that belongs to his father after the love of his life refused to accept his proposal. After shooting himself, Arvinder drove to the emergency ward of a private hospital for treatment. Police said Arvinder was in the city to prepare for the IELTS exam and had been taking rounds of the girls’ hostel, before he shot himself. Doctors said he is out of danger. Arvinder and his father Satnam Singh have been booked under relevant sections of the Arms Act at division number 2 police station in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shoots-self-after-woman-rejects-proposal-101637610409096.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa directs police to step up night patrolling in Punjab||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday issued instructions to police to increase night patrolling to ensure law and order situation in the state. Randhawa, who also holds the charge of the home department, said at least one-third of gazetted officers in each police commissionerate and district will be deputed for patrolling as per the roster, and he will review it on daily basis. In a statement, Randhawa said it has come to his notice that adequate police patrolling was not carried out during night. He directed all commissioners and SSPs to prepare a duty roster of gazetted officers in their respective jurisdictions. “I can randomly check the location of the duty officer at any time by making a video call,” said the deputy chief minister, adding that security of the state would not be compromised at any cost and strict action would be initiated against the negligent officer. Principal secretary, home, Anurag Verma has issued a letter to the DGP, ADGP (law & order), commissioners and SSPs asking them to follow the directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-directs-police-to-step-up-night-patrolling-in-punjab-101637609928896.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Repairs at Delhi’s Lajpat Rai Road likely to take another week||Repair work on a carriageway of Lala Lajpat Rai Road that takes traffic from Moolchand towards the New Delhi area is likely to take another week, senior officials said on Monday, even as the crucial south Delhi stretch has been shut since a collapse on an adjacent plot on Thursday, forcing commuters to take detours that add significantly to their travel time.A double basement being built by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in the under-construction Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) building adjacent to Lala Lajpat Rai Road collapsed on Thursday evening, which led to a cave-in on the stretch opposite the Lodhi Road crematorium, said officials of the state PWD. Officials said the repairs on the road began on Monday.However, while officials of the state PWD said repairs were being carried out by the central agency, a senior CPWD official denied this.“CPWD started the repair work inside the building when the incident took place. They started the work on the road on Monday and the work will get completed in a week’s time,” said a state PWD official.To be sure, Lala Lajpat Rai Road is under the jurisdiction of the state PWD, but officials of the agency said that since the cave-in was caused on CPWD construction site, repairs on the arterial stretch will also be carried out by the central agency itself.However, for commuters, the collapse and subsequent closure has meant taking a detour through Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium Marg, and then either taking a right on to Dyal Singh College Road, or a left onto Bhishma Pitamah Marg. This alternative route has added significantly to travel times for people heading from south Delhi areas such as Lajpat Nagar, Jangpura and Defence Colony.Rahul Singh, a commuter complained about the lack of traffic police deployment on the stretch.“While the road has been blocked on one side at Lala Lajpat Rai Road and traffic lights are not working yet, no traffic police personnel have been deployed to manage the situation. People are forced to spend a lot of time stuck in traffic,” he said.Sunil Das, a 34-year-old resident of south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park who drives to work in New Delhi, said the road closure had set back his travel by around half an hour every day, because he had to take a detour through South Extension to avoid the bottlenecks around the JLN Stadium.“I used to leave home around 10.45am and got to work by 11.20am. Thanks to the stretch being shut, I reach around noon nowadays when the jams are severe,” he said.After the cave-in, the Delhi traffic police issued an advisory, asking commuters to use alternative roads such as Bhishma Pitamah Marg till repair work is complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/repairs-at-delhi-s-lajpat-rai-road-likely-to-take-another-week-101637609868990.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Two elderly men die as truck hits motorcycle in Sangrur||Two elderly men were killed after the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a truck at Moonak in Sangrur district on Monday. The victims were identified as Lachhman Das, 75, a retired bank manager from Jakhal village and his friend Balkaran Singh, 70, of Chural Khurd in Sangrur district. The truck driver fled after the incident.After the accident, local held a protest blaming traffic congestion caused by trucks amid rake loading in the area. Moonak deputy superintendent of police Baljinder Singh reached the spot and pacified the protesters.The police registered a case against unidentified truck driver under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Moonak police station.“We are investigating and the truck driver will be arrested soon. Locals were demanding adequate traffic arrangements during rake loading and we will look into the matter,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-elderly-men-die-as-truck-hits-motorcycle-in-sangrur-101637609748828.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro services disrupted after bird gets stuck on train tracks||Train operations were briefly halted at the Kalindi Kunj Metro station on Sunday after a bird got stuck on the train tracks. The station control room subsequently alerted the NGO Wildlife SOS, which was able to safely retrieve the bird from the train tracks, officials said.The bird suffered injuries to its wings and was safely transported to the NGO’s transit facility, said a Wildlife SOS member. Wasim Akram, deputy director (special projects) for Wildlife SOS, said,“ Rescue operations involving injured birds need to be handled carefully to ensure that the bird does not experience any further stress. The bird’s left wing was severely injured, and it might not have survived without prompt action.”Kalindi Kunj is a part of Phase III of the Delhi Metro and is on the Magenta Line. “Kalindi Kunj is close to the Yamuna bank and thus attracts numerous bird species. The bird which got stuck on the tracks is a local migratory species that moves towards the Yamuna during the winter months,” explained Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO & co-founder at Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-disrupted-after-bird-gets-stuck-on-train-tracks-101637609628802.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||‘Derogatory’ remarks: DSGMC submits plaint against Kangana in Mumbai seeking FIR||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Monday submitted a complaint seeking registration of an FIR against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai alleging that she had used derogatory language against the Sikh community in her social media post.A Khar police station official said a complaint was received and they are looking into it. He said a delegation led by DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa submitted the complaint against Kangana.In the complaint, the DSGMC mentioned that Kangana had intentionally and deliberately portrayed the farmers’ protest as a Khalistani movement and also dubbed the Sikh community as Khalistani terrorists. It claimed that she had recalled the massacre and genocide that happened during 1984 and earlier as a planned and calculated move on part of then prime minister Indira Gandhi, the official said quoting the complaint.The DSGMC demanded that an FIR be registered against Ranaut under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The delegation also met additional commissioner of police (Mumbai west) Sandip Karnik. SGPC seeks Kangana’s arrest AMRITSAR: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday condemned Kangana’s remarks against the Sikhs and demanded her immediate arrest. In a statement, she accused Kangana of deliberately posting posts against Sikhs.“Kangana’s condemnation of anti-farmer laws by calling Sikhs terrorists and advocating for the deplorable action by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi against Sikhs in 1984 is an expression of her sick mentality,” said Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/derogatory-remarks-dsgmc-submits-plaint-against-kangana-in-mumbai-seeking-fir-101637609031670.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||LBA, Amritsar win Punjab basketball championship||Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) and Amritsar won the 72nd Senior Punjab State Basketball Championship, which concluded at Gureh(Jagraon) on Monday, in the men’s and women’s categories, respectively. The tournament was dedicated to the memory of Arjuna awardee Gurdial Singh Malhi.In the men’s finals, LBA defeated Jalandhar 90-72. Gurdaspur won the third place by beating Amritsar 82-69.In the women’s category, Amritsar beat Ludhiana Academy 83-65. Sangrur outwitted the Ludhiana district basketball team 75-50 to earn the third spot.Yurinder Singh Hayer, an IPS officer and senior vice-president of Punjab Basketball Association and Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu, SSP Jagraon, jointly distributed prizes to the winners and other players in presence of Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, PBA.Dhaliwal said that Basketball Federation of India has now launched the Indian National Basketball League (INBL) on the pattern of the USA’s NBA, which will attract more youth to the game as they will be financially helped through the league system. He added that PBA plans to train new coaches throughout the state.Brij Goyal and Richu Sharma from District Basketball Association, Ludhiana, said that they have plans to distribute 2,000 basketballs and hoops in the village schools to promote the game.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lba-amritsar-win-punjab-basketball-championship-101637609030373.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Dengue cases cross 7,000-mark in Delhi, load likely to ease now||Delhi added over 1,800 dengue cases during the week ending on November 20, taking this year’s tally past the 7,000-mark, according to the weekly report released by the city’s municipal corporations on Monday.No more fatalities were added to the city’s dengue toll for the year.The city has reported 7,128 dengue cases so far, and nine deaths, according to weekly data released by the North, South, and East Delhi civic bodies.The tally of the vector-borne infection is the highest since 2015, when there was a major dengue outbreak in the city, which left 16,000 people sick and at least 60 dead.To be sure, week-on-week cases have declined from the previous seven days for the first time since the seasonal outbreak of the infection in August. Between November 7 and 13, Delhi added 2,569 dengue cases.Doctors too confirmed that the caseload at their facilities has eased significantly, a drop they attributed to lower temperatures, which are inconducive for vector breeding.“I would say there has been a 30 to 50% decline in the number of people who came in with dengue in the last one week. In another week or two, cases of the infection will become sporadic,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Indraprastha Apollo hospital.Over 5,500 of the cases this year have been recorded in November alone, according the data. This is highly unusual, said officials, since cases of the mosquito-borne diseases starts increasing in July after the monsoon showers and peak in October. The city usually reports few cases in November.During the 2015 outbreak for instance, Delhi logged only 841 cases in the first three weeks of November. Similarly, the city added only 338 dengue cases in November last year and 787 in the month in 2019.Officials said the delay in dengue cases dissipating is because of the delayed monsoon, which arrived over two weeks later than usual, and withdrew late as a result.“The city received very little rainfall in June but very heavy rain intermittently in September. We were able to control breeding very well initially, but then because of the intermittent, heavy rainfall there was an increase in breeding,” said an official from one of the municipal corporations.The official added, “The breeding has gone down now. However, adult mosquitoes can survive up to a month and dengue symptoms may set in up to 10 days after an infected mosquito bites. So if the breeding happened in October, the number of cases should go down in another week or so.”According to another official from the corporation, “There are still some deaths that need to be investigated.” Deaths due to dengue are reviewed by an expert death audit committee and are added to the official toll after confirming dengue as the cause of death and whether the infection was contracted in Delhi.The number of cases is high this year, likely due to the government notification mandating all hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, and diagnostic centre to report cases of dengue, malaria, and chikungunya. “Only 10% of the cases are backlog; almost 90% cases are fresh,” the first MCD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dengue-cases-cross-7-000-mark-in-delhi-load-likely-to-ease-now-101637608968625.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Channi, Sidhu hold talks with Cong leaders in Delhi to evolve strategy||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday held deliberations with Congress leaders in New Delhi to evolve a strategy for the upcoming state assembly polls, sources said.Channi and Sidhu arrived in the national capital on Monday afternoon along with AICC in-charge for Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary and they later met at the party’s “war-room” office here.They said the screening committee for Punjab is to be finalised that will screen party candidates for the assembly polls, besides other decisions that are to be taken by the state government ahead of the elections.Punjab goes to polls early next year along with states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-channi-sidhu-hold-talks-with-cong-leaders-in-delhi-to-evolve-strategy-101637608788608.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana couple booked for forging deceased son-in-law’s will||Three years after the complaint was lodged, a couple and their accomplices have been booked for forging their deceased son-in-law’s will to usurp his property.The accused are Avtar Singh, his wife Rajinder Kaur of Ambala, their relatives Bakhshish Singh, Satpal Singh and Keval Singh of Moti Nagar; and two aides, Puran Singh of Shimlapuri and Sucha Singh of GK Estate, Chandigarh Road.The FIR has been lodged based on the complaint of Balwinder Singh, 61, of Aman Nagar, Salem Tabri. He had filed the complaint on October 17, 20218.Balwinder stated that his son Amritpal Singh had married Maninder Kaur, Avtar and Rajinder’s daughter, on September 19, 2010. Balwinder had purchased a 304 square feet plot in Dhandari Kalan in Amritpal’s name on June 5, 2013, which was given on the rent to a factory owner.He added that on February 26, 2012, Amritpal passed away. Maninder and her daughter were living with them, but on November 14, 2016, Maninder also died in a road mishap. He alleged that Avtar implicated them of murdering Maninder and the police arrested him, his wife and daughter. Later, they were sent to jail.In October 2018, they were bailed out and after reaching home, they found that their household items had been stolen. He alleged that the accused had forged Amritpal’s will to grab the plot and rented out the property. Balwinder further added that as per the record of the sub registrar office, the accused had got the will registered on May 23, 2016, around four years after his son’s death.Sub-inspector Balvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said that following a detailed investigation, a case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. He added that no arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-couple-booked-for-forging-deceased-son-in-law-s-will-101637608614360.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal is ‘Natwarlal’ of Indian politics: BJP||BJP’s Punjab unit general secretary Subhash Sharma on Monday said Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal is the Natwarlal (conman) of Indian politics. Calling Kejriwal a liar and a cheater, Sharma said before making a promise of ₹1,000 a month to the women above the age of 18 in Punjab, give the account of promises made to the women in Delhi. “Women in Delhi are still waiting for the promises to be fulfilled, be it marshals in buses, CCTV cameras in every locality, free metro service, among other,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-is-natwarlal-of-indian-politics-bjp-101637608550289.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||No one will be deprived of ration, govt tells Delhi HC||The Delhi government has told the Delhi high court that it will set up exclusive stores in different parts of the city for doorstep delivery of ration to ensure that those who are not at home can collect it at their convenience.The government, which filed an affidavit that was filed in an ongoing challenge to its doorstep delivery of ration scheme, asserted that Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store Ltd (DCCWS) will set up these exclusive Fair Price Shops (FPS) across various districts, and added that no one will be deprived of foodgrains even after the introduction of the doorstep ration delivery scheme.The scheme has become another flashpoint between the BJP-led Union government and the AAP government in Delhi, with the former saying that the plan violates the provisions of National Food Security Act (NFSA) and will deprive migrants of foodgrains, and the latter pointing out that it will root out ration mafia and ensure that all beneficiaries get their ration.“Beneficiaries who will choose doorstep delivery but miss it, or wish to collect the specified food articles (SFAs) on their own will be able to get it from the circle-level FPS. Beneficiaries who do not opt home delivery will continue to get their ration from the current FPS. Therefore, it is a misconception that the GNCTD (Delhi government) is seeking to do away with FPS,” the Delhi government said in the affidavit filed on November 18 before a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh.The Delhi government is contesting a petition by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh, a group of FPS owners, in which they have challenged the doorstep ration delivery scheme and demanded that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power or authority).The state government has said that the petitioner association’s contention is “entirely mischievous”. It has also said that not a single beneficiary has questioned the mode and manner of implementation of the scheme, and an overwhelming majority of the ration beneficiaries in Delhi have opted to receive foodgrains at their doorstep.On Monday, the Centre reiterated before the court that the state cannot mitigate the architecture of ration delivery mandated under NFSA. Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati argued that FPS forms an integral part of the food security act.“If the state wants, it is free to give benefit higher than NFSA, but they cannot mitigate or militate the architecture of the Act,” Bhati told the court on Monday.She added that while the Act mandates obligations of both the central as well as state government, it is the state government which is responsible for the execution (of the provisions of the Act) under by the law.“We have no role in the selection of fair price shop owners. It is not that the system is placed by us and the state is prejudiced. It is chosen by the state government,” Bhati argued.The arguments will continue on November 29.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme was launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under NFSA, and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament. The term “mukhyamantri” was later dropped from the scheme’s name.On November 15, the Supreme Court declined to entertain two separate petitions (one by the Centre and another by FPS owners) against a Delhi high court interim order on September 27 that allowed the AAP government to stop supplying foodgrain to fixed price shops for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.The high court verdict also effectively gave a go-ahead to the state government scheme.The apex court said since the high court verdict was interim, and the court was still seized of the matter, it would not like to entertain the plea.After the Delhi cabinet dropped “mukhyamantri” from the name of scheme, the government sent the file back to LG in June, contending that its provisions are in accordance with the NFS Act, and that it will simultaneously implement the Centre’s “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme.On October 5, after the high court’s interim order, the government sent the file again to the LG’s office. In a note on the file, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he sincerely hoped that Baijal will review his decision to stop implementation of the doorstep delivery scheme, so that the orders of the high court can be implemented and doorstep delivery of ration can be processed for the beneficiaries opting it.“People are asking if pizza, burger, smartphone and clothes can be home delivered then why cannot the poor citizens of Delhi get their share of ration home delivered,” Kejriwal wrote in the note.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food, including 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households, besides other food insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-one-will-be-deprived-of-ration-govt-tells-delhi-hc-101637608548744.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 24 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Monday reported 24 fresh cases taking the infection count to 6,03,002, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality, the death toll reached 16,586, it said. The state’s positivity stood at 0.18%. Among the fresh cases, maximum nine were registered in Bathinda and three each in Jalandhar and Pathankot. The number of active cases in the state reached 262, the bulletin said. With 37 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586154, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-24-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101637608369825.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Classical music festival held||The ninth annual Sangeet Sammelan was held at Gurdwara Shri Bhaini Sahib on Monday on the 101st birth anniversary of Satguru Jagjit Singh, the former head of Namdhari sect.Satguru Uday Singh, head of the sect, inaugurated the Sangeet Sammelan by lighting the lamp followed by a presentation by Mansa Singh on tabla who was supported by Ganga Singh on dilruba. Renowned Sarangi player Momin Khan Niazi mesmerised the audience with his performance. Amid hearty applause from the audience, famous classical vocalist Vidushi Kaushiki Charkarborty enthralled the audience with her beautiful voice. She was ably supported by pandit Ajay Joglekar on harmonium and pandit Ojas Adhiya on tabla.Ragi Balwant Singh and press secretary Lakhveer Singh Baddowal said that the music fest is held every year and thousands of music admirers attend and relish the performances of the artists spread over 2-3 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-classical-music-festival-held-101637608311076.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt reschedules auction of agro malls in Karnal, Panipat||Following a threat of protest by farm leader Rakesh Tikait, the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) has rescheduled the auction of two agro malls in Karnal and Panipat to December 2 in lack of buyers.Earlier, the HSAMB had invited bids for e-auction of agro malls on November 18 but the process could not be completed in lack of required number of bidders.On November 15, three days before the e-auction, Tikait, along with a group of farmers, had visited Karnal’s agro mall and had warned that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) will not allow the government to sell agro malls in Karnal and Panipat to private people at any cost.Tikait had termed the Haryana government’s move as the beginning of privatisation of agriculture mandis in country. He had directed local farmers to unite against the decision, not allow any private traders to buy the agro malls, and lock them inside if any official or buyer comes to the agro-malls.The HSAMB had invited applications from interested parties for the e-auction terming it a golden opportunity to own commercial sites.The Karnal agro mall has commercial build-up of 2.02 lakh sq-ft and the Panipat one 63,256 sq-ft. Earnest money deposit of ₹3.50 crore and ₹1 crore was fixed for the Karnal and Panipat agro mall, respectively.HSAMB chief administrator Vinay Yadav said the decision to defer the e-auction of both the properties was taken as the required number of bidders is not there and now the interested parties can join the e-auction on December 2.On whether the decision was taken following threat by farmers, he said, “Farmers have nothing to do with these agro malls and the government has decided to sell these properties after considering all options.”He said the properties are lying useless for the past eight years and there is no other alternative left but to sell these malls.On the other hand, Haryana BKU (Tikait) president Ratan Mann said they will continue their protest against the backdoor selling of these agro malls and will soon install banners outside the malls requesting buyers not to invest in these properties.He said these agro malls can be utilised as selling point of agro products, seeds and fertilisers, and as information centres for farmers.The agro malls were launched at four places – Rohtak, Karnal, Panchkula, and Panipat – by the previous Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government in 2013-14 at ₹200 crore. But the government had failed to use the farmer specific agro malls as a platform to sell agri-products.The Karnal and Panipat agro malls have been lying vacant since their construction was completed eight years ago. The government had considered many options and had even decided to lease out these malls to other departments with these departments paying a monthly rent, but the idea was dropped and the HSAMB decided to sell both the malls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-reschedules-auction-of-agro-malls-in-karnal-panipat-101637608249846.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees 15 dengue, one Covid case||The city reported 15 dengue more cases and one Covid infection on Monday. As many as 1,713 confirmed dengue cases have been reported in the district, of which 1,271 are from the city. Meanwhile, 4,339 suspected cases have been reported in the district.There are around 14 active Covid cases in the district. Of the 87,650 people who contracted the virus, 85,527 have recovered, while 2,109 have succumbed.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFS16-year-old NRI abducted on pretext of marriage A 16-year-old Malaysian national has been allegedly abducted from Jagraon on pretext of marriage. The victim’s adoptive mother, an NRI, has alleged that Satwinder Singh of Majari village of Banga had abducted her daughter. She said that on November 21 she woke up to find her daughter missing, and on going through her social media, she found that her daughter had been abducted on pretext of marriage. An FIR was registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366A (procuration of a minor girl) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.PAU holds training on precision technologies for fruits and veggiesThe skill development centre, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a two-day online training course on precision technologies for fruits and vegetables for in-service candidates. A total of 16 agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation officers; scientists from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras attended.Kuldeep Singh, associate director (skill development), said that the course was designed to disseminate information to increase environmental performance while improving yields and reducing inputs and costs.Kiran Grover, principal extension scientist (food and nutrition) and course coordinator, divulged the course details and highlighted that implementing agricultural innovations is key for coping strategies in the context of climate change and food security.Ludhiana teams selected for Punjab baseball c’ship
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Five held in Kaithal firing incident||A week after two bike-borne miscreants opened fire at a shopkeeper and asked him to pay ₹50 lakh in Pundri town of Kaithal, police have arrested five people associated with a gang for their involvement in the incident.The crime investigation agency of the Kaithal police said the arrested accused have been identified as Ashutosh alias Kalu, Chander Prakash and Sukhdev Singh, of Yamunanagar, and Amit Kumar alias Mittu and Robin Singh, of Karnal.Pundri DSP Ravinder Sangwan said the accused were associated with a gang operated by one Ankush Kamalpur. Police said the main accused and head of the gang Ankush Kamalpur is lodged in Karnal jail in another case and was brought on a production warrant for interrogation. He disclosed names of other accused involved in the incident.The arrested accused will be produced in court for further interrogation. He said the police investigation is on to arrest remaining two members of the gang, Sumit and Virender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-held-in-kaithal-firing-incident-101637608068629.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Crackdown against pvt buses: HC puts Punjab transport minister, govt on notice||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and the state government on a plea filed against the cancelled route permits of buses owned by firms of SAD leader Hardeep Singh Dhillon. The high court bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain acted on the plea of New Deep Bus Service and New Deep Motors, both owned by Dhillon. “The court has issued notice to the transport minister and others and sought their response,” operator’s counsel Rohit Sood said. The detailed order is awaited. The plea seeks quashing of November 12 order, whereby permits granted to the two firms were cancelled. It was also pleaded that during the pendency of the plea, the operation, implementation and execution of the November 12 order be stayed and no coercive measures for recovery of the tax be taken. It was also sought that impounded buses be ordered to be released unconditionally. The plea alleges that the transport department took action due to political vendetta and directions from Raja Warring as Dhillon was candidate against him in the 2017 assembly polls. No action has been taken against similarly placed persons associated with the Congress, the plea alleges. Dhillon’s one firm had 36 permits and second 40 permits. All payments of tax was being made as per the Motor Vehicle Act and other rules but due to Covid-19 outbreak, like others, he suffered immense losses due to restrictions in 2020 and 2021. Till October 12, while one firm had due taxes of ₹1.11 crore pending, second one had ₹1.25 crore pending, the plea said.The petitioners’ 24 buses were impounded on different dates in October. After a meeting with the transport authorities, the petitioners offered to pay the entire amount in four instalments and paid first one after the authorities agreed for this arrangement, said the plea. But six buses released were re-impounded, the plea said, adding that later in some cases, permits were cancelled on November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crackdown-against-pvt-buses-hc-puts-punjab-transport-minister-govt-on-notice-101637608009367.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||No injunction against Nawab Malik: Bombay HC||Bombay high court (HC) on Monday refused to grant a blanket injunction restraining the Maharashtra minority affairs minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik from posting material about Dnyandev Wankhede, father of Narcotics Control Bureau’s western region zonal director Sameer Wankhede and his family, but added that Malik could do so “only after reasonable verification of facts.” The court held that while the right to privacy of Dnyandev Wankhede was important, Sameer was a public officer and, therefore, the public had a right to examine and comment on his actions. The single judge bench of justice Madhav Jamdar while hearing the defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Wankhede on November 7 had held that out of the various reliefs sought in the suit, it will hear arguments only pertaining to ad-interim reliefs sought in the interim application. “The right to speak is a fundamental right,” Malik said in response to the Bombay HC decision. “People need to understand that a person speaking with responsibility cannot be stopped. We welcome the decision of the high court and our fight against injustice will be continued. Satyamev Jayate (Truth shall prevail).” Sameer Wankhede, on the other hand, expressed an inability to comment on the development. When asked if the family will appeal against the refusal of injunction, he said from the news reports it appeared to be reasonable, but will not be able to offer any comments as yet without perusing the judgment. Meanwhile, Maik tweeted a picture on Monday in which Sameer Wankhede can be seen signing his ‘nikhanama’ (a marriage certificate under Islamic Law) at his wedding. “Photograph of Sameer Dawood Wankhede signing his ‘Nikah Nama’,” he stated in the post. He also posted a picture of Wankhede’s nikahnama in his tweet. Malik had alleged that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth and used his father’s previous identity to get a job in the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) of a scheduled caste category. He claimed that his father Dnyandev Wankhede converted to Islam before marrying Wankhede’s mother Zaheda Bano. Wankhede and his family refuted the charges. Wankhede admitted that he had a nikah with his first wife Dr Shabana Qureishi but said that he registered his marriage under provisions of the Special Marriages Act. Malik has levelled a series of serious allegations such as “extortion and ransom” against the NCB zonal director. In this case, the ad-interim reliefs included seeking “an order of injunction preventing and/or restraining the Defendant (Malik), his agents, servants, authorized representatives, his party members and all others acting under and on his instructions from publishing, writing, speaking in any media, including electronic media and the social media handles, or publishing in any manner whatsoever any content / material which is defamatory about the Plaintiff (Dnyandev Wankhede) and/ or his family members.” The defamation suit had sought damages of ₹1.25 crore and deletion of articles, comments and statements on the digital and electronic media as they contained statements and documents like the nikahnama (of Sameer’s marriage with Dr Shabana Qureishi), birth certificate, etc, of members of the Wankhede family, which the plaintiffs said was aimed at harming and maligning the reputation of the entire family. Senior advocate Arshad Shaikh for Dnyandev Wankhede had argued that Malik’s claims about Sameer Wankhede’s birth certificate, in which the father’s name was mentioned as ‘Dawood’ and not ‘Dnyandev’, was not properly verified. He said the latest copy of the birth certificate issued by the BMC on November 17, 2021 showed the father’s name to be Dnyandev. Shaikh also argued that though Dnyandev was a Hindu and from the Mahar community, Malik had raised doubts in the mind of the public by posting the primary school admission and leaving certificate of Sameer wherein the religion was mentioned as Muslim. Shaikh had submitted that the error had been corrected in 1993 and all subsequent documents of Sameer showed his father’s name as Dnyandev. Shaikh further submitted a listed of 28 documents to prove that his client’s name was Dnyandev and not Dawood, but as Malik continued to post some documents or the other, there should be a blanket injunction restraining him from posting any material pertaining to Dnyandev Wankhede , his son or other members of the family till the suit was decided. Shaikh also submitted that the disclosure of documents pertaining to the Wankhede family was an infringement of their right to privacy. Shaikh had also stated that Malik was retaliating for the arrest of his son-in-law Sameer Khan by the NCB in January 2021. Khan was accused of dealing in contraband, and was behind bars for nearly eight months. Malik’s lawyer Atul Damle refuted the allegations and said Malik had only referred to public documents provided by authorities, and therefore, there was no defamation. Damle said there was evidence to show the documents had been manipulated by the Wankhedes to get benefit from the scheduled caste (SC) quota. He also argued that Malik had only been reposting material from the social media account of the Wankhede family members and hence reasonable verification of the documents had been done by his client before posting them. Damle also submitted that Sameer had misused his position as an NCB officer to extort money and used the money for trips to Maldives and Dubai. The order by justice Jamdar, while admitting that the issue raised by Malik pertaining to Sameer Wankhede was important as he was a public official and his actions could come under scrutiny, he (Sameer) did have a right to privacy. The bench concluded the order stating, “It is necessary to direct the Defendant (Malik) that he should conduct reasonable verification of the facts before publishing, writing, speaking in media including electronic media and the social media or publishing in any manner whatsoever any content/material which amounts to defamatory of Plaintiff (Dnyandev Wankhede) or his family members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-injunction-against-nawab-malik-bombay-hc-101637608008072.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Remove HSSC, HPSC chairpersons to ensure fair probe, says Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday demanded that the chairpersons of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) should be asked to tender their resignations in wake of detection of corrupt practices in selections for government jobs.The leader of Opposition, in a statement, said a fair investigation can only be conducted into the recruitment scams if the incumbent chairpersons are removed.He announced that the next stop for the ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme will be in Nuh on December 11.“The government’s claim of transparency and merit-based jobs has been exposed,” he said. Hooda asked why the government is “running away” from ordering a high-level investigation into the recruitment scams.“Such scams are not possible without the protection of government. If the government is not protecting the perpetrators why is it hesitant to order a probe by the CBI,” asked Hooda.Dissolve HPSC, HSSC: SeljaHaryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja also demanded that the HPSC and the HSSC should be dissolved in view of the “number of recruitment scams” in the past seven years.“The HPSC and the HSSC have become centres of recruitment scams. It has become clear that both commissions are incapable of conducting fair recruitments and those on high positions are directly involved in the scams,” she said in a statement, adding that new commissions should be formed.Selja said all disputed recruitment examinations should be re-conducted so that the educated unemployed youth of Haryana can get justice.She urged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to issue a white paper on the recruitments made in the last seven years and inform people of the state how many recruitments have been challenged in court during his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/remove-hssc-hpsc-chairpersons-to-ensure-fair-probe-says-hooda-101637607890915.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest a watershed movement in India: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said that the farmers’ agitation against the three controversial laws will always be remembered as a watershed movement to protect democratic and human rights in the country.The CM, who along with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu handed over letters of appointment to next of kin of five farmers who died during the agitation, added that the Punjab government will always stand by the food growers of the country.The CM reiterated that all Punjabis, especially farmers, have to remain vigilant till the draconian farm laws are repealed. He added that fresh conspiracies are being hatched to harm the interests of the farmers, besides derailing the progress and prosperity of Punjab. Launching a scathing attack on leaders who are welcoming the PM’s announcement to repeal the laws, Channi said that these pseudo nationalist leaders are part and parcel of these anti-Punjab conspiracies. The CM questioned these leaders, stating that there is hardly any reason to rejoice since Punjab had lost more than 700 sons and daughters during the struggle. He said it is shameful that for the sake of their vested political interests, some leaders are hell bent upon sacrificing the interests of the state especially the farmers.The CM said that announcements regarding repealing of the controversial farm laws are baseless until guarantee on MSP for crops is made. He said that the Union government must ensure that each and every grain of the farmers is lifted on MSP so that the exploitation of farmers in hands of private players is avoided. The chief minister reiterated that the state government will construct a memorial dedicated to farmers who lost their lives during the protest.On the occasion, appointment letters were handed over to Baljinder Singh, s/o late Jung Singh; Amandeep Kaur, w/o late Baljinder Singh; Prabhjot Singh, s/o late Manmohan Singh; Harvinder Kaur w/o late Jagjit Singh and Satnam Singh s/o late Hakam Singh. Those present on the occasion also included cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLAs Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Sanjay Talwar and Lakhbir Singh Lakha; senior Congress leader Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, special principal secretary to CM Rahul Tiwari, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-a-watershed-movement-in-india-punjab-cm-101637607828866.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Winds bring relief to Delhi, but air still ‘very poor’||Delhi’s air quality on Monday registered a marginal improvement on the air quality scale, though not enough to take it out of the “very poor” category, where it has stayed put for the past one week. Monday was also the first day this November when visibility improved to beyond 3,000 metres in Palam, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The air quality index (AQI) readings did not cross the 300 mark in at least 10 stations, owing to a combination of strong surface winds and low contribution from stubble burning. The overall AQI of Delhi was 311 at 4pm on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), a climbdown from Sunday’s reading of 349. Weather analysts said wind speeds touched 25km/hr during Monday, helping disperse pollutants. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The IMD said this is the first time this month that visibility has gone beyond the 3,000 metres mark in Delhi, ranging between 1,500 and 3,200 metres during the day in Palam. Agencies forecast strong surface winds to continue on Tuesday as well, and the air quality to improve to the ”poor” category, provided the fire count remains low.According to the Union earth ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), 909 fire counts were recorded across the northern plains in the past 24 hours, with the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM 2.5 share pegged at 6%. PM 2.5 are fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters that are generally 2.5 microns, or about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair.“Local surface winds were relatively high on Monday and similar winds are expected on Tuesday, which increases dispersion. Air quality is expected to improve to the “poor” category in the next two days; however, wind speed is expected to drop after November 24, which may lead to a deterioration in air quality,” said Gufran Beig, founder and project director, Safar. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 27.5 degrees Celsius (°C) on Monday – one degree above normal, while the minimum was recorded at 11.4°C, normal for this time of the year. Mercury is set to fall in the coming days, the IMD said, dropping to 10°C by Wednesday. “This was the first November day, when visibility was over 3,000 metres at the Palam station. Wind speeds ranged between 15-25km/hr. However, by November 24, wind speeds will drop considerably,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at the IMD.Over the past couple of years, weather changes have generally come to Delhi’s rescue, after a spike in pollution seen due to Diwali and stubble burning. Last year, Delhi’s AQI had spiked to 435 (severe) on November 15 — a day after Diwali— but rain the very next day saw the AQI drop down to 171 (moderate) by November 17. Similarly, in 2019, strong winds helped in quicker dispersion of pollutants. “In 2019, the dispersion of pollutants was as fast as the build-up and this was because of strong winds. In 2018, it took much longer for dispersal to take place, as wind speeds remained low after Diwali,” a Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) analysis said. Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said meteorological conditions and wind speeds play a key role in improving air quality, with fast winds once again coming to Delhi’s rescue. “Delhi’s air quality improved marginally to the lower-end of ”very poor” category today after staying in the upper end of ”very poor“ for the past one week. The relatively stronger surface winds in the afternoon are mainly responsible for the improvement. However, forecasts indicate a dip in AQI on November 24 due to a fall in wind speed. Given that meteorology will continue to influence the city’s air quality in the coming days, the Delhi government should actively incorporate insights from IIT-Madras’ early warning system to plan and execute pre-emptive measures to keep pollution levels under control,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/winds-bring-relief-to-delhi-but-air-still-very-poor-101637607768624.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks govt reply on regulating path labs||The Delhi high court on Monday directed the city government to apprise it on how pathological laboratories in the city are being regulated and asked if any action has been taken against those running in violation of the laid down framework.A bench of justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla, while hearing a public interest plea alleging that unauthorised laboratories and diagnostic centres were being managed by unqualified technicians, asked the Delhi government to file an affidavit within a week.The bench asked lawyer and social activist Bejon Kumar Misra, who has filed the petition, to show “instances” of false medical reports from path labs and posted the matter for further hearing to December 17.Delhi government counsel Gautam Narayan said path labs were being regulated under the Clinical Establishments Rules, 2018, and under the present regime, all medical reports have to be signed by a registered medical practitioner having a postgraduate degree in medicine.He submitted that authorities were taking all steps to ensure that the public does not suffer and action was being taken on complaints against erring labs.He also said the Delhi Health Bill is at an “advanced stage” and the Delhi government was following in letter and spirit a Supreme Court order mandating the signing of medical reports only by qualified professionals.“Give us a one-page affidavit (on Delhi government complying with the 2018 rules). You will let us know how many complaints were received,” the bench told Delhi government counsel.Lawyer Shashank Deo Sudhi, appearing for the petitioner, argued that at present, pathological labs are unregulated and that poses a threat to the lives of citizens. He submitted that on account of “wrong reports” from the labs, which are signed by “unqualified technicians”, the public was unable to secure proper treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-regulating-path-labs-101637607588405.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Train officers to protect trees: Delhi HC to govt, police||The Delhi high court has asked the Delhi government and police to sensitise and train officers to protect trees in the city.Justice Najmi Waziri, in an order of November 18, noted that although two workshops were conducted by the Delhi government on the need to preserve forest and trees, the same were not sufficient for the 164 police stations in the city.“Let GNCTD (Delhi government) and the Delhi Police look into the matter and ensure due compliance regarding sensitization and training of officers and personnel who in the first instance is to ensure the protection of trees,” the judge said.The court, while hearing a plea concerning the rampant cutting of fully grown trees to facilitate large-scale construction in an area under the jurisdiction of Mehrauli police station, said the felling of trees and the construction could not have escaped the attention of the local police as well as that of the authorities concerned.The petitioner, through its counsel KC Mittal, contended that about 50 fully grown trees were cut from the land in question by certain individuals, without any permission from the tree officer, to make space for large-scale construction.Mittal argued that the construction activity was unauthorised, according to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).While the petitioner claimed that the construction was still ongoing, the SDMC assured that all construction at the site has been stopped since it was in breach of the building by-laws.The civic body said a letter was also issued to the station house officer concerned earlier in the month. The court was also informed that the notices were issued to the related persons and the demolition has been fixed for November 25.The court asked the SHO to provide requisite assistance to the SDMC in carrying out the demolition and directed that authorities file their responses to the plea.The judge said it was a matter of record that in terms of an order passed in February, in another plea, the court had directed that all governmental agencies and authorities in Delhi be imparted training by the Delhi government on the need to preserve forests and trees and agencies were to be made aware of the orders passed by this court as well as by the National Green Tribunal.The matter will next be heard on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/train-officers-to-protect-trees-delhi-hc-to-govt-police-101637607473163.html
23-11-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting Ludhiana MC staffers block road for 30 minutes||With chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi in the city on Monday, municipal corporation (MC) employees under the banner of Municipal Karamchari Dal blocked old GT Road (railway station road) and burned Channi’s effigy near Clock Tower seeking regularisation of contractual employees.The employees also started a march towards the venue on Gill Road from MC Zone-A office, near Mata Rani Chowk, where Channi was addressing an event. But, they were stopped by police near the clock tower by installing barricades. Following this, the employees blocked the road for around half an hour. CM Channi was in the city to participate in a rally at grain market near Gill road.Leaders of Youth Akali Dal (YAD), including district president Gurdeep Gosha extended support to the protesting MC employees. The union leaders accused the state government of discriminating against MC employees by not including them in the list of 36,000 employees to be regularised in the state ahead of assembly elections. The employees have been protesting against the state government over the issue for the last seven working days.Chairman of the union, Vijay Danav and president Chaudhary Yashpal said that the sanitary staff are the real heroes who keep the city clean, but they are given meagre salaries. They added that the protest will continue until the demands of the union are fulfilled and the effigy of deputy chief minister OP Soni will be burned outside MC Zone A office on Tuesday, said Chaudhary.The protest was lifted after half an hour, with employees handing over a memorandum to MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal, who reached the protest spot.Other demands of the union include introduction of the old pension scheme for all employees and cashless health insurance for employees.Traffic movement disturbedHeavy traffic jams were witnessed at old GT road (railway station road) after the employees blocked the road despite the presence of police force for around half an hour. The commuters criticised the MC employees for harassing the public in their fight against the state government.MC employees submit memorandum with CM ChanniMeanwhile, members of Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee, another union of MC employees, submitted memorandum with CM Channi seeking regularisation of contractual employees as many of them have been working in the MC for over a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-ludhiana-mc-staffers-block-road-for-30-minutes-101637607472113.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Liquor shortage dampens spirits during height of wedding season||People hosting weddings said they were facing problems in procuring alcohol, or even finding vends in their localities for bulk orders, as the liquor business in the city is in a transition phase in the wake of a new excise policy that kicked in last week.According to rough estimates, about 100 of the planned 850 liquor shops have opened so far, with the others either being renovated or awaiting supplies.While many residents were able to procure liquor for personal consumption from the neighbouring Gurugram and Noida, families hosting weddings and banquets during this period faced problems.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has estimated that over 150,000 weddings will be held in Delhi this season ( from November to March) and they are expected to bring in a business of about ₹50,000 crore. On Sunday alone, there were around 8,000 weddings in the Capital, CAIT said.The government quit the retail liquor business, with nearly 600 government-run liquor vends shutting shop last Tuesday, to make way for 850 privately run liquor vends that will be spacious, air-conditioned and well-lit -- hailed by experts as a much-needed reform to improve user experience and enhance excise revenue for the state.Akash Tyagi, an auditor at a consultancy firm, said the bar counter at friend’s wedding was reduced to a few bottles in a car as they could not find liquor in large quantities anywhere in the city. People also suggested that the government should put up the list of new liquor shops in Delhi, along with addresses and contact numbers, on the excise department’s website for the convenience of the public. “Banquet hall managers say the rules have changed and so they cannot arrange it for us. So we reached out to the excise department for a licence. They were helpful and explained to us the new charges. But, they could not guarantee us availability of liquor as the entire system has now been privatised,” said Tyagi. “The problem is that if anyone buys a licence to serve liquor on private premises or in a banquet hall, the alcohol also has to be purchased from Delhi, which is facing a shortage,” he said. Monu Bansal, manager of four shops that have come up in east Delhi’s Star City and Galleria malls, said the supply is limited at the moment. “We opened our shop three days ago, but sales are low because supplies are not arriving sufficiently,” he said. Those in the retail business also said there is confusion among stores about whether the legal drinking age in Delhi has been reduced to 21 from 25 years. A few shops in malls even put up posters saying “liquor not allowed below 21 years of age”. But the legal age to be served or sold liquor in Delhi is still 25 years and above. While the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22 does not mention the reduction of age to 21 years, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced in March that the government has decided to reduce the age bar in the new policy. A senior excise department official clarified to HT that the legal drinking age in Delhi continues to be 25 years, and that the same applies to retail sale or service in restaurants, bars or clubs. For the change to be effected, a proposal needs to be tabled and passed in the assembly, the official added. There was no clarity immediately on when this will happen.Most restaurateurs are facing a lot of problems in getting the new licences. The department has only limited people and they are all busy in issuing provisional licences to the 850-odd private retail liquor vends. We have received no communication about when we can start operating till 3am and whether we can serve liquor to those who are 21 years and above,” said the restaurateur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiliquor-shortage-dampens-spirits-during-height-of-wedding-season-101637607348529.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||In a first, DUTA election to see ad hoc teachers in the fray||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) elections, scheduled to take place on Friday, will see ad hoc teachers, who have formed a forum to voice their long-pending demand for absorption, in the fray for the first time. There are around 5,000 ad hoc teachers at Delhi University. Shabana Azmi, an ad hoc political science teacher at Zakir Hussain College for nearly a decade who will contest the elections from the Adhoc Teachers’ Forum (ATF), said that the elections were historic as ad hoc teachers had formed a front for the first time. “Interviews for ad hoc teachers have not taken place at the university for around a decade. Even if some interviews have been conducted, only 500-600 positions have been filled whereas around 5,000 positions are lying vacant. Whenever interviews take place, ad hoc teachers who have been working for many years are displaced and replaced with new faces,” said Azmi. She added that her candidature was also borne out of the fact that other teacher groups had not done anything to fight for the rights of ad hoc teachers. “Ad hoc teachers don’t even get maternity leave. When such basic rights have not been secured to date, it becomes imperative that we fight for our rights and job,” said Azmi. She said that until now, ad hoc teachers had been reluctant about contesting elections since they were vulnerable and did not have permanent jobs. “Our jobs can be taken away at the drop of a hat if we raise our voice. I wanted to change this. Why should we not stand for elections if our rights are being denied? I teach terms such as justice, equality and liberty but our own rights are being denied. Our forum will seek to address the denial of rights of ad hoc teachers in the university,” said Azmi. She said that the foremost focus of the ATF will be to pressure the government and administration to implement the December 5, 2019, letter note of discussion that suggests relaxations in screening criteria. “We will put pressure on the government and the administration to implement the December 5 letter. As per the letter, ad hoc teachers need to be given relaxation in any screening criteria. The fights for absorption will be the major agenda for which we are contesting elections,” said Azmi. Pankaj Garg, convener of the Indian National Teachers’ Congress (INTEC), and former Academic Council member, said that it was for the first time that an ad hoc teacher was contesting for the DUTA presidential post. Garg said that ad hoc teachers were as good as permanent teachers but were suffering due to denial of the same rights. “The promotions of ad hoc teachers have been pending for the past 10 years. The permanency of teachers is also a major issue for the university,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-duta-election-to-see-ad-hoc-teachers-in-the-fray-101637607289604.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||For next year’s Swachh survey, all 24 wards to compete for cleanest tag||As part of the Swachh Survekshan Survey 2022, all the 24 administrative wards in Mumbai will compete with each other and will be ranked on the basis of cleanliness in their area. This is to create healthy competition among citizens in terms of the cleanliness of the surroundings. Apart from private premises such as hospitals, hotels and schools across the city, which participate in similar competitions as per the guidelines each year, this year public premises such as roads, nullahs, bus stops, traffic islands, and gardens will also be surveyed for this ranking.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will hire an external agency to conduct the surveys and submit its findings to the civic body. Tenders for the process were recently floated by BMC.A civic official in charge of this tender process said, “Results for this competition need to be ready by mid-January, so the contracts are likely to be finalised within a week. The third party will survey public premises in each of the 24 administrative wards, and grade them for cleanliness on fixed parameters. We have decided to include public places in the survey. The cleanest wards will then be felicitated.” “The competition among the wards is an effort to reach out to citizens and encourage them to keep their premises clean. Apart from surveying areas, the agency that will be hired will also organise competitions for movies, drawings, jingles, and street plays,” the official added. Mumbai ranked 37th in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, whose results were declared a few days ago. Its rank dropped two points in comparison to 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/for-next-year-s-swachh-survey-all-24-wards-to-compete-for-cleanest-tag-101637607227989.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||No one will be deprived of ration, Delhi govt tells high court||Delhi government will set up exclusive stores in different parts of the city for doorstep delivery of ration to ensure that people or those who are not at home can collect it at their convenience. In an affidavit filed before a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, the Delhi government has said that the Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store Ltd (DCCWS) would set up exclusive Fair Price Shops across various districts at the circle level.It said that beneficiaries who opt for doorstep delivery but miss the scheduled delivery or wish to collect the packages SFAs on their own will be able to collect it from the circle level FPS set up by the DCCWS.The affidavit said that no one will be deprived of food grains even after the introduction of the door to door step ration scheme and the fair price shops will continue to exist.“The Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store Ltd. (“DCCWS”) will set up FPS across various districts in Delhi at the Circle level. Pursuant to conversion, cleaning and packaging, the packets of Specified Food Articles (SFAs) will be delivered by empanelled millers / packaging units at the FPS. DCCWS will also empanel Direct Home Delivery Agencies (“DHD Agencies”) who shall deliver the packets to the home of the beneficiary.“Beneficiaries who opt for doorstep delivery but miss the scheduled delivery or wish to collect the packages SFAs on their own will be able to collect it from the circle level FPS set up by the DCCWS. Beneficiaries who do not opt for home delivery will be able to collect their dry ration from the existing FPS. Therefore, it is a misconception that the GNCTD is seeking to do away with FPS,” the city government said in the document filed on November 18.The response comes on an application filed by the petitioners Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh seeking modification of an order of September 27 where the court had allowed the Delhi government to cut on the ration being supplied to the fair price shops on account of those who have opted for the doorstep delivery of the food grains.The modification application was filed in a pending plea by the Sangh challenging the city government’s scheme for doorstep delivery of ration, Mukhy Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna.In response to this, the city government said that the petitioner association is entirely mischievous contentions in respect of implementation of the scheme. It also said that it does not have any vested right to insist on continuation of the present system for distribution of subsidised food grain.It has also said that not a single beneficiary has questioned the mode and manner of implementation of the Scheme and an overwhelming majority of the target beneficiaries have opted to receive food grains at their doorstep.“The petitioner is deliberately seeking to expand the scope of the present petition by raising such non-issues in a desperate attempt to stall the implementation of the scheme,” the affidavit read.The Centre, however, on Monday reiterated before the court that the city government cannot mitigate the architecture and it has to fall into the architecture of the Act, additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati also argued that fair price shops form an integral part of the National Food Security Act.“If the State wants, it is free to give benefit higher than the NFSA but they cannot mitigate or militate the architecture of the Act,” Bhati told the court.She added that while the Act mandates obligations of both the Central as well as State Government, it is the State Government which is responsible for the execution as mandated by the Act.“We have no role in the selection of fair price shop owners. It is not that the system is placed by us and the State is prejudiced. It is chosen by the State government,” Bhati argued.The arguments would continue on November 29.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food, including 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households, besides other food insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre.The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections— the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-one-will-be-deprived-of-ration-delhi-govt-tells-high-court-101637607108517.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC to acquire private land for Mahul pumping station||Mumbai After a two-year wait to acquire salt pan land for the construction of the Mahul pumping station, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified private land for acquisition.Owned by Ajmera Realty and Infrastructure India Ltd., the land will be exchanged for one of its own plots of the same size, along with transferred development rights (TDR) and compensation value. This private plot measures up to 15,500 sqm, and will be exchanged by the civic body for a plot measuring 13,390 sqm. TDR for the remaining sqm will be given to the realtor. A proposal for acquiring this private plot will be tabled before the improvement committee in its meeting this week.Once the Mahul pumping station is constructed, it will bring relief to areas of Gandhi Market, Matunga, King’s Circle, and Sion from inundation.The plan to construct this pumping station has been in the pipeline for many years. BMC had identified salt pan lands near the proposed project and written to the salt commissioner for its transfer to the civic body. As BMC’s proposal did not get a response from the salt commissioner, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting in 2020 to speed up the land transfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-acquire-private-land-for-mahul-pumping-station-101637607047884.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board’s M-Seva app to provide all its 20 services online: Jain||The Delhi Jal Board convened a board meeting on Monday, during which the agency cleared proposals to extend online all services of zonal revenue offices and the utility’s M-sewa app, along with changes to streamline the water billing system. The board also approved the creation of 49 posts at the senior level for coordination and expediting multiple initiatives, especially cleaning up the Yamuna and the 24x7 water supply project. A government spokesperson said that these 49 posts include 13 superintending engineers posts and 36 executive engineer posts. The DJB revenue director on 17 November issued an order that said 10 DJB services will be made available online, while the remaining services will be added in phases. “The water minister instructed the officials to take strict actions on the meter readers who were not doing their work properly. In light of this issue, the board decided to make all the systems completely online and transparent,” official added.Water minister Satyendar Jain said the online push will help developing a “corruption-free and transparent” process. “DJB’s services will be made faceless and online portals will be introduced to bring the services under one roof. Help desks will be set up in every zone to help citizens to avail the online DJB services and register their grievances,” Jain said. “All DJB consumers can apply and register for the above services online by visiting website or using the M-Seva mobile application,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-s-m-seva-app-to-provide-all-its-20-services-online-satyendar-jain-101637606988450.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||9 women SHOs set a new Delhi Police benchmark||For inspector Poonam Pareek, 55, the recent elevation as a station house officer (SHOs) in Delhi Police, is more than just a new posting. “It’s important for me not only because I’ve been posted as SHO at Vivek Vihar police station. Instead, it is a matter of pride that as many as nine women officers like me have got key role in active policing. In my 26-odd years’ service in Delhi Police, I have never seen so many women SHOs serving at the same time,” she said. Inspector Kamini Gupta, SHO of Badarpur police station, described it as “breaking of a big glass ceiling”. “We are no longer being relegated to ‘side-lined’ posts just because we are women,” she said. Before this, the highest number of women SHOs in Delhi, serving at the same time, was five in May 1986, according to Delhi Police data.The change was effected after a reshuffle in the ranks by Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana in September. In addition to the police station in-charges, six women IPS officers are currently serving as deputy commissioners (DCPs) in different districts.There are 15 police districts in Delhi, each headed by a DCP. Police officers such as assistant commissioners of police and inspectors(head of police stations) report to the DCP.Priyanka Kashyap, DCP (east), said, “Nine women SHOs serving at the same time is a milestone. Women have been kept away from such important field jobs for far too long.”DCP (south), Benita Mary Jaiker, said one of the critical areas where women in law enforcement can make a difference is addressing violence against women and sex crimes. “For example, in sexual assault cases, the survivors feel it easier to talk to a woman officer. But that can’t always happen because there aren’t enough women in the department,” she said. Of the 80,000 personnel in the Delhi Police, there are about 7,400 women officers. Currently, special commissioner Sundari Nanda is the second senior most officer after commissioner Asthana. Retired Delhi Police commissioner Ajai Raj Sharma said such postings would encourage young women to join law-enforcement services. Sharma, who has also served as the director general of Uttar Pradesh Police and the Border Security Force, said, “Giving challenging jobs to women officers will not only help the police to assert a people-friendly image, but also inspire young girls to join the law enforcement services.”Asthana said the time has come to move away from tokenism and ensure that women get a central role in the police -- “a role that affords them equality of opportunity, and which is free from stereotypical gender bias”. “A gender-diverse force is a must for creating a safe and secure environment for women and achieving the larger national development goals. Since women are more sensitive to problems being faced by others, they often approach and solve problems from a different perspective than their male counterparts. Also, the women officers can help improve police-community relations. Female officers are less authoritarian in their approach, rely less on physical force and are more effective communicators,” the Delhi Police chief said. Supreme Court senior advocate Geeta Luthra said it is a “great first” for the city police. “Women are now being recognised through selection, competitive examinations, and are respected in official power positions. But, greater respect and acknowledgment is required in the unorganised or even professional spheres, where the workspace is competitive, but without the strength of official government or judicial positions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/9-women-shos-set-a-new-delhi-police-benchmark-101637606930850.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||State’s plea to transfer Anil Deshmukh’s case to SIT has no grounds: CBI to HC||Mumbai The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said on Monday that there were no grounds to accept the state’s plea of transferring the investigation into the corruption charges against Anil Deshmukh to a Special Investigation Team. They further reiterated its stand that the Maharashtra government was trying to scuttle the investigation.The CBI said that the state filed the petition after the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and DGP Sanjay Pandey were issued multiple summons by CBI for recording statements and then sought supervisory powers to oversee the statements given by the two officers, was indicative of the state being scared of the consequences.CBI’s additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi informed the division bench of Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Sarang Kotwal that while the state government said that it was not averse to cooperating with the CBI, it was resorting to all possible means to derail the same. Referring to the invocation of Section 4 of the Police Act, wherein the state could supervise the statements being recorded by an investigating authority, Lekhi submitted that neither officers were in a state of mind which requires the supervision of the state. Thirdly, Lekhi also refuted the argument that the officers were being harassed and said that if the officers were exempted from recording statements in the investigation, no cases could be solved. Responding to the claim by the state that the minutes of the police establishment board meeting, wherein dismissed cop Sachin Vaze was reinstated, could not be relied upon, was not valid as the minutes had substantial evidence to prove the interference of the home minister. Similarly, Lekhi submitted that the home minister had a personalised influence in the transfer and posting issue of police officers in the state. Lekhi submitted that the process that was adopted by the board shows clear involvement of the home minister and also shows close nexus between the minister and his associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/states-plea-to-transfer-anil-deshmukh-s-case-to-sit-has-no-grounds-cbi-to-hc-101637606927873.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Ahmednagar civic hospital fire death toll rises to 14||PUNE The death toll in the Ahmednagar civic hospital fire has now reached 14 after two more deaths of victims from the fire were reported on November 19 and 22, respectively.In the incident which occurred on November 6, 11 elderly people who were being treated for Covid-19 in the intensive care unit (ICU) that caught fire, died in the tragedy. One more death then occurred on November 17.“The patients who died on November 19 and on Monday were in a serious condition ever since the fire incident happened. We shifted them for treatment, but they could not survive,” said Dr BK Ramteke, civil surgeon, Ahmednagar.Rambabai Vidhate, who was 70-years old, died on Monday, and Godabai Sasane, who died on November 19, was also 70-years old.However, the hospital authority did not provide information on how many other patient are still serious.A total of 21 elderly people were there in the ward when the incident happened. “We cannot confirm the condition of the other remaining patients right now,” said another doctor from Ahmednagar on the request of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahmednagar-civic-hospital-fire-death-toll-rises-to-14-101637606808506.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Recalibration of rickshaw meters to charge new fares begins in Pune||PUNE Autorickshaw owners in the city have begun to recalibrate meters, as the revised fares are applicable from November 22. However, the RTO has given time till January 31, 2022 for rickshaws to have meters recalibrated.“With today being day one of meter recalibration, a few drivers approached us for the same and many also just inquired about the procedure. The procedure is not long and for one auto it only takes 15 minutes if all the documents are cleared. It is good thing RTO has given all of them time as the number of autorickshaw drivers is more in PMC and PCMC,” said Shivaji Lohokare, who runs a meter recalibration service at Dandekar Pul.There are 27 such meter outlets in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad where autorickshaws can upgrade.The fares will be increased to Rs21 instead of Rs18 for the first 1.5 km and thereafter, Rs14 for every km, according to revised rates approved by Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Pune division. Fares have been increased by Rs3 for the first 1.5 km and Rs2 for every km thereafter. “We have given them time till January 31, 2022, and the procedure will take time. After upgrading their meters, autorickshaw drivers need to come to the RTO for meter testing,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde.Currently there are 72,000 autorickshaws are plying in Pune and there are 550 auto stands.“I will upgrade my meter in 10-15 days, today is first day but majority of autorickshaws are plying with same old rates. RTO has not made compulsion,” said Dhanjay Shinde who plies his autorickshaw at Chandini chowk.Another auto driver Rakesh Ghule from Deccan Gymkhana said, “Those auto drivers who have paperwork cleared only they can upgrade meters.Many don’t have all the papers so first they will have to clear all the documents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/recalibration-of-rickshaw-meters-to-charge-new-fares-begins-in-pune-101637606571616.html
23-11-2021||Pune||65 fall prey to food poisoning after village festivities in Maval||PUNE: Around 65 residents of two villages in Maval taluka, Pune district, fell prey to food poisoning and had to be admitted to various local hospitals after they attended a local deity’s festival and consumed the food prepared there as prasad. The incident occurred on November 18 when residents of the Shivli and Bhadawli villages in Maval taluka participated in the celebrations and were served lunch prepared for devotees after the aarti. By dinner time, about 60 to 65 out of the 250 people who attended the festival started complaining of vomiting, headache and stomachache and had to be admitted to nearby hospitals, including the YCM hospital in Pimpri. The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) sent a team to the village to find out the reason behind the food poisoning and an OT test of the water used to prepare the prasad (lunch) revealed that its quality had been compromised and that it had lower quantities of chlorine than what is mandated. The village’s poor water supply and quality management programme led to this situation, according to sources.However block development officer Sudhir Bhagwat said, “This cannot be the sole reason for the outbreak because had it been the case, the entire population of the village would have fallen sick even before the festivities. But out of the 250 people who consumed the food, only 60 to 65 fell sick. We have sent the food and water samples to the state health laboratory for testing and only after we get the results will we be able to say what actually led to the incident. All the affected people are currently doing well and have been discharged from various hospitals.”Notwithstanding, the incident brings to the fore the poor water supply and quality management system in rural areas of Pune district which needs to be kept in check to prevent such outbreaks in future. Zilla parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad said, “The management of water quality in rural areas is not very bad though we have less than 10 water treatment plants (WTPs) in the district. However, we are working to build more WTPs with advanced technology. We also face the issue of limited water tariff collection and the wear-and-tear needs to be kept in check for which we are now regularising the tariff collection system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/65-fall-prey-to-food-poisoning-after-village-festivities-in-maval-101637606570324.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DMRC unveils new driver training system, monitoring mechanism||New Delhi: The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday unveiled a prototype of a new driver training and evaluation simulator -- the rolling stock driver training system (RSDTS) -- that officials said is a major step towards indigenising the technologies involved in operating the Metro. Union ministry of housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra also launched the Super Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, a monitoring mechanism to help identify maintenance periodicity, manpower requirements and management of spares, on Monday.“This system (RSDTS) will also be used for evaluating the driving skills of a working train operator which is done periodically for safety considerations. This will be the first indigenously developed universal train driving simulator that can be suitably modified for any Metro system or Railways,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC.The system was developed in collaboration with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), which had signed an MoU with DMRC in September last year, said officials. DMRC officials said that till now, the product was imported by the Metro from foreign manufacturers at a high cost.“The designs available with DMRC so far are suitable for use with a single type of rolling stock, and signalling and line profiles envisaged at design stage… The RSDTS being developed indigenously has the facility of the same core software to be utilised for creating different combinations of rolling stock, signalling and line profiles, by merely changing the input data files, along with minor hardware changes in the driving desk, if required. This will enhance the flexibility of the training system and would result in major cost saving for DMRC, as the same system can be used for multiple stocks and different routes,” said Dayal.Officials said that the Metro has an ambitious plan to go digital for all its maintenance needs, with the work on the Super SCADA system being an important step in this direction. “For this, DMRC had signed another MoU with BEL earlier in June this year for indigenous development of Super-SCADA,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidmrc-unveils-new-driver-training-system-monitoring-mechanism-101637606569059.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Without an alternative, parties wait for CM’s recovery for key policy decisions||Mumbai As chief minister Uddhav Thackeray carried over the decades-old tradition of not handing over charge to his deputy or other senior ministers during his absence, political circles are abuzz with the implications of his long hospital stay and upcoming recovery on policy decisions, including the reduction of VAT on fuel. Initially, rumours were doing the rounds that the responsibility had been given to his party colleague and urban development minister Eknath Shinde, but Shinde’s office issued a statement that Thackeray would be back at work within the next three to four days. The chief minister’s office also said that his spine surgery was “successful”. It added that he is “stable” and is undergoing physiotherapy at HN Reliance Hospital. It added, “He will be discharged in due course of time.” A senior Congress minister said, “Sharad Pawar was probably the last CM in the early 1990s who had given charge of some of his key portfolios to a senior party colleague. During the Shiv Sena-BJP rule under Manohar Joshi, the CM did not hand over his charge to the then deputy CM and BJP leader Gopinath Munde when the former had gone on a foreign tour. Munde privately complained about the discontinued tradition and even chaired a meeting in the CM’s cabin. Not handing over the charge later became the precedent.” The minister said that it is also because of the factor of distrust between the CM and his deputy as they are from two different parties. The minister pointed out that though the deputy CM is not a constitutional post, the charge would have gone to Ajit Pawar and it could have led to other political issues. “There were many instances in the past where chief ministers have not given temporary charge to anyone, even when they were unavailable. Uddhav ji has been looking at important files and clearing them as well. There was no need to give a temporary charge to anybody else as the work is unhampered,” said a senior Sena functionary. In the past, former Goa chief minister late Manohar Parrikar, who suffered from pancreatic cancer and was in and out of hospital for around nine months in 2018, did not hand over the reins of the chair despite demand from allies and opposition in the then Goa government, said a Sena leader. However, political analyst Hemant Desai said that handing over the charge would have set a healthy precedent. “It is true that there was no dire need to hand over the charge as the CM is very much in the position to make key decisions. The factor of distrust definitely persists between the ruling parties and their leaders as they represent completely different ideologies. However, the CM had an opportunity- to set an example and go the extra mile to strengthen the bond,” he explained. According to the leaders from Shiv Sena, the CM may take more time to resume work even after he returns home. “State cabinet meeting is scheduled to take place on Thursday. It is not clear if the CM will be in a position to chair it even online. According to sources, the chief minister underwent another surgical procedure last Thursday after he developed blood clots in the spine region. They added that the CM’s recovery could be prolonged and his movement will remain restricted for a few weeks,” said the Sena leader. Sena leader and chief spokesperson of the party Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the CM is recuperating well in the hospital and he would be discharged soon. “The chief minister is still in the hospital. He will be home soon. He should get well and then start working and he should not take any kind of risk, because the type of surgery he has undergone is a delicate one,” he said. Though the ruling parties claim otherwise, the key policy decisions including revision of VAT on petrol-diesel, the decision over the date of winter session are waiting for the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/without-an-alternative-parties-wait-for-cm-s-recovery-for-key-policy-decisions-101637606567891.html
23-11-2021||Mumbai||Deshmukh’s son actively participated in laundering money, ED says rejecting bail||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has opposed the former home minister Anil Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh Deshmukh’s anticipatory bail application and claimed that he was “an active participant in the laundering of the proceeds of crime.” The ED further claimed that Hrishikesh helped his father launder the money and projected it as donations for the educational trust controlled by Deshmukh family. Claiming that Hrishikesh, along with other family members, created “a complex web of companies”, in which suspicious transactions have taken place, the ED rejected the bail plea. Further, unaccounted money had been infused in one of the companies controlled by the Deshmukh family and then, the same has been rotated into other companies for expanding the business empire of the Deshmukh family. The agency has further alleged that Anil Deshmukh, as a virtue of his earlier position, had received ₹4.7 crore from various orchestra bar owners for smooth functioning of the establishments and Hrishikesh had in connivance with his father, transferred part of the ill-gotten cash through hawala operators into banking channel as donations.It added that Hrishikesh along with other Deshmukh family members became the director of Kolkata-based paper company Zodiac Dealcom, which has actually no business. The applicant thus assisted his father in utilising unaccounted money of ₹9.82 crore to Zodiac Dealcom, by infusing cash into Kolkata-based 18 shell companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deshmukhs-son-actively-participated-in-laundering-money-ed-says-rejecting-bail-101637606338060.html
23-11-2021||Pune||BJP holds agitation in Pune to protest communal violence in state||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party’s city unit, on Monday, took out an agitation against the Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) government over the incidents of communal violence in Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded.BJP’s city unit president Jagdish Mulik demanded that the Raza Academy be banned and that a committee be appointed, headed by a retired judge, to conduct an inquiry into the violence in Maharashtra.The BJP claimed that a fake video of an incident at Tripura was circulated on the basis of which, the violence broke out.The BJP also demanded that the Maha Vikas Agadi stop the filing of cases against BJP workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-holds-agitation-in-pune-to-protest-communal-violence-in-state-101637606336829.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board seeks FIR against Waseem Rizvi||The All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board (AISMPLB) on Monday approached Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur, demanding an FIR (First Information Report) against former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board chairman Waseem Rizvi for authoring a controversial book titled “Muhammad”.The All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board blamed Waseem Rizvi for making “blasphemous” comments about the Prophet his book.“We met the police commissioner and demanded FIR against Waseem Rizvi for writing the book, Muhammad, that is purely an insult to the Prophet and an attempt to hurt religious sentiments of the people,” said Maulana Yasoob Abbas, general secretary of AISMPLB.Prior to this, the All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board had also served a notice on Waseem Rizvi, demanding withdrawal of his alleged statement against the Prophet.If registered, this would perhaps be the first FIR in Uttar Pradesh in the matter against Waseem Rizvi. On November 17, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi had submitted a complaint at the Kamatipura police station in Hyderabad.Owaisi’s complaint alleges that Waseem Rizvi has used “objectionable language” against the Prophet in his book.In response, Rizvi had said Owaisi should have read the book before lodging the FIR.“Owaisi should have first gone through my book that is based on all facts before reacting,” Waseem Rizvi had said in a video statement he released on November 20 morning.Waseem Rizvi released the book on November 4 at Dasna Delvi temple in Ghaziabad in the presence of Hindutva leader Narsinghanand Saraswati. The issue gained momentum on November 15 after Rizvi posted the cover-page image and buy-link of the book on his Facebook wall with the note—“You can easily download e-book Muhammad from here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-india-shia-muslim-personal-law-board-seeks-fir-against-waseem-rizvi-101637606208997.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Chaos at Pune airport as runway lights suffer technical issues||PUNE: Flyers faced chaos at Pune international airport Monday evening as runway lights suffered technical issues. Between 6pm and 9pm, a total 22 flights including 12 arrivals and 10 departures, were delayed. Flights from Pune to Nagpur, Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata were delayed. An Air India Delhi to Pune flight was diverted to Hyderabad while a Spice Jet Kolkata to Pune flight was diverted to Mumbai. The irate flyers took to Twitter to vent their anger.Sudhir Mehta, president, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), tweeted, “My Delhi to Pune flight was diverted to Hyderabad due to non-functional runway lights at Pune airport. The litany of woes at Pune airport continues. How badly the city needs an alternate airport! Unfortunately, we are the largest ignored urban conglomeration in the country.”Gopal Krishna tweeted, “I am on one of the Air India flights waiting to take-off from Pune airport. The flight was supposed to take-off at 5.50pm and land in Delhi at 8.10pm but as of 8.30pm, it is still stuck at Pune airport. While a Vistara flight that landed after we boarded is already on its way to take-off.”Another user tweeted, “Indigo is becoming the worst service these days. The flight was delayed by two hours. The staff at Pune airport is arrogant.”The Spice Jet Pune to Kolkata flight which city-based journalist, Tania Roy’s parents boarded finally took-off at 8.45pm. “Earlier, the flight was scheduled at 3pm after which the airline sent the message that it will take off at 7pm. When my parents reached the airport, they had to wait for an hour and forty-five minutes. I don’t understand why people have to still deal with such issues even after the Pune airport remained closed for 14 days. It is harrowing, especially for senior citizens and children,” Roy said.The Pune airport remained closed from October 16 to 29 and was reopened on October 30. In the first week after reopening, airport authorities had to face a lot of problems as there was a lot of rush and flyers had to wait for hours to check-in. On a few occasions, flights were delayed while a few flyers missed flights during Diwali week. The airport is operating 24x7 since November 1. The daily passenger footfall at Pune airport is around 1,900.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chaos-at-pune-airport-as-runway-lights-suffer-technical-issues-101637606150788.html
23-11-2021||Pune||Serum Institute of India’s first international consignment since ban revoked put on hold||PUNE: After the Indian government-imposed ban on exports from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) was revoked last week, the first international consignment that the SII had prepared to send out on Monday was later put on hold. Sources from the SII said that the consignment was to leave for Nepal by afternoon but was later cancelled. While the institute did not reveal the reason for cancellation, it did state that the consignment would be back on its way in the coming few days.Currently, the SII supplies over 90% of the Covid-19 vaccine within the country and with an adequate supply of vaccine already in the pipeline, the institute is now ready to send out vaccine to other countries and fulfill its prior commitments.In the event the consignment had been delivered, it would have been the first consignment sent by the SII to a foreign country since the January 2021 imposition of a ban on exports owing to domestic demand and shortage of vaccine doses at the time.Now however, the issue of vaccine shortage is no longer relevant. “The vaccine industry has worked tirelessly to provide enough stock for the nation. Today, there are over 200 million doses available with the states. I urge all adults to get vaccinated as soon as possible. Vaccine hesitancy is now the greatest threat in overcoming this pandemic,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, tweeted earlier.As of now, the country has vaccinated over a billion people, which includes both the first and second dose. Since crossing the one billion mark, the country has seen over 175.8 million vaccines in the last one month alone. It is estimated that the country will need about 1.8 billion vaccines to fully vaccinate the entire eligible population, as it is estimated that there are about 950 million people who are eligible for the vaccine and are aged above 18 years. This means that the country needs about 624 million doses more to fully vaccinate everyone who is eligible.As of now, the states have about 200 million doses available with them according to Poonawalla. Official sources from the SII said that the institute has about 150 million doses of vaccine in storage and can produce over 220 million doses a month if it runs under full capacity. In addition to fulfilling its prior commitments under GAVI for Covax countries and to other western countries, the SII will also have to face the challenge of continuing heavy supply of vaccine to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/serum-institute-of-india-s-first-international-consignment-since-ban-revoked-put-on-hold-101637606149638.html
23-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP core committee holds meeting in Lucknow||A meeting of the BJP core committee featuring top leaders was held at the party headquarters in Lucknow on Monday evening. The meeting stretched on till late night. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP national general secretary (organization) BL Santhosh among others participated in the meeting. They discussed the ongoing membership drive, the party’s booth level focus, forthcoming tours of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the entry of some opposition leaders into the BJP. Party leaders said the BJP is also finalising Vijay Sankalp rath yatras in December and these yatras could culminate with a big rally in Lucknow which would be addressed by Modi. The route of these yatras also was possibly discussed at the meeting, party leaders said. The BJP leaders also collected feedback about the impact of the announcement of withdrawal of three contentious agricultural laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, especially in western UP. BJP chief JP Nadda arrived in Lucknow, along with Yogi Adityanath, after addressing booth presidents in Gorakhpur. The BJP chief straightaway entered into the meeting of the core committee. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, state general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan who is the head of the BJP’s election panel in UP, were also present. The BJP has announced several initiatives to connect with all sections of the society. In the coming days, it could roll out a few more the while Yogi Adityanath government may make some big-ticket announcements even as the Prime Minister continues to visit UP, to inaugurate or lay foundation stones of key projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-core-committee-holds-meeting-in-lucknow-101637606148492.html
23-11-2021||Other||Ensure no homeless sleeps in open this winter: Lucknow DM to officials||LUCKNOW: District administration on Monday issued directives to the officials of Nagar Nigam and other departments concerned to make elaborate arrangements at rainbaseras in the state capital so that none of the homeless sleeps in the open this winter. The departments were also asked to ensure distribution of food and winter clothes among the shelter seekers. While addressing a meeting on arrangements for rainbaseras, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said, “It has been observed that many homeless people are forced to spend nights in the open and that too without proper woollens. Hence, we have decided to set up four cloth banks, covering all corners of the city, in order to provide beddings, woollens to the homeless.” The DM said that at present they had four cloth banks functional in the city. The cloth bank is a joint initiative wherein commoners, NGOs, corporate houses and other organisations have been roped in to run these banks. Clothes once collected would be transported to the rainbaseras and distributed among the homeless, he said. Apart from setting up cloth banks, the administration is also going to increase the numbers of rainbaseras in order to accommodate maximum numbers of homeless. The DM has also directed officials to give a facelift to the existing rainbaseras. “We are also preparing a list of the old government establishments that can be transformed into rainbaseras.” Meanwhile, officials said that they were chalking out a plan to ensure that the stocked clothes reach out to the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-no-homeless-sleeps-in-open-this-winter-lucknow-dm-to-officials-101637605908281.html
23-11-2021||Delhi||SC orders swift completion of insolvency proceedings of Jaypee Infratech||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered swift completion of Jaypee Infratech’s insolvency proceedings, as it asked the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Delhi, to decide the matter “preferably within two months”.“This application is disposed of with a direction to the adjudicating authority (NCLT) to expeditiously dispose of the proceedings concerning the resolution plan of Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL), preferably within two months of receipt of this order. Let this order be transmitted to the adjudicating authority through email for information and necessary action,” said the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar.The bench was hearing a plea filed by homebuyers of the Jaypee Kensington Boulevard project in Noida. More than 20,000 flats were yet to be completed by the JIL when the insolvency proceedings began for the real estate firm in August 2017. Appearing for the homebuyers, lawyer Shashank Manish argued that repeated delays in the insolvency process are adversely affecting the rights of homebuyers. The lawyer referred to the Supreme Court judgment in March this year, directing for expeditious completion of the insolvency proceedings. On March 24, the court had remanded the case back to NCLT for fresh voting, and extended the timeline for completion of the corporate insolvency process by 45 days. In June, the resolution plan of Suraksha Realty and state-owned National Building Construction Corporation (NBCC) were put to vote before the lenders, who approved the former’s plan by an overwhelming majority.After the lenders’ nod, the resolution professional moved the NCLT on July 7, seeking official approval and implementation of the plan. However, the NCLT is yet to put its stamp of approval on the resolution plan, compelling the homebuyers to approach the apex court with a fresh plea. Having invested their life savings in the project, homebuyers submitted that the NCLT is acting in a casual manner and said that they have suffered for long to get a house. They claimed that the already existing structures of the unfinished towers are getting weakened and losing structural integrity owing to the weather conditions, adding that the condition of existing structures will only deteriorate with passage of time.Homebuyers said that their hopes and dreams of getting a house will be destroyed if appropriate action of completion of the CIRP (corporate insolvency resolution process), the appointment of successful resolution applicant and resumption of work in full force is not done in a time-bound manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-orders-swift-completion-of-insolvency-proceedings-of-jaypee-infratech-101637603028134.html
23-11-2021||World||Reddit to shut down Dubsmash, standalone app can't be downloaded after Feb 22||Reddit is pulling the plug on its TikTok-like platform, Dubsmash, the social network said on Tuesday, just a year after buying it for an undisclosed sum to bolster its video creation tools.The standalone Dubsmash app will not be available for download after February 22, Reddit said, as it rolled out new camera and editing features as part of its video tools.TikTok's massive success with short-form videos has driven other social networks to incorporate the format on their platforms, with Snap Inc rolling out Spotlight; Facebook, now Meta Platforms, launching Instagram Reels; and Alphabet's YouTube launching Shorts."The Dubsmash team has been accelerating Reddit's video, so parts of Reddit will feel familiar to Dubsmashers," the company said in a blogpost.Since Dubsmash's acquisition, Reddit said it had seen 70% growth in overall hours watched, while the number of daily active video viewers rose by over a third.Viewership for short videos, which the company defines as two seconds or less, has also risen by 50% quarter-over-quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/reddit-to-shut-down-dubsmash-standalone-app-can-t-be-downloaded-after-feb-22-101637688963273.html
23-11-2021||World||Europe Covid resurgence: WHO fears 700,000 more deaths||Europe remains "in the firm grip" of Covid and the death toll on the continent could top 2.2 million this winter if current trends continue, the World Health Organization said Tuesday.Some 700,000 could die in the coming months, the WHO said, as cases creep up across Europe, prompting some countries to reimpose tough restrictions.The WHO expects "high or extreme stress in intensive care units (ICUs) in 49 out of 53 countries between now and March 1, 2022"."Cumulative reported deaths are projected to reach over 2.2 million by spring next year," it added, up from the current 1.5 million.Covid-19 is the leading cause of death across Europe and Central Asia, the WHO reported, citing figures from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.The rise in Europe was being driven by a combination of the highly-contagious Delta variant, insufficient vaccination coverage and the easing of measures such as mask wearing and physical distancing, it said.According to WHO data, Covid-related deaths increased last week to nearly 4,200 a day, doubling from 2,100 deaths a day at the end of September.The WHO also said evidence was growing that vaccine-induced protection against infection and mild disease was declining."The Covid-19 situation across Europe and Central Asia is very serious. We face a challenging winter ahead," regional director for WHO Europe, Hans Kluge, said in a statement.He called for a "vaccine plus" approach, consisting of vaccinations, social distancing, the use of face masks and hand washing.The WHO said face masks reduce Covid incidence by 53 percent according to a recent study, and "over 160,000 deaths could be prevented (by March 1) if universal mask coverage of 95 percent was achieved".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-covid-resurgence-who-fears-700-000-more-deaths-101637675596499.html
23-11-2021||World||45 killed as bus catches fire on highway in Bulgaria||At least 45 people were killed when a bus with North Macedonian plates caught fire on a highway in western Bulgaria on Tuesday, officials said.There were children among the victims, and seven people with burns were rushed to hospital in the capital Sofia, the head of the fire safety department at the interior ministry, Nikolai Nikolov, told private BTV television."At least 45 people were killed after a bus caught fire and crashed, or crashed and then caught fire," Nikolov said.The accident happened around 2:00 a.m (0000 GMT), he said. The site of the accident is cut off.Most of the victims were from North Macedonia, an official from the North Macedonia embassy in Sofia told BTV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/45-killed-as-bus-catches-fire-on-highway-in-bulgaria-101637642488690.html
23-11-2021||World||To ward off another Covid-19 wave, Israel vaccinates children as young as 5||Israel began rolling out Covid-19 vaccines for children aged five to 11 on Monday, becoming one of a handful of countries to inoculate children so young as it seeks to ward off another pandemic wave.Over the summer, the Jewish state experienced an upsurge in coronavirus infections, fuelled by the Delta variant, and launched one of the earliest campaigns for booster shots.As infections start to creep up again, Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has said the country is experiencing a "children's wave" with about half of the recently confirmed cases among children below the age of 11, he wrote on Facebook.Authorities had already begun immunising those aged 12 to 17 but decided to lower the age threshold in the wake of trials by Pfizer and recommendations from a panel of Israeli scientists.While the campaign for younger minors was set to officially start Tuesday, doses were already being administered by Monday night, an AFP team in Tel Aviv found."Right now during the epidemic, the best tool to protect our children is vaccination," said Heli Nave from outside a clinic giving the Pfizer-BioNTech jabs to children.She said "it is not an easy decision at all" but the availability of data from the United States -- which started immunising five-to-11-year-olds earlier this month -- had convinced her.The prime minister is scheduled to have his own youngest son vaccinated on Tuesday morning, his office announced.Israel was one of the first countries to launch vaccines against the coronavirus last year thanks to a deal with Pfizer that gave it access to millions of doses in exchange for data on the vaccine's efficacy.More than 5.7 million of the country's nine million people are now fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-ward-off-another-covid-19-wave-israel-vaccinates-children-as-young-as-5-101637637964343.html
23-11-2021||World||Peng Shuai has appeared in public, but concerns about her safety not going away||Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai appeared in public over the weekend, after increasing calls about her whereabouts from across the world. Several videos and pictures released by China's state-controlled media showed Peng going about her life in Beijing; she even spoke to the chief of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Thomas Bach on Sunday.But all this hasn't stopped the voices of concerns from being raised about her safety in China."It was good to see Peng Shuai in recent videos, but they don't alleviate or address the WTA's concern about her well-being and ability to communicate without censorship or coercion," a Women's Tennis Association's (WTA) spokeswoman said in an e-mail response to news agency Reuters.The IOC released a photo of Bach facing a screen on which Peng appears but did not release video of the call. The IOC's short statement, which offered few details and no follow-up on her allegations, is leading to increasing criticism of the sports body.Amnesty International's China researcher Alkan Akad told Reuters the video call did little to alleviate fears over Peng's well-being."The International Olympic Committee is entering dangerous waters," Akad said. "In the past we have seen various similar cases where people had no option but to say what they had been told to."Some critics say the IOC's handling of the call with Peng makes it an active partner in delivering Beijing’s message - while not providing Peng with an open forum to discuss her allegations.French sports minister Roxana Maracineanu's office said she "is partly reassured by the video but remains concerned and wants the light to be shed on the accusations of sexual assault".The United Kingdom on Monday demanded that Beijing allow her to speak out without fear of repercussions.Meanwhile, Hu Xijin, the editor of the state-owned newspaper Global Times who has in recent days posted videos and photographs of Peng in Beijing, said on Twitter on Monday that her appearance should be enough to ease worries of "those who truly care about (the) safety of Peng Shuai".Peng disappeared from public view after publishing on November 2 a statement on Weibo, China's Twitter-like social media platform, accusing the former Chinese vice-premier, 75-year-old Zhang Gaoli, of sexually assaulting her. The post was immediately deleted, Peng's accounts were removed from the Chinese social networks and the athlete stopped communicating, raising concerns for her safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/peng-shuai-has-appeared-in-public-but-concerns-about-her-safety-not-going-away-101637634355216.html
23-11-2021||World||'Broader efforts to silence all criticism': Human rights group raises concern over Taliban crackdown on Afghan media||The Human Rights Watch (HRW) on Monday (local time) raised concerns regarding the imposition of strict new media guidelines in Afghanistan by the Taliban that especially harm women.The HRW in a statement said Taliban intelligence officials have issued death threats against journalists who have criticized Taliban officials and have required journalists to submit all reports for approval before publication.New guidelines from the Vice and Virtue Ministry dictate the dress of female journalists on television and prohibit soap operas and entertainment programs featuring female actors, the rights group said."The Taliban's new media regulations and threats against journalists reflect broader efforts to silence all criticism of Taliban rule," said Patricia Gossman, associate Asia director at HRW. "The disappearance of any space for dissent and worsening restrictions for women in the media and arts is devastating."Also Read| Taliban asks Afghan TV channels to stop airing shows with women actorsSeveral journalists said that they have been summoned by local officials immediately after publishing reports on Taliban abuses. One journalist who had reported complaints about Taliban searching houses and beating people said that the deputy governor called him into his office and told him that if he broadcast anything like that again, "He would hang me in the town square."Other media staff have reported that heavily armed Taliban intelligence officials visited their offices and warned journalists not to use the word "Taliban" in their reporting but to refer to the "Islamic Emirate" in all publications.Last week, the Taliban's Ministry for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice prohibited broadcasting any films deemed to be "against Islamic or Afghan values," along with soap operas and dramas featuring women actors, and made the hijab - a head covering exposing the face - compulsory for women television journalists.Also Read| Islamic State expanding to nearly all Afghan provinces, warns UN envoyThe Taliban have also pressed the media, especially in the provinces, to publish the reports they want and have ordered journalists in some instances to interview them, the rights group said. One journalist said: "After they threatened us with death, we published what they said. Now we broadcast Quranic verses at the beginning of the programs and naat [Islamic songs] because we fear for our safety."Many media outlets have closed their offices out of fear and are publishing only online. "Despite the Taliban's promises to allow media that 'respected Islamic values' to function, the reality for Afghanistan is that journalists live in fear of a knock on the door or a summons from the authorities," Gossman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/human-rights-group-raises-concern-over-taliban-crackdown-on-afghan-media-101637631627380.html
23-11-2021||World||US hospitals at ‘breaking point’ as Covid-19 rebounds in multiple areas||The United States is currently seeing a rebound in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, reported the Bloomberg news agency, adding that the surge is driven by the fast-spreading Delta variant, which has taken a toll on the country's already-stressed healthcare system despite the relatively widespread availability of vaccines. The Covid-19 rebound seen in several parts of the country is just as bad as last November's, according to data compiled by the agency from the US department of health and human services.Also Read | Rising cases in US, Europe fuel another global surgePatients with confirmed or suspected cases of Covid-19 are taking up more ICU beds than a year earlier in as many as 15 states – with Colorado, Minnesota, and Michigan showing the highest hospitalisation (under intensive care) rates so far, 41 per cent, 37 per cent, and 34 per cent, respectively.Michigan, which currently has the highest per-capita case rate in the US, has however not issued any new restrictions on public gatherings, instead encouraging more citizens to mask up and get vaccinated. “Many of our physicians are at a breaking point,” Ali Mokdad, a professor with the University of Washington’s institute for health metrics and evaluation, was quoted as saying. “It’s not easy to be a day in and day out in an emergency room, in an ICU, looking at someone who is dying because he or she is not vaccinated.”Also Read | US announces launch of global Covid-19 tracker portalSince staffed ICU beds in many areas remain occupied by patients with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 cases, there's proportionately less space in the hospitals for those suffering from other ailments, many of them potentially deadly. The situation particularly bodes ill news for the Northeast states, where cases began surging a few weeks after the Midwest and the Rocky Mountains.After about two months of declining infections, the US has been reporting daily increases for the past two weeks, driven by the more easily transmitted Delta variant of the virus and people spending more time indoors due to colder weather. According to experts, protection instilled by vaccines is waning, and the country could face yet another major wave of the pandemic this winter.Meanwhile, US regulators expanded eligibility for booster shots of Covid-19 vaccines to all adults last Friday, allowing millions of Americans to get additional protection against the virus amid a recent rise in infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-hospitals-at-breaking-point-as-covid-19-rebounds-in-multiple-areas-101637628253358.html
23-11-2021||World||Afghanistan's banking system on verge of collapse, warns UNDP report||A new UN report on Monday said Afghanistan's banking and financial systems are on the verge of collapse following the country's takeover by the Taliban."Afghanistan's financial and bank payment systems are in disarray," the report by UN Development Program (UNDP) said. "The bank-run problem must be resolved quickly to improve Afghanistan's limited production capacity and prevent the banking system from collapsing."Soon after the Taliban assumed power in Kabul, the United States froze Afghanistan's international reserves. This has led to a dramatic shock in the country's financial and payment systems.Currently, the country's central bank could not meet deposit demands, prompting the Taliban to impose withdrawal caps of a maximum of USD 200 per week. The amount was recently increased to USD 400, Sputnik reported.The report said that Afghanistan's total banking system deposits fell to USD 2 billion in September from USD 2.8 billion at the end of 2020.With the current pace and withdrawal restrictions, deposits are projected to fall to USD 1.7 billion by the end of 2021, likely leading to the collapse of Afghanistan's banking sector, the report said."Without the banking sector, there's no humanitarian solution for Afghanistan," UNDP Resident Representative Abdallah Al Dardari said. "Do we really want to see Afghans completely isolated?"In addition, the country's credit market is also in decline. Total credits fell to USD 307 million in September from USD 33 billion at the end of last year.To prevent the collapse of the country's banking system, UNDP urged for prompt and decisive action, which includes deposit insurance for depositors, adequate liquidity for the banking system and credit guarantees and loan repayment delay options. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistans-banking-system-on-verge-of-collapse-warns-undp-report-101637628608710.html
23-11-2021||World||Bibi obsessed with image, court told||Israel’s former prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu sought “total and complete” control over his media image, his ex-spokesman told the graft trial of the veteran leader on Monday.“If we use the term ‘control freak,’ he is much more than that,” said Nir Hefetz. “In everything relating to the media, he demands to know everything, down to the smallest detail.”The testimony of Hefetz, seen as a key prosecution witness in Israel’s highest-profile trial, had been postponed from last week at the request of Netanyahu’s legal team.Netanyahu - who was Israel’s longest serving prime minister, including a record 12-year tenure from 2009 to 2021, and now head of the opposition - has been charged with bribery, fraud and breach of trust.The indictments collectively accuse him of accepting improper gifts and illegally trading regulatory favour with media moguls in exchange for positive coverage.Hefetz said in his district court testimony that Netayahu’s “control over everything relating to media matters and his social media channels could not be higher”.“Netanyahu spends at least as much as his time on media as he spends on security matters, including on matters an outsider would consider nonsense.”The session focused on Netanyahu allegedly granting favours to Shaul Elovitch, then-head of Israel’s largest telecom company, Bezeq, in exchange for favourable coverage by its Walla news website.Netanyahu is accused of offering regulatory benefits that could have been worth millions to the company in return for the politically advantageous coverage. Hefetz said that in 2015, shortly before elections, Elovitch contacted him regularly to lobby for governmental approval of his group’s merger with cable TV operator Yes, and to find out who would be the next communications minister.“I think he (Elovitch) was thinking at the time: who knows who will win; so the Yes deal had to be signed first,” Hefetz said.Netanyahu left after the first few hours of testimony Monday after receiving permission from the court.His trial formally began in 2020, while the country was embroiled in a two-year-long political crisis that saw four repeated elections. The trial is expected to take years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bibi-obsessed-with-image-court-told-101637619421383.html
23-11-2021||World||Australia to welcome vaccinated foreign students, workers||Australia on Monday announced easing of its strict pandemic-related travel restrictions from next month, a decision that is expected to help thousands of Indian students return to the country.From December 1, fully vaccinated eligible visa holders including students and skilled workers, can come to Australia without needing to apply for a travel exemption, a statement by the Australian government said.It said the visitor will have to be fully vaccinated with a “completed dosage” of a vaccine approved or recognised by Australia’s Therapeutic Goods Administration and hold a valid visa for one of the eligible visa subclasses.The travellers will also have to provide proof of their vaccination status and present a negative Covid PCR test taken within three days of departure for Australia. The statement said travellers must comply with the quarantine requirements in the territory of their arrival.“The return of skilled workers and students to Australia is a major milestone in our pathway back,” PM Scott Morrison told reporters in Canberra.Shot 100% effective for adolescents, says PfizerPfizer and BioNTech said on Monday their Covid-19 vaccine remained 100% effective in children 12 to 15 years old, four months after the second dose.The companies said that the new data, which involved 2,228 trial participants, will help support their applications for full approval in the US and worldwide. No serious safety concerns were observed in individuals with at least six months of follow-up after the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-welcome-vaccinated-foreign-students-workers-101637619243633.html
23-11-2021||World||Europe sees protests against Covid curbs||In the face of demonstrations across much of Europe protesting tough Covid-19 measures over the past days, authorities on Monday pleaded for patience, calm and a willingness to get vaccinations as infections spike upward again. Protest marches from Zagreb to Rome and from Vienna to Brussels and Rotterdam, bringing tens of thousands out, all had one message from a coronavirus-weary crowd - we’ve had enough!Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte on Monday lashed out at “idiot” rioters who rampaged through cities across the Netherlands this weekend when protests against coronavirus policies turned violent. More than 100 people were arrested during three nights of violence, which saw police open fire at rioters in Rotterdam on Friday.“This was pure violence disguised as protest,” Rutte said.Scenes were ugly too at the end of the Brussels protest march, with rioters pelting police, who then used tear gas and water cannons to break up the crowds. “Our goal today is to fight against the virus. Please, let us not get incited by a small group which would turn it into a fight against one another,” said Belgian PM Alexander De Croo.The EU pointed out that scientific evidence shows that increased vaccinations would contain the crisis and avoid more deaths. “You know the three words very well — vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate,” said spokesman Stefan De KeersmaeckerThe protests come as a fourth wave of infections is locking down Austrians and forcing renewed restraints in many European nations.Austria, which woke up on Monday to its fourth national lockdown since the start of the pandemic, is threatening fines of up to 3,600 ($4,000) for people who refuse shots once mandatory inoculations kick in 2022.Slovakia is mulling the possibility of declaring a three-week full lockdown. Premier Eduard Heger is “intensively” considering this option for the country, which is currently among the most hit in new cases in the world on per capita basis.Germany’s latest surge in Covid-19 infections is worse than anything the country has experienced so far, Chancellor Angela Merkel said, calling for tighter restrictions. Austria, which went into its fourth national lockdown on Monday, is threatening fines of up to $4,000 for people who refuse a shot once mandatory inoculations kick in next year.Denmark’s consumers turned pessimistic for the first time in seven months in November after the Nordic country reintroduced some restrictions to fight a rising infections. Daily infections are up by a factor of about 10 since the country ended restrictions in September.Meanwhile, two bodies set up to advise the French government on its handling of the Covid-19 crisis have recommended making booster shots, currently only offering boosters to people over 65, available to all adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-sees-protests-against-covid-curbs-101637619075175.html
23-11-2021||World||Waukesha: Driver to be charged with ‘intentional homicide’ after ramming car on Christmas parade||The driver of the car that plowed into a Christmas parade in the Midwestern US city of Waukesha, killing five and injuring 48, was apparently fleeing a domestic dispute at the time -- and will face charges of intentional homicide, police said Monday.Waukesha, Wisconsin police chief Dan Thompson said that suspect Darrell Brooks, 39, appeared to be fleeing a domestic disturbance and was not being pursued by police when he drove his red SUV through the city's annual holiday parade on Sunday.Four women and one man between the ages of 52 and 81 were killed, and 48 people were hospitalized, Thompson said.Of those sent to hospitals, 18 were children, according to Dr. Amy Drendel, the head of emergency medicine at Children's Wisconsin hospital.Two have been discharged, but six remain in "critical condition," Dr. Michael Meyer, head of the hospital's critical care division, said.Thompson also said there appeared to be no motive for the disaster, other than that Brooks had driven away from some kind of confrontation as police were called to the scene.He did not confirm reports the confrontation had involved a knife fight.'We are confident he acted alone. There is no evidence that this was a terrorist incident," Thompson said of Brooks."There was no pursuit that led to this incident," he added.In Washington, President Joe Biden offered words of support to a community stunned by a "horrific act of violence," and paid his respects to families "facing the fresh grief of a life without a loved one."Waukesha Mayor Shawn Reilly called it a "senseless tragedy" that affected the entire city west of Milwaukee, as it held its nearly six-decade-old parade to kick off the Thanksgiving-to-Christmas holiday season."Last night, lives were lost at what should have been a celebration," Reilly said.Lost shoes and spilled hot chocolate The tragedy had raised immediate fears of a deliberate act -- in a state where tensions have spiked following a high-profile acquittal in the racially charged trial of Kyle Rittenhouse, a teen who fatally shot two people during Black Lives Matter protests in nearby Kenosha last year.Brooks is from nearby Milwaukee, where he already faces multiple charges from July 2020 of recklessly endangering the safety of others and firearms violations, as well as from earlier this month for a domestic abuse incident.Corey Montiho, a school district board member in the Milwaukee suburb, was near a restaurant when he heard that his daughter's youth dance team had been struck."There were pom-poms and shoes and spilled hot chocolate everywhere," he was quoted as saying by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel."I had to go from one crumpled body to the other to find my daughter. My wife and two daughters were almost hit."Reilly said the city would hold a prayer vigil this evening, and Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers ordered flags across the state lowered to half-staff."We continue to pray for the Waukesha community and the kids, loved ones, and neighbors whose lives were forever changed by an unthinkable tragedy last night," Evers tweeted Monday.'Deafening cries'While police confirmed at least five deaths and 48 injured, there were fears the toll may yet rise, and the city was left in shock.Witnesses described a terrifying scene on Main Street, where school bands and other groups were marching before bundled-up spectators lining the road.Sandra Peterson, a spokeswoman for the Milwaukee Catholic church, said one of its priests was injured, "as well as multiple parishioners and Waukesha Catholic school children."Witness Angela O'Boyle, whose apartment overlooked the parade, told CNN: "All I heard was screaming and then people yelling out their children's names."A total of 11 adults and 18 children were taken to six area hospitals, Fire Chief Steven Howard said.Schools and city hall remained closed Monday, and the schools would be closed again on Tuesday, officials said.Angelito Tenorio, running for Wisconsin state treasurer, told the Journal Sentinel that he "saw an SUV cross over, just put the pedal to the metal and just zooming full speed along the parade route.""And then we heard a loud bang, and just deafening cries and screams."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/waukesha-driver-to-be-charged-with-intentional-homicide-after-ramming-car-on-christmas-parade-101637609852206.html
23-11-2021||World||HT This Day: Nov 23, 1963 – President Kennedy is assassinated||Dallas, Texas – President Kennedy died here today from an assassin’s bullet.The 46-year-old President was riding in a motorcade with his wife Jackie, when three shots were fired and he was hit in the head.He was rushed to hospital and given a blood transfusion but died shortly afterwards, at 1 p.m. local time (0030 IST Saturday).Mr Kennedy lived for 25 minutes after an unknown assassin had cut him down with rifle fire.A late NBC report said the President was shot once in the head.Police were reported to have taken possession of a rifle of a non-American make. A youth was reported to have been picked up.Vice-President Lyndon Johnson assumed the full constitutional responsibilities of the presidency immediately on the death of Mr Kennedy and before taking an oath of office.Hunt for assassinFBI Chief Edgar Hoover ordered an all-out manhunt for the assassin or assassins A youth was later reported to have been picked up. Police believed the fatal shots were fired by a white man.The murder weapon was believed to be a 30-30 high calibre rifle. The President was shot as his open car passed near an intersection in the main business area of the city.As the shots rang out, Mr Kennedy fell face down in the back of the car.Mrs Kennedy cried “Oh, No” and tried to hold his head.Governor Connally, who was also hit by bullets, slumped on the seat.Police rushed the car to a nearby hospital.Pandemonium broke out but secret service agents waved the motorcade onto a road which led to the Parkland Hospital where he was earlier scheduled to deliver a speech. Within five minutes the President's car pulled up at the hospital entrance.Hospital officials in the emergency ward gave the President a transfusion of B positive blood from the bank.Mr Kennedy was then given last sacraments.The announcement of Mr Kennedy’s death brought cries and moans from the crowd gathered outside the hospital.Senator Ralph Yarborough of Texas collapsed as he described the shooting to newsmen.Governor Connally underwent an operation for a bullet wound in the chest half an hour after President Kennedy's death.Mrs Lyndon Johnson denied a report that the Vice-President had been hurt. "He is fine." she told newsmen.Three shotsA woman who said she was a spectator of the shooting, said in a radio interview that the President and Mrs Kennedy were looking at a dog in the middle of the street when the shots rang out."There were three shots. He grabbed his chest and fell over his seat and Jackie fell over him," Mrs Jean Hill said."The shots came from a hill just east of the underpass." An eye-witness said he saw a gun emerge from an upper storey of a warehouse commanding an unobstructed view of the Presidential car.Mr Kennedy was the first President to be assassinated since William McKinley was shot in 1901.It was the first death of a President in office since Franklin D. Roosevelt succumbed to a cerebral hemorrhage at Warm Springs, Georgie, in April 1945.A radio report from the scene said a white man and a Negro boy had reported seeing a man in a window with what appeared to be a gun.Some residents of Dallas expressed surprise that the triple overpass was not guarded by police.The President, concerned about his unpopularity in the south over his Civil Rights Bill, arrived in Texas yesterday with Mrs Kennedy to win support and close the divided ranks of the Texas Democrats.The New York Stock Exchange remained closed.A secret serviceman and a DalIas policeman were shot dead some distance from where Mr Kennedy was assassinated.Early lifeJohn Fitzgerald ci Kennedy was born on May 29, 1917, in Brookline, a suburb of Boston. America had just entered the war. For several years the family lived in a large frame house set back from the sidewalk on a small plot. It was a quiet, lower-middle-class area.But the pleasant Boston days were soon over. Joseph Kennedy had outgrown his native city, and he settled his family near the centre of New York, in Bronxville. It was an affluent place surrounded by broad lawns. Young John went to nearby Riverdale School; the teachers remembered him as a slight boy, polite, industrious, and likable, with a special interest in English history.Even as a boy, Kennedy showed some of the skill at persuasion that would mark his political career later.At thirteen Kennedy left his Bronxville home for boarding school. For a year he went to Canterbury School in Connecticut, the only Catholic school he ever attended. He showed early a trait that baffles his staff today-an almost photographic memory for correspondence, conversations, and historical fact, but an almost total absent-mindedness about where he has mislaid speeches, books, and clothing. Always a ready competitor he tried out for football, baseball, and other sports with fair success. He could swim fifty yards in thirty seconds; this swimming skill would save his life years later.The next fall he shifted to Choate, a select private school, where Adlai Stevenson and Chester Bowles had been students. Joe Jr. was there making out well. The boys' father chose Choate because he wanted them to mix and compete with a greater variety of boys.In his senior year at Choate, he wrote his father that he had "definitely decided to stop fooling around. I really do realize how important it is that I get a good job done this year, if I want to go to England, I really feel that I have been bluffing myself about how much real work I have been doing.""Now Jack, I don't want to give the impression that I am a nagger," the father wrote. "After long experience in sizing up people I definitely know you have the goods and you can go a long way ...After all, I would be lacking even as a friend if I did not urge you to take advantage of the qualities you have.I am not expecting too much and I will not be disappointed if you don't turn out to be a real genius, but I think you can be a really worthwhile citizen with good judgment and good understanding. . …Graduate at 18The father encouraged political argument at the dinner table. He asserted his views strongly, but did not force his views.Kennedy became an omnivorous reader during these school years, but history and stories of famous men, rather than current affairs, were his favourites.At eighteen he graduated from Choate. At the end of 1937, when Jack was still in his sophomore year, President Roosevelt appointed Joseph Kennedy ambassador to Britain.Jack Kennedy's last two years at Harvard fell in the shadow of tumultuous world affairs. About the time he began his junior year, in September 1938, Neveille Chamberlain yielded Czechoslovakia to Adolf Hitler at Munich. Thousands of young men of his age were leaving school and work; millions more would soon follow.Young Kennedy watched restlessly while Europe girded for war. Eager to see the tension points at first hand, he won permission from Harvard to spend the second semester in Europe. After spring in Paris, he went to Poland, then to Riga, Russia, Turkey, Palestine and back to the Balkan, Berlin, and Paris.The long-gathering storm burst over Europe soon after Kennedy concluded his tour.Kennedy was still a college student and classes were beginning at Harvard. Later in the month he sailed for home.To gain such honours he needed to submit an undergraduate thesis, and this was Kennedy's main intellectual effort during his senior year. His subject was "Appeasement at Munich."The thesis had two arresting qualities. One was Kennedy's emotional detachment from the crisis he described.As Kennedy handed his dissertation in to Professor Hopper in the spring of 1940, events in Europe dramatized his thesis of democracy's weakness. Germany smashed through Dutch and Belgian defences, cut to pieces French infantry corps, and pinned British troops against the sea at Dunkirk. France was gone; Britain was in grave danger. Churchill was now leading the British. But would America wake in time?In June Kennedy was graduated from Harvard amid the traditional pomp and pageantry. But all the bands and songs could not drown out the roar from abroad.Kennedy moved near to direct involvement in the war. He tried to enlist in the Army but was rejected because of his old back condition. He went through five months of strengthening exercises, and managed to pass a Navy fitness test in September. When Pearl Harbour came he applied for sea duty.Early in 1943, he shipped out from San Francisco for the South Pacific, where Allied forces were beginning to turn back the Japanese advance.Shortly after midnight on August 2, 1943, the Japanese destroyer Amagiri cut through the dark waters of Blackett Strait west of New Georgia. The commander of the destroyer peered through the waves. A wave tore Kennedy from the canoe and spun him around and down, but miraculously he landed not on coral but in an eddy.His ordeal was almost over. In the morning island natives awakened them. One said in English, "I have a letter for you, sir." It was from the commander of a New Zealand infantry patrol on New Geogria urging them to follow the islanders back to his camp.The Navy bestowed official recognition when it awarded to him, in addition to the Purple Heart, the Navy and Marine Corps Medal. The citation in part read: "His courage, endurance and excellent leadership contributed to the saying of several lives and was (in) keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service."The rest of the war for Kennedy was anticlimatic and studded with frustration and tragedy. He contracted malaria. His flip-flop on his back after the PT boat explosion had aggravated his old back injury, and this caused him a good deal of pain. In December 1943, he was sent back to the States.As reporterHe tried his hand at journalism once again by reporting the British election from London in the summer. After that he had had enough of reporting. The war was coming to an end in the Pacific. Thousands of demobilized soldiers were streaming back home. Most of them had formed plans for civilian life. But not Jack Kennedy. By the age of twenty-eight he had earned a B.A. degree, learned how to swim and to sail; had written a successful book, travelled extensively and learned courage and endurance in the war. But the man and the political leader was unformed; his political views and his personality were still is the making.On the PT boat, Lt. John F. Kennedy, skipper, and his twelve officers and men, watched helplessly as the destroyer bore down on them. Two men were killed outright; others struggled to keep afloat and away from the gasoline fire burning on the water. Kennedy was thrown hard in the cockpit and fell on his back.Kennedy decided to strike out on his own to a further island and try to intercept a PT boat along the regular route through Ferguson Passage. He swam to the reef, hugging the ship's lantern.During the summer of 1941 as the war drew to an end in Japan, Kennedy restlessly pondered his prospects. He was undecided. He still toyed with the notion of making a career of journalism; and was also attracted to academic life. On the other hand, newspaper work was an undependable trade, and he had no graduate degree for teaching. Business lured him not at all.He had mixed feelings about a political career. He liked the idea of being part of the top circles of government-making decisions, working on legislation, handling affairs of state, But he was not sure that he would like politics at the level where he would have to start. He disliked the blarney, the exuberant backslapping and handshaking, the exaggerated claims and denunciations that went with politics.Some of his friends, knowing he was looking around urged him to run for statewide office--Kennedy was cool to the idea; he far preferred office in Washington to Boston. Kennedy decided to make the run for the Democratic nomination for Congress. In this district the Democratic nomination was equivalent to election.Kennedy was only twenty-eight. Reserved, gaunt, almost emaciated-looking, he was a polar opposite to the familiar image of the derby-hatted, loud-talking, paunchy Boston politician. Many of the latter did not take the young candidate very seriously.Kennedy got into the race early. He campaigned for several months before the other candidates jumped off from the starting line. And in the process he began to build a big personal organization. It was this group that was responsible for Kennedy's victory.During his first two years in Congress. Kennedy seldom spoke upon foreign policy. He strongly backed the Truman Doctrine for aid to Greece and Turkey, and also supported the Marshall Plan bill authorizing aid to Western Europe.During his first term of office, violent shifts took place in the world situation. America began large-scale foreign aid and the airlift saved Berlin. By the end of 1948, the situation in Europe seemed stabilized. In China, by late 1948, the Communist armies of former library assistant at Peking University, Mao Tse-tung, were overwhelming Nationalist forces. Chiang Kai-shek's divisions were melting away. Affairs came to a climax in January 1949, when Chiang gave up the fight and prepared his retreat to Formosa.In 1952 he ran for the Senate and defeated the incumbent Republican senator Henry Cabot Lodge, the present U.S. Representative to the United Nations.In 1958 he was re-elected to the Senate with a resounding lead of 874,000 votes, the greatest majority known in the political history of Massachusetts.PresidentBy 1958 Kennedy has become a National celebrity. But in the critical Presidential election year 1960 he did not still come up to the accepted tests of Presidential timber.He was a protestant; he was not a governor of a large estate or cabinet. He was not a long time party leader. He did not personify any national issue.But his election machinery tried in earlier years stood him in good stead and he won.As was to be expected President Kennedy because of his youth came like a fresh breeze on the world scene.The administration of "new frontiers men" tried hard not to think in terms of the cold war. It immediately came upon a huge crop of problems in Laos, Congo, Latin America, Africa and China.The crucial test, however, came with the Cuban crisis last year which coincided with the Chinese invasion of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ht-this-day-nov-23-1963-president-kennedy-is-assassinated-101637607574721.html
23-11-2021||World||Amid rising Covid infections, German health minister issues stark warning||Germany's health minister said Monday that the rapid rise in coronavirus cases means it's likely everyone in the country who isn't vaccinated will have caught Covid-19 by the end of the winter — and some of those will die.Official figures Monday showed more than 30,000 newly confirmed cases in Germany over the past 24 hours — an increase of about 50% compared to one week ago. The country is this week expected to pass 100,000 coronavirus-related deaths since the start of the pandemic.Hospitals warn that ICU capacities are nearly exhausted, with some patients having to be transferred to clinics in other parts of Germany.To reduce the risk of serious illness, Health Minister Jens Spahn urged Germans to get vaccinated, including with booster shots if their first round of inoculation occurred more than six months ago.“By the end of this winter pretty much everyone in Germany (...) will have been vaccinated, recovered or died,” Spahn told reporters in Berlin.He acknowledged that some would consider this view to be cynical. “But it's true. With the highly contagious delta variant this is very, very likely and that's why we are recommending vaccination so urgently,” said Spahn.Spahn said some 50 million doses of the Moderna and BioNtech-Pfizer vaccines will be made available for the rest of the year to allow people to get first, second or third shots, as necessary. To achieve this, Germany is holding back tens of millions of doses originally intended for poor countries. Those missing doses will be provided at a later date, he said.Some politicians in Germany have suggested the country may need to consider compulsory vaccinations, like its neighbor Austria.About 68% of Germany's population of 83 million has been fully vaccinated. The German government has said it wants to push that rate above 75% to effectively curb the spread of the virus, but a sizeable minority in the population has resisted calls to take the shot.Karl Lauterbach, a prominent lawmaker with the center-left Social Democrats, called for a “radical” application of rules requiring people to present vaccination or recovery certificates to access some stores and public places.“A general vaccine mandate (shouldn't be) taboo either,” he said on Twitter.Bavaria's conservative governor, Markus Soeder, said Monday that he favors mandatory vaccines for all, too.Soeder acknowledged that such a move would infringe on civil liberties, but argued that this needed to be balanced against the need to protect the health of the population and preserve other freedoms.“That's why we believe that only a general vaccine mandate offers a durable solution,” he said.But a spokesman for outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel made clear that her government had no plans to tackle the thorny issue of vaccine mandates.“There is no decision about this now and it wouldn’t be taken by this government anymore,” Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin.A center-left coalition of three parties is expected to finalize negotiations on forming a government in early December.Bavaria, which required all citizens to get vaccinated against smallpox in 1807, currently has the second-highest Covid-19 infection rates behind Saxony to the northeast. The doctors' association there said Saxony needs to prepare for a system of triage to manage the few remaining ICU beds in the state.Gernot Marx, the head of Germany's intensive care association DIVI, said many hospitals in hard-hit regions have begun postponing scheduled surgery.He noted that the country has about 4,000 fewer ICU beds available than a year ago because large numbers of medical staff quit their jobs because of the intense strain of working during the pandemic.A senior doctor at Berlin's Charite hospital, Steffen Weber-Carstens, said the city of 3.6 million had only 89 free ICU beds left Monday.Despite high infection rates among children, schools remain open in Germany.Spahn, the health minister, said he expects the European Union to approve vaccines against Covid-19 for children aged 5-11 at the end of the week.The EU will begin shipping vaccines adjusted for younger children on Dec. 20, with Germany initially getting 2.4 million doses, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-rising-covid-infections-german-health-minister-issues-stark-warning-101637595837525.html
23-11-2021||World||India-based Ustad Sayyaf being seen as leader of anti-Taliban forces||Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, an India-based former mujahideen commander and member of parliament, is being seen as a possible leader who can rally anti-Taliban forces from Afghanistan that are currently scattered across several countries.Sayyaf, believed to be in his mid-70s, has been mooted as someone who can bring together the diverse groups because of his standing as both a scholar and a senior Pashtun leader, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.He has been based in New Delhi following the fall of the Ashraf Ghani government and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban in mid-August. Sayyaf’s name was pushed forward as Ahmad Massoud, the son of legendary commander Ahmad Shah Massoud and founder of the National Resistance Front of Afghanistan, has had little success in uniting different groups, the people said.Massoud and Amruallah Saleh, the former Afghan spy chief and vice president, were seen as potential heads of the resistance forces but their stock has taken a beating since the fall of the Panjshir Valley to the Taliban in September. Massoud is currently believed to be operating from Paris and Dushanbe, while Saleh was reportedly based in the Tajikistan capital as recently as October.“Ahmad Massoud does not have the same amount of experience as a commander as his father. Saleh, on the other hand, is a good tactician but does not have a popular base,” said one of the people cited above.“If they had worked closely together, they might have been able to put together an effective resistance,” the person added.Though Saleh has claimed the powers of the Afghan president and declared himself the head of a government in exile, the people said he does not have a mass following.Ustad Sayyaf, as the former mujahideen commander is popularly known, is respected by Islamic scholars and within Pashtun circles, the people noted. It was not immediately clear whether Sayyaf had himself agreed to take on a larger role to bring together the different groups opposed to the Taliban.A large number of Afghan politicians have taken refuge in Turkey, while a sizeable number is based in the Iranian capital of Tehran. Some of the anti-Taliban groups are also scattered across Central Asia, especially Tajikistan.Sayyaf was once linked to al-Qaeda founder Osama bin Laden and the militants who took control of Kabul after the collapse of the communist government in the early 1990s. As a former leader of the Northern Alliance, he has been in contact with Indian diplomats and security officials over the years.Sayyaf last played a prominent role in Afghan politics in 2019, when Ghani chose him to chair a four-day loya jirga or grand council for peace efforts with the Taliban. Sayyaf has also been very critical of the Taliban.These developments come at a time when there are also divisions within Taliban ranks, especially between the hardliners from the Haqqani Network and members of the political office based in Doha. Some of the leaders from the Doha office, including deputy prime minister Abdul Ghani Baradar and deputy foreign minister Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, have favoured a more moderate approach.“The Taliban are grappling with several problems, including lack of internal cohesion, poor governance, an impending economic collapse and a spike in attacks by the Islamic State,” said a second person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indiabased-ustad-sayyaf-being-seen-as-leader-of-anti-taliban-forces-101637585328062.html
23-11-2021||World||Austria begins national lockdown to fight surge in Covid-19 cases||Austria went into a nationwide lockdown early Monday to combat soaring coronavirus infections, a step being closely watched by other European governments struggling with national outbreaks that are straining health care systems.The measures are expected to last for a maximum of 20 days but will be reevaluated after 10. They require people to stay home apart from basic reasons like getting groceries, going to the doctor and exercising. Restaurants and most shops must close and larger events will be canceled. Schools and day care centers can remain open, but parents are encouraged to keep their children home.Austria hopes to lift the measures on Dec. 13 but may keep a further lockdown on the unvaccinated.The new lockdown measures kicked in a day after many Austrians hurriedly enjoyed a last day out at coffeehouses and Christmas markets across the country.Christmas markets across central Vienna were packed Sunday with people eager to buy gifts and enjoy one last round of warm drinks and food. At the Freyung Christmas market in Vienna, Alexandra Ljesevic and her sister Anna sipped mulled wine and punch amid wooden stands and under sparkling holiday lights.“It's the last chance to feel the Christmas time and vibes,” Alexandra Ljesevic said.The sisters said they feel luckier than most, since their jobs won't be affected by the lockdown. But they're not optimistic that things will reopen as quickly as authorities hope.“It would be weird if in 20 days they said, Okay, for vaccinated people, you're free to go,' if the hospitals are still overwhelmed,” said Anna Ljesevic. “That's the only reason why we even need the lockdown.”Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg also announced Friday that Austria will also introduce a vaccine mandate as of Feb. 1. The details of how the mandate will work aren't yet clear.In an interview Sunday in the Kurier newspaper, Schallenberg said it's “sad” that the Austrian government had to resort to a mandate in order to ensure that enough people get vaccinated. Just under 66% of Austria's 8.9 million people are fully vaccinated, one of the lowest rates in Western Europe.On Saturday, Austria reported 15,297 new infections, after a week in which daily cases topped 10,000. Hospitals, especially those in the hardest hit regions of Salzburg and Upper Austria, are overwhelmed as the number of coronavirus patients rises in intensive care units.Schallenberg said he and other officials had hoped this summer that a new lockdown would not be necessary and it was a tough decision to impose one that affected vaccinated people.“That people's freedoms need to be restricted again is, believe me, also difficult for me to bear,” he said.The new measures, especially the vaccine mandate, have been met with fierce opposition among some Austrians and vaccine skeptics. A Saturday protest in the capital of Vienna drew 40,000 people, according to police, including members of far-right parties and groups.Interior Minister Karl Nehammer said Sunday that the country's anti-coronavirus protest scene is radicalizing.An “extremely diverse group of people” took part in the anti-vaccination protests, Nehammer said, according to the Austrian Press Agency, adding that included concerned citizens but also right-wing extremists and neo-Nazis.The lockdown is strictest measure Austrian officials have introduced to combat a fourth surge of infections and deaths. Earlier this month, the government first tried to pressure unvaccinated people to get the jab, barring them from restaurants, hotels and large events. Then officials implemented lockdown measures just for unvaccinated people.Nehammer said Sunday that police performed 150,000 checks in just one week to see if people outside of their homes were complying with the new rules, according to APA.At the Christmas market Sunday on Vienna's iconic Rathausplatz square, Rene Schlosser and Silvia Weidenauer sipped mulled wine from heart-shaped red mugs. They came for the day from their home in Austria's Waldviertel region to get a glimpse of the markets before everything shut down.“You have to accept it,” Weidenauer said of the lockdown. “There's no other option. All you can do is hope that these days when everything is closed actually have an effect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/austria-begins-national-lockdown-to-fight-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101637545715606.html
23-11-2021||India||‘Mamata can aspire to become PM but…': Here's what Tathagata Roy said||Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya Tathagata Roy on Tuesday took a swipe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and said the Trinamool Congress supremo can never become the prime minister.“If Mamata Banerjee thinks that as head of a regional party, she can aspire to become PM, she can aspire but it is not going to come true. Nobody trusts her. Opposition unity is not going to happen,” Tathagata Roy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The veteran BJP leader who decided to bid ‘farwell’ to the West Bengal unit of the party “for the time being” on Saturday, said "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will come to power again with a huge margin."He further said that if there is any opposition party that would be Congress. “The Trinamool Congress is a local party. But the situation of Congress is so bad that they cannot even get 100 seats,” Roy said.The veteran leader slammed the Mamata Banerjee-led party for allegedly creating unrest in Tripura, ahead of the November 25 civic polls, and said it would never come to power in the northeastern state."Trinamool Congress should be ashamed of speaking about law and order. They are great at shouting. In West Bengal, more than 100 BJP workers were killed. Has any Trinamool Congress worker been killed in Tripura? They are just creating unrest to come to power in Tripura," he told news agency ANI.Asked about Mamata Banerjee's scheduled meeting with Prime Minister Modi over the Border Security Force jurisdiction issue, Roy said, "Chief ministers can meet Prime Minister and discuss any issue. But she should read Constitution that BSF is the subject of the Centre. Modi ji will listen to it but it will not make any difference."ALSO READ | Congress leaders Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar join Trinamool CongressThe West Bengal chief minister reached New Delhi on Monday and is scheduled to be in the national capital till November 25, ahead of Parliament's Winter Session on November 29. The visit is seen by political experts as a booster shot to opposition unity against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The visit is expected to provide fillip to regional opposition powers right before the parties rush into election mode for the upcoming assembly polls in five states, including in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura.Following her stellar victory in the assembly elections in West Bengal, where she faced the Bharatiya Janata Party in a do-or-die battle, Mamata Banerjee emerged as a prominent figure among the opposition camp's attempt at stitching together a unified anti-BJP coalition ahead of the 2024 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-can-aspire-to-become-pm-but-here-s-what-tathagata-roy-said-101637687498203.html
23-11-2021||India||PM Modi’s pics on vaccine certificate: Kerala HC issues notice to Centre||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday admitted a plea challenging Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo on the vaccination certificate and directed the Centre and state governments to file counter-affidavits.While hearing the plea earlier Justice N Nagaresh orally observed that it will have serious implications and posed a question that if someone wants to remove the photo of Mahatma Gandhi from currency notes saying it is their blood and sweat and they don’t want to see his face, what will happen? Earlier the petition was heard by another judge Justice PB Suresh Kumar.Counsel for petitioner M Peter, Advocate Ajit Joy contended that the photo of Mahatma Gandhi was printed on the currency as per the regulations of the Reserve Bank of India but the PM’s photo was affixed not based on any statutory provision or rule. “The photograph is a needless intrusion into the private space of the petitioner. The Central government or the PM cannot claim to have done anything particular, but their duty,” Peter contended in the petition. The petitioner, also a frequent traveller, said he has to carry the certificate with him to several places and the photo of the PM has “no substance, utility or relevance.” If the government is firm, people can be given an option to carry the certificate without any photo. He also produced vaccination certificates of different countries including the United States, Indonesia, Israel and Germany saying they all carried necessary information, not photos of their heads of the government.Earlier, the union government defended its decision to include the photograph in the certificate saying the PM’s image along with his words help create general awareness and Covid-appropriate behaviour. When a question came up in the upper house in August, Minister of State for Health BP Pawar said it was ideal to promote awareness. “The photograph, along with his words, reinforces the message for creating awareness and importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after the vaccination. It was done in the larger public interest,” he said in a written reply. But Congress and other opposition members deplored it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-pics-on-vaccine-certificate-kerala-hc-issues-notice-to-centre-101637689376393.html
23-11-2021||India||3 Lashkar terrorists held in connection with killing of Kashmiri salesman||Police in Jammu and Kashmir arrested three people on Tuesday for their involvement in the killing of salesman Mohammad Ibrahim Khan on November 8, news agency ANI reported.All three nabbed are residents of Pulwama and are allegedly linked to terror outfit The Resistance Front (TRF), the offshoot of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The trio killed Khan on the instructions of their Pakistani-based handlers, ANI reported citing police.The names and other information pertaining to the handlers are yet to be reported.Khan, who worked as the salesman for Kashmiri Pandit businessman Roshan Lal Mawa, hailed from Bandipore district. He was mistakenly shot dead after a little-known organisation, Muslim Janbaaz Force, claimed that the attack was supposed to be on Sandeep Mawa, the son of Roshan Lal.Notably, Roshan Lal was also shot dead by terrorists many years before. The Mawas were among several Kashmiri Pandits who left the Valley during the insurgency in 1989. They relocated to Delhi in the 90s, but moved back to Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 and resumed their wholesale dry fruits business.According to a Hindustan Times report, Sandeep escaped bullets as he left his shop early on November 8 after police gave him a prior warning of a possible attack. Khan was shot dead hours later outside the shop, and succumbed to his injuries on the spot.“Khan was like a brother to me. He always stayed with me... in Delhi, Bengaluru and even Jammu. It is unfortunate that he lost his life. We are trying to get a government job for his daughter or son,” Sandeep told HT.The situation in Jammu and Kashmir deteriorated since the series of civilian killings began in October wherein as many as 11 migrants, mostly from Bihar, were gunned down. The matter intensified after the killing of constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani on November 7 and Khan a day later.Furthermore, among multiple encounters that police and security forces in the Valley have conducted, the latest one in Hyderpora drew severe attention and criticism due to the death of two civilians — Altaf Ahmad Bhat and Mudasir Gul. While police said they were “overground workers” of the two terrorists, who were killed during the Hyderpora encounter, the civilians’ families stated they were killed in “cold blood” and used as “human shields.”Also Read | Jammu and Kashmir: Families of civilians killed in Hyderpora now root for justiceFollowing massive protests, including from People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti and Jammu and Kashmir National Conference (JKNC) vice president Omar Abdullah, the bodies of Bhat and Gul were exhumed in Handwara and handed over to their families for proper funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-lashkar-terrorists-held-in-connection-with-killing-of-kashmiri-salesman-101637687630702.html
23-11-2021||India||Guaranteed MSP? Both farmers and govt need to look at three key points||Farmers’ organisations continue to demand guaranteed minimum support prices (MSPs) before they withdraw their agitation, even after the government has announced a repeal of the three farm laws. How justified is this demand?It is clearly a non-starter if farmers are demanding that the government procure the entire output of all 23 crops (17 in the monsoon and six in the winter season) for which it currently announces MSPs. However, this is unlikely to be the case. Even for rice and wheat, which is the mainstay of MSP-based procurement in India, just about one-third of the total production is bought by the government.There can be no argument that a higher guaranteed MSP would mean a spike in inflation, but it still makes sense to ask some pertinent questions about the way in which the support price policy is implemented in India.Can the Orwellian framework of MSP operations go on forever?The crux of the problem with MSP procurement in India is best captured by paraphrasing George Orwell. All farmers are equal, but some farmers are more equal than others.The bulk of MSP procurement happens in the traditional green revolution regions of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. Data from the Food Corporation of India shows this clearly. 33% of paddy and 60% wheat procurement in the past 10 years has been done from the states of Punjab and Haryana. When seen against the share of these two states in total rice and wheat production in the country, it exposes a huge bias.Favouritism in MSP-based procurements is not just a function of states. The latest data from the National Sample Survey shows that farmers with larger landholdings are more likely to enjoy the gains of MSP-based procurement. This is yet another regressive element in the present form of MSP-based operations.MSP operations are funded by the central government’s revenues, which is raised from all states. States with a disproportionate share in MSP procurement receive an exogenous boost to their farm incomes and hence GSDP. India’s Constitution provides for a rule-based distribution of central revenues under the framework of the finance commission, which is constituted every five years.Why should we not have a formula-based procurement of foodgrain from every state? Political parties have always shied away from this question due to electoral concerns. Maybe it is an opportune time to pose this question to the farmers’ organisations, which claim to represent the farmers of the entire country and not just a few states.The churn in Indian agriculture: From won’t sell to the state to will only sell to the stateFarmers’ organisations demanding that the state offers guaranteed MSPs and back it up with procurement is a radical change in the political economy of agriculture in post-Independence India.In the first couple of decades after Independence, when India was a food-deficient economy, the Indian state was keen to procure foodgrains but farmers were unwilling to sell, as they stood to make greater profits in private markets.Francine Frankel’s classic work, India’s Political Economy 1947-2004: The Gradual Revolution, talks about this contradiction. “The Prime Minister (Jawaharlal Nehru in 1958) argued that additional deficit financing could be absorbed and the Plan maintained at ₹4,500 crores if the states accepted the approach of the Planning Commission to mobilise rural resources for increased agricultural production through an acceleration of the cooperative movement; and ·also acted to stabilize the general price level by a program of state trading in foodgrains...The members of the National Development Council appeared to accept Nehru’s lead...Simultaneously, the NDC endorsed the immediate introduction of state trading in foodgrains, beginning with wheat and rice,” the book says. The policy faced attacks even within the Congress party. “During the months that followed Nagpur (Congress session which endorsed these policies), the press gave wide currency to the charge that “Sino-socialist minded planners” were plotting to collectivize Indian agriculture. There were bitter attacks against cooperative farming within the Congress Party,” Frankel wrote.This historical digression makes a simple point. India’s farmers are demanding guaranteed MSPs to protect them from price volatility rather than a sudden desire for handing over their business to the state. Indian agriculture today is significantly more commercialised than it has ever been. This holds true for both international and domestic markets. For many commercially driven crops, prices often go higher than MSP values. Of course, they are sometimes lower than MSPs for a long period. Data from the reports of Commission on Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) shows this. While MSP-based operations were, and continue to be, a useful tool to achieve food self-sufficiency, their efficacy in ironing out income volatility is limited.Rich farmers might not like the after-effects of an expanded MSP-PDS regimeMSP operations are only sustainable if the government is able to sell or distribute the grains it buys. The traditional way of doing this has been through the public distribution system (PDS).The story of the PDS in post-reform India is marked by flip-flops. In 1997, a universal PDS was changed into a targeted one with the introduction of above and below poverty lines (APL and BPL) categories; issue prices were significantly higher for the APL category. This change was more than undone when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government brought in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in 2013, which entitles more than two-thirds of India’s population to heavily subsidised grains.If the government was to widen and expand the MSP-PDS regime, which would entail more government purchase of wheat and rice along with other crops, it will also require a concomitant expansion in PDS entitlements. This will significantly reduce the food-spending burden of PDS beneficiaries. Spending on food accounts for more than half of total spending for the bottom 50% of all households in India.It might be a good development from the perspective of poverty reduction. In 2013, Abhijit Sen and Himanshu wrote a two-part paper in the Economic and Political Weekly to show that in-kind food transfers from the PDS and midday meal schemes contributed significantly to poverty reduction in India.However, such pro-poor policies are also likely to lead to an increase in reservation wages – the minimum wage at which a person is willing to work – for the rural and urban blue-collar workforce. Indeed, the period after implementation of MGNREGS – the programme offered guaranteed work for 100 days and thus, an income cushion to the rural poor – saw a sharp spike in rural wages. This is bound to squeeze the political and economic clout of large farmers in rural areas, who might have to share a larger part of their surplus with the erstwhile have-nots.The reluctance of food producers in India to engage with the predicament of the majority of food consumers, who still cannot afford a proper meal, is what gives the Indian state the moral high ground in squeezing farm incomes through price interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guaranteed-msp-both-farmers-and-govt-need-to-look-at-three-key-points-101637687934124.html
23-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Nov 24, 2011 - 43-year-old Cyrus Mistry to take over $83-bn Tata empire||The Tata Sons board on Wednesday anointed 43-year-old Cyrus Pallonji Mistry as successor to its iconic chairman Ratan Tata, 73.For now, Mistry, whose family owns 17% in Tata Sons, making it the largest individual shareholder in the company, will work as deputy chairman and take over from Tata when he retires in December 2012. Mistry, currently managing director of Shapoorji Pallonji Group, India’s second-largest infrastructure company, is a director on the board of Tata Sons.The five-member search committee to select the chairman, set up in August 2010, zeroed in on Mistry from a reported shortlist of five. Though no names were ever officially released, media reports had declared Tata’s half-brother Noel, who turned around retailer Trent, as the front-runner. Pepsico CEO Indra Nooyi and Infosys Technology chief mentor NR Narayana Murthy were also mentioned as possible successors to Tata. Terming the appointment far-sighted, Tata said he will work with Mistry — who will be the second person sans the Tata surname to head the group after Nowroji Saklatwala (1932-38) — over the next one year to provide his successor the necessary exposure and operating experience required for the job.“He has been on the board of Tata Sons since August 2006 and I have been impressed with the quality and calibre of his participation, his astute observations and his humility. He is intelligent and qualified to take on the responsibility being offered,” Tata, who will remain in charge of the Tata Trusts that own 66% in Tata Sons even after he retires, said in a statement.“I take this responsibility very seriously and in keeping with the values and ethics of the Tata Group I will undertake to legally dissociate myself from the management of my family businesses to avoid any conflict of interest,” Mistry said in a statement.The “responsibility” is, indeed, challenging. Over the last decade, Tata has turned the R10,000-crore India focused group he inherited in 1991 into India’s largest multinational.In 2007, under his leadership, Tata Steel boldly acquired Anglo-Dutch steel maker Corus for $12.3 bn (R50,000 crore then) in a hotly contested takeover to emerge, almost out of nowhere, among the Top 10 steel companies in the world, leaving behind such icons of the industry as Nucor and ThyssenKrupp.A year later, Tata Motors bought out Jaguar Land Rover from Ford Motor Co. These followed a spate of smaller buyouts in the beverages and hospitality industries that greatly expanded the footprints of the Taj Group of Hotels and Tata Global Beverages (formerly Tata Tea).Mistry was a member of the search committee that comprised former Tata Sons vice chairman NA Soonavala, Tata Sons director RK Krishna Kumar, Warwick Manufacturing founder Lord Kumar Bhattacharya and Tata Group lawyer Shirin Bharucha, but recused himself from it when his name came up for discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-nov-24-2011-43-year-old-cyrus-mistry-to-take-over-83-bn-tata-empire-101637685534880.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 70 students in Odisha test positive for Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 70 school, medical students test positive for Covid-19 in OdishaMore than 70 students, including 53 girls, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Odisha’s Sundargarh and Sambalpur districts in the last three days, a report said on Tuesday. Read more.Not Delhi, this city in Bihar recorded the worst AQI in past 24 hoursBad air quality days are no longer limited to the north Indian states and Union territories as the toxic wind has now engulfed other corners of the country, too. Read more.17-year-old missing boy swims across border, reaches BangladeshA 17-year-old Indian citizen, who has been missing for the past few days, reportedly crossed the international border between India and Bangladesh by swimming across Kushiyara river on Monday, officials said. Read more.'I have played and worked with him': Senior batsman explains how Rahul Dravid's experience will help India growVeteran Indian batsman Cheteshwar Pujara on Tuesday was all praise for the team's newly-appointed head coach, Rahul Dravid, saying that his abundant experience will only help the team grow as a stronger Test side in the coming months. Read more.All about pulmonary fibrosis, the fatal disease that can leave one breathlessLiving with pulmonary fibrosis can be a hard task. Read more.Kangana Ranaut's 'bheekh' remark draws criticism from Mukesh Khanna: 'Was it a side effect of Padma Award?'Actor Mukesh Khanna has criticised Kangana Ranaut's 'bheekh (alms)' remark. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-70-students-in-odisha-test-positive-for-covid19-101637680273358.html
23-11-2021||India||Not Delhi, this Bihar city recorded worst AQI in past 24 hrs; southern states continue to see ‘good’ air days. Full list||Bad air quality days are no longer limited to the north Indian states and Union territories as the toxic wind has now engulfed other corners of the country, too. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin, which records the air quality in the previous 24 hours, as many as 11 cities were listed under ‘very poor’ category. Of these, except one from West Bengal, the remaining 10 cities were from Bihar.The CPCB bulletin may not come as a surprise since a recent report by Switzerland-based climate group, IQAir, named Kolkata and Mumbai, besides Delhi, among the world’s top-10 most-polluted cities.In the past 24 hours, Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 290 in the ‘poor’ category. This comes after the Aam Aadmi Party-led government in the national capital on Monday lifted the temporary ban on construction and demolition activities owing to the improvement in the AQI.Also Read | New Delhi wakes up to ‘poor’ air quality; partly cloudy sky predicted todayMeanwhile, Kolkata that also saw ‘poor’ category air quality recorded an AQI of 229 in the past 24 hours. Mumbai, on the other hand, saw comparatively much better air quality than its metropolitan counterparts with an AQI of 76 in the ‘satisfactory’ category.The southern states, on the other hand, continued to record good air days. Data from the CPCB bulletin revealed that a total of 27 cities or towns recorded ‘good’ category air quality in the past 24 hours, of which, at least 20 belonged to the southern states.Top 5 cities and towns that recorded best AQIs in the past 24 hours:1.     Hassan in Karnataka at 192.     Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh at 253.     Chikkaballapur and Medikeri in Karnataka at 294.     Yadgir in Karnataka at 315.     Puducherry at 32Top 5 cities and towns that recorded worst AQIs in the previous 24 hours:1.     Katihar in Bihar at 3862.     Purnia in Bihar at 3843.     Siwan in Bihar at 3814.     Darbhanga in Bihar at 3695.     Kishanganj in Bihar at 358||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-delhi-this-city-in-bihar-recorded-the-worst-aqi-in-past-24-hours-101637679131390.html
23-11-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut booked for hurting sentiments of Sikh community||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has been booked by the police for allegedly defaming the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s border by equating it to the Khalistani movement and allegedly calling the agriculturists Khalistanis on social media, officials said on Tuesday.Following the announcement of repeal of the farm laws by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Kangana allegedly made the statements on Instagram and also referred to the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Kangana also shared the picture of former prime minister Indira Gandhi on Instagram and said that she “crushed Khalistanis” even “at the cost of her life” while lauding her for taking “decisive action”.The first information report or FIR was lodged against the actor at the suburban Khar police station and she was booked under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Maninder Singh Sirsa, the president of Delhi Gurdwara Management Committee (DGMC), Amarjeet Singh Sandhu of Dadar’s Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara, and Jaspalsingh Siddhu, the president of the Supreme Council Navi Mumbai Gurudwara, filed the FIR on Monday.Sandhu accused Kangana of ‘making derogatory remarks against his community’ in her Instagram post. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is also the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), met Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil and top officials of the Mumbai police demanding action.Kangana’s social media posts also irked the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and both filed police complaints against the actor last Saturday.Kangana also called the repeal of the farm laws ‘unfair’ and said that the move shows ‘street power’ is supreme.“Sad, shameful, absolutely unfair. If people on the streets have started to make laws and not the chosen government in the Parliament, then even this is a jihadi nation. Congratulations to all who wanted it like this,” Kangana wrote in her post.In a subsequent post she wrote, “When the conscience of the nation is in deep sleep, lath (the cane) is the only solution and dictatorship is the only resolution. Happy birthday madam Prime Minister,” while sharing a picture of Indira Gandhi.A police official said that further investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-booked-for-hurting-sentiments-of-sikh-community-101637679104235.html
23-11-2021||India||‘India should be prepared for extreme sea-level events, floods and droughts’: Meteorologists||Extreme sea-level events are on the rise along the Indian Ocean according to meteorologists. A very severe cyclone, Yaas, which crossed the northern Odisha coast on May 26 recorded extremely high sea levels compared to extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae which crossed the Gujarat coast on May 17 this year.This is mainly because of the tide, topography and the mean sea level which determine the possibility of extreme sea-level events said Swapna Panickal, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and co-author of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report “The Physical Science Basis” released in August.These events are also increasing over the Mumbai coast and show sea level data from 1870 onwards, Panickal said during her presentation at the ongoing International Symposium on Tropical Meteorology (INTROMET-2021) on Changing Climate: Consequences and Challenges (November 23 to 26), while cautioning that the coastal regions in India need to be better prepared for sea-level rise related concerns. Between 1870 and 2000, there was a 1.8 mm per year increase in global mean sea level which nearly doubled to 3.3 mm per year during the 1993 to 2017 period.“When heat is added ocean water expands, melting of glaciers also contributes to the rise in sea level. Oceans absorb more than 91% of the heat of the climate system, they have a higher heat capacity than other components of the earth system. The global mean sea level is increasing and the sea levels over the Indian Ocean, including the Arabian Sea, are also projected to increase. By 2050, the sea level is expected to increase by another 15 to 20 cm over the Indian Ocean region also. This is one of the concerns,” Panickal explained, adding that “Extreme sea levels are also going to increase as during severe cyclones there will be storm surges and when they are happening with high tide they will produce higher elevation of the sea level.”“Tide gauge observations for Tauktae and Yaas shows Yaas recorded extremely high sea levels. So, extreme sea-level rise events are determined by topography, tide and mean sea-level increase,” she added. Another IPCC co-author, Subimal Ghosh, Institute Chair Professor, Department of Civil Engineering at IIT Mumbai also flagged that urbanisation, urban heating, urban heat island effect, air pollution also contributes to variability in rainfall, increase in moisture leading to extreme rain events in urban areas.M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences who spoke on the role of oceans in modulating the Indian monsoon said that observations suggest that heavy rainfall events during northeast monsoon are showing an increasing trend and future climate change scenarios also indicate that extremely heavy and heavy rainfall events will increase in coming years. “We are seeing these events this season also over several parts of Peninsular India. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka will be impacted and should be prepared.”He also pointed that though during La Nina years lower than normal rainfall is expected during the northeast monsoon, this time heavy rainfall events are being recorded over peninsular India. Rajeevan recommended a research roadmap to be developed for a better understanding of the role of Indian and Atlantic Oceans on monsoon variability with more focused observations for the Indian Ocean region.M Ravichandran, secretary, ministry of earth sciences said monitoring the impact of climate change on the Indian monsoon will be of the greatest importance for the research community. Aerosol loading and cloud albedo effect (less solar energy reaching surface could cause cooling) often complicates the understanding of climate change impacting the monsoon but monsoon will be even more erratic with prolonged wet and dry seasons interspersed with floods and droughts, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-be-prepared-for-extreme-sea-level-events-floods-and-droughts-meteorologists-101637678636193.html
23-11-2021||India||17-year-old missing boy swims across border, reaches Bangladesh||A 17-year-old Indian citizen, who has been missing for the past few days, reportedly crossed the international border between India and Bangladesh by swimming across Kushiyara river on Monday, officials said. The border between the two countries is divided through the river where the Border Security Force (BSF) is deployed. The boy is yet to be recovered and security forces from both countries are trying to find him, an official said. According to the Karimganj police, the boy named Abhijit Das is a resident of Rangamati area under Bazaricherra police station in Karimganj district of Assam. He had been missing since November 18 and his parents informed the police as well. On Monday, he is said to have jumped into the river from an area near Karimganj town and crossed it.An on-duty BSF official said, “Before we could understand what was happening, the boy crossed the border. We immediately informed the security agencies of Bangladesh and they assured us to stop the boy. But he managed to hide somewhere in their country. We’ll find him and will bring him back soon.”Abhijit’s parents had lodged a missing diary in Bajarichara Police Station after he left home. Local police called his father Nishindra Das to identify him by watching a video of him taken while he was crossing the river. The father recognised his son and appealed to the officials to bring his minor son back to India. The Battalion 7 of Border Security Force (BSF) is deployed along the river lining the international border between India and Bangladesh in Karimganj. Their surveillance is under scanner after this incident when a person crossed the river in broad daylight. According to Sudip Das, a resident of Latu area in Karimganj, a few days back, locals caught two Bangladeshi nationals who crossed the border by swimming Kushiyara river and handed them over to the BSF.Karimganj SP Padmanabha Baruah however claimed that they are still trying to identify the person who crossed the border. He said, “Kushiyara is an open river border and there is no fencing. BSF is deployed on different points and the boy chose a place between two points. We have heard that a boy from Bazaricherra was missing and there is a possibility that this is the same person who crossed the border. But we are yet to establish the fact.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17yearold-missing-boy-swims-across-border-reaches-bangladesh-101637676053969.html
23-11-2021||India||Railways to begin Bharat Gaurav trains to promote tourism. Details here||Indian Railways will begin Bharat Gaurav trains – the third segment of trains of tourism after freight and passenger segments—in order to boost tourism, railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw announced on Tuesday.A set of 3,033 coaches or 190 theme-based trains are being introduced under the Bharat Gaurav segment, the railways minister said during a press conference, adding that these trains can be run both by the private sector as well as the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).Bharat Gaurav train schedule, fare and other details:The Bharat Gaurav trains are not regular trains but they will run on timetables, the minister said. Tourists will be able to choose luxury or budget coaches depending on the requirement.The train will be composed of 14 to 20 coaches including 2 SLRs (guard vans).The train fare will be practically decided by tour operators but the railways will ensure that there is no abnormality in the prices, Vaishnaw said at the press briefing.The themes would be decided by the service providers and the packages will include rail travel, hotel accommodation, sightseeing arrangement, visit to historical/heritage sites, tour guides, etc for the tourist."These trains will showcase India's culture and heritage. We have invited applications for them from today," he added.The minister also said that state governments of Odisha, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have shown interest in these trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-begin-bharat-gaurav-trains-to-promote-tourism-details-here-101637663093880.html
23-11-2021||India||Shimla tops India's sustainable development goals list, Dhanbad worst. List here||Shimla achieved the top spot on the first Sustainable Development Goals Urban Index released by the Centre on Tuesday in an attempt to localise SDGs and ensure progress at the national, state, Union territory and local levels.The index and dashboard are the result of the collaborative efforts of NITI Aayog-GIZ and BMZ, under the Indo-German Development Cooperation, that assessed 56 cities on 77 SDG indicators.The list was prepared taking into consideration performance of cities under categories such as poverty, health, education, gender equality, affordable and clean energy and climate action, among others.“Cities are fast becoming engines of growth. The SDG Urban index and dashboard, a product of an innovative partnership between NITI Aayog and GIZ, will go a long way in instituting a robust SDG monitoring system in our cities, and is a milestone step in our SDG localisation journey,” Rajiv Kumar, NITI Aayog’s vice chairperson, said at the launch event of the sustainable development goals index and dashboard.Here’s the list of the top 10 and bottom 10 cities on the SDG Urban Index:Top 10 cities on the SDG Urban Index:1. Shimla2. Coimbatore3. Chandigarh4. Thiruvananthapuram5. Kochi6. Panaji7. Pune8. Tiruchirapalli9. Ahmedabad10. NagpurBottom 10 cities on the SDG Urban Index:1. Faridabad2. Kolkata3. Agra4. Kohima5. Jodhpur6. Patna7. Guwahati8. Itanagar9. Meerut10. DhanbadThe data on these indicators have been sourced from official data sources including the National Family Health Survey (NFHS), National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE), data portals of various ministries, and other government data sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shimla-tops-india-s-sustainable-development-goals-list-among-urban-cities-full-list-here-101637670571566.html
23-11-2021||India||Two get double life-term in Marad riot case in Kerala||A special court in Kozhikode (north Kerala) on Tuesday awarded double life-term to two accused in the Marad riot case of 2003 in which eight persons were stabbed to death, officials said. After the riot, one of them fled to a middle-east country and the other jumped the bail and absconded during the trial.Both, Koyamon alias Hyderkutty and M Nizamuddin, were found guilty by the special court judge KS Ambika on November 20 and the quantum of punishment was announced on Tuesday. The trial of these two was held separately as they were absconding and later arrested by police in 2011.Koyamon was found guilty under the explosives act for manufacturing country-made bombs and Nizamuddin for murder, rioting and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.In 2009, the special court sentenced 63 of the 139 accused who faced trial in the case. As many as 148 persons were named in the case including nine juveniles. In August 2012, the High Court awarded life-term to 24 more accused, setting aside their acquittal by the lower court.The riot took place in May 2003 in a communally-sensitive beach village in Kozhikode called Marad in which eight persons were killed, many injured and some houses were damaged. A minor issue over water from the public tap led to a full-blown communal riot and people from a particular community were targeted. Some of the accused were caught red-handed after they took refuge in a religious place. The riot remained a blot on Kerala but people from both sides later came together to avoid another round of retaliation and bloodshed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-get-double-life-term-in-marad-riot-case-in-kerala-101637673594869.html
23-11-2021||India||Over 70 school, medical students test positive for Covid-19 in Odisha||More than 70 students, including 53 girls, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Odisha’s Sundargarh and Sambalpur districts in the last three days, a report said on Tuesday.According to news agency PTI, 53 girls in a government-aided St Merry Girls' School in Odisha's Sundargarh and 22 students of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR) in Sambalpur tested positive for Covid-19."The girls have been isolated and special provisions have been made for their treatment. Their health condition is normal, while the educational institute has been shut for a week," Sister Petrica, the headmistress of high school, was quoted as saying by PTI.The headmistress said that those infected are students of classes 8, 9 and 10, and they were tested for Covid-19 after a majority of them exhibited symptoms of cold and cough.Also read | Odisha allows jatra shows with a maximum audience of 2000 peopleThe 22 students of VIMSAR in Burla have been admitted to the Covid hospital. Authorities suspect that the infection might have spread after the institute's annual function, which was held recently.Health expert Dr Narayan Mishra told PTI that the sudden spurt in cases in the western districts of Sundargarh and Sambalpur is a cause of concern even as Odisha has witnessed a significant drop in the number of infections.Data showed Odisha’s coronavirus tally rose to 10,47,386 on Tuesday after 212 people, including 70 children, tested positive for Covid-19 and two fresh fatalities pushed the state’s death toll to 8,396.Also read | India's daily Covid tally further down at 7,579; active cases drop by nearly 5kKhurda district, under which Bhubaneswar falls, registered the highest number of new cases at 90, followed by Sundargarh at 39 and Mayurbhanj at 13 infections.Out of the 212 new Covid-19 cases, 123 were reported in quarantine centres, while the remaining 89 infections were detected during contact tracing. Fourteen of the 30 districts have not recorded any new cases.The rate of infection among those in the 0-18 age group was recorded at 33.01 per cent against 19.88 per cent on the previous day.Also read | Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAX: ReportsThere were 171 cases on Monday, 205 on Sunday, 239 on Saturday, and 242 on Friday in Odisha. The state now has 2,191 active cases of Covid-19, 10,36,746 people have recovered from the disease so far, including 245 in the last 24 hours.Odisha's cumulative positivity rate stands at 4.48 per cent and the daily test positivity rate at 0.44 per cent.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-70-school-medical-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-101637671916726.html
23-11-2021||India||Congress leaders Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar join Trinamool Congress||In a fillip to the Trinamool Congress ahead of the 2024  Lok Sabha elections, Congress leaders Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar on Tuesday joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party in New Delhi.Earlier in the day, former Janata Dal (United) leader Pavan Varma also joined the Trinamool Congress in the presence of Mamata Banerjee.The development comes amid the West Bengal chief minister's visit to the national capital ahead of Parliament's Winter Session on November 29."It makes me happy to say that under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, I'll work for the development of the nation. Today, a personality like her is needed in the country who can show the country the right direction," cricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The cricketer who was part of India's winning World Cup team in 1983 forayed into politics with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and became a parliamentarian from Bihar's Darbhanga. However, he was suspended from the BJP in 2015 over “anti-party” activities, following which he joined the Congress in 2019 to contest the Lok Sabha elections from Dhanbad. He lost to BJP's Pashupati Nath Singh by a huge margin.On the other hand, a former president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, Ashok Tanwar, quit the party in 2019.The Trinamool Congress posted on Twitter the news of the induction of the three leaders into the party fold.Today was a very special day for the Trinamool Congress family!Our Chairperson @MamataOfficial briefly interacts with everyone who joined us to strengthen the fight against all autocratic forces. pic.twitter.com/477OLfQb9JA close confidante of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, Varma was removed from the JD(U) along with political strategist Prashant Kishor over their disagreements with the party chief on the controversial amended citizenship laws.“Looking at the current political circumstances and the potential in Mamata Banerjee, I have today joined Trinamool Congress,” Varma said.The Trinamool Congress said Varma's rich political experience will help the party serve the people of India and “take this nation forward to even better days.”Kirti Azad is the third Congress leader to join the Trinamool Congress after Goa's Luizinho Faleiro Assam's Sushmita Dev.Meanwhile, Mamata Banerjee, who is on a three-day visit to New Delhi, is expected to meet several opposition leaders and prominent personalities. She is also likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi.It is the Trinamool Congress supremo's second visit to the national capital since her party came to power in West Bengal with a thumping majority for the third consecutive term in May this year. The visit is seen by political experts as a booster shot to opposition unity against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leaders-kirti-azad-ashok-tanwar-join-trinamool-congress-101637670693826.html
23-11-2021||India||‘Postponing elections extreme thing to order in democracy’: SC on Tripura civic polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday observed that postponing elections is an extreme thing to order in a democracy and expressed its aversion towards it.The top court was hearing a contempt plea by Trinamool Congress in connection to the violence in the poll-bound northeastern state, and refused to postpone the municipal elections scheduled on November 25.“If we do it then it will set a wrong precedent,” the Supreme Court said, adding that postponing the elections is the last resort.The top court observed that the election process has begun and the campaigning was set to end at 4.30pm on Tuesday. While the voting for 334 seats of the urban local bodies would take place on Thursday, the ballots will be counted November 28.  The court, however, said that the concerns expressed by the Trinamool Congress can be suitably addressed and directions can be issued to the Tripura government to ensure that remaining phases of the civic polls take place in a peaceful and orderly manner.The top court had last week asked Tripura police to ensure that no political party was prevented from exercising their rights in accordance with law for political campaigning in a peaceful manner.The Trinamool Congress alleged that several of its supporters and workers sustained injuries following an attack on the residence of the party’s Tripura unit leader Subal Bhowmik at Bhagaban Thakur Chowmuni area in state capital Agartala on Sunday.The political battlefield in Tripura is heating up ahead of the November 25 civic polls. Several clashes have been reported in the northeastern state over the past week, with former Union minister and Babul Supriyo – who switched over to Trinamool Congress from the BJP recently – claiming on Saturday that he was harassed by BJP cadres while assessing poll preparations.On Sunday, the Tripura police arrested Trinamool youth leader and actor Saayoni Ghosh on charges of allegedly promoting enmity between people, attempt-to-murder, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy, apart from disrupting a civic poll rally led by Biplab Deb on Saturday. However, a local court granted her bail a day later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-polls-violence-supreme-court-trinamool-congress-contempt-plea-101637667442777.html
23-11-2021||India||Scindia, top aviation ministry officials to be aboard SpiceJet 737 MAX flight||Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and senior officials from his ministry will be on board a special SpiceJet 737 MAX Delhi-Gwalior flight on Tuesday. The airline commenced its 737 MAX operations on Sunday after a ban on the aircraft for over two years.Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation in August lifted the 2019 ban on airlines flying Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The aircraft were grounded around the world following crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia that killed 346 people. The US and European countries allowed the aircraft to resume 737 MAX flights last year. Overall, at least 175 countries have allowed the 737 MAX to return to service.SpiceJet’s chairman and managing director Ajay Singh on Tuesday said the airline’s all Boeing 737 MAX aircraft will back into service over the next 15-20 days with free broadband internet initially.Also Read: 72 planes, $9 billion: Akasa Air orders Boeing 737 MAX jetsThe airline operated its first 737 MAX flight after the ban from Delhi to Mumbai on Sunday. The second such flight on Monday operated between Delhi to Ahmedabad.“Two (737) MAX (aircraft) have resumed operations and the third aircraft will be in air today (Tuesday). We aim to operate all our (737) MAX in the next 15 to 20 days,” Singh said. “This aircraft will cater to passengers in a better manner as it will have large number of premium seats and broadband internet that we plan to offer on board. This broadband service will initially not be charged.”Singh said out of the 155 aircraft they have ordered; the airline will induct 50 737 MAX by 2022-23. “Out of the 50 aircraft, 15 to 20 aircraft are going to be replacements.” Singh called the return of the aircraft a game-changer for SpiceJet. “After the intense scrutiny this aircraft has gone through, I can say with full confidence that it is the safest aircraft to fly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-top-aviation-ministry-officials-to-be-aboard-spicejet-737-max-flight-101637669273387.html
23-11-2021||India||Law on MSP is a legitimate demand, says Jairam Ramesh||Ahead of Parliament’s winter session that begins next week, Jairam Ramesh, chief whip of the Congress in Rajya Sabha, spoke to Saubhadra Chatterji about the farm laws and related issues. Edited excerpts: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation, said the larger section of the experts and farmers’ bodies supported the three farm laws. This is hogwash, trying to assume an aura of false modesty. This is characteristic of our dramajeevi PM. He is a master of communication who could not convince the farmers who are smarter than what he thought of them. They knew that the laws would open doors for corporatisation and MSP, public procurement was under threat. Modi was trying to make a virtue out of necessity. Why there were no consultations with CMs? Even their current favourite Amarinder Singh said on record that he was not consulted when he was the CM. Some agricultural experts and a member of the Supreme Court panel have said that agricultural reforms will now be only piecemeal.I am allergic to the word reforms. Yes, there are serious problems in agriculture such as in investment, production, water-related, and profitability-related issues. There are major challenges and both the states and the Centre have to tackle them. The Prime Minister has also announced that he wants to form a committee to look into the issues of the agricultural sector. I welcome that decision. Let them form a committee, let them consult states, experts, and farmer organisations. In 2019, the SC gave a verdict on data privacy. The government formed the Sri Krishna Committee. After its report came, the government brought a bill and sent it to a joint committee and now we have submitted our report. A lot of problems this government faced have come from a lack of consultations. Dramabaazi gets you nowhere. They do not allow any discussion in Parliament and the presiding officers are complicit in this. They have a majority in the two Houses and the standing committees. Why do not they send bills to standing committees? Also Read: Data Protection Bill: Five MPs file dissent notes in final reportThe three farm laws were first issued as an ordinance. What was the urgency? You did not consult states or farmer bodies but then go and issue an ordinance. They could have waited and discussed it in Parliament and referred it to a standing committee. They did the same thing with the land law and after sometime, they had to withdraw it altogether. The recent statements by Sonia and Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders indicate now the fight will be on other pending issues including a law on MSP.We can discuss the nature of the changes in agricultural laws in Parliament. The logical thing could be the government presents an amended bill and we discuss all the issues at length. It took me two years and three months to get the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Bill passed. We had two all-party meetings and I consulted the states. I even accepted amendments by Sushma Swaraj and Rajnath Singh. Some people in my party were in favour of the ordinance route but I said, no. So, what will be your strategy when the repeal of legislation for the three farm bills is brought to Parliament? I cannot tell you what will be our strategy. But certainly, we would demand a discussion. Why did it take one year and the death of 700 farmers for the government to repeal the bills? Certainly, we want to raise questions even as we are not allowed to raise questions on China or Pakistan. Politically the issue is not over. Let us have a well-informed debate to revisit why those acts were made. Let us also discuss the way forward. I would certainly like this session to function normally. I do not want a repeat of the monsoon session. The washout was forced upon us by the government. We want to play a constructive Opposition party’s role. The law on MSP is now your latest demand. It has been there for quite some time. Up till now, the MSP was an executive decision. But now a law has assumed importance because there is an effort to bring in the private sector. There is also fear because this government tried to dismantle FCI and public procurement. It is a legitimate demand to have a law on MSP. But the PM has already given assurance in both Houses of Parliament that MSP will remain. Well, the PM had also said that the farm laws will remain. He called the farmers andolanjeevi. His party even termed them as secessionists, anti-national, and Khalistanis. PM tailors what he says to his audience. What are the priorities of the Congress in this winter session? We still believe a responsible, sober discussion on the border situation is needed. We must discuss Afghanistan and our neighbourhood. The economic situation is worse than what the government claims it to be. There is also an urgent requirement to discuss the environment as the PM made lofty promises in Glasgow but in reality, all environmental laws are being diluted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-on-msp-is-a-legitimate-demand-says-jairam-ramesh-101637668733435.html
23-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav, Jayant Chaudhary tweet pics after meeting, hint at poll alliance||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday tweeted photos of their meeting giving heft to speculations that both the parties are firming up to form an alliance ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year.Akhilesh Yadav and Jayant Chaudhary shared pictures with captions which indicate that a deal may be close between the regional parties as they look to challenge the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in UP.“Heading towards change with Jayant Chaudhary,” Akhilesh tweeted in Hindi sharing a photo of both and shortly afterwards the RLD leader also tweeted a photo of their meeting with a similar caption.Rashtriya Lok Dal state president Masood Ahmad told news agency PTI that both leaders discussed the issue of seat-sharing in the 2022 UP assembly polls during their meeting on Tuesday but have not taken a final call.Jayant Chaudhary earlier while speaking to HT said the Samajwadi Party has a “credible base” in Uttar Pradesh when asked about coalitions ahead of the polls which are seen as a precursor to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.“We were working on creating a viable alternative to the BJP and a strong opposition platform. We will go forward in that direction,” Chaudhary said while confirming that both parties held discussions.“Within the opposition, Samajwadi Party has a credible base across the state. We are in conversation with them,” he said.The SP and RLD have contested assembly elections and Lok Sabha bypolls together since 2017.Jayant Chaudhary’s RLD was crucial to the movement against the farm laws as it wields considerable influence in western Uttar Pradesh and the sugarcane farmers in that region. The Samajwadi Party is to bring smaller parties to form a formidable alliance against the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-jayant-chaudhary-tweet-pics-after-meeting-hint-at-poll-alliance-101637668489246.html
23-11-2021||India||BJP seeks Amit Shah’s intervention over recent killings in Kerala||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday attacked the Kerala government for failing to take action against the Popular Front of India (PFI). It blamed the PFI for at least two murders of the activists of the BJP and its ideological mentor Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) over the last two months.BJP state unit president K Surendran said the party has apprised union home minister Amit Shah about the operations of a “fundamentalist group” and how no action has been taken by Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan government against the accused.“Kerala is coming closer to becoming Syria; that is a general feeling,” Surendran said.The PFI is an Islamic organisation, which follows a hardline ideology and is under the scanner for alleged financial wrongdoings.Also Read: Kerala BJP calls for NIA probe into RSS worker’s death“There have been two brutal attacks in Kerala by the PFI. Sanjith (an RSS worker who was killed last week) was hacked to death. His autopsy showed more than 36 wounds. A police officer was a witness, but the Kerala Police were not able to block the traffic and conduct search. It is still groping in the dark,” said Surendran. He said a similar incident occurred in Trichur as well.Surendra, who is in Delhi to meet Shah, alleged there is political patronage to the PFI. “In Kerala, there is a secret understanding between CPI (Communist Party of India) and PFI; they are hand in glove. The police are shielding them and people have lost their faith in them. We have briefed the Union home minister about the fundamentalist groups operating in Kerala. The government is not even naming it as a terror group,” he said.On why the party has not sought a ban on the outfit, union minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar said, “Law is a state subject…we are demanding free and fair investigation and prosecution of the guilty. Otherwise, criminal activities will flourish.” He added in the absence of action against criminals, the state’s economy is affected adversely. “The victim is Kerala’s economy and job creation in the state. Without prosecuting criminals, it creates an overall narrative that it is a weak, vulnerable economy. The opportunities for investment will also suffer as a consequence of appeasement politics.”Another union minister V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, attacked the state’s Congress-led opposition and the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) led alliances for not raising their voice against PFI’s crimes. “In any part of the world, you can speak against religious terrorisms but not in Kerala. If you do, the so-called secularists start attacking those speaking the truth. This is what happened when the Bishop of Palla spoke about Love Jihad….the chief minister said it is for the first time he has heard the word.”Muraleedharn said the Congress kept mum even when its worker was killed. “The situation is that no one dares speak out against Islamic terrorism and the reason is that the CPM and the Congress feel they will lose their vote share if they do so,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-seeks-amit-shah-s-intervention-over-recent-killings-in-kerala-101637667953502.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: IRCTC, pvt operators to operate Bharat Gaurav trains and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Gaurav: IRCTC, pvt operators allowed to operate theme-based trainsRailways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday that the Bharat Gaurav trains, launched to boost tourism in the country, can be operated by private operators as well as the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). Read moreChinese cemetery for PLA’s 1962, Galwan war dead now patriotic education baseA high-altitude, wind-swept military cemetery in Xinjiang which houses the tombs of more than 100 Chinese soldiers who died fighting Indian troops during the 1962 war and in the Galwan Valley clash last year is being renovated to serve as a base for patriotic education. Read moreHansal Mehta shares pics with Patralekhaa and Rajkummar Rao, calls it the ‘wedding of a lifetime’Filmmaker Hansal Mehta shared pictures with actors Rajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa on Instagram. Hansal also wrote a touching note, congratulating the newly married couple. Read moreIND vs NZ: Cheteshwar Pujara swats away strike rate poser, hopes to stay 'fearless' against New ZealandIt has been over five years since the chatter about Cheteshwar Pujara's strike rate started. Skipper Virat Kohli's assessment of India's successful tour of the West Indies and the 197-run win over New Zealand at the Green Park Stadium had one common theme: Pujara's ordinary strike rate. Read moreVidya Malavade demonstrates the 'fastest way to tripod headstand’ in phasesVidya Malavade is a fitness enthusiast. The actor is often spotted on Instagram, sharing snippets of her fitness diaries and also noting the steps of the exercise that are to be performed. Watch hereRoyal Enfield unveils 120th Year Anniversary Edition of 650 Twin motorcyclesRoyal Enfield started its production in November 1901 by launching its first bike at the Stanley Cycle Show in London. From these humble beginnings in 1901, Royal Enfield has been the oldest motorcycle brand to remain in continuous production to date. Read moreMom, wife of Galwan martyr Col Santosh Babu accept Mahavir Chakra (posthumously)Galwan valley hero Col Santosh Babu was awarded the Mahavir Chakra (posthumously). He was honoured with the second-highest wartime gallantry medal in an investiture ceremony. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-irctc-pvt-operators-to-operate-bharat-gaurav-trains-and-all-the-latest-news-101637667013091.html
23-11-2021||India||Vanniyar Sangam takes Jai Bhim to court, alleges defamation, seeks punishment||Vanniyar Sangam, the parent body of the Tamil Nadu-based political party PMK, an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), has taken legal action against the makers of the Tamil-language film Jai Bhim, alleging that it portrays the Vanniyar community in bad light. Vanniyar Sangam’s president T Arulmozhi has filed a private complaint before the second judicial magistrate in Tamil Nadu’s Chidambaram district against the film’s main actor Suriya, who jointly produced the movie along with his wife Jyothika under the banner 2D Entertainment. The complaint also names director TJ Gnanavel and OTT platform Amazon Prime Video, which released the legal drama earlier this month. In the complaint, Arulmozhi urges the court to proceed against the accused for airing offensive scenes and also to punish them under sections 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (1) (promoting enmity between different groups), 499 (defamation), 500 (punishment for defamation), 503 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to breach peace) and 505 (statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. The organisation had earlier sent a legal notice to the makers of the film, claiming that the Vanniyar community was wrongly portrayed in the movie.The case was eventually filed after Jai Bhim’s makers didn’t tender an unconditional apology as demanded by Vanniyar Sangam. Also Read: Suriya thanks fans ‘for standing by us’ amid police protection at Chennai house“The accused persons’ reckless depiction of the Vanniyar community in poor light, with villainous and criminal bent of mind, has delivered an irreparable dent to the hitherto earned high reputation of the community with one deadly blow… [with the] accused film wiping out all goodwill the Vanniyar community has enjoyed so far from all other communities,” the petition filed on Tuesday said. “Accused persons have created communal issues, criminal intimidation between the people, and also provoke breach of peace by inciting violence among the people in the state of Tamil Nadu,” the petition said.The petition also says that a Chidambaram police station had refused to register a complaint filed on the same issue earlier, after which a complaint was filed in Cuddalore. But no action was taken.The film Jai Bhim fictionalises a real-life case of a tribal man, Rajakannu, who was falsely implicated in a theft case and died in custody following police torture in 1993. The film narrates how his wife and retired high court justice K Chandru fought for justice. The case Rajakannu vs. State of Tamil Nadu eventually resulted in three policemen being sentenced to 14 years of rigorous imprisonment for Rajakannu’s death.Among the multiple issues raised, the petition argues that the movie retains the real names of all the characters but changed the name of the sub-inspector who had tortured the victim in police custody from his real name Anthonysamy to Gurumurthy. The petition claims he was “repeatedly referred to as guru”, which could seemingly be a reference to the community’s late leader J Guru. “The accused have projected the said wicked person, a wrongdoer, as if he belonged to the Vanniyar community, thereby imputing that the members of the Vanniyar community are prone to commit wrong and illegal things, while in real life, the said sub-inspector did not belong to the Vanniyar community,” the petition says.The complainant argues that freedom of expression cannot be used to defame a particular community and earn substantial revenue by “distorting facts”. The complainant also says the film’s dialogue writer Kanmani Gunasekaran returned his remuneration saying facts had been suppressed, and consent was not taken from the real-life widow Parvathy. In an interview to HT last week, retired Justice Chandru had said that among those alive from the real case, only his name and police officer I Periyasamy’s names have been retained besides the names of the deceased, Rajakannu.The controversy first erupted when PMK leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss shot off a letter to actor Suriya demanding answers over the film’s controversial narrative. Suriya clarified that the film was intended to show the real-life struggle of Justice Chandru. Director Gnanavel also released a statement recently, saying the movie was not intended to target or shame a particular person or a community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vanniyar-sangam-takes-jai-bhim-to-court-alleges-defamation-seeks-punishment-101637667233541.html
23-11-2021||India||NCB raids shops in Maharashtra’s Nanded; seizes 111 kg poppy straw, 1.4 kg opium||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday busted a clandestine drug unit being run from three shops located at Kamtha in Nanded district of Maharashtra and arrested three persons, officials said. The agency claimed to have seized 111 kilograms of poppy straw (commercial quantity), 1.4 kilograms of opium and an amount of Rs. 1.55 lakh in cash. The NCB also seized equipment like two grinding machines – used for grinding poppy seeds, electronic scale and note-counting machines from the shops. “The raid at Kamtha shops has been going on since Monday, following on specific information. We have seized 111 kilograms of poppy straw, 1.4 kilograms of opium along with cash ₹1.55 lakh while three persons have been arrested,” said Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the NCB. For the last two weeks, a team of Mumbai NCB is tracking down drug suppliers and peddlers active in Nanded, Jalna and Aurangabad districts of the Marathwada region. On November 15, the agency seized a total of 1,127 kilograms of marijuana worth Rs. 5.63 crore at Manjram in Nanded and arrested two persons. They also seized a 12-wheeler truck and during the interrogation of the accused learnt that the consignment was coming from Andhra Pradesh and was to be delivered at Jalgaon. Poppy straw and opium are the raw material used for producing heroin. Opium is obtained from the unripe poppy seedpods which exude a milky latex that coagulates and changes colour, turning into a gum-like brown mass upon exposure to air. This raw opium is treated further to obtain derivatives – contraband materials such as morphine, codeine and heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-raids-shops-in-maharashtra-s-nanded-seizes-111-kg-poppy-straw-1-4-kg-opium-101637665134828.html
23-11-2021||India||Bharat Gaurav: IRCTC, pvt operators allowed to operate theme-based trains||Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday that the Bharat Gaurav trains, launched to boost tourism in the country, can be operated by private operators as well as the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).“We have allocated over 180 trains for Bharat Gaurav trains and 3,033 coaches identified. We will start taking applications from today. We have received a good response. The stakeholders will modify and run the train and the railways will help in maintenance, parking and other facilities,” Vaishnaw said at a press conference.“After passenger and goods segments, we will start the tourism segment to run Bharat Gaurav trains. These trains will show India's culture and heritage,” Vaishnaw said.“For example, if an operator wants to do a ‘Safari’ tour, the operator can decide at which station they want the train parked. They can also decide on a flexible itinerary. We have made provisions for operators so that they can enable these features when they take people out for a tour,” the railways minister added.Vaishnaw also explained that any tour operator or departments, for example, MakeMyTrip or state tourism departments can take as many trains as they want, as per their business plan and they can then modify it accordingly depending on the tour plan or them.He further said that the Indian Railways will offer assistance related to maintenance, parking, water supply and raw materials for food as and when required.Speaking about fares, he said that tour operators will decide on fares but the Indian Railways will ensure that abnormal fees are not charged to travellers. Vaishnaw pointed out that all kinds of coaches - Vistadome, Vande Bharat or Tejas etc - can be used for these trains and the Indian Railways will try to cater to these demands as much as possible.Bharat Gaurav trains are a segment of trains that aims to give people an authentic way to experience India's culture, heritage, diversity, the railway minister said earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-gaurav-irctc-pvt-operators-allowed-to-operate-theme-based-trains-101637664171342.html
23-11-2021||India||‘We have learned from it’: Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw after row over Ramayana Express staff uniform||A day after the Indian Railways withdrew the uniform of the staff serving on the Ramayana Special Trains amid objections from a section of seers, railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Tuesday the issue has been a learning experience.“We have learned from it. When we deal with any point in culture then there are many sensitive points to it. We must consciously adopt in our processes of designing, food, dress and other things,” railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said, according to news agency ANI.“So, we should move forward with this learning,” Ashwini Vaishnaw added.The catering and tourism arm of the railways ministry, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), said on Monday it will change the saffron uniform of the serving staff on board the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train after seers from Ujjain took strong objection to the dress code, saying it was an "insult" to Hindu religion.Also read | After outrage from seers, Railways withdraws Ramayan Express’ staff dress code“It is to inform that the dress of service staff is completely changed in the look of professional attire of service staff,” IRCTC said in a tweet on Monday.The seers threatened to stop the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train at Delhi's Safdarjung railway station on December 12 if the dress code was not withdrawn.“We have written a letter two days back to the Union Railway Minister lodging our protest against waiters in saffron serving refreshments and food in the Ramayan Express,” Ujjain Akhada Parishad's former general secretary Avdeshpuri told PTI.“Donning saffron attire with sadhu-like headgear and wearing 'malas' (necklaces) of 'rudraksha' (sacred seeds) is an insult to Hindu religion and its seers,” he said, adding it was necessary for protecting the Hindu religion.Also watch | Railways withdrew saffron uniform of Ramayana Express' staffAfter IRCTC changed the uniform of the staff on the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train, Avdeshpuri told PTI “it is a victory of (Hindu) religion and sanskriti (culture)" and that it was his duty to raise the issue.IRCTC launched the special tourist train in line with the government’s initiative "Dekho Apna Desh" to promote domestic tourism on November 7. At a price of  ₹82,950 per person for 2AC and  ₹102,095 for 1AC class, the train will take passengers to 15 places associated with the life of Lord Ram.Pilgrims will be taken to places such as Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Nandigram, Janakpur, Chitrakoot, Sitamarhi, Nashik, Hampi and Rameshwaram as the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train will cover a distance of more than 7,500km.After the first Shri Ramayana Yatra Special Train started earlier this month, Ashwini Vaishnaw tweeted that there was an “overwhelming response” to the first tour of the Shri Ramayana Yatra Special with 100 per cent occupancy. He also announced that the next tour on the Ramayana circuit is on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learned-from-it-ashwini-vaishnaw-after-ramayana-express-staff-uniform-row-101637663129999.html
23-11-2021||India||Number of people likely to attend marriages this wedding season expected to rise: Survey||A recently-conducted survey has found that more people are likely to attend engagement or wedding ceremonies in November-December this year as compared to those from the year-ago period. The survey, conducted by LocalCircles, also found that not many people are of the opinion that attending such events comes with a ‘high’ risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | No seating cap in Delhi cinema halls from today; 200 guests allowed at weddingsFor the exercise, the agency said that it received responses from more than17,000 respondents. After observing the responses, the conclusion was that six in 10 Indian families are likely to attend marriage ceremonies during the ongoing wedding season, it added. “The number of people likely to attend engagements or marriages during this period is thrice of the corresponding figures from the same period last year. This is due to a combination of various factors: declining cases of Covid-19 across the country, confidence due to vaccination, and Covid-19 fatigue in general,” the survey said.The survey also reported a decline in the number of people who responded that they were invited to a wedding, but will skip due to the viral illness. The figure for this year stood at just 12 per cent as against 35 per cent from the previous year.A total of 8758 responses were received for a question which asked about the risk of contracting Covid-19 by attending such ceremonies. A whopping 76 per cent answered that such a risk was ‘average,’ ‘low’ or ‘non-existent.’ Around 3 per cent said that there was no risk, while nearly 2 per cent did not have an opinion.Only 22 per cent respondents to this question opined that the risk associated with functions like these was ‘high.’Participants for this LocalCircles survey were from 319 districts. Of these, around 48 per cent were from tier-I cities, while 29 per cent were from tier-II towns. The remaining 23 per cent, meanwhile, were from tier-III, IV and rural districts.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-people-likely-to-attend-marriages-this-wedding-season-expected-to-rise-survey-101637658100017.html
23-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh assembly passes resolution asking Centre to conduct OBC census||The Andhra Pradesh assembly on Tuesday unanimously adopted a resolution requesting the Centre to take up caste-based census to enumerate the population of Other Backward Classes (OBCs).There has been a growing demand for the caste-based census. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar led an all-party delegation from his state that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to raise the demand.The British enumerated castes in the decadal censuses from 1881 to 1931 but the practice was discontinued thereafter. The census has since counted the number of people belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. OBC are believed to account for over 50% of India’s population.Andhra Pradesh’s backward classes minister Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna introduced the resolution, which was adopted through a voice vote. Opposition Telugu Desam Party stayed away from the proceedings.Also Read: Non-Yadav OBCs dominate new Samajwadi Party state executive committee“The state legislative assembly is of the unanimous view that there is a need to take up caste-based census in order to ensure equal justice to all sections of people as envisaged in the preamble of the Indian Constitution. The enumeration of the other backward classes, along with the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minorities as part of the 2021 general census,” the resolution said. It added it is necessary to maintain accurate statistics for taking up various welfare and developmental schemes for the uplift of the backward classes, apart from taking decisive actions like identifying the poor among OBCs and extending them benefits for education and employment.Krishna called OBCs society’s backbone. He added they were unable to get adequate benefits from the government. Krishna underlined it is essential to have the exact data of these sections so that benefits of the welfare schemes reach them. “Unfortunately, there has been no accurate data with regard to the OBCs. The last caste-based census was conducted in India way back in 1931, when the country’s population was just 300 million, including that of (present-day) Pakistan and Bangladesh. At present, the country’s population is 1.3 billion. We are forced to make estimates of the castes based on the 1931 data.” He added an accurate data of the castes would help the government extend reservations and benefits of other welfare schemes and judicious use of its resources. “This has been the long-pending demand of various OBC sections, intellectuals and social groups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-assembly-passes-resolution-asking-centre-to-conduct-obc-census-101637660872997.html
23-11-2021||India||NCB seizes over 100 kg poppy straw, other drugs during raids in Maharashtra’s Nanded||The Narcotics Control Bureau or NCB said on Tuesday seized more than 100 kilograms of drugs as it busted a drug factory in the Nanded district of Maharashtra during a raid and is conducting more searches at multiple locations in Madhya Pradesh.The anti-drugs agency said it seized 111kg of poppy straw, 1.4kg of opium, cash worth ₹1.55 lakh and two grinding machines used for grinding poppy seeds, an electronic scale and a note counting machine on Monday.Also read | Two Kolkata men held with charas get 10-year RI"On specific information, a team of NCB Mumbai raided three shops located at Kamtha, Nanded and busted clandestine drug unit. Other than seizures three persons were intercepted by the bureau," NCB said in a statement, according to news agency ANI."It is an interstate gang which is operating. Searches in multiple locations in Madhya Pradesh have also begun," Sameer Wankhede, NCB's Mumbai zonal director, said.Also read | Drugs unit in Kolhapur farmhouse busted by cops. Mumbai lawyer is prime suspectThe NCB said in a note that poppy straw—also known as opium straw, mowed opium straw, crushed poppy capsule, poppy chaff, or poppy husk—is a raw material from which illegal heroin may be produced. Poppy straw is derived from opium poppies that are harvested when fully mature and dried by mechanical means, without the ripe poppy seeds, the note added.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-seizes-over-100kg-poppy-straw-other-drugs-after-raids-in-nanded-101637660014117.html
23-11-2021||India||MVA leaders lose in Satara bank polls, supporters ransack NCP office||Angry supporters of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Shashikant Shinde hurled stones at party office in western Maharashtra’s Satara after Shinde lost the poll for the post of board of directors at Satara District Cooperative Bank, results for which were declared on Tuesday. Shinde lost by one vote to NCP rebel Dyandev Ranjane and as the news spread, a group of Shinde supporters reached the NCP office in Satara city and pelted stones, police said. Satara superintendent of police Ajay Kumar Shinde said about seven to eight Shinde supporters were detained. Shinde, a member of the Maharashtra legislative council, and loyal to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, later apologised for his supporters actions, saying he was a committed worker of the NCP and its chief Sharad Pawar. “I apologise for whatever has happened as workers reacted in an emotional outburst. I appeal [to] my supporters to exercise restraint. I lost the polls by a margin of one vote. There was a conspiracy behind my defeat and it will be exposed in the coming days. At the same time, I was a bit lax during the polls which cost me dearly. However, I must clarify that for me, NCP, Sharad Pawar, and Ajit Pawar are everything,” said Shinde. Also Read: Fake insurance agents held for impersonation,cheating elderly of ₹19.28 lakhThe polls was for 21 seats on the board of directors for the cooperative bank and 11 of these were elected unopposed, leaving 10 posts for which the polls were held. The polls for Cooperative banks are crucial as these institutions play an important role in funding cooperative sugar mills and other industries controlled by political leaders.Post victory, Ranjane expressed gratitude to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA, Shivendraraje Bhosale, for his support. Besides Shinde, Shiv Sena leader and minister of state for home, Shambhuraje Desai too suffered a loss. Desai was defeated by former minister Vikramsingh Patankar’s son Satyajit Patankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-leaders-lose-in-satara-bank-polls-supporters-ransack-ncp-office-101637660272885.html
23-11-2021||India||Assam forest officials claim Mizoram again constructing road on its land||Mizoram has constructed a stretch of a 3.5km road inside a reserve forest in Assam despite a central government advisory against constructions in disputed areas along the inter-state border, officials have said citing a drone survey conducted in Assam’s Hailakandi on Sunday.Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6km disputed border. The two states have held talks over the border since the Centre intervened after six people were killed in firing between their police forces in July.Hailakandi divisional forest officer Jayanta Deka said the stretch was being constructed inside Assam and that the construction work was going in violation of the advisory. He added over 100 people with arms were working for the construction almost one kilometre inside from the inter-state border. “Our team of five members visited the area but we could not protest because they were large in number.” Deka cited the difficult terrain and added it took the team over five hours to reach there.“It is a complete reserve forest area near the inter-state border. Our officials... reached the spot after travelling on boats for hours. They came back at night with pictures and videos which can prove that the construction is happening.” He added Assam has kept the forest untouched and Mizoram has destroyed it and cut trees on their side. “They have constructed a 3.5km-long road. We are going to send a report to the state government based on our drone and physical survey.”Also Read: Assam police stop road construction by Mizoram near inter-state borderHailakandi police superintendent Gaurav Upadhyay said he discussed the matter with his Mizoram counterpart and he agreed to discontinue the construction works. “We found on last Saturday some movement of machineries...at Haticherra reserve forest area. As the area is near Assam-Mizoram border, we took up the matter with Mizoram’s Kolashib administration. They immediately responded and assured to stop the construction activities.”Mizoram’s Kolashib district police superintendent Vanlalfaka Ralte echoed Upadhyay. “A road repair work was being carried out... near the border. After getting the information we immediately ordered them to stop the work and they have assured to follow the orders.”Union home ministry on November 5 issued an advisory to Mizoram and Assam to maintain the status quo in the disputed areas along the border and refrain from undertaking any construction activities. The home departments of the two states accordingly instructed the deputy commissioners of border districts to comply.Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana last week ordered the deputy commissioners of Kolasib and Mamit, which share borders with Assam, not to halt construction activities after a meeting of the State Boundary Committee. He alleged Assam is not following the status quo. Assam denied the allegation and asked Mizoram to refrain from spreading wrong information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-again-constructing-road-on-assam-s-land-claim-assam-forest-officials-101637657692704.html
23-11-2021||India||Fake insurance agents held for impersonation,cheating elderly of ₹19.28 lakh||The North Mumbai Cyber Cell on Monday arrested six persons from Uttar Pradesh for allegedly cheating a Mumbai based senior citizen by luring him into buying fake insurance policies, sold with the promise of big benefits and interest free loan in return. Two of the accused are employees of a mobile SIM card retailer who misused identity documents of insurance sales executive for fraudulently activating SIM cards in their names. Their accomplices then made sales calls to the senior citizen posing as insurance agents and cheated him of ₹19.28 lakh, police officers said. The senior citizen complained to the police that he received calls from “executives” of two different insurance companies in March 2021 and they lured him into buying policies in his grandson’s name, promising big benefits such as lifetime pension and interest free loan. The senior citizen was sold fake policies worth ₹19.28 lakh and received confirmation sent from fake insurance company e-mail address and fake policy documents. The elderly was promised returns of around ₹71 lakh and interest-free loan up to ₹12 lakh, his complaint revealed. After receiving the email, the victim approached the company’s Mumbai branch only to be told that no such policy had been issued in his grandson’s name, the police said. The Kandivali resident then approached the Cyber crime unit at Samta Nagar in Kandivali east, following which, a case of cheating was registered and a probe started. Also Read: CBI court imposes ₹10.2 crore fine on man in customs fraud caseThe probe revealed that the SIM cards used by the accused were activated from a shop in Uttar Pradesh. A police team then arrested two employees of the shop and apprehended their accomplices identified as Bani Singh, Vijay Mehta, Deepak Dubey, and Sneha Singh. Police officers said the accused misused identification documents of an employee of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority ((IRDA) and an insurance company executive to obtain SIM cards in their name, which were used to call the Kandivali resident among others. “We are now trying to find out how many more such SIM cards were activated by the employees of the shop at Gaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and how many more people have been cheated using this modus by the accused,” said sub-inspector S Thakur from Cyber crime police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-insurance-agents-held-for-impersonation-cheating-elderly-of-rs-19-28-lakh-101637657452764.html
23-11-2021||India||After Centre decides to scrap farm laws, Sachin Pilot warns BJP of consequences||Congress leader and former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot said on Tuesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) defeat in the recent bye-elections and a “looming bad performance” in the upcoming assembly elections, led to the Modi government announcing the scrapping of the three farm laws.Speaking to news agency PTI, Pilot said there will be consequences for the BJP in the elections as farmers' distrust of the Centre will not go away with one rollback.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that the farm laws will be scrapped, farmer unions have stated that the agitation will continue until their pending demands of a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce, rollback of power bill 2020 and air quality ordinance are met.Also Read| Why govt failed to convince farmers about the new lawsSachin Pilot said on Tuesday that the Centre should not only ensure a legal guarantee for the MSP but also provide a regulation ensuring that procurement takes place. The Congress leader pointed out that such a long agitation by the farming community had not been seen in the history of India."If they had to rollback (the laws) then what was the need to waste lives and livelihoods, so much damage was caused, farmers were called Naxalites, separatists, even terrorists and some of the ministers' kin even mowing down people," Pilot further told PTI.He alleged that no discussion was held with the farmer groups before the farm laws were announced. "There has been a "kind of breakdown of trust" between the government and the farmers which is "damaging" for future dispensations also," Pilot added.PM Modi had said that the constitutional process to repeal the farm laws will be completed during the upcoming winter session of Parliament.On Wednesday, the Union cabinet is likely to discuss whether to approve the removal of the laws.Meanwhile, the Congress and other opposition parties will demand a full-fledged discussion on the consequences of the farm laws during the all-party meeting this Sunday, which will be attended by Prime Minister Modi.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-centre-decides-to-scrap-farm-laws-sachin-pilot-warns-bjp-of-consequences-101637653083904.html
23-11-2021||India||How Galwan braves fought in remote Ladakh valley, became heroes||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday conferred wartime honours on the Galwan braves, who fought off numerically superior Chinese troops on June 15, 2020. While Colonel B Santosh Babu was posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for extraordinary courage and leadership, five other soldiers were honoured with Vir Chakra (VrC).Four of them were awarded the VrC posthumously. The MVC is India’s second-highest wartime gallantry award followed by the VrC.The posthumous VrC awardees are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar), Havildar K Palani (81 Field) Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab). Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium) is the only living recipient of the wartime honour.The brutal clash pushed the India-China bilateral relationship to a breaking point. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Excerpts from the citations for the wartime awards:Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, MVC (Posthumous): Deployed in Galwan Valley during Operation Snow Leopard, Babu was tasked to establish an observation post amidst the border standoff. Organising and briefing his troops about the situation with a sound plan, he successfully executed the task.While holding the position, his column faced stiff resistance from the adversary who attacked him and his soldiers with lethal and sharp weapons along with heavy stone pelting from adjoining heights. Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action by the overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in the true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy’s attempt to push back Indian troops.Also Read: Galwan clash hero Colonel Santosh Babu awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumouslyDespite being grievously injured, Colonel Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack on his position. In the skirmish that broke out and ensuing hand-to-hand combat with the enemy soldiers, he valiantly resisted the attack till his last breath, inspiring and motivating his troops to hold ground. For conspicuous bravery in face of the enemy, exemplary leadership, astute professionalism and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty, Colonel Babu is awarded the MVC.Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, VrC (Posthumous): He valiantly led his column and resisted the enemy’s attempt to push back the Indian soldiers establishing an observation post. He organised his column, countered the adversary forcefully and stopped them in their attempt to push back Indian troops.During the skirmish, he was viewed as a daunting leader and was targeted by enemy soldiers with lethal and sharp weapons. Grievously injured and asked to move back; as a true leader, he refused, in spite of being heavily outnumbered by the enemy soldiers. He stood at the forefront under hostile conditions and displayed raw courage, fighting with resolute spirit in hand-to-hand combat, before succumbing to his injuries.Also Read: China ties passing through bad patch, says JaishankarThe gallant action by the junior commissioned officer resulted in a positive response which overwhelmed the enemy by surprise. His actions powered Indian retaliation and also galvanised his own troops to continue to hold ground.Havildar K Palani, VrC (Posthumous): He fought valiantly and saved his subordinates from the aggressive action of the enemy soldiers. Suddenly, the adversaries outnumbered and encircled him. With utter disregard for his personal safety, he stood bravely and tried to defend his comrades even when the enemy attacked him with sharp weapons injuring him seriously.His act of valour inspired his fellow soldiers to fight fiercely and resist enemy aggression. In spite of his grievous injuries, he continued to hold his ground resolutely and in the finest traditions of the Indian Army, laid down his life for the motherland.Havildar Tejinder Singh, VrC: He was leading his column against the enemy resistance. Subsequently, the standoff turned violent and resulted in a hand-to-hand fight. Concomitantly, a large enemy reinforcement joined in, thereby massively tipping the numbers in their favour. Undeterred by the numerical superiority of the enemy, the non-commissioned officer took on the enemy in a hand-to-hand fight and resisted them gallantly. He also organised a group of soldiers and displayed exemplary leadership to effectively thwart the action of several enemy soldiers.This gallant act was pivotal in inspiring his own troops to effectively engage the enemy troops during the violent standoff. He kept on leading his column valiantly and fought fearlessly.Naik Deepak Singh, VrC (Posthumous): He provided treatment to casualties of the skirmish at Galwan Valley. Having assessed the battle condition, he moved up to provide immediate medical support. As the skirmish broke out and casualties increased, he moved to the frontline rendering first aid to injured soldiers.Also Read: Army to get firepower boost in mountains with more M777 guns coming by JuneIn the ensuing skirmish coupled with heavy stone-pelting, he received serious injuries, but undeterred and tirelessly, he continued to provide medical aid. The enemy outnumbered Indian troops and he was injured while carrying out his duties. In spite of grievous wounds, he continued rendering medical assistance to injured soldiers and saved many lives. He finally succumbed to his injuries. He was pivotal in rendering treatment and saving the lives of more than 30 Indian soldiers.Sepoy Gurtej Singh, VrC (Posthumous): He was performing the duties of the scout of his operational patrol and was tasked to establish an observation post. He successfully spotted the enemy troops building up against the Indian troops while establishing the observation post.The faceoff between the two sides turned into a violent skirmish in which the enemy troops attempted to push back the Indian troops. In the ensuing clash, the enemy soldiers used lethal weapons and heavily outnumbered own troops. He displayed undaunted bravery, raw courage and exceptional combat skills in resisting the enemy troops in fierce hand-to-hand combat. He was seriously injured, but with utter disregard for his personal safety, he continued to fight the enemy valiantly and also extricated injured troops, thereby saving several fellow soldiers of his patrol party before making the supreme sacrifice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-galwan-braves-fought-in-remote-ladakh-valley-became-heroes-101637655172660.html
23-11-2021||India||Shots fired at Assam forest officials on Assam-Arunachal border; no one injured||Smugglers involved in illegal felling of trees in a reserve forest on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh intestate border allegedly fired at a team of Assam forest officials on Tuesday morning, officials said, adding that no one was hurt in the incident. A joint investigation by the two states has begun to nab the miscreants.The firing took place when the forest team went to stop the illegal activity at Ronga reserve forest in Lakhimpur district of Assam. “We got information about the incident around 8:30 am. Smugglers allegedly fired at the Assam forest team. In return, the forest officials also fired shots at the smugglers, following which, they fled,” said BM Rajkhowa, superintendent of police, Lakhimpur. He said there was no certainty yet on whether the miscreants were from Assam or from the neighbouring state. Rajkhowa also ruled out the possibility of the incident being related to any border dispute between the two states. Also Read: Encouraged by farm laws repeal, Assam groups plan to resume anti-CAA stir“The situation is normal at the site at present and teams of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh forest and police departments are conducting investigations in the area to nab the miscreants. Local villagers have also joined in,” he said. On Saturday, a team of Assam forest officials were detained by illegal settlers in Ronga reserve forest on the border between the two states. The settlers were allegedly building a road inside the forest. The forest officials were later rescued by a team from Assam police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-fired-at-assam-forest-officials-on-assam-arunachal-border-no-one-injured-101637654452619.html
23-11-2021||India||'Congress trying to suppress Navjot Sidhu's voice': Kejriwal in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal said he is proud of the courage shown by Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has exposed the false promises made by the Charanjit Singh Channi government."Yesterday, chief minister Channi claimed his government has ended the sand mafia and reduced the price of the sand. Immediately, Mr Sidhu said this information is wrong. He highlighted that the sand mafia is still operating. I salute his courage," Kejriwal said at a press conference in Punjab on Tuesday.Sidhu himself has said that Mr Channi is lying, said the AAP chief. "He (Sidhu) is raising people-centric issues but the entire Congress party is trying to suppress his voice. First, it was Captain (Amarinder Singh), now it's Channi," he added.He then took potshots at the Punjab chief minister, saying he hasn't fulfilled his promises - like giving free electricity to the people of the state, constructing mohalla clinics etc.Sidhu has faced attacks by former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who in April this year called the cricketer-turned-politician an "opportunist" and claimed he may join the AAP ahead of the assembly elections. Singh had referred to multiple meetings Sidhu had with Kejriwal.But after he became the state Congress chief, AAP attacked Sidhu, with the party's Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha asking him to stop acting like a leader of an opposition party.The assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled to be held next year and in the run-up to the polls, the state, especially the ruling Congress, has witnessed a lot of political churning. Amarinder Singh resigned as Punjab chief minister after a long and bitter feud with Navjot Sidhu. While Sidhu accused Amarinder Singh of being a BJP loyalist, the latter called him a "dangerous man" claiming Sidhu has close relations with Pakistan.Amarinder Singh was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi, who promised to end the infighting within the Congress, but Sidhu targeted his government over some of the appointments. He had even resigned as Punjab Congress chief, which led intervention from the high command after which the appointees were dropped.Sidhu had quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2016. He was then a Rajya Sabha MP. He later joined the Congress and won elections in 2017 from Amritsar East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trying-to-suppress-navjot-sidhu-s-voice-kejriwal-in-punjab-101637652892589.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAX and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAXAdar Poonawalla's Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, will, according to reports, soon resume its supply of Covishield, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), under the COVAX programme. Read moreGalwan clash hero Colonel Santosh Babu awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumouslyColonel B Santosh Babu, 37, who was killed during the clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in 2020, was on Tuesday posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra (MVC) for extraordinary courage and leadership, by President Ram Nath Kovind. Read moreFormer Haryana Congress MP Ashok Tanwar expected to join TMCFormer Congress Member of Parliament Ashok Tanwar is expected to join Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in New Delhi on Tuesday, people aware of the matter said. Read moreVir Das loses International Emmy to Call My Agent, shares pic of medal and ‘fantastic salad’. See photos from ceremonyActor-comedian Vir Das who got nominated for the International Emmys Awards 2021 for his Netflix comedy special, Vir Das: For India, shared his nomination medal and a picture of a salad from the awards venue in New York City. Read more'The quality hasn’t gone anywhere, only our thinking had changed': Chopra attempts to settle the Ashwin vs Chahal debateR Ashwin or Yuzvendra? This debate is never-ending, specifically over the course of the last year. Every time there is a bilateral series or an ICC event, everyone starts asking one question. Read moreVirat Kohli shares pics of ‘cool’ cat he met at practice. Anushka Sharma reacts to viral postA post shared by Virat Kohli about hanging out with a cat has left people smiling. In the share, the cricketer posted about a ‘cool’ cat he met while at practice. Read moreNick Jonas flaunts his 'arms of Poseidon' in intense workout video, don't miss Priyanka Chopra's reactionAmerican singer and Priyanka Chopra's husband, Nick Jonas, showed off his ripped physique and dedicated workout routine in the latest gym video. Watch hereMaruti Suzuki Celerio and how it achieves India's best petrol mileageThe updated 2021 Maruti Suzuki Celerio was launched in the Indian car market amid much fanfare earlier this month and while the Celerio now gets a host of changes - from its exterior styling to cabin layout, it is its ARAI-certified mileage of 26.68 kmpl that made the biggest headlines. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-serum-institute-to-resume-supply-of-covishield-to-covax-and-all-the-latest-news-101637650573007.html
23-11-2021||India||Manish Tewari book: BJP hits out at Congress over UPA govt's response to 26/11||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday slammed the Congress over the party-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government's response to the November 26, 2008, terror attacks in Mumbai. The controversy erupted over an excerpt from Tewari's latest book, titled '10 Flashpoints; 20 Years,’ published by Rupa Publications. Happy to announce that my Fourth Book will be in the market shortly - '10 Flash Points; 20 Years - National Security Situations that Impacted India'. The book objectively delves into every salient National Security Challenge India has faced in the past two decades.@Rupa_Books pic.twitter.com/3N0ef7cUad“For a state (Pakistan) that has no compunctions in brutally slaughtering hundreds of innocent people, restraint is not a sign of strength; it is perceived as a symbol of weakness. There comes a time when actions must speak louder than words. 26/11 was one such time when it just should have been done. It, therefore, is my considered opinion that India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India's 9/11,” Tewari wrote in the book, which is scheduled to release on December 1.Reacting to the Anandpur Sahib MP's opinion, BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted: “After Salman Khurshid, another Congress leader throws the UPA under the bus to sell his book. Manish Tewari in his new book slams the UPA for weakness in the name of restraint post 26/11. Air Chief Marshal Fali Major is already on record saying the IAF was ready to strike but the UPA froze.” After Salman Khurshid, another Congress leader throws UPA under the bus to sell his book.Manish Tewari in his new book slams the UPA for weakness in the name of restrain post 26/11.Air Chief Marshal Fali Major is already on record saying IAF was ready to strike but UPA froze. pic.twitter.com/LOlYl77fgD“CONgress leader Manish Tewari exposes the failure of the UPA govt in its poor response after the 26/11 Mumbai Terror attack. While the IAF was ready to take revenge against Pakistan, Sonia Gandhi-led CONgress blocked it. CONgress was busy painting Hindus as Terrorists to save Pakistan,” CT Ravi, the JP Nadda-led party's national general secretary posted. CONgress leader Manish Tewari exposes the failure of UPA Govt in its poor response after 26/11 Mumbai Terror attack.While the IAF was ready to take revenge against Pakistan, Sonia Gandhi led CONgress blocked it.CONgress was busy painting Hindus as Terrorists to save Pakistan. pic.twitter.com/mPQrMfQ12XMeanwhile, newly-appointed BJP national spokesperson Shehzad Poonawalla, who was previously associated with the Congress, tweeted, “Rahul Gandhi and the Congress consistently echo the Pakistani line on every issue--Hindutva, 370 and Surgical strikes. Today, as we approach the 13th Anniversary of 26/11, the Congress must tell us what or who prevented a robust response post 26/11 like we saw post Uri and Pulwama.”
23-11-2021||India||‘Can’t deny’: Kirti Azad on quitting Congress, joining TMC||Congress leader Kirti Azad said on Tuesday he “can’t deny” reports that he was soon joining the Trinamool Congress.“Sources have come out and said this, so I cannot deny them,” Azad told HT when asked to confirm or deny speculations of him quitting the Congress to join the political outfit led by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Azad refused to answer any further questions.A person aware of the developments, however, said that Azad was likely to join the TMC on Tuesday in the presence of Mamata Banerjee, who is on a four-day visit to Delhi. Apart from Azad, Ashok Tanwar, who quit the Congress in October 2019 and launched his own party, and former Janata Dal (United) general secretary Pavan Varma were also likely to join the TMC, a news agency said.Son of former Bihar chief minister Bhagwat Jha Azad, Kirti Azad began his political career with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and was elected thrice to Lok Sabha from his birthplace of Darbhanga in Bihar. However, Azad’s stint in the BJP ended in 2015 with suspension for “anti-party” activities following his attack on the then finance minister Arun Jaitley over alleged irregularities and corruption in the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA), which was then headed by the minister.Also Read: Former Haryana Congress MP Ashok Tanwar expected to join TMCAfter a four-year hiatus, Azad joined the Congress in February 2019 in the presence of then party president Rahul Gandhi and lost the Darbhanga Lok Sabha seat to the BJP candidate Gopal Jee Thakur in the general elections held a few months later.Prior to joining politics, Kirti Azad was a cricketer who was a member of India’s 1983 World Cup winning squad, led by Kapil Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-kirti-azad-on-quitting-congress-joining-tmc-101637651512959.html
23-11-2021||India||Former Haryana Congress MP Ashok Tanwar expected to join TMC||Former Congress Member of Parliament Ashok Tanwar is expected to join Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in New Delhi on Tuesday, people aware of the matter said.This comes amid growing differences between the two parties that escalated following the TMC’s announcement that it will contest the Goa polls due next year and defection of Congress leaders to West Bengal’s ruling party. TMC leaders’ comments against Congress have also increased tensions. Banerjee is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other key leaders during her ongoing visit to New Delhi. Her close aides have confirmed she has no plans to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Also Read: Will resume mining in Goa, if AAP voted to power in elections: KejriwalTanwar left the Congress in 2019 and has floated Apna Bharat Morcha. He was once a close aide to Rahul Gandhi. But he fell out with the party over his rivalry with Haryana leaders including former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Tanwar, a former Youth Congress president who has represented Haryana’s Sirsa in Parliament, remains a prominent face in Haryana. His expected entry into the TMC is part of the party’s plans to expand its base beyond Bengal following its return to power with a landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly polls this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-haryana-congress-mp-ashok-tanwar-expected-to-join-tmc-101637649352265.html
23-11-2021||India||Srinagar records coldest night of this winter season||Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar witnessed the coldest night of this winter season as Kashmir continued to reel under sub zero temperatures. The meteorological department said Srinagar recorded -2.3 degrees Celsius on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. This is the lowest temperature this season so far in Srinagar, a weather official said. All the weather stations in Kashmir recorded sub-zero night temperatures with mercury dipping the lowest in the southern resort of Pahalgam to reach -4.4 degrees Celsius. Most part of the city was covered by fog, reducing visibility. At Khanbal, the mercury dipped to -4 degrees Celsius. The northern district of Kupwara recorded -3 degrees C while the gateway to Kashmir valley, Qazigund in the south, recorded minus 2.2 degrees Celsius temperature. The ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded - 0.6 degrees C. The day temperature on Monday at most of the places hovered between 13 and 15.6 degrees Celsius except Gulmarg, which recorded 9.8 degrees C day temperature.Also Read | Jammu and Kashmir: Families of civilians killed in Hyderpora now root for justiceThe valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings for the past 10 days. Officials said the foggy conditions were caused by sub-zero temperatures and air pollution owing to increased traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. On Monday , the MeT department predicted mostly dry weather till the end of the month except for some light snowfall in north Kashmir on Thursday“Weather most likely to remain cold and dry till the end of November in whole of J&K. However, there’s 40-50% chance of very light snowfall over extreme North Kashmir on the 25th. Overall, there is no forecast of any major weather for next two weeks, “ said Jammu and Kashmir’s MeT director, Sonam Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-recorded-lowest-night-temperature-so-far-this-winter-season-101637648692212.html
23-11-2021||India||Serum Institute to resume supply of Covishield to COVAX: Reports||Adar Poonawalla's Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, will, according to reports, soon resume its supply of Covishield, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), under the COVAX programme. Also Read | Negotiations over release of vaccine for Covax in final stageAccording to a recent report, the Union government has allowed the SII to export 5 million doses of Covishield under COVAX, which is backed by the United Nations, to Nepal, Bangladesh, Tajikistan and Mozambique. Nepal was scheduled to receive the first batch, on November 24. The delivery has, however, been delayed.“The first consignment from the main Pune facility was scheduled to leave for Nepal today. However, the delivery has been delayed by two-three days due to some reason. The exact date of the consignment dispatch is still awaited,” news agency ANI quoted a Serum Institute official as saying, on Monday.In April this year, the Centre halted the export of Covid-19 vaccines as a severe second wave hit the country. However, with the second wave now under control, the supply to COVAX was expected to restart soon.Also Read | COVAX supply likely to resume this monthCovishield is the Indian variant of Britain's Oxford University-AstraZeneca jab, and is manufactured by the SII under that name in India. It is one of the two most widely-used jabs in the country, with the other being Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited. Covishield and Covaxin were the first two shots to receive emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India for the vaccination drive, which began on January 16.Also Read | Vaccine hesitancy now greatest threat in overcoming pandemic: SII's PoonawallaCOVAX, meanwhile, stands for ‘Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access.’ It is co-led by Gavi, World Health Organization (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). The initiative enables access to coronavirus vaccines, tests and therapies for low-to-middle income countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-resume-supply-of-covishield-to-covax-reports-101637644820224.html
23-11-2021||India||Galwan hero Colonel Santosh Babu to be awarded Maha Vir Chakra posthumously||Colonel Santosh Babu, who laid down his life on the observation point he was posted at while resisting a vicious attack by the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) at Ladakh's Galwan Valley last year, will be accorded the Maha Vir Chakra posthumously today. In an official citation, as reported by news agency ANI, the central government described how Colonel Babu led the defence from the front despite being grievously injured, in recognition of which he is being posthumously accorded the military decoration, which is the second-highest of its type in India after the Param Vir Chakra.The Maha Vir Chakra is awarded for acts of courage shown in the presence of the enemy, whether on land, at sea, or in the air. In its official citation, the government stated that Colonel Santosh Babu had resisted the Chinese army attack while he was establishing an observation post in the Galwan valley during ‘Operation Snow Leopard’.“Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, commanding officer of the 16 Bihar regiment deployed in Galwan Valley (Eastern Ladakh) during Operation Snow Leopard, was tasked to establish an observation post in face of the enemy,” the citation went. “While holding the position his column faced stiff resistance from the adversary who attacked using lethal and sharp weapons along with heavy stone pelting from adjoining heights. Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy's attempt to pushback Indian troops.”Mahavir Chakra citation of Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life while resisting a vicious attack on his observation post by Chinese Army soldiers in the Galwan valley of Ladakh. pic.twitter.com/xY7SzhTaiZThe government document also went on to then describe how the Indian Army personnel did not back down despite being hit hard by the Chinese assault.“Despite being grievously injured, Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position,” it read. “In the skirmish that broke out and ensuing hand to hand combat with enemy soldiers, he valiantly resisted the enemy attack till his last breath, inspiring and motivating his troops to hold ground.”“Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu displayed exemplary leadership and astute professionalism. He showed conspicuous bravery in the face of enemy and made supreme sacrifice for the nation,” the document added.The government is also according posthumous honours to other personnel of the Indian Army who sacrificed their lives to resist the Chinese attack at Galwan Valley. Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, Havildar K Palani, Naik Deepak Singh, Sepoy Gurtej Singh – all of who have been recognised for their gallant actions during Operation Snow Leopard – will be accorded their Vir Chakras posthumously.Subedar Sanjiv Kumar, of the 4 Para Special Forces, will also be accorded the Kirti Chakra posthumously today for an operation in the Keran sector of Jammu & Kashmir in which he killed one terrorist and injured two others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-hero-colonel-santosh-babu-to-be-awarded-maha-vir-chakra-posthumously-101637644485092.html
23-11-2021||India||5 of family killed as car falls into gorge in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad||Five car passengers including a toddler and two women who all appeared to be related were killed as their vehicle fell into a deep gorge after skidding off national highway 2 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district on Tuesday, police said.The accident occurred around 6:30 am near Hind hotel under Govindpur police station area on NH-2 when the car skidded off the bridge near Kaldih More and plunged into the gorge, about 100 feet deep. All five occupants of the car died on the spot and their bodies were recovered later by the local administration, police added. Police said the deceased were residents of Ghato in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district and were headed to Asansol. Two male members who died in the accident have been identified as Wasim Akram and Shakil Akhtar. Also Read | Jharkhand Assembly Foundation Day: People are watching, Guv reminds MLAs of conduct, responsibility“In total five persons were in the car. Their family has been contacted at Ghato in Ramgarh. They are on the way to Dhanbad. Only after they reach here, the exact identities of the deceased and their relationships will be established. Besides the two men, two women and one child have been killed in the accident,” Umesh Prasad Singh, Govindpur police station in-charge, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-of-family-killed-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-jharkhand-s-dhanbad-101637644552310.html
23-11-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally further down at 7,579; active cases drop by nearly 5k||India continued to see a fall in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. On Tuesday, it recorded 7,579 infections, which took the caseload to 34,526,480, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. Tuesday's infection count has been the lowest in 543 days; this is the second consecutive day that new cases remained below the 10,000-mark.More than 12,000 patients recovered and 236 succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the overall recoveries and death toll to 33,946,749 and 466,147 respectively.Also Read| ‘No scientific evidence…’: ICMR chief on need for booster shots of Covid-19 jabsThe active cases on Tuesday saw a major decline of 4,859 and currently stand at 113,584, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, adding that the active cases have been the lowest in 536 days. They constitute less than 1% of the caseload (at 0.34% currently). On Monday, the active cases stood at 118,443.The overall recovery rate from Covid-19, meanwhile, has further surged to 98.32% and has been the highest since March last year.On Monday, India registered 8,488 new cases, nearly 250 deaths and 12,510 recoveries.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 964,980 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested so far has climbed to 633,489,239, the ICMR added.India's vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.17 billion with nearly 7.2 million doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that more than 1.31 billion doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far.Also Read| India's daily Covid tally below 10,000 for 2nd time in less than a weekOn Monday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya chaired a review meeting with states Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and the Union Territory of Puducherry- which have reported a low rate of vaccination.Mandaviya urged these three states and one UT to launch an aggressive campaign to increase the pace of inoculation.“We are in the last lap of Covid-19 vaccination. Let us launch aggressive campaign to ensure full vaccination by increasing the pace of vaccination and expanding the coverage,” Mandaviya said on Monday. The Union health minister also said that all stakeholders in these three states and one UT, including NGOs, religious leaders, community influencers should be roped in to motivate the eligible population towards full vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-further-down-at-7-579-active-cases-drop-by-nearly-5k-101637639196343.html
23-11-2021||India||Air India board members asked to resign ahead of takeover by Tata Sons: Sources||Air India’s board members were asked to resign last week and they are expected to do so at their last meeting next month before Tata Sons are likely to take over the airline in January, people aware of the matter said.“Seven board members have been asked to resign. These include four functional directors, two government nominee directors, chairman, and managing director (CMD). The board of directors have to resign... (before the transfer of control) takes place after the (last) board meeting of Air India,” said an airline official, requesting anonymity. He added the board members were asked to resign at a meeting on November 15.A second airline official said the last board meeting is expected to be held in the second or the third week of December after which all the seven directors will resign. “This will include the ruling party (Bharatiya Janata Party)’s Syed Zafar Islam, the non-official director of the airline,” said the second official, who did not wish to be named.The government picked up Tata Sons as the winning bidder for the debt-laden state-run Air India in October around 70 years after its nationalisation. Air India was founded in 1932 as Tata Airlines.Also Read: Full circle, after 7 decades: Tatas win back Air IndiaC S Subbaih, a former chief executive officer of Alliance Air, said the resignations are a formality and a requirement and send a positive signal to the new owner that the process is on time and they will take control as per their plans. “New board has to take over as Tata Sons are the new owner of the airline. The current board is such that there is a CMD and government directors and functional directors who all will have to quit.”Subbiah said the new board might have an independent director and will have professionals with experience at the international level. “The new owner might not have functional directors unlike the current board and might have more owners’ representatives, independent directors, and an independent chairman and managing director. Tatas will bring in professionals to avoid mistakes of the past...it might even appoint an independent finance expert...”Air India spokesperson did not respond to HT’s query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-board-members-asked-to-resign-ahead-of-takeover-by-tata-sons-sources-101637643412371.html
23-11-2021||India||Yamuna Expressway may be renamed after Vajpayee: BJP's plan ahead of UP polls||The Yogi Adityanath government may change the name of Yamuna Expressway, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. The road connecting Noida near Delhi to Agra is expected to be named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, according to Livehindustan.The renaming can be announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he lays the foundation stone for Jewar airport on November 25, reported Livehindustan.The renaming exercise is being seen as a political move ahead of the elections due in Uttar Pradesh early next year. According to Livehindustan, naming the Yamuna Expressway after Vajpayee is an attempt by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - which is aiming to return to power - to woo the Brahmin voters.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inspect the site where PM Modi will visit and review the security arrangements.The Prime Minister will address a rally after the foundation laying ceremony. Preparations are on in full swing for his visit.Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), the agency engaged in the preparations, has levelled 135,000 square metres of agricultural land, set up three makeshift tents for the audience, carved out seven parking lots to accommodate vehicles, and will soon complete the work on four helipads.According to political analysts, the laying of the Jewar airport’s foundation stone will be the biggest event in western Uttar Pradesh, attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior party leaders, before the state goes to polls in 2022.The airport is a key infrastructure project of the Yogi Adityanath government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yamuna-expressway-may-be-renamed-after-vajpayee-bjp-s-plan-ahead-of-up-polls-101637641219512.html
23-11-2021||India||SpiceJet flights at Tirupati may get affected by bad weather, airline issues alert||SpiceJet airline said on Tuesday that due to bad weather at Andhra Pradesh's Tirupati, all departures, arrivals, and consequential flights may get affected. Requesting passengers to keep a check on their flight status via the booking website, the airline provided the link in a tweet from its official handle on the microblogging website.“#WeatherUpdate: Due to bad weather in Tirupati (TIR), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected. Passengers are requested to keep a check on their flight status,” the tweet read.#WeatherUpdate: Due to bad weather in Tirupati (TIR), all departures/arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected. Passengers are requested to keep a check on their flight status via https://t.co/VkU7yLB2ny.An alert has been issued in as many as 18 villages of Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor district, where Tirupati is located. The city is home to the famous Tirumala Venkateswara Temple and other historic shrines, but the villages in the outskirts of the city were threatened after the Rayala pond's water reached a warning level and started leaking following incessant rains in several districts.The villagers have been asked to evacuate their residences and live in a relief camp set up by the state government at Tirupati. In the meanwhile, teams from the national disaster response force (NDRF) and the state disaster response force (SDRF) have also been called in for rescue operations, if needed any.Also Read | Bengaluru, Chennai flooded as rain batters southern states; 34 dead in Andhra Pradesh | 10 pointsOver 20,000 people have been evacuated and shifted to relief camps after the heavy rains wreaked havoc in the southern Andhra Pradesh districts of Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore, and Anantapur. More than a hundred villages, most of them in Kadapa, are presently inundated. The death toll has risen to 34 and over 30 are still missing, according to government officials.The state's chief minister, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, conducted an aerial survey of affected areas and reviewed the flood situation with the district collectors on Saturday. Earlier last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the chief minister over the phone and assured him of all help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flights-at-tirupati-may-get-affected-by-bad-weather-airline-issues-alert-101637639971543.html
23-11-2021||India||5 injured while escaping half tranquillised elephant during radio collaring||Odisha forest department’s maiden attempt at radio collaring a wild tusker that had caused much destruction in villages of Khurda district was halted on Monday morning after five forest officials, including two from Karnataka, were injured when the tusker suddenly woke up from tranquillised state and charged towards them.Senior forest officials said the full-grown elephant which is at least 9 feet tall and “problematic”, suddenly charged at the team of forest officials who thought it had been sedated with a tranquilliser shot fired from a dart gun a few minutes ago.“The tusker was spotted at Gayabandha village under Jankia police station limits in Khurda district on Sunday and the team of forest officials decided to tranquillise it to be able to fit a radio collar around its neck for better monitoring of its movement. Several minutes after the tranquilliser dart was fired, the tusker did not seem to be completely sedated and suddenly charged at the officials including an Indian Forest Service officer and two from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. As everyone started running helter-skelter they received injuries as they fell in nearby ditches or tripped on hard objects,” said Bhubaneswar regional chief conservator of forest, Manoj Mohapatra.He, however, added that none of the forest officials were physically attacked by the elephant that later went into the nearby forest. Officials said the team was attempting to tranquillise the elephant for the last 3 days.Also Read: 6 inmates escape Odisha juvenile home after attacking guardThe injured included Khurda divisional forest officer (DFO) Poornima Pandian, two experts from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, assistant conservator of forests, Khurda and forester of Bhushandpur section in Khurda Forest Division. Everyone except the forester was discharged from hospital after initial treatment.The radio collaring being done by the state forest department in association with the Asian Nature Conservation Foundation and IISc, Bangalore entails fitting a lightweight belt around the neck of problematic elephants so that they can be tracked easily. The collar is fitted with a GPS device and it relays realtime data helping the forest department do real time monitoring of the animal.Soon after the mishap, the forest department put out a press release saying the operation will remain suspended for the time being and will be assessed at a later stage. Had Monday’s tranquillization been successful, the department would have sedated 7 more difficult elephants in Chandaka sanctuary near Bhubaneswar, four in Similipal National Park, and one in Dhenkanal district.In September, the department had decided to tranquillise Ramu, a 30-year-old male elephant in Bharatpur reserve forest of Chandaka Wildlife Sanctuary, but rains prevented the attempt.This tusker was chosen for radio collaring as it caused crop damage on a daily basis and its interaction with the human habitations had led to death and injuries too.Over last decade, the human-elephant conflict has been rising steadily in Odisha with elephants ravaging ripened paddy crop in search of food. At least 204 elephants have died since April 2019 while 294 human deaths have been reported during the period.This month, there have been several cases of wild elephants damaging standing paddy crops in Sonepur, Mayurbhanj and Sundargarh districts, forcing farmers to spend sleepless nights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-injured-while-escaping-half-tranquillised-elephant-during-radio-collaring-101637641071902.html
23-11-2021||India||Cold wave conditions likely in parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan||Cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana, and northern Rajasthan over the next two days and are expected to abate thereafter, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.A cyclonic circulation was separately lying over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the southwest Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It was likely to move west-northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka and south Tamil Nadu. A trough (line of low pressure) was running from the cyclonic circulation to the southeast Bay of Bengal, and neighbourhood to the Tamil Nadu coast. Light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall in Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal was expected during the next five days. Isolated heavy rainfall was likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal during the next five days and in Kerala and Mahe on November 25 and 26. Isolated very heavy rainfall was also very likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal on November 25 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-likely-in-parts-of-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-101637639631731.html
23-11-2021||India||Param Bir Singh case: A look back at other top cops on the run||The Supreme Court on Monday protected former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh from arrest in alleged extortion cases after the officer said he was “very much in the country” and was willing to submit to probe. Singh was declared a proclaimed offender last week after he remained elusive since March this year. Here are some other accused police officers who remained elusive like Singh:• Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Mukesh Gupta, who is accused of financial irregularities, was on the run from Chhattisgarh before he obtained a regular bail from the Supreme Court after a case was registered against him in May last year.• GP Singh, a 1994-batch IPS officer, remained on the run for weeks before the Supreme Court granted him conditional bail in September. A case was registered against G P Singh in Chhattisgarh under the Prevention of Corruption Act on June 29 after preliminary probe over alleged disproportionate assets.The bail was vacated last month. G P Singh has since been issued several summonses but he continues to ignore them.• Mani Lal Patidar, an IPS officer, has been missing from Uttar Pradesh since November 2020 two months he was suspended after businessman Indramani Tripathi released a video accusing the police officer of demanding bribes. Tripathi was later found dead in his car with gunshot wounds. In a habeas corpus petition filed by advocate Mukut Nath Verma, he feared Patidar had gone missing as he might be in unlawful custody.Also Read |Tripura violence: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool Congress’ plea today• Arvind Sen, a 2013 batch IPS officer, surrendered to a Lucknow court after evading police for a month in January when a reward of ₹50,000 was announced for any information leading to the arrest of suspended deputy inspector general. Sen was evading the police since his name figured in a tender scam. Sen was declared a “proclaimed offender” in December 2020.• Former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini was arrested in August after evading arrest in a case pertaining to a fraudulent sale of a land. He was later granted bail.• Madhukar Tandon, an IPS officer from the Rajasthan cadre, has remained elusive since he was accused of raping a tribal woman in 1997. Police have claimed he has been untraceable but Tandon has managed to sell property worth crores in Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-officers-who-evaded-arrest-101637638731531.html
23-11-2021||India||Bihar set to get its 4th expressway, will connect Gorakhpur to Siliguri||Bihar is all set to get a second expressway - which will start from Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Praesh to Siliguri in West Bengal. According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, most of this proposed expressway will pass through districts in north Bihar.The report further said that the new road will prove to be a lifeline for those living in north Bihar. It will not only make commuting between Bihar and Bengal easier, but also lead to new trading route, Livehindustan reported.The central government has given in-principle approval for the expressway and the road construction ministry of Bihar will soon start its construction, according to Livehindustan.Currently, there is no road connecting Gorakhpur with Siliguri, which is why it takes nearly a day to cover the distance between the two cities. The proposed expressway will reduce the distance between Gorapkhpur and Siliguri to less than 600 kilometres. Most of it - around 416 kilometres - will pass through north Bihar, reported Livehindustan.It will enter Bihar through Gopalganj, and pass through Siwan, Chhapra, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Supaul, Saharsa, Purnia, Kishanganj before reaching Siliguri. This will be a greenfield expressway and won't include any of the existing roads, according to Livehindustan.Since the speed of the vehicles is very high on the expressways, the alignment will be kept in such a manner that the road will be straight.This will be the fourth expressway in Bihar. One such road is being constructed between Aurangabad and Jaynagar (in Madhubani district). A second one is being constructed between Raxaul and Patna, which will go to Kolkata. Another one is proposed between Buxar and Bhagalpur.The Gorakhpur-Siliguri expressway will be connected to Azamgarh and other cities in Uttar Pradesh via link roads, which will eventually make connectivity to Delhi easier, reported Livehindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpursiliguri-expressway-proposed-will-benefit-10-districts-of-north-bihar-101637638123343.html
23-11-2021||India||BJP, NDA leaders to meet on Sunday ahead of winter session||Ahead of the winter session of Parliament ,beginning on November 29, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) parliamentary executive committee will meet on Sunday, the day when a meeting of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) floor leaders will also be held separately, people aware of the developments said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present for both the meetings, a party functionary said. The BJP is readying to face a combative opposition in Parliament, though party leaders said that Prime Minister Modi’s decision to repeal the contentious farm laws has taken away the “biggest grouse” the opposition parties had against the government.After the three laws were passed in 2020, the opposition parties had staged walkouts, raised slogans and protested, bringing the Parliament’s functioning to a standstill.Also Read: Opposition meet on Parliament unlikely amid TMC, Congress tensionSeveral MPs from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were suspended for a week for their unruly behaviour during the house proceedings. In the forthcoming session, the government will begin the process of withdrawal of the three farm laws that were opposed by a large section of famers in Punjab, Haryana and in parts of Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday, Prime Minister Modi in a televised address to the nation announced the withdrawal of the laws. He pointed out that the government had failed to communicate to the protesting farmers the benefits of the laws which were drafted with the intent to empower small and marginal farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-nda-leaders-to-meet-on-sunday-ahead-of-winter-session-101637638071551.html
23-11-2021||India||‘No scientific evidence…’: ICMR chief on need for booster shots of Covid-19 jabs||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief Dr Balram Bhargava has said that there is no scientific evidence thus far to establish that a booster vaccine dose is needed for further protection from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all adult population, and ensuring that not only India, but the entire world gets vaccinated, is the priority of the government for now,” the ICMR director general (DG) said.Also Read | ‘Need of the hour is…’: Top expert weighs in over need for booster shots of Covid vaccine“More so, there is no scientific evidence so far to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against Covid-19,” Bhargava told news agency PTI on Sunday.The senior scientist’s remarks come in the backdrop of recent reports that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), the Centre’s top expert panel on immunisation, is likely to meet in the last week of November to discuss key issues such as booster shots, as well as opening up the vaccination for children.Also Read | Advisory group on immunization likely to discuss booster dose in upcoming meetingIn recent days, several people, including Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, have urged the Union government to permit the boosters.Also Read | ‘Centre should decide soon on need of booster dose’: Gehlot“The Centre cannot take a direct decision in such a matter. When the ICMR says that a booster shots should be given, we will consider it then. At present, the aim is to complete full vaccination of the target population. Once that is done, a decision on boosters will be taken. We have enough stocks available,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said recently. According to official data, out of 940 million eligible adults, around 82 per cent have taken their first dose of a Covid-19 jab, while nearly 43 per cent have taken both doses, or, in other words, are fully inoculated.The nationwide vaccination drive against this viral illness began on January 16 this year. Till now, nearly 1.17 billion doses have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-scientific-evidence-icmr-chief-on-need-for-booster-shots-of-covid-19-jabs-101637636907536.html
23-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool's plea over Tripura violence today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tripura violence: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool Congress' plea todayThe Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a petition filed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which claimed that the law and order situation in Tripura is "worsening" by the day. Read moreTamil Nadu rain: IMD issues yellow, orange alerts for Nov 23-26The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert warning for Tamil Nadu for November 23 and 24, and an orange alert warning, for November 25 and 26. Read more'He isn't there I think': R Ashwin names 2 mega stars that are unlikely to be retained by Delhi Capitals for IPL 2022Veteran Indian off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin on Monday hinted that neither him nor Shreyas Iyer will be retained by Delhi Capitals ahead of the mega auction for the 2022 edition of the Indian Premier League. Read moreThe Matrix Resurrections posters give first full look at Priyanka Chopra, sis-in-law Danielle, desi friends shower loveSharing the poster on Instagram, Priyanka wrote, “And she’s here. Re-enter #TheMatrix 12.22.21.” The actor is seen in a printed jacket and loose pants paired with knee high boots and her hair braided in short buns on each side. Read moreBhumi Pednekar is the hottest Pataka Guddi in beige embroidered lehenga set for a shaadi, see picsBhumi Pednekar looks like the hottest Pataka Guddi in a stunning beige embroidered lehenga set she wore to attend a shaadi. She served wedding guest fashion goals in the ensemble. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-supreme-court-to-hear-trinamool-s-plea-over-tripura-violence-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101637634906001.html
23-11-2021||India||India-Bangladesh ties passing through golden phase: Rajnath||Union defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday that the relations between India and Bangladesh were passing through a golden phase. He was speaking on the occasion of Bangladeshi Armed Forces Day during his visit to the Bangladesh High Commission in New Delhi. “This year is of extraordinary significance for India-Bangladesh relations as we commemorate the golden jubilee of the liberation of Bangladesh, the fifty years of India-Bangladesh diplomatic ties and the birth centenary of Banga Bandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,” Rajnath saidHe also shared photos of the event hosted by Bangladesh high commissioner Muhammad Imranand said the deepening cooperation between the two neighbours showed they were “strong” partners in the region.“India-Bangladesh bilateral ties have been passing through a ‘shonali adhyay’- golden phase. While cooperation in traditional areas like security, trade, connectivity and people to people exchanges have steadily deepened, the partnership is expanding to new and emerging areas like nuclear technology, IT, innovation and blue economy,” Singh said, and added that he believed that the two countries were “strong partners” in bringing progress and prosperity in the south Asian region through robust and ever-expanding regional cooperation.Also Read: India-US Trade Policy Forum to be revived today after four yearsSingh also paid his tributes to the Indian soldiers who stood with Bangladesh during the war of liberation. “India’s all-out support came naturally out of historical experience and deep emotional, cultural, linguistic and fraternal ties that bind together the people of India and Bangladesh. We are proud that this friendship, founded in the shared sacrifice, has prospered by leaps and bounds,” he added. Singh also announced that December 6 will be commemorated as Maitree Diwas in India and Bangladesh and also in 18 other countries around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiabangladesh-ties-passing-through-golden-phaserajnath-101637636871451.html
23-11-2021||India||Arunachal Pradesh govt asks ANSU to call off 12-hour bandh in Itanagar||Bamang Felix, the home minister of Arunachal Pradesh, has urged the All Nyishi Students' Union (ANSU) to withdraw the call for Capital complex region bandh on Tuesday in the greater interest of the state and its people. Notably, the ANSU had last week called for the 12-hour bandh on November 23 over a host of demands, which include the withdrawal of FIRs registered against its leaders after an agitation. Included among the demands of the ANSU is the immediate transfer of state education commissioner Niharika Rai – who the union claims is “inefficient in delivering justice to the students”.However, in a press conference on Monday, the Arunachal Pradesh home minister said that the 14-point demands of the ANSU have already been met on part of the state government, hence the bandh call on Tuesday is “not justified”. Bamang Felix, who is also the official spokesperson of the Arunachal Pradesh government, pointed out that the state education department had presented an action report, where almost all matters were resolved, within 40 days of facing the demands from the students' union.Although education commissioner Niharika Rai has not been transferred yet as she is “performing her duty”, the Arunachal Pradesh government will be looking into the various allegations of her being incompetent to hold government posts, the home minister said. The matter is under investigation, he added, highlighting that the union should wait for the final outcome.Notably, members of the ANSU had reportedly clashed with the police last week when they tried to enter the civil secretariat in Itanagar and present their 14-point resolution. Later, the union called for the bandh on November 23 and threatened to intensify the agitation if the demands were not met.Home minister Felix, in the meanwhile, has said that the state government would like to assure the citizens of the capital region that the police and the administration would ensure safety and security of the people.“While all government offices will function normally, state transport busses will be placed for lifting and dropping of employees,” the home minister said while appealing to the business establishments to open their shops.There is an exam scheduled under the CBSE board on November 23 and considering their situation, the student body should call off the bandh, Felix said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-govt-asks-ansu-to-call-off-12-hour-bandh-in-itanagar-101637633400768.html
23-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rain: IMD issues yellow, orange alerts for Nov 23-26||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert warning for Tamil Nadu for November 23 and 24, and an orange alert warning, for November 25 and 26. The weather body has projected isolated heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu and the Union territory of Puducherry during the next five days, and isolated very heavy rainfall on November 25 and 26.“Isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next five days, and Kerala and Mahe on November 25 and 26. Isolated very heavy rainfall also very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 25 and 26," The IMD said in an official statement.“A cyclonic trough lies over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. It is vey likely move west-northwestwards towards Tamil Nadu coast during the next five days,” the IMD further noted in its statement.The forecasting agency's projections come at a time when the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala are already witnessing extremely heavy rainfall, which has led to the loss of life and property. Andhra Pradesh, with more than 30 fatalities, is the worst-hit. Around 10 people remain missing in the state due to rain-related incidents, while more than 50,000 have been rehabilitated in relief camps in Chittoor, Anantapuramu, Kadapa and SPS Nellore - the four worst-affected districts.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rain-imd-issues-yellow-orange-alerts-for-nov-2326-101637631769160.html
23-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: Supreme Court to hear Trinamool Congress' plea today||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a petition filed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which claimed that the law and order situation in Tripura is "worsening" by the day. The contempt petition was filed by the TMC on Monday, and listed for hearing by the court today.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and TMC are at loggerheads in Tripura where the latter is attempting to set its foothold challenging the ruling government.West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, who is on a four-day visit to Delhi, described the situation in Tripura under the Biplab Deb-led BJP government as "atrocious". She also wondered why the human rights commission was "not taking a note of the ongoing use of brute force" in the Northeastern state."There is no democracy in Tripura. Several murders have happened. Goons with weapons are getting inside police stations. I don't even remember how many people had to be brought to Kolkata and admitted to SSKM Hospital, having sustained injuries in Tripura," she said.Referring to a Supreme Court directive to civic poll-bound Tripura, Banerjee said the order was being violated by the Biplab Deb government, and actions must be taken accordingly."Despite the Supreme Court's verdict, parties are being stopped from holding meetings and rallies. In Tripura, mockery was being made of the election process. If the government does not allow a political party to hold a meeting, then what will be the fate of the elections, I do not know," she said.The Bengal chief minister said she plans to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raise the Tripura situation in the meeting.The TMC supremo's comment drew a sharp retort from the BJP which urged her to stop post-poll violence in West Bengal."TMC leaders should be the last persons to talk about showing courtesy and violence. BJP workers are either rendered homeless or are murdered in Bengal every day," BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said."What are they doing in Tripura too is a badly scripted drama. We have not forgotten what they did with our national president J P Nadda ji during his visit to Bengal," he added.Meanwhile, a delegation of Trinamool Congress MPs on Monday met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi over the alleged police brutality in Tripura.A total of 16 TMC MPs, including Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Santanu Sen and Mala Roy, arrived at the party office in Delhi and held a protest outside the ministry of home affairs over the Tripura police incident.Tensions in Tripura increased after incidents of violence in the run-up to the elections to the Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 12 other municipal bodies slated for November 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-violence-supreme-court-to-hear-trinamool-congress-plea-today-101637632306009.html
23-11-2021||India||Bengaluru, Chennai flooded as rain batters southern states; 34 dead in Andhra Pradesh | 10 points||Several parts of southern India have been battered by extreme rainfall, which has led to loss of life and property, and flooding in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The rainfall has been triggered by frequent formations of low pressure areas in the Bay of Bengal, and cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea.In Andhra Pradesh, 34 people have died in rain-related incidents and 10 more remain missing. The state government has announced an ex-gratia of ₹five lakh for the family of each of the deceased persons.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), meanwhile, has predicted more rainfall in these states till November 26.The IMD also predicted that isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on November 24 and 25.Here are the latest updates on flood situation in the southern states:• "Light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall over Karnataka, Kerala & Mahe and Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal during next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall over Tamilnadu, Puducherry & Karaikal and Kerala & Mahe during next 5 days and over Coastal Karnataka on 21st Nov," the IMD said in a tweet on Monday.• Andhra Pradesh agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said that crops in over eight lakh acres were damaged in the deluge, pushing as many as 5,33,345 farmers into distress.• Over 50,000 persons have been lodged in relief camps in Chittoor, Anantapuramu, Kadapa and SPS Nellore - the four worst-affected districts.• The Chennai-Kolkata National Highway 16 was cut-off due to heavy rain on Saturday night. It was partially restored in Monday. The railways cancelled three trains due to water-logging at the bridge in the Padugupadu-Nellore section.• Karnataka has also witnessed incessant rain, which has caused huge losses to standing crops, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said. He also toured the affected areas and instructed the officials to transfer the compensation amount for crop loss to farmers.• Bommai also said that floodwater from the Mudavadi irrigation tank has cut-off road connectivity in the area. About 790 houses have been completely or extensively damaged. Thirty four bridges too have been damaged.• The rain has caused extensive damage to Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagar and Hassan districts. Around 92km of roads was damaged in Bengaluru Urban district, according to government data.• In Tamil Nadu, two central teams - comprising seven officials - inspected several regions to assess the damage caused by the recent torrential rain and flooding.• Tamil Nadu has received 61 per cent excess rainfall due to the ongoing spell of the Northeast monsoon. On Monday, a sudden spell of heavy rainfall in some parts of Chennai resulted in water-logging in places like T-Nagar. Officials said that some parts of north Chennai, were under water since Sunday as heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh prompted excess water from the Kosasthalaiyar river in the north region of the city being released.• According to IMD, Karnataka has received 145.1mm of rain from November 1 to November 21 as against the normal of 35.5mm, Tamil Nadu 299.1mm as against a normal of 142.4mm, Kerala 331.1mm as against a normal of 134.5mm, and Andhra Pradesh 227.3mm as against a normal of 81.1 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-chennai-flooded-as-rain-batters-southern-states-34-dead-in-andhra-101637630623114.html
23-11-2021||India||Chandrababu Naidu to begin 2-day tour to flood-hit areas in Andhra from today||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president Chandrababu Naidu will on Tuesday begin his two-day tour of flood-affected areas in Andhra Pradesh, a day after he held a party meeting regarding the flood situation in the state.During the meeting, the opposition TDP hit out at the Andhra Pradesh government for failing to take up rescue and relief operations properly.Naidu, the former chief minister, on Monday accused current CM Jagan Mohan Reddy of washing his hands off relief measures by just conducting an aerial survey through a helicopter. “As per the official figures, over 34 persons died and another 10 were missing. There were reports about a greater threat,” Naidu said during the TDP meeting.The TDP has further said that it will provide all possible help to the people affected by floods.More than 20,000 people have been evacuated and moved to relief camps so far after heavy rain lashed the state’s Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore and Anantapur districts. And over 100 villages, the majority of them in the Kadapa district are inundated.The state government earlier reviewed the flood situation in the above districts and announced that essential commodities will be distributed to all affected families for free.Meanwhile, an alert has been issued in 18 villages of Chittoor district to evacuate people after Rayala pond’s water reached a warning level and started leaking following heavy downpours, according to news agency ANI.People in these villages have been instructed to immediately evacuate their houses and move to a relief camp set up in Tirupati.The personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have also been called in for any rescue operations in Chittoor.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-to-begin-2-day-tour-to-flood-hit-areas-in-andhra-from-today-101637626539678.html
23-11-2021||NA||Breaking News: Karnataka mandates full vaccination to waive RT-PCR need for Maharashtra returnees||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Karnataka mandates full Covid vaccination to waive RT-PCR test requirement for those returning after 2 days of stay in MaharashtraKarnataka Govt lays down conditions for waiver of RT-PCR test requirement for those returning to their homes in Karnataka within two days of their stay in Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/9tXiyYEgyLKarnataka mandates full-vaccination against Covid-19 for those returning to their home in the state after two days of visit to Maharashtra in order to get the RT-PCR negative test requirement waived off, according to a latest notification. As many as 14 days should also lapse after the administration of the second Covid-19 dose.Delhi teen held for raping, strangling woman in DwarkaDelhi Police held a 17-year-old boy for allegedly raping and killing a woman in Dwarka area on November 15, ANI reported. Police said that the accused informed them about raping the woman, and strangling her out of feat of getting caught. The accused also “set her private parts on fire to destroy evidence,” police was quoted as saying by ANI.3 liquor shops in MP to give 10% discount to full-jabbed customersAs many as three liquor shops in Madhya Pradesh's Mandsaur will give a 10 per cent discount to customers, who are fully-vaccinated against Covid-19, on the production of the vaccination certificate starting tomorrow, ANI reported citing the district excise officer.Govt to introduce bill to prohibit private cryptocurrencies, create framework for India's digital currency in Winter Session, reports ANIThe central government will introduce 'The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021' in winter session of Parliament, reports ANI. The bill seeks to formulate a facilitative framework for creating official digital currency to be issued by the RBI and also ban all private cryptocurrencies in India.Cabinet set to sign off on farm law repeal bill on WednesdayThe Union cabinet is set to sign off on farm laws' repeal on Wednesday, according to people familiar with the development.CBI arrests 3, including an enforcement officer, in bribery caseThe CBI has held three people, including an enforcement officer and an EPFO, in connection with a bribery case of ₹1 lakh in Yamuna Nagar.3 held in Kashmir for Nov 9 killing of salesmanKashmir Police said on Tuesday that three people, all residents of Pulwama, have been arrested for the killing of salesman, Ibrahim Ahmad, in Bohri Kadal area of Srinagar on November 9. According to ANI report, police said the trio, linked to LeT (TRF), killed the salesman on the instructions of their Pakistan-based handlers.Senior BJP leader from Himachal Kripal Singh resigns as party's state vice presidentSenior BJP leader from Himachal Pradesh Kripal Singh Parmar resigns as the party's state vice president, citing “neglect" for the last few years as the reason, ANI reported.FIR registered against Kangana Ranaut for calling farmers ‘Khalistanis’FIR registered against actor Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai for allegedly portraying the farmers' protest as Khalistani movement and calling them 'Khalistanis' on social media, reports ANI.Kirti Azad, Ashok Tanwar join Trinamool Congress in DelhiToday, former @INCIndia MP Shri Ashok Tanwar joined the Trinamool Congress family in the presence of @MamataOfficial & @abhishekaitc.As a prominent face in Haryana and an experienced politician, we are certain that together we shall ensure the welfare of all people. pic.twitter.com/lm9zWYtNtCCricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad, and former Congress leader Ashok Tanwar joined TMC in Delhi on Tuesday in presence of party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee.J&K Police head constable awarded Kirti Chakra posthumously for showing ‘exemplary courage’ in Pulwama attackJammu and Kashmir Police head constable Abdul Rashid Kalas awarded Kirti Chakra posthumously for showing 'exemplary courage in engaging & eliminating hardcore terrorists' during an operation in Pulwama in 2019.His wife Tasleema Begum received the award from President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi.Former JD(U) leader Pavan Varma joins TMC in Delhi“Looking at the current political circumstances and the potential in Mamata Banerjee, I have today joined Trinamool Congress," says Pavan Varma on joining the Trinamool Congress in New Delhi.Delhi Legislative Assembly session to begin on November 26Delhi Legislative Assembly session is scheduled to begin on November 26.Delhi court orders FIR against BJP leader Sambit Patra over fake video of Arvind KejriwalDelhi court orders registration of FIR against BJP leader Sambit Patra for allegedly posting a doctored video of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on social media.Kerala adoption row: DNA test shows Anupama S Chandran is baby's motherDNA test proves that baby given for adoption is Anupama's. Report will be given to the family court. Happiest day in my life, said Anupama S Chandran who is on a stand in protest outside the child welfare council office in the state capital.Railways minister says Bharat Gaurav trains can be operated by private sector as well as IRCTC, reports PTIBharat Gaurav trains can be operated by both private sector and IRCTC, fare to be decided by tour operators, says Railway minister to PTI.2 dead as building collapses due to LPG explosion in Tamil NaduTwo people dead as building collapses following LPG cylinder explosion in Karungalpatti in Salem district of Tamil Nadu, police said.BS Mubarak appointed as India's Ambassador to SudanBS Mubarak, presently Ambassador of India to Guatemala, has been appointed as the next Ambassador of India to Sudan, stated MEA/India to release crude oil from emergency stock to cool global pricesThe Centre said on Tuesday that it will release 5 million barrels of crude oil from emergency stock to join attempt to cool global prices.Fears for Peng Shuai are being 'maliciously' hyped up, says ChinaDays after Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai said she is safe and well in a video call with the president of the International Olympic Committee, the government said on Monday that fears regarding her are being "maliciously" hyped up. "I think some people should stop deliberately and maliciously hyping up, let alone politicise this issue," said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian.Lijian's comment came amid international concerns mounted for Shuai's well-being following her claims of sexual assault against a top Communist Party official.After Centre decides to repeal farm laws, Sachin Pilot warns BJP of consequences Congress leader and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said on Tueday that the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) defeat in the previous bye-elections and a “looming bad performance” in the upcoming assembly elections, led to the Modi government announcing the scrapping of the three new farm laws.In an interview with news agency PTI, Pilot said there will be consequences for the BJP in the elections as farmers distrust of the Centre will not go away with one rollback.Kejriwal announces 8 guarantees for teachers in poll-bound PunjabDelhi chief minister and and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convener Arvind Kejriwal announced eight guarantees for the teachers of Punjab, months ahead of the assembly elections in the state next year. Read moreSrinagar recorded lowest night temperature so far this winter seasonJammu and Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar witnessed the coldest night of this winter season as the valley continued to reel under sub zero temperatures. Read moreTamil Nadu rains: 4 houses collapse in Salem district, 13 people rescued till nowTamil Nadu: Four houses collapsed in Salem district's Karungalpatti this morning due to heavy rain. 13 people rescued so far & sent to Salem govt hospital; 4 people still feared trapped under the debris. Fire dept officials are clearing the debris & rescue operation is underway. pic.twitter.com/cqg52eOsY4Four houses collapsed in Karungalpatti area of Tamil Nadu's Salem district on Tuesday morning with four people still feared to be trapped under the debris. Thirteen people have been rescued so far. Galwan hero Col Santosh Babu to receive Mahavir Chakra posthumously todayMahavir Chakra citation of Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life while resisting a vicious attack on his observation post by Chinese Army soldiers in the Galwan valley of Ladakh. pic.twitter.com/xY7SzhTaiZLate Colonel Santosh Babu of the 16 Bihar Regiment, who was killed in the clash with Chinese troops at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, will receive the Mahavir Chakra posthumously today.PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Noida International Airport on November 25Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Noida International Airport on Thursday. With this, Uttar Pradesh will be the only state in India to have five international airports, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Congress leader Kirti Azad expected to join TMC todayCongress leader and former cricketer Kirti Azad is expected to join the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Delhi today, according to news agency ANI. India's daily Covid-19 tally further drops with 7,579 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) declined further on Tuesday after 7,579 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 34,526,480, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. PNB refutes claim that data of its 180 million customers breachedThe Punjab National Bank (PNB) has refuted the claims of a cyber security firm that said that vulnerability in the bank's server exposed the details of millions of customers. Read moreMizoram reports 423 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMizoram reported 423 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the caseload to 132,320. Delhi's air quality in ‘very poor’ categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 315 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-India pic.twitter.com/BYDZYQwkOEAccording to SAFAR-India, the national capital's air quality index (AQI) is presently in the 'very poor' category. IMD issues yellow alert for Tamil Nadu till November 24The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow alert for Tamil Nadu till Wednesday and an orange alert from Thursday to Friday. "A cyclonic circulation lies over Southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards towards Tamil Nadu coast during next 4-5 days," the IMD said in an official statement. Chandrababu Naidu to begin 2-day tour to flood-hit areas in Andhra from todayTelugu Desam Party (TDP) president Chandrababu Naidu will on Tuesday begin his two-day tour of flood-affected areas in Andhra Pradesh, a day after he held a party meeting regarding the flood situation in the state. Read moreAmerican citizens told not to travel to Germany, Denmark in view of Covid-19 crisisThe State Department on Monday urged American citizens not to travel to Germany and Denmark in view of the worsening Covid-19 pandemic situation in Europe. The department issued Level 4 travel advisories -- the highest level -- for both countries.Banking system in Afghanistan on brink of collapse: UN reportA news report by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) has said that the banking and financial system in Afghanistan is on the verge of collapse following the Taliban's takeover. "The bank-run problem must be resolved quickly to improve Afghanistan's limited production capacity and prevent the banking system from collapsing," the UNDP report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-23-2021-101637625779304.html
23-11-2021||India||NIA arrests J&K activist in terror funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested human rights activist Khurram Parvaz after conducting raids at his office and residence here in connection with a terror funding case, people familiar with the matter said.The raids were carried at Sonwar and Amira Kadal localities. The NIA sleuths were accompanied by local police and CRPF during these raid, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Some documents and electronic equipment were also seized during the raids.The case was registered by the NIA under sections of the IPC and the UAPA on November 6. Parvez is the programme coordinator of Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-j-k-activist-in-terror-funding-case-101637620007444.html
23-11-2021||India||SC raps Gujarat over panel for disbursal of ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Gujarat government for constituting a scrutiny committee for disbursal of ex-gratia compensation to kin of Covid-19 victims, in contrary to the top court’s October 4 directives.Expressing concerns that a state government order seeking Covid-19 death certificates may delay assistance, a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said: “This court has never asked for the setting up of a scrutiny committee. It will take more than a year for genuine victims to get their claims and get a certificate from the scrutiny committee.”The bench was referring to an October 29 notification of the Gujarat Health and Family Welfare department, requiring beneficiaries to move a representation before the scrutiny committee that will issue documents certifying Covid-19 deaths. Gujarat-based lawyer Amit Panchal had moved the top court against this order.On November 18, the top court observed that a clear attempt was made to overreach its October 4 judgment that no state shall deny the ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid-19 solely on the ground that the death certificate does not mention the virus as the cause of death.Appearing for the state, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that an amended resolution has been issued under the court’s direction but it also needs some modification. The bench sought to know who issued the first notification and called for accountability in the case.When the bench asked which is the competent authority which gave approval in this case, Gujarat additional chief secretary Manoj Aggarwal said it is the CM.“Your chief minister may not know many things? Mr. Secretary, you are there for what? If this is your application of mind, then you don’t know anything. Do you understand our order? It appears to be a bureaucratic attempt to delay the proceedings,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-gujarat-over-panel-for-disbursal-of-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-victims-101637619732176.html
23-11-2021||India||Kerala adoption row: DNA samples of Anupama and Ajith taken to check parentage||Hours after the one-year-old baby at the centre of a raging adoption row landed in the Kerala capital, employees of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biology on Monday collected samples of the child, Anupama S Chandran who is claiming to be his biological mother, and her husband K Ajith to establish parenthood of the baby, officials familiar with the development said. Earlier, Chandran asked the child rights body and others to take blood samples of all three together as she suspected a foul play, but it was turned down. Samples were collected separately and Chandran’s plea to meet the baby was also declined, with officials telling her that it will be done only after the court takes a final decision. Results of the DNA tests will be available on Wednesday, officials said. “Some officials of the Child Welfare Commission are acting with a vengeance. So it is natural to suspect a foul play. My request to meet my baby was also turned down,” Chandran said. But later health minister Veena George dismissed her allegations. “We have expedited everything and whole process will be video-graphed. Since the case is before the court, we can go by its directions. The government is bound to protect the child’s rights,” George said, adding the government has no problem in handing over the baby to Chandran after the DNA test. But Chandran reiterated her charge that people who played a key role in illegal adoption row were still entrusted with the custody of the baby. “It is an inhuman attitude. They still find pleasure in hounding me. I was dying to see my child separated after three days of birth but my request to see the baby was turned down. Now all are talking about law, but these people flouted the law to give away the child when I was making rounds of several offices and leaders” she said. Chandran said though the party and government pledged support to her, it never reflected in their actions. The baby was brought back from his foster parents in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as directed by the Child Welfare Committee. It also ordered a DNA test in five days. Chandran and her husband have been on a protest outside the office of the state child welfare council seeking her baby and action against officials who allegedly colluded with her parents to give away her child for adoption. The child was given up for adoption in August this year. Chandran had complained against her parents, saying the newborn was forcibly taken and given for adoption and with the connivance of some officials. She said police refused to entertain her compliant since her father was a senior leader of CITU, the trade union wing of the ruling CPI(M). She said her parents opposed her relation with Ajith since her husband belonged to a Dalit family. Both were active workers of the party. Though the issue attracted national attention, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is yet to react.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adoption-row-dna-samples-of-anupama-and-ajith-taken-to-check-parentage-101637609812213.html
23-11-2021||India||Flood toll mounts to 34 in Andhra, 10 still missing, says government||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday announced that the death toll in the latest heavy rains and floods in south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts has mounted to 34 and that 10 more people are still missing.Making a statement in the state legislative assembly, agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said the government had ordered payment of an ex gratia of ₹lakh to each of the families of those who had lost their lives due to heavy rains and floods.He said a financial assistance of ₹30,000 will be provided to the farmers in case of the death of livestock and ₹3,000 in case of sheep and goat. As many as eight NDRF and eight SDRF teams along with two helicopters were pressed into service for rescue and relief operations in 19 places.Kanna Babu said there were 294 relief camps in flood affected areas and 57,969 people were evacuated and kept in relief camps. Standing crops in eight lakh hectares were damaged as per preliminary estimates and crop enumeration would be done once floods receded, he said.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held a video conference with the collectors and other officials concerned of the affected districts in the morning, instructed that each affected family be provided with 25 kg of rice, 1 kg of dal,1 kg of cooking oil, 1 kg of onion, 1 kg of potato and a cash assistance of ₹2,000.He asked the officials to focus on sanitation, maintenance of medical camps, restoration of roads. He directed the officials of Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration Departments to finalize the tenders for permanent restoration works in next four weeks.The chief minister instructed the officials to provide a compensation of ₹95,100 and sanction a new house to those who lost their homes and ₹5200 to those whose houses are partially damaged due to floods.He asked the officials to provide a compensation of ₹25 lakh and one government job to the families of constable in Nellore, a village secretariat employee and an RTC conductor, who lost their lives while helping others during the floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-toll-mounts-to-34-in-andhra-10-still-missing-says-government-101637609811212.html
23-11-2021||India||Two minors among three arrested over cop’s murder in Tamil Nadu||Three people, including two minor boys, were arrested on Monday within 24 hours in connection with the murder of special sub-inspector S Boominathan of Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district, police said. One of the accused was identified as 19-year-old P Manikandan and the minor boys are aged 9 and 14. “The minors are accomplices of Manikandan in the murder case. They were with him and helped him,” said a senior police official of Trichy who did not wish to be named. “Enquiries are going on and we will produce the minors before the Juvenile Justice Board and they will decide on where to send them. There are two homes in Trichy for children in conflict in law. The adult will be sent to jail.” A statement from the police said that the trio have been booked under section 302 (murder) of the IPC.Boominathan, 50, was murdered while he was on patrolling duty by the thieves he was chasing in the wee hours of Sunday at 3am. Boominathan along with another police beat officer, Chitravel, saw suspected goat thieves on a motorbike. When police tried to stop them the suspects didn’t and tried to escape when Boominathan went ahead of his colleague on a two-wheeler and began chasing them. When he managed to intercept them, the suspected thieves assaulted him on his head using a machete. Boominathan bled out to death on the spot. Police have seized the weapon and the motorbike. Following the murder, four special teams were formed to investigate the crime. Police received a tip off that the main accused Manikandan was hiding in Pudukottai district and on investigating him they found the other two minors. Boominathan was an SSI in the Navalpattu police station in Trichy and is survived by his wife and son. He was cremated with state honours and gun salute. On Sunday, chief minister M K Stalin issued a solatium of ₹1 crore to Boominathan’s family and also a government job for one of his family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-minors-among-three-arrested-over-cop-s-murder-in-tamil-nadu-101637609809816.html
23-11-2021||India||Parts of Tamil Nadu put on alert as rains lash Chennai||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a yellow alert in several districts of Tamil Nadu after heavy rains lashed parts of the state, especially in Chennai, where it resulted in waterlogging. Chennai witnessed a sudden spell of heavy rainfall in some parts, such as T Nagar, which got 20 mm of rain in a few hours, continuing the woes of the capital city, which has been receiving excess rainfall since November 1.After the rains, the IMD has issued a yellow alert for districts such as Salem, Villupuram, Vellore for heavy rains for the next three days. Some parts of north Chennai such as suburban Manali was already been underwater since Sunday due to the heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh, so excess water from the Kosasthalaiyar River was discharged. Though the city went back to being sunny, the sudden showers were unpredicted. Some parts of the city registered 20 mm of rainfall, while others registered 10 mm of rain, according to the government bulletin, which caused instant flooding, with the municipal authorities deploying boats to rescue people from gushing rainwater. No deaths were reported. However, the wall of a balcony in a two-storey house collapsed in Perambur in north Chennai to the rains and fire personnel rescued 11 residents from the building. Residents complained of severe waterlogging in T Nagar, and commuters were caught off guard and were stuck in a traffic log jam for more than an hour here. “This morning between 3 and 5am there was heavy rain. And again after 8am. The whole place is flooded and sewage water is also mixed in some areas so the stench is unbearable. There was no forecast so no one was prepared for these rains. Only two days ago we restored our power connection in our apartment and now again we are flooded,” said V S Jayaraman, a resident of T Nagar. “Everything is a mess.”“T Nagar was looking like a beach,” said a commuter K Sridharan, who takes the route to his office every day. “What takes me 20 minutes took me more than one hour today.”“These sudden spells were caused due to a circulation in Andaman,” said N Puviarasan, deputy director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) Chennai. “This extended up to coastal Tamil Nadu,” he said.Former deputy director of IMD, YEA Raj, said that this phenomenon of certain parts of the city receiving heavy rains such as Monday is not alarming but a common phenomenon. “The rain clouds that have been over T Nagar may disperse rains and the situation may not be the same even 4 km away in Adyar,” said Raj.“In Chennai, during June-July, the rains develop due to afternoon thunderstorm activity, whereas north east monsoon activities happen between 3 am to 8 am when the temperature is colder and leads to cloud development. So some parts may receive rain while other parts of the city could be dry.”“T Nagar got isolated special spells of 20mm till 8.30 am,” said weather blogger Pradeep John in his social media accounts. A six-member central team from New Delhireached Chennai on Sundayand will be inspecting They will be inspecting Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram on Monday. A statement from the Greater Chennai Corporation said that the team already inspected six wards in the city. Tamil Nadu has sought more than ₹2000 crores as central aid to restore rain-related damages across the state. The RMC forecast heavy rains in different parts of the state in the next three days. “Thunderstorm with heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts of Tamil Nadu. Moderate rain is likely to occur at many places over districts of coastal and south Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal. Light to moderate rain is likely to occur at isolated places over rest districts,” the RMC said in a bulletin. For Chennai, in the next 24 to 48 hours, RMC says light to moderate rain is likely to occur in some areas. Chennai just began picking up the pieces after being battered by two heavy spells between November 6 and 7 and on November 11 when Chennai received 21 cm and 16 cm respectively. The city and overall Tamil Nadu have received excess rainfall during this north east monsoon season that runs from October to December. From October 1 to November 18, Chennai and Tamil Nadu received 66% and 61% of excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-tamil-nadu-put-on-alert-as-rains-lash-chennai-101637609808718.html
23-11-2021||India||Critical equipment, documents in JNCASR damaged by heavy rains||Heavy rains on Sunday night damaged expensive and critical equipment in the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), a multi-disciplinary research institute in the Jakkur locality of North Bengaluru.Videos of water in the laboratories flooded social media on Monday. The institute was helmed by eminent scientist and Bharat Ratna Professor CNR Rao in 1989. The institution is also deemed to be a university and an autonomous institution under the department of science & technology, the Government of India.“Sensitive research material has been damaged. But we can determine the extent of the damage only after the water is removed,” Jaideep Deb, an official at the JNCASR, told Hindustan Times on Monday.He added that the damages could be in crores but was worried about the research and equipment destroyed due to the waterlogging.The Centre was established in 1989 to mark the birth centenary of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. Researchers at the Centre are divided into six units: Chemistry and Physics of Materials, Engineering Mechanics, Evolutionary and Organismal Biology, Molecular Biology and Genetics, Theoretical Sciences, Educational Technology and Geodynamics. JNCASR has two off-campus units at the Indian Institute of Science: the Chemical Biology and Condensed Matter Theory Units.In 2021, Nature Index ranked JNCASR 23rd in materials science among the top 50 rising institutions globally. Scimago Institutions Ranking 2021 ranked JNCASR 15th across all sectors and 7th among Universities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/critical-equipment-documents-in-jncasr-damaged-by-heavy-rains-101637609151009.html
23-11-2021||India||Railways’ airport initiative fails to attract footfall||A suburban train to the Kempegowda International Airport, an alternative by South Western Railway to the expensive and long journey to the Bengaluru airport, had less than 2,500 passengers since its introduction in January this year.The average cost of travelling to Kemepgowda International Airport here ranges from ₹700 to ₹1,400. Coupled with the traffic jams, a trip to Bengaluru’s international airport could be an ordeal for most commuters. More than the passengers, however, it is the railways that should be blamed for the failure of such a promising project, say activists. The drastic reduction in the number of trains and the constant delays have made the train to the airport an unreliable mode of reaching the airport, they add.South Western Railway operated 10 trains a day to and from the halt station when it was inaugurated on January 4, 2021. However, the services were suspended from April-end to November first week following the pandemic. When the services reopened, instead of the 10, the trains halting at the airport were reduced to two.SWR officials said that between January and April, only 2,098 passengers travelled, and it earned a ticketing revenue of ₹20,830. “The reason, the number of trains have been reduced is because of the electrification tracks between Yelahanka and Devanahalli. This work will be completed before the year-end, and then we will increase the number of trains as per the demand,” said an SWR spokesperson.Experts in the city are not surprised at the low figures and SWR’s lack of interest in running the service. “Since the beginning, the trains run at odd hours and the frequency is not great either. Because the railway had shut down the service for some work shows there is a lack of consistency. It was obvious that the project would not be a success and will require more time to settle,” Srinivas Alavilli, head of civic participation of Janaagraha, a non-profit organisation working for urban governance, said.Activists claim that the work on the suburban line to the airport has been delayed due to “bureaucratic egos”. The 41.40 km suburban line connecting Bengaluru city railway station to the airport via Yeshwantpur was approved by the Union Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs in October 2020. Following this, K-RIDE (Karnataka Rail Infrastructure Development Company), a joint venture between the state and Centre, announced that the airport line would be a priority and be completed in three years.However, following a meeting between the government and the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL), K-RIDE changed its plan to develop the direct airport line first.“Even though the BMRCL has not received approval for their airport line, they are asking K-RIDE not to prioritise the same. They are concerned that the sub-urban rail would affect their plans to have a metro line to the airport,” Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a rail activist, said.With minimal land acquisition requirements, K-RIDE could have ensured that the train chugs to the airport terminal within the stipulated time of three years. But because of this competition, the people of Bengaluru have been denied convenient transport to the airport,” he added.Activists also pointed at the lack of coordination between authorities responsible for public transport in the city. “The smooth integration of the bus, suburban rail and metro is the solution for providing a seamless transportation network. But the fact remains that there is a lack of coordination and an urgency to prioritise the work by these agencies,” Alavilli said.Experts believe that a plan to effectively use both the sub-urban rail and metro is still not on the cards. A former Indian Railway official, on the condition of anonymity, raised flags over the current plan for the suburban rail network.“If you look at the map of the proposed railway network, it is ‘urban rail’ rather than ‘suburban rail’ as it only reaches the edge of the city. Ideally, the suburban railway should have been connected to the district in the outskirts of Bengaluru like Tumkur and Chikkabalapur while metro should have been provided for commuting within the city,” he said.Meanwhile, tickets to the train to the airport come with the warning that they would not be responsible for any delays. This careless attitude of the railways now means that except for the handful of people who take risk of using the occasional suburban train, citizens of Bengaluru will have to suffer the ordeal of travelling to the airport by road for a while.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-airport-initiative-fails-to-attract-footfall-101637609149896.html
23-11-2021||India||Over 600 flats vacated after Yelahanka lake overflows||Over 1600 residents in 604 flats in Bengaluru’s Kendriya Vihar apartments were asked to vacate their apartments after the Yelahanka Lake overflowed due to heavy rains on Sunday. Multiple agencies worked all day to pump out water in several other localities of Bengaluru after heavy rains lashed parts of India’s technology capital on Sunday night. “Due to the heavy rain in the city, in the Yelahanka zone, in the Kempegowda ward limits, Yelahanka Lake over-flowed and water flooded into Kendriya Vihar and surrounding areas,” city’s civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said in a statement on Monday. On Monday morning, around 2 am the Yelahanka zone recorded over 130 mm of rain in a few hours, leading to waterlogging recorded around 4 feet in some places. The BBMP, fire services and others had to move the residents to safer locations. Yelahanka is about 15 kms from Bengaluru city and is close to the international airport. “18 NDRF teams used boats and tractors to ferry the residents in and out from the apartment,” the BBMP added. Gaurav Gupta, BBMP chief commissioner, on Monday, said that action would be taken against officials who allowed the violations around the lake, which led to the incident. (What kind of violations?)Several other parts of the city faced similar issues, with several people posting videos and pictures of inundated localities. Manyata tech park, which houses some of the biggest global corporations, was also underwater. A picture showed people fishing on the water-logged roads of the park, located on Outer Ring Road. “Bengaluru comprises a lot of ridges and valleys. In the past, settlements had been above the valleys, whereas the valleys were prime agricultural land fed by the lakes which were constructed along these valleys. Floodwaters used to flow along these valleys, and the agricultural land acted as buffers. However, urbanisation now has been taking place along the valleys as well. The canals constructed and rerouted post urbanisation are usually insufficient to carry the amount of water that used to flow through the valleys. This has resulted in flooding along the valleys,” Raj Bhagat, a senior program manager (geo-analytics) at WRI India, told Hindustan Times on Monday. He added that there are many valleys like the ones like Sarakki - Madiwala, Hulimavu - Madiwala have completely transformed while the Bellanduru - Varthur KC Valley and the Hebbal valley are currently undergoing these transformations.On Manyata tech park, he said that it was in the middle of a valley and has faced floods many times since it came into being and is likely to continue unless more drains are available to carry higher quantities of water along the valley.The flooding in Yelahanka is a stark reminder of Bengaluru’s rapid and unplanned growth, which has allowed the mushrooming of residential and commercial buildings, which are under the constant threat of destruction during downpours. Encroachment of lakes and stormwater drains (SWD) has exacerbated the problem in Bengaluru, where civic infrastructure is crumbling, even though expenditure on new public projects never seems to end. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, too, acknowledged that there have been widespread encroachments of lakes and SWDs that was affecting the natural flow of water. The development of layouts on lake beds is not a new phenomenon in Bengaluru, which has less than 200 lakes in a city. Earlier, the city counted 1000 such water bodies that date back to the early 16th century. “The water which is clogged in the apartment has been channelized towards the kaluve (SWD). The kaluve which connects Yelahanka Lake to Jakkur lake is 8-feet, and it has been requested by the government to expand the kaluve to 33 feet. In this regard, necessary action will be taken by the officials,” Gupta said. Bengaluru has received 364% more rains between November 1 and 21 (till 5.30 pm), as it has, so far, recorded 195 mm of rains against the normal of 42 mm this month. Bengaluru’s residents have been relentlessly complaining about the bad quality of roads in the city that has become a hurdle to everyday life. Most roads in Bengaluru are laden with pot-holes, slowing down traffic and making life for commuters, especially two-wheelers and pedestrians, difficult. Rains continue to pound Karnataka and several other parts of the country as depression over the Bay of Bengal has had a disastrous impact on several regions across states. A total of 24 people have lost their lives in November alone, data shows while nearly 200 animals have also died due to the rains. Several low-lying regions of the city are badly impacted. At least 227 homes have been completely damaged and another 187 are partially damaged, according to data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority. Around 92 kms of roads have been damaged in Bengaluru Urban district, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-600-flats-vacated-after-yelahanka-lake-overflows-101637609148697.html
23-11-2021||India||Bengaluru airport deploys firefighter simulator||Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru has become the first airport in South Asia to commission a Rosenbauer Tactical Simulator, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), operators of the airport said on Monday. With this simulator, firefighters can train in a realistic environment, master the tactical use of Rosenbauer Panther trucks as well as operate High Reach Extendable Turrets (HRET) for extreme aircraft fire emergencies. The facility will be open for firefighters from other airports (in India and abroad), said a statement from BIAL. ”The simulator provides Incident Commanders, Crew Commanders and Lead Firefighters an opportunity to gain experience in the tactical use of CFTs through turret control and application of firefighting agents, command and control, vehicle operation and basic driving and positioning skills. The simulator has a cockpit that matches every detail of the Rosenbauer fire truck, providing a realistic experience in the operation of CFTs, including all operating controls, from the steering wheel to turret control, projected through multiple 55” HD screens,” read the statement. With the latest facility, firefighters can be prepared for all kinds of aircraft-related emergencies as multiple scenarios can be customised. Simulator training increases the professional competency of firefighters as the scenarios are realistic and sessions can be replayed for effective evaluation, the BIAL said. To ensure the safety and security of all stakeholders, including passengers and airlines, BIAL has added four advanced Rosenbauer CFTs to its fleet. Two Rosenbauer Panther 6x6 trucks and two Rosenbauer Panther 8x8 trucks, including two with HRETs were commissioned recently, taking the overall number of CFTs in its fleet to eight. BLR Airport is the only airport in India to commission these hi-tech trucks with HRETs,” the statement added. “At BLR Airport, our top priority is to maintain the highest standards of safety and with the Rosenbauer CFTs, we are well-equipped to efficiently handle difficult fire emergencies. We believe in training our teams, equipping them with advanced tools and modern technology, providing them with hands-on experience and keeping them ready to contain any possible emergencies. The tactical simulator will support in strengthening our firefighting capabilities even further,” said Jayaraj Shanmugam, Chief Operating Officer, BIAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-airport-deploys-firefighter-simulator-101637609090729.html
23-11-2021||India||Heavy rains soar vegetable prices across Karnataka||The wholesale price of tomatoes in Kolar, about 60 kms from Bengaluru, has witnessed a sharp increase up to ₹140 over the last 15 days, according to dealers from the district, who have also recorded a sharp decline in supply as rain continues to pound the calamity-prone state. From a wholesale rate of around ₹5-20 per kg during the end of October, prices are now hovering around ₹80-140, dealers said on Monday. “There are two main reasons. One is that due to heavy rains in June and July, several farmers did not go in for sowing, and those who did, got only around half of their normal harvest,” Sudhakar Gowda, who runs KRS Tomato Mandi in the district, said. “I have seen extensive damage to Ragi, vegetables, horticulture and floriculture crops. Flood waters from Mudavadi irrigation tank has cut-off road connectivity in the area, About 790 houses have been completely or extensively damaged. Agri Crops in 48,333 hectares and horticulture crops in 6966 hectares have been affected, 189km length of roads and 34 bridges have been damaged according to preliminary reports,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday after visiting the district. One of Asia’s largest tomato markets, the crisis in Kolar is stark, adding to the post-Covid pandemic impact on people’s lives and livelihoods. Gowda said that the tomatoes coming into the wholesale market are from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and other regions, and Kolar is contributing just under 10% of its normal supply. In November so far, Kolar has received nearly 400% more rainfall than usual as the district has recorded 253 mm in the month as against the normal 51 mm, data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) showed. Statewide, there has been a departure of 271% more rainfall in November as Karnataka recorded an average of 129 mm against a normal of 35mm during this period due to the northeast monsoon. From around 350-450 truckloads of tomatoes per day, the number has fallen to around 50, traders said. As one of the biggest suppliers of tomatoes to Bengaluru and Chennai, prices have seen a sharp spike with retail going up to ₹150, depending on the marketplace. The prices of other vegetables, too, have risen sharply in the recent days, piling on the financial burden not just on farmers, but the consumers, who have to shell out much more for their daily needs. Ladies finger is now at ₹130 per kg from ₹70 about two weeks ago, Beans are at ₹98 per kg, Onion at ₹56 and a bunch of coriander now costs ₹50 from ₹30 a week ago, retailers said. Bommai said that there were no dearth of funds for relief operations as ₹684cr was available with the district administrations across the state. “A sum of ₹5 lakh would be paid as compensation for completely damaged houses and ₹3 lakh for partially damaged houses in three instalments. DCs had been instructed to disburse first instalment of ₹1 lakh immediately, Bommai said.He said that ₹500 crore has been released by the state government for repair of roads and bridges. According to the Karnataka government, over 347,000 hectares of crops and 30,114 hectares of horticulture crops have been damaged due to the rains in November. The worst affected districts are Kolar and neighbouring Chikkaballpura, which received 500% more rain, data showed. The opposition continued to attack the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for its lackadaisical attitude in reacting to the calamity. “There are no district-in charge ministers. Since they are not there, no one has gone and surveyed the extent of crop loss. Crops have been damaged, houses have collapsed, cattle have died. There is no survey done to date and they (government) say that since it was raining, they could not do it,” Siddaramaiah said. He added that the Bommai government was prioritising election-related work like the Jana Swarajya Yatra over the problem of calamity-struck population. Bommai said that the Yatra was planned earlier and that it would not be right to relate the two separate events. Bommai had earlier said that since the model code of conduct was in effect, the government could not announce compensation. Siddaramaiah refuted this and said that the government should speak to the election commission to release compensation as farmers and others were in a lot of pain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-soar-vegetable-prices-across-karnataka-101637609088649.html
23-11-2021||India||No dilution of existing election regulations for social media: ECI||Social media companies will have to follow the voluntary code of ethics that the Election Commission of India had introduced ahead of the 2019 general elections, and there will be no dilution of existing rules and regulation, the election watchdog said in a statement on Monday.The commission was responding to a report published in HT in collaboration with The Intersection, in which Facebook claimed it had negotiated with the statutory poll body to avoid “onerous” legal obligations in regard to taking down poll-related content.“ECI’s committee headed by Mr (Umesh) Sinha consisted of all important stakeholders. However, social media companies were neither members or signatories,” the commission said in its statement. “The Committee was set up by the ECI for the overall review of the provisions of section 126 of the RP Act, keeping in view the advent, advancement and multifid increase in media mode and its impact on election campaigning. It made a set of recommendations… (and) included the need for some guidelines for intermediaries operating in India and a stringent and dedicated mechanism for promptly taking down posts violating section 126.”Section 126 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, prohibits election campaigning by any means 48 hours before voting takes place.Referring to all the social media companies that agreed to sign the voluntary code of ethics, the commission said that “Facebook was only one of the attendees along with other important social media intermediaries… (such as) Twitter, Google, YouTube, Sharechat and representatives of IAMAI.” IAMAI is short for Internet and Mobile Association of India, an industry grouping.“Rather the VCE (voluntary code of ethics) was in force for not only the silence period but for the entire period of the model code of conduct for the parliamentary elections,” the statement said. The practice has been continued in all polls held since.The commission never stopped any law agency from taking against social media companies for violation of extant laws and regulations relating to social media, the statement said. “Therefore, it becomes clear that the VCE was only an additional dedicated code for grievance redressal for violative posts.”HT and The Intersection on Monday reported that internal Facebook documents state that in the run-up to the 2019 general elections, the company managed to convince the commission to scuttle its original intention of introducing stiff social media regulations and settle for a voluntary code of ethics, avoiding additional legal obligations.This included banning political advertisements in the two days preceding polling. The social media company fronted the IAMAI to push its view and achieve consensus over the rules, showed Facebook’s internal documents spirited out of the company by whistleblower Frances Haugen, a former employee and data scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-dilution-of-existing-election-regulations-for-social-media-eci-101637608848523.html
23-11-2021||India||India marks 50 years of battle of Garibpur before 1971 war with Pakistan||India on Monday quietly marked the 50th anniversary of a key battle in erstwhile East Pakistan -- 11 days before India and Pakistan officially went to war in 1971 -- in which the Indian Army completely wiped out a Pakistani tank squadron, the Indian Air Force shot down three enemy fighter jets, and an estimated 300 Pakistani soldiers were killed or injured, according to military historians who have studied the battle in detail.The Battle of Garibpur, which included a fierce confrontation between rival tanks on November 21, 1971, and an air battle a day later, ended with the Indian Army creating an important launch pad for the upcoming offensive into enemy territory and set the stage for the creation of military history 24 days later with the liberation of Bangladesh.“In the run-up to the 1971 war, the Indian armed forces were focussed on creating launch pads across the border fully aware that a full-scale military confrontation was imminent. Garibpur was among the key launch pads because of its proximity to Jessore in erstwhile East Pakistan,” said Brigadier Balram Singh Mehta (retd), an armoured corps officer who fought in the Battle of Garibpur as a young captain.The C Squadron of the Indian Army’s 45 Cavalry destroyed 14 American M-24 Chaffee tanks of the Pakistan Army on November 21 at Garibpur at the expense of two Indian PT-76 tanks, with the IAF’s Gnats intercepting a detachment of Pakistan Air Force fighter jets and shooting down three F-86 Sabres in the first aerial combat with PAF in the build-up to 1971 war. IAF calls the air action Battle of Boyra.On November 22, 1971, four PAF F-86 Sabres violated Indian airspace and attempted to strafe Indian positions when they were intercepted by an equal number of IAF Gnats of the No. 22 Squadron (Swifts). All the IAF fighter jets returned to base unscathed. Flight Lieutenant Roy Andrew Massey, who led the four-aircraft package, was awarded India’s third highest wartime gallantry award, Vir Chakra, along with Flying Officer Donald Lazarus and Flight Lieutenant MA Ganapathy.The Battle of Garibpur gave India new war heroes. The Indian Army's 14 Punjab (Nabha Akal) played a leading role in the battle, and its commanding officer Lieutenant Colonel (later brigadier) RK Singh was awarded India's second-highest wartime gallantry medal Maha Vir Chakra for his heroics and outstanding leadership. Captain (later lieutenant colonel) GS Gill, also from 14 Punjab, was awarded Vir Chakra. Mehta's squadron commander Major DS Narag was posthumously awarded Maha Vir Chakra.The Battle of Garibpur, followed by the Battle of Boyra, was for all practical purposes the beginning of the 1971 war, said Air Vice Marshal Arjun Subramaniam (retd), a military historian and the author of India’s Wars: A Military History 1947-1971.“It was part of the Indian Army’s shallow thrusts into erstwhile East Paskistan to create bases for subsequent operations. The Battle of Garibpur and its outcome was significant as the army was shaping the future battlefield,” said Subramaniam. The Indira Gandhi government cleared the army to cross the international border “for self defence” in a decision taken on November 18, experts said.“In one fell swoop, the 3 (Independent) Armoured Squadron, consisting of Chaffee tanks, was completely destroyed and two infantry battalions badly mauled…The biggest attack planned by Lieutenant General AAK Niazi (Pakistani commander) to teach the Indians and the Mukti Bahini a lesson had gone up in smoke. This battle was a victory and a decisive one at that. Garibpur was held in a bold and decisive move by ground troops, one battalion beat back an enemy brigade,” Mehta wrote in his 2016 book The Burning Chaffees: A Soldier’s First-Hand Account of the 1971 War.The 13-day war ended on December 16 with the creation of a new country, Bangladesh, and the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war.Also, it was on November 21 that the Bangladesh government-in-exile under Sheikh Mujibur Rahman placed its armed forces and freedom fighters directly under the Indian Army’s Eastern Command. Bangladesh celebrates November 21 as Armed Forces Day.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who visited the Bangladesh High Commission in Delhi on Monday to attend a reception to mark the Armed Forces Day, said, “This year is of extraordinary significance for India-Bangladesh relations as we commemorate the golden jubilee of the Liberation of Bangladesh and the birth centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In this momentous time, I salute the valiant struggle of the Mukti Bahini in the Muktijuddho, the War of Liberation in 1971”.Singh described the war for the liberation of Bangladesh as an unprecedented event in the 20th century history.“It was a moral fight against injustice, atrocities and oppression. Ordinary people were brutally maimed and murdered. The barbaric atrocities of Operation Searchlight (a crackdown by the Pak army to crush the voices of self-determination) stirred the conscience of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-marks-50-years-of-battle-of-garibpur-before-1971-war-with-pakistan-101637608668870.html
23-11-2021||India||Trilateral coast guard exercise underway||The 15th edition of the biennial trilateral exercise “Dosti” by the coast guard forces of the Maldives, India and Sri Lanka is underway in the Maldives during November 20-24.The Indian Coast Guard vessels, ICGS Vajra and ICGS Apoorva, and the Sri Lanka Coast Guard’s SLCGS Suraksha are in the Maldives for the exercise. This year marks 30 years since the first edition of the exercise.The aim of the trilateral exercise is to strengthen friendship, enhance mutual operational capabilities, exercise interoperability and build cooperation between the coast guards of the Maldives, India and Sri Lanka, officials said. Exercises carried out over the past 10 years have focused on drills on providing assistance during maritime accidents, eliminating sea pollution, and coast guard procedures and conduct during situations such as oil spills.Exercise “Dosti” was started in 1991 between the Indian and the Maldives coast guards. Sri Lanka joined the exercise for the first time in 2012.“Much excitement & energy was packed into the main exercise & steampast of Dosti XV at Usfasgan’du Area in Male’ today. Chief Guest, Hon. Minister of Defence @MariyaDidi interacted with local students, who claimed they were thrilled to witness the dynamic drills & displays,” the defence minister of the Maldives said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trilateral-coast-guard-exercise-underway-101637608368818.html
23-11-2021||India||Amit Shah sought report on attack on TMC leaders: Party MPs||A Trinamool Congress delegation met Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday over alleged incidents of violence against their leaders in Tripura, following an unprecedented demonstration in front of the home ministry at the North Block.The protests also coincided with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Delhi visit and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee rushing to Tripura after the party’s youth wing chief Sayani Ghosh was arrested on various charges in the state.“We told him in detail how leaders were being arrested and MPs being beaten up. He told us that he had spoken to the Tripura CM on phone yesterday and assured us that he would seek a report from the state,” said a delegation of Trinamool leaders, including MP Derek O’Brien, Santanu Sen and Mala Roy, after their meeting with Shah.Former Union minister and TMC MP Saugata Ray said Shah assured he will look into the issues.The lawmakers from Bengal sat for over three hours outside the Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday morning. They got an appointment to meet Shah in the afternoon.“We primarily had three things to tell him, that the Supreme Court’s order instructing the state government to allow all opposition parties to campaign in a peaceful and orderly manner hasn’t been given to us. Second, we requested him to look into the Sayani Ghosh case, and of course we raised the issue of brutality against party leaders,” TMC MP Dola Sen said.West Bengal CM Banerjee, who was scheduled to land in Delhi in the evening, planned to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on several issues, including the Tripura situation.“During my visit to Delhi, I will be meeting the prime minister. Apart from various state-related matters, I will be raising issues concerning the enhancement of BSF jurisdiction as well as the Tripura violence,” she told reporters before leaving for Delhi.Banerjee wondered why the human rights commission was “not taking a note” of the ongoing use of brute force in the northeastern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-sought-report-on-tripura-violence-tmcmps-101637608248804.html
23-11-2021||India||HTLS 2021: India’s energy growth from scarcity to justice to security||Institutions created by human beings necessarily reflect the preoccupation of their time. Like other epochal moments that have led to tectonic shifts in the geopolitical landscape, we will now look back at the world as “pre-Covid” and “post-Covid”. The COP26 summit in Glasgow confirmed what many had predicted in 2020 — the Covid-19 pandemic would comprehensively alter global affairs.India is in a unique position to define the contours of the global economy for the 21st century rather than merely being a participant in it. India’s determined and proactive interventions against Covid-19 as well as our leadership in the COP26 summit have shown the world that we are ready to anchor sustainability at the global level. Our Prime Minister’s Panchamrit action plan — India’s ambitious commitment to reaching net zero carbon emissions by 2070 — only reaffirms India’s rising graph in the emerging global order.For years, climate geopolitics was premised on the approach that developed economies must bear the lion’s share of mitigating climate crisis as they are primarily responsible for the present levels of emissions. It was considered unfeasible to impose the same burden on developing economies. India has reshaped that understanding of climate commitments fundamentally — we have shifted the global balance of power by showing that developing countries can lead the way in pledging comprehensive climate targets while also successfully meeting their socioeconomic objectives.This transition from an adhering developing nation to a leading global power has been seven years in the making under Modi’s leadership. The pandemic tipped the scales when the world looked for a “China +1” alternative in the wake of supply shortages in global economic value chains. India united under a “whole of government” approach by rolling out historic reforms under the Atmanirbhar Bharat vision. We knocked down silos, streamlined governance, and leveraged India’s innate cooperative federalism to promote greater synergies in realising our development goals in a sustainable manner.Nowhere is this truer than in the economics of energy. Despite the fact that our per capita energy demand increased by over 60% in the past two decades, India’s energy use and emissions are less than a third of the global average. India will soon become the world’s most populous country. We will need an additional energy generation capacity equivalent to that of the European Union to meet our energy demands in the next three decades, particularly for our growing urban footprint.India is aptly positioned to maximise its energy production from all available resources. We have already made concrete progress. Even as the oil and gas sector, led by many central public sector enterprises (CPSEs), continues to meet the bulk of India’s energy needs, it is also spearheading our transition towards non-fossil fuels. We will double the share of natural gas — which is much less polluting than other fossil fuels — in our energy mix with an investment of $60 billion by 2024.PM Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) is a global case study for not just energy justice but also access to clean energy. More than 91 million beneficiaries have received LPG connections under PMUY and its second iteration, PM Ujjwala Yojana 2.0. The carbon footprint of LPG is 50% lower than firewood, thus reducing our emissions significantly.On our 75th Independence Day, the PM secured India’s future energy needs by announcing the National Hydrogen Mission for the production of Green Hydrogen. Oil marketing companies (OMCs) refineries are creating an ecosystem for the production of Green Hydrogen on a “1-1-1” cost trajectory, i.e., 1 USD for 1kg of Hydrogen in 1 decade.Despite the breakout of the pandemic, India adopted BS-VI emission standards, which are equivalent to the Euro-VI norms from April 1, 2020. We have increased ethanol blending in petrol from 0.67% in 2012 to 8.5% in 2021, and will ramp it up further to 20% by 2024-25. We know that biodiesel produces up to 78% lesser emissions than diesel, while ethanol blending can reduce emissions by up to 48% compared to petrol. Thanks to our aggressive biofuels policy, we have been able to lower emissions by more than 19.2 million tons in the past seven years.The savings accrued by reducing imports of crude oil due to this substitution by biofuels are being used to subsidise and fund other renewable energy interventions, such as incentives under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME) policy; electrification of Indian Railways; development of metro rails in Tier-2 Indian cities; and the setting up of 5,000 compressed biogas (CBG) plants under the Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation (SATAT) scheme. Earlier this month, OMCs committed to installing 22,000 electric vehicle (EV) charging stations at their retail outlets (petrol pumps) across the country.In the years to come, a new chapter in the history of global energy value chains will be written. Our nation, which has progressed from energy scarcity to energy justice and is now aiming towards energy security, will lead the world’s climate efforts in the new world order.Hardeep Singh Puri is Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Housing and Urban AffairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-india-s-energy-growth-from-scarcity-to-justice-to-security-101637607948586.html
23-11-2021||India||Pakistan allows transit of India aid to Afghanistan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Monday his government will allow the transportation of 50,000 tonnes of wheat offered by India to Afghanistan as soon as modalities are finalised by Islamabad and New Delhi.Khan made the announcement while approving a humanitarian assistance package for Afghanistan.He visited the new Afghanistan Inter-Ministerial Coordination Cell (AICC) in Islamabad and chaired the first apex committee meeting of the cell. The meeting was also attended by foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and National Security Adviser Moeed Yousaf.Khan “announced Pakistan’s decision to allow the 50,000 MT of wheat India has offered to provide Afghanistan as humanitarian assistance to go through Pakistan as soon as modalities are finalized with the Indian side”, according to an official statement issued after the meeting.“Pakistan will also facilitate the return of Afghan patients who had gone to India for medical treatment and are stuck there, the Prime Minister announced,” the statement added.Hundreds of Afghan nationals, including patients seeking medical treatment and their relatives or attendants, have been stuck in India for months following the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan in mid-August.In recent weeks, some of them made their way back to Afghanistan via Iran on a handful of specially arranged flights. However, the fare for this route was $850 and out of the reach of many of the stranded Afghans.India offered to supply the 50,000 tonnes of wheat as humanitarian aid via the Wagah land border crossing with Pakistan several weeks ago. However, Pakistan did not respond positively to the move, Indian officials have said.Even a Taliban delegation that recently visited Islamabad had raised the issue of allowing the shipment of the wheat with the top Pakistani leadership.During the meeting in Islamabad, Khan instructed all Pakistani ministries to “facilitate Afghans to the maximum”. He ordered the immediate shipment of in-kind humanitarian assistance worth Pakistani ₹5 billion, including 50,000 tonnes of wheat, emergency medical supplies, winter shelters and other items. He also approved in-principle tariff and sales tax reduction on key Afghan exports to Pakistan.Khan also ordered authorities to continue providing free Covid-19 vaccination for all Afghans entering Pakistan from land borders. Pakistan started free vaccination of Afghans on November 13.NSA Moeed Yusuf, who is also convener of the cell, made a presentation on the current economic situation in Afghanistan and the progress made by the cell in coordinating Pakistani efforts for humanitarian assistance and border facilitation for Afghans.Khan instructed Yusuf to visit Afghanistan to “hold delegation level talks and agree on specific areas where immediate capacity building support shall be provided to Afghans”, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-allows-transit-of-india-aid-to-afghanistan-101637607889678.html
23-11-2021||India||₹1,000 per month aid to women if AAP wins Punjab polls: Kejriwal||The Aam Aadmi Party will give ₹1,000 every month to all women if it is voted to power in Punjab, the party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal promised on Monday. All women drawing a pension will also be given the additional incentive , the Delhi chief minister told a gathering of women party volunteers in Moga. Punjab will elect a new legislative assembly in early 2022. “This scheme will be a unique initiative in India that is aimed at women empowerment. All women in a family above 18 will be eligible for the monthly grant,” Kejriwal said. “The amount may be small, but there is something being extended to the women.”Kejriwal began a two-day election campaigning in Punjab from Moga Monday afternoon. The women of Punjab made a significant contribution to the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, Kejriwal said in his 15-minute speech at a resort in Moga. He urged women to become opinion makers in support of the AAP to give Punjab a new lease of life in governance and inclusive welfare. “Punjab farmers took a lead in the protest and it was the women who played an important role in building pressure on the Union government to announce a rollback of the contentious laws,” he said. “Now you (women) should motivate your family members to vote for the AAP to emulate the governance model of Delhi in Punjab.” Hitting out at the Punjab government, Kejriwal said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi of the Congress party has given protection to the sand and transport mafia and not done anything to break the cartel. “Punjab has a naqli (fake) Kejriwal who simply lifts election promises made by the AAP, but fails to perform. Channi’s announcement to electricity subscribers has failed to take off,” he said. The AAP has an economic blueprint to roll out welfare schemes in Punjab through transparent governance, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1000-per-month-aid-to-women-if-aap-wins-punjab-polls-kejriwal-101637607888599.html
23-11-2021||India||No meeting between Sonia, Mamata amid tension between Congress and TMC||The simmering tension between Congress and the Trinamool Congress has led to the deferment of a key meeting of 18 opposition parties ahead of the winter session of Parliament that starts from November 29, said people aware of the development. As a result, TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is in the Capital on a three-day visit, is unlikely to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi. This was supposed to be the second such meeting after August 20. Instead, parliamentary leaders of the opposition bloc would meet to discuss floor strategies of the session. “We have now decided that the floor leaders would meet to chalk out the strategy for the Parliament session. The meeting of the opposition parties on the larger issues related to 2024 elections would be held at a later stage,” said CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, a key organiser of the last meeting. A key Banerjee aide said on Monday evening that the TMC chief hasn’t yet sought an appointment with Sonia Gandhi. “We haven’t received any invitation so far from her (Sonia Gandhi) office for a meeting of the two leaders.” Banerjee will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some other political leaders during her three-day stay in Delhi. “There is still a possibility for Sonia-Mamata meeting during her trip but as of now, nothing is scheduled,” said a second Banerjee aide. Gandhi and Banerjee have always maintained close ties even as the latter’s equations with Rahul Gandhi were often frosty. But Trinamool’s national expansion plan, the exodus of key Congress leaders to West Bengal’s ruling party, and its entry into Goa’s political arena have sparked tension between the two opposition powerhouses. Earlier this month, Banerjee had lashed out at the Congress, accusing the principal opposition party of “compromising” with the Bharatiya Janata Party at an event in Kolkata. “Has the Congress fought on any issue since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has come to power? They only make tall talks when elections come near,” Banerjee had said on November 1. She also justified Trinamool’s expansion plan saying, “We have to go to other states as well because the Congress can’t be relied upon. The Congress can compromise but we don’t do such compromises.” The Congress had hit back and party chief whip Randeep Surjewala had said, “In a democracy, any party is free to fight elections. But we hope TMC is not fighting polls in Goa to help the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-meet-on-parliament-unlikely-amid-tmc-congress-tension-101637607468917.html
23-11-2021||India||Andhra assembly passes bill to withdraw laws on creation of 3 capitals||The Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly on Monday passed a Bill to repeal laws on the creation of three capitals for the state in place of the existing one, Amaravati, even as chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy saying that his government would bring a more comprehensive and fool-proof legislation “in the broader interests of the state.”The move is aimed at combating the popular and legal challenge to the two lawsThe assembly passed by voice vote a Bill seeking to repeal the two laws passed in June last year – the Andhra Pradesh Decentralization and Inclusive Development of all Regions Act, 2020 and the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act, 2020.The first legislation was aimed at establishing three capitals for the state – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati -- and the second one was aimed at abolishing the authority created by the previous TDP government in 2015 to develop Amaravati as the state capital.Making a statement in the assembly, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy made it clear that his government would stand by the creation of three capital cities for the decentralised development of all the three regions of the state – north coastal Andhra, south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema.Thousands of farmers who gave up over 34,000 acres of their fertile lands for setting up the state capital in Amaravati, challenged these two laws in the high court. More than 100 petitions were filed by the farmers in this regard.He said had the exercise on three capitals begun soon after the passage of the earlier legislations in the past, it would have yielded excellent results by now.“However, there have been several apprehensions, doubts, court cases, legal disputes and malicious campaigns against the government decision. We have seen how there were arguments about injustice meted out to some sections of people, while ignoring the overall benefit of the state,” he added.Against this backdrop, the chief minister said, his government had decided to repeal the earlier acts and bring about fresh legislations to explain the intentions of the government with more details and incorporate all answers that would remove legal and judicial hurdles.Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said various complaints were made and cases filed against the two laws stating that the stakeholders were not given an opportunity to present their side of the story.Meanwhile, state advocate general Subrahmanyam Sriram informed the high court that the state government has withdrawn the earlier legislations on three capital cities and sought time to present a memorandum to the court on further decisions of the government.A division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and justices M Satyanaryana Murthy and D V S S Somayajulu, which has been hearing a batch of petitions against the three capitals issue, posted the case to next Monday for further hearing.Telugu Desam Party legislator and Public Accounts Committee chairman Payyavula Kesav said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision had created further uncertainty on the state capital. “It has added further confusion to its own stand at a time when the hearing in the high court on the three capitals issue is in the final stages,” Kesav said.He said by repealing the present legislations, Jagan had indirectly admitted that they were faulty and enacted hastily. “Who is responsible for the damage caused to the state for lack of a capital city all these days?” he asked.Political analyst Sriram Karri said the Jagan government has put up a brave front both legally and politically, but in the end the indomitable will of the farmers of Amaravati has prevailed. He added that the uncertainty can’t continue and that “a new start is needed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-assembly-passes-bill-to-withdraw-laws-on-creation-of-3-capitals-101637607288503.html
23-11-2021||India||Cultural nationalism key for BJP but oppn focuses on dynasty politics: Nadda||While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) moves forward with cultural nationalism and democratic values, other political parties move with dynasty and vote-bank politics, BJP national president JP Nadda said on Monday, criticizing opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh. “We should be proud that we are members of a party that has democracy at its core. It is the part where an ordinary worker coming from an ordinary family becomes the chief minister of the state and a worker like me becomes the president of the party,” Nadda said, addressing a meeting of voting booth presidents of Gorakhpur in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. “We move forward with cultural nationalism and they (opposition) with vanshwad (dynastic politics). For us nationalism is important and for them vanshwad is everything.” Nadda asked the booth presidents to once again spare no effort to ensure victory of the BJP by a big margin in Uttar Pradesh, which will go to assembly elections in February-March next year. While the BJP takes everyone along with the motto sabka saath, sabka vishwas, the opposition indulge in politics of vote bank and worry about only a “particular community and family,” Nadda said. “I have neither engaged in divisive politics nor given any statement to divide the society. When an election comes, BJP starts talking about freedom fighters and nationalist leaders from Gandhi to Patel, but the opposition starts talking about Pakistan and Jinnah,” Nadda said in an apparent attack on the Samajwadi Party. “I ask you (booth level workers) to reach out to people and tell them about these people who divide society by giving such statements.” Lauding chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was present at the meeting, Nadda said he has put the state on the path of development and Prime Minister Narendra Modi also facilitated development funds for Uttar Pradesh. “This has become possible because of the double-engine government,” he said. Addressing the meeting, Adityanath said it is the same state where mafia and rioters used to dominate under previous governments, but the goons have forgotten hooliganism now. He said that Modi “is engaged in making India capable and protecting its pride and glory”, while “Jinnahwadi people were robbing people of their rights”. The BJP president said it was Yogi Adityanath who, as an MP, had raised the issue of encephalitis in Parliament, following which its vaccination, which was available in Japan in the early 60s, became available in the state during the period 2006-08. Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “The BJP and its top leaders are jittery now with the kind of support Akhilesh Yadav is getting. BJP is staring at defeat and they are making the same old allegations. This won’t work now.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-cultural-nationalism-is-key-for-bjp-but-opposition-focuses-on-dynasty-politics-says-nadda-101637606929709.html
23-11-2021||India||SC grants Param Bir Singh protection from arrest, asks him to join probe||The Supreme Court on Monday protected former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh from arrest in alleged extortion cases after the IPS officer said he is “very much in the country” and is willing to submit to a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any agency other than Maharashtra police. A bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul sought responses from CBI and the Maharashtra government on Singh’s plea to transfer investigation of six first information reports (FIRs) from Mumbai police to the CBI, and fixed the matter for hearing next on December 6. The bench, which also comprised justice MM Sundresh, asked Singh to join the investigation by Mumbai police in the meantime, but made it clear that he would not be arrested. During the proceedings, the court noted that the matter has become “curiouser and curiouser in the battle between then home minister (Anil Deshmukh) and then Mumbai Police Commissioner (Singh)”.“A former police commissioner apprehends threat to his life...he cannot repose faith in the police force he was once heading...we wonder what would happen to a common man and what kind of faith they will have on police,” stated the bench.Singh (56), the second most senior Indian Police Service (IPS) serving officer in Maharashtra, was declared a proclaimed offender by a Mumbai court on Wednesday last week after he remained elusive since March this year and did not show up before the trial court despite several notices and warrants issued against him.On Thursday, the top court directed Singh to disclose his whereabouts while making it clear that it would not entertain his petition for protection against arrest until his location is known. His lawyers sought time from the court to come back with details of his location. On Monday, senior counsel Puneet Bali, appearing for Singh, started his submissions by intimating the bench that Singh is “very much in the country” but was staying away from Maharashtra since he apprehended threats to his life from the Mumbai police. “We wonder what kind of a message you are sending? You are raising apprehensions against the same police force you were once heading. And you also don’t want to submit yourself to investigations,” responded the bench. To this, Bali said Singh is not running away from investigations but only wants a free and fair probe, which is not possible if Mumbai police continues registering the FIRs on complaints made by “bookies and extortionists” against whom Singh acted against in the past. “I am seeking protection as a whistle-blower. All hell has broken loose after I made the complaint against the then home minister (Deshmukh) collecting bribe money from pubs and bars,” argued Bali. He also adduced a transcript of Singh’s alleged conversation with Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey that purportedly recorded Pandey advising the police officer to withdraw his complaints against Deshmukh if he did not wish a spate of criminal cases to be slapped on him. “And this is what that has exactly happened. People who I acted against as a police officer have now emerged as complainants, and one after the other, six FIRs have been lodged against me. I am not running away from probe. I will appear before any officer of CBI within 48 hours. I will appear before any CBI court too. But how do I trust the state government?” Bali asked on behalf of Singh. The lawyer further faulted the Bombay high court order, contending Singh could not have gone to the central administrative tribunal (CAT) because he was not fighting a case on a service-related matter, but was seeking an independent probe. “How can CBI decide only Deshmukh’s case when all this is interlinked? They have to be investigated by the same agency,” added Bali.The bench recorded Bali’s submissions in its order while noting that the question that has to be examined is whether the investigation of cases against Singh should also be handed over to CBI ; in April, the top court paved way for a CBI probe against Deshmukh in the corruption case. “The stand of the state and CBI is also unknown because the high court decided only the preliminary issue and dismissed the petition. Prima facie, this may not be a proper course of action,” stated the court order, issuing notices on Singh’s petition.The bench was hearing a plea against a September 16 judgment of the Bombay high court which dismissed the petition filed by Singh challenging two preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the Maharashtra government.As he remained absconding for several weeks, Mumbai’s additional chief metropolitan magistrate court declared Singh a proclaimed offender on Wednesday, allowing an application filed by Mumbai police’s crime branch. The crime branch is investigating an August 20 extortion case registered in Goregaon in northwest Mumbai. The FIR named Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and civilians Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Ramnarayan Singh aka Bablu, and Riyaz Bhati for extortion.The complainant, restaurateur Bimal Agarwal, alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of his outlets – Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar. Once it took over the investigation, the crime branch arrested Vaze, Sumeet Singh and Alpesh Patel.The Param Bir Singh, Anil Deshmukh saga began with the Antilla bomb scare case, where a SUV with some gelatin sticks was found near the residence of billionaire businessman Mukesh Ambani. Singh was transferred for his mishandling of the case, and soon after wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that Sachin Vaze, the policeman who is the main accused in the Antilla case, was asked to raise ₹100 crore a month by extortion by Deshmukh. The investigation against Deshmukh was sparked by his claims and petitions based on them.On Thursday, the same bench dismissed a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, seeking a direction to CBI to produce its inquiry reports relating to the corruption case filed against him.“Should we entertain this petition just because this person has been a minister? There has to be something extraordinary warranting an interference by this court in an ongoing investigation,” the court observed at the time. In his petition before the Supreme Court, Deshmukh also asked for constitution of a special investigation team for a “fair and independent” probe into the corruption and bribery charges against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-param-bir-singh-protection-from-arrest-asks-him-to-join-probe-101637606688469.html
23-11-2021||India||Rain continues to batter southern states||The two biggest cities in southern India, Bengaluru and Chennai, were flooded on Monday due to sudden bursts of heavy rain, even as the death toll in last week’s flooding in Andhra Pradesh increased to 34 with 10 people still reported missing, according to officials in the three states.Several parts of southern India have received heavy rainfall during the northeast monsoon since the first week of November due to frequent formations of low pressure areas in the Bay of Bengal, or cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) rainfall data, Karnataka has received 145.1mm of rain from November 1 to November 21 as against the normal of 35.5mm, Tamil Nadu 299.1mm as against a normal of 142.4mm, Kerala 331.1mm as against a normal of 134.5mm, and Andhra Pradesh 227.3mm as against a normal of 81.1 mm.BengaluruOver 1,600 residents in 604 apartments in Bengaluru’s Kendriya Vihar were asked to vacate their homes after heavy rains on Sunday night inundated the residential complex in the Yelahanka locality. Elsewhere in the city, at least 227 homes were damaged, and another 187 partially damaged, according to data from the Karnataka Disaster Management Authority. Around 92km of roads was damaged in Bengaluru Urban district, data shows. “Due to the heavy rain in the city, Yelahanka Lake overflowed, and water flooded Kendriya Vihar and surrounding areas,” the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP - the city’s civic body) said in a statement on Monday. The water is being channelised towards the Kaluve (SWD), which connects Yelahanka Lake to Jakkur lake, the statement read.Yelahanka is about 15km from Bengaluru city, close to the international airport.On Monday, at around 2am, the locality recorded over 130mm of rain over a couple of hours, according to IMD, causing up to 4 feet of water-logging in some places, and prompting the BBMP, the fire services, and other agencies to launch a rescue operation to move residents. “Eighteen NDRF teams used boats and tractors to ferry the residents in and out from the apartment,” BBMP said. Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of BBMP, on Monday said that action will be taken against officials who allowed violations around the lake that led to flooding.Experts said the flooding in Yelahanka was a stark reminder of Bengaluru’s rapid and unplanned growth, which has allowed the mushrooming of residential and commercial buildings that are under constant threat of facing problems during heavy downpours.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai acknowledged that there have been widespread encroachments of lakes and storm-water drains, affecting the natural flow of water. “I have instructed the officials to take action against the encroachments and provided relief in flood affected places,” the CM said.According to activists, there are now only 200 lakes in Bengaluru now as compared to over 1,000 about 30 years ago, and water alleys connecting these lakes have been taken over by construction. Weather activist Raj Bhagat P, a civil engineer by profession, tweeted an image of Hebbal valley and said, “More than lakes, the valleys are important to understand and reduce flood damages in cities. But we are building right in the middle of these valleys.”Bengaluru received 364% excess rains between November 1-21 (till 5.30pm), recording 195 mm of rain as against normal of 42mm during this period. A total of 24 people have lost their lives in November alone, disaster management department data shows, while nearly 200 animals have died due to the rains. ChennaiOn Monday, a sudden spell of heavy rainfall in some parts of Chennai resulted in water-logging in some places including Thyagaraya Nagar, popularly known as T Nagar, which got 20mm of rain in a a couple of hours, continuing the woes of Tamil Nadu’s capital city which has received excess rainfall since November 1.Officials said that some parts of north Chennai, such as suburban Manali, were under water since Sunday as heavy rains in Andhra Pradesh prompted excess water from the Kosasthalaiyar river in the north region of the city being released. Though the weather improved by late morning, the sudden showers were not forecast by IMD. “These sudden spells were caused due to a circulation in Andaman,” said N Puviarasan, deputy director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Chennai said later. The circulation extended up to the coastal Tamil Nadu, he added.The sudden heavy showers led to instant flooding in the area, with the municipal authorities deploying boats to rescue people.IMD has issued a yellow alert for districts in Tamil Nadu such as Salem, Villupuram and Vellore for the next three days. A six-member team from the Union government was in Tamil Nadu on Monday to assess rain-related damage. The state has estimated the damage to be over ₹2,700 crore.Andhra PradeshFour days after the rains in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh border, the latter is trying to recover from the impact of heavy rainfall.Andhra Pradesh agriculture minister K Kanna Babu said the government decided to pay an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to each the families of people who had lost their lives due to heavy rains and floods. He added that financial assistance of ₹30,000 will be provided to farmers in case of the death of livestock and ₹3,000 in case of sheep and goat. “Standing crops in eight lakh hectares were damaged as per preliminary estimates,” he said.Eight NDRF and eight SDRF teams, along with two helicopters, were pressed into service for rescue and relief operations in 19 places in the state, the minister said. He added that 57,969 evacuated people have been kept in 294 relief camps. Each affected family will be provided free ration, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy announced in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-continues-to-batter-southern-states-101637606338635.html
23-11-2021||India||Kisan mahapanchayat pushes for MSP law, Union minister Teni’s ouster||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions, held a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday, and repeated six demands made in anopen letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, including a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for crops and the arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. The Mahapanchayat was organised days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation on November 19, announced the repeal of three contentious farm laws against which farmers have been protesting since last November.“The Prime Minister need not say sorry, rather he must assure us of a law on MSP. The government claims they have formed committee on MSP, but this is a lie. A report of a committee in 2011 recommended that the MSP must be guaranteed. We don’t want another committee, we want you to implement the recommendation of the previous committee,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait from the stage amidst a wave of applause, referring to a 2011 recommendation by a committee. The committee, Tikait claimed, was headed by then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi and had recommended a law to guarantee MSP. Experts have warned that a guaranteed MSP would result in food inflation. “The arrest of Ajay Mishra Teni is our important demand,” Tikait added. He went on to warn that if Ajay Mishra Teni inaugurates a sugar mill in Lakhimpur, then farmers will take their sugarcane meant for the mill to the office of the district magistrate.Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the Tikunia violence in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed. Ashish Mishra is currently in jail. Family members of three of the four farmers killed in the Tikunia violence also attended the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Lucknow. The Mishra’s have denied their involvement in the incident. At least 5,000 farmers from parts of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana reached Lucknow for the mahapanchayat in trains, buses, tractors and private vehicles, according to farmer group leaders.“We are farmers, we don’t understand politics but we will not allow anyone to take over the land of our ancestors, be it the BJP or some corporation,” said Sukdeep Singh, a farmer who drove down from Rudrapur in Uttarakhand to attend the mahapanchayat.Tikait reiterated that the farmers’ protest will continue till their demands are fulfilled.“I have not announced an end to the struggle. The struggle of farmers will continue in the coming days till the government hears our demands and acts upon them,” said Tikait.People familiar with the matter said the Union cabinet is likely to sign off on the repeal of the laws this week. Speaking before Tikait, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said, “I have been saying that the farm laws are dead but we are waiting for the death certificate of these laws.” Yadav further said, “PM talks of penance but the real penance is done by farmers who laid down their lives during the protest. For those farmers, we will not end our protest till the law on MSP is passed by the government.”More than a dozen senior farm leaders from North India attended the Mahapanchayat.The six demands mentioned by the farmers in their letter to the PM are: MSP to every farmer for their entire crop, withdrawal of Electricity Amendment Bill 2020/2021, remove penal provisions for farmer in pollution law, withdraw cases lodged against farmers, the resignation and arrest of Ajay Mishra Teni and compensation for families of 700 farmers who have lost their lives during the course of the protest.“After PM’s announcement on withdrawal of farm laws, none should have any confusion about how much this government is sensitive towards the farmers. The welfare of genuine farmers was and would always be a top priority of the Modi and Yogi governments,” BJP leader Navin Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-mahapanchayat-pushes-for-msp-law-union-minister-teni-s-ouster-101637606335046.html
23-11-2021||India||Supreme Court asks Bengal speaker to decide on disqualification plea against Roy||The Supreme Court on Monday lamented the “common practice” of assembly speakers inordinately sitting over disqualification petitions moved against sitting legislators, as it urged the West Bengal speaker to quickly decide whether Mukul Roy should be stripped off the membership of the House since he defected to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after being elected as an MLA on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket.“The power was bestowed on the speaker in the Kihoto case (1992 judgment) so that they could decide the petitions under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) independently. But the common experience is that it takes months and years for these petitions to be decided,” observed a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Hima Kohli. The bench was considering a petition filed by West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee against an order of the Calcutta high court on September 28, directing Banerjee to produce the decision taken on disqualification petition filed against Roy by BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari. This order was passed on a plea moved by another BJP MLA, Ambika Roy, who wanted the high court to quash Roy’s nomination as the chairperson of the public accounts committee (PAC) by the speaker on July 9. Appearing for Banerjee, senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi argued that no such directive could be issued to the speaker and that various findings recorded by the high court in its order regarding Roy’s conduct were completely unwarranted. The bench, however, commented on the most basic question – status of the disqualification petition filed against Roy by Adhikari on June 17.“What has been happening with the disqualification petition? It takes years now to decide the petitions under the Tenth Schedule. There have been so many cases where there are delays by the speaker and when such cases come to this court, we are told that you cannot pass any order till the speaker decides. This has been the common experience,” rued the court.Singhvi, on his part, tried to convince the bench that the speaker was not causing any inordinate delay and that Adhikari has sought adjournments in the disqualification proceeding in July and August due to health reasons. “But we are in November now. What happened between then and November? What is the status now? Has the speaker passed any order?” the bench asked the lawyer, who replied that the speaker has not decided yet, but a court cannot “micromanage the speaker’s calendar”. The bench remained unmoved by Singhvi’s response. “Should we ignore para 80 of the high court completely when it says the issues (decision on disqualification petition and appointment as PAC chairman) are correlated? And if we were to micromanage the speaker’s calendar, we would have passed the order by now. We have only been trying to elicit answers from you,” it retorted.The court added: “Let the speaker continue and decide under Tenth Schedule and then we will see...You (speaker) take a decision on your own without getting influenced by the observations of the high court. We need not say anything in our order but you finish the proceedings.”Singhvi further contended that Roy’s petition before the high court had not even pressed for a decision on the disqualification petition but was only asking for setting aside his appointment as the PAC chairperson.“Yes, we have seen it. In spite of which we want this direction by the high court to be implemented. We want the speaker to pass an order under the Tenth Schedule,” the bench replied. At this, senior lawyer Shekhar Naphade, representing BJP MLA Ambika Roy, complained that the entire attempt by the speaker is to delay the matter so that Roy’s appointment as the PAC chairman for one year gets over.The court, however, replied that it will hear the case in details on some other day, and in the meantime, it is making sure the disqualification petition is decided. “We want to ensure the order is passed. That’s why we are holding on to this matter,” it remarked.The court, in its order, recorded that the disqualification proceedings before the speaker is listed next on December 21. “We hope the speaker will proceed with the matter on December 21 and will decide the same in accordance with law,” stated the order, listing the petition in the third week of January.Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017, returned to the TMC on June 11. He, however, did not resign from the BJP. On June 18, Adhikari petitioned the speaker to seek Roy’s disqualification. On July 9, the speaker appointed him as chairman of the PAC, a post that has, by convention, always gone to an opposition party legislator.In a 69-page strongly-worded order on September 28, the high court faulted the speaker for appointing Roy to this position without taking a call on the petition for his disqualification, asserting that the two were connected.The high court had rejected the argument that it did not have jurisdiction over actions of the speaker, underlining that the court would have been debarred from entertaining the petition if it was a case of “procedural irregularities”. But “it is a case of blatant illegality,” held the high court, adding the speaker apparently “worked on dictates”, “was caught in the web knitted by him”, and failed to “discharge his constitutional duty coupled with established admitted constitutional conventions”. The high court had fixed the matter on October 7 awaiting the speaker’s decision, but the speaker moved the Supreme Court and sought an adjournment in the high court.In a 2020 decision in a case relating to disqualification of some MLAs in Manipur, the top court held that disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution should be decided within a reasonable timeframe, and preferably within three months. In this path-breaking ruling, the apex court had also said that Parliament should rethink whether the speaker of a House should continue to have powers to disqualify lawmakers as such a functionary “belongs to a particular political party”, adding an independent tribunal could do the job in a more effective way.In Kihoto Hollohan case (1992), the Supreme Court held that “judicial review cannot be available at a stage prior to the making of a decision by the speaker”, nor would interference be permissible at an interlocutory stage of the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-bengal-speaker-to-decide-on-disqualification-plea-against-roy-101637606332096.html
23-11-2021||India||CEC meets state heads, discusses key poll issues||Ahead of state assembly elections in seven states, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday organized a conference with the Chief Electoral Officers (CEOs) of all states and union territories in New Delhi.According to the press release from the ECI, the conference was organized to discuss and review various thematic issues related to Electoral Roll, Polling Stations, ongoing Special Summary Revision, IT Applications, timely resolution of grievances, EVMs/VVPATs, training & capacity building of polling staff, media & communication & extensive voter outreach program amongst others.During his address, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra stressed the significance of effectiveness and visibility of CEOs and asked them to ensure the purity of the electoral roll, availability of Assured Minimum Facilities and to ensure better facilities at all Polling Booths for all voters.He asked the CEOs for expeditious redressal of all pending applications, especially concerning voter registration. He added that the CEOs should have regular interaction with political parties to redress their grievances too.“CEC Shri Sushil Chandra during his address added that the objective of this conference is to identify the gaps and challenges to ensure instructions of the Commission are implemented uniformly in all States /UTs across the country,” the press release said.Election Commissioner (EC) Rajiv Kumar while interacting with the CEOs pointed out that even though the legal and regulatory framework of the elections is quite robust, the implementation of various instructions of the Commission at the field is very critical.He stressed that CEOs need to be innovative, more active and should learn from each other’s best practices and challenges.Adding on to Kumar’s emphasis on working on the implementation at the field level, EC Anup Chandra Pandey pointed towards the need to focus on the training and capacity building of Booth Level Officers (BLOs). He also emphasized the involvement of different stakeholders and officials in the field for outreach and Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activities at the ground level throughout the year, even during the non-election period.During the conference, the Commission also released ‘Compendium of Cases on Election Law’, a Coffee Table Book “Conduct of General Elections to the Assam Legislative Assembly 2021”, and a short video titled “Call of Duty” developed by CEO Assam. The video highlighted various challenges faced by election officials in setting up polling stations in remote & difficult terrains. A voter anthem titled “Power of 18” prepared by CEO Manipur for the new voters were also released during the Conference.The conference was attended by CEOs from all the states and union territories, Senior Deputy Election Commissioners (DECs), DECs, DG and other senior officers from the Commission.The Commission said a separate one-day review meeting with all the poll going states is also scheduled at ECI on Tuesday to discuss various matters related to election management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cec-meets-state-heads-discusses-key-poll-issues-101637606330853.html
23-11-2021||India||IMD predicts cold wave in north India for next two days||A cold wave is likely over some parts of Punjab, Haryana and northern Rajasthan in the next two days, India Meteorological Department warned on Monday. It will be the first cold wave this season. The weather office declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature drops below 10 degrees Celsius or is 4.5 degrees lower than the season’s normal for two straight days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees in the plains. The minimum temperature in Delhi fell to 9.6 degrees on November 17, and 9.8 degrees on Sunday, 3 degrees below normal on both instances. “Minimum temperatures are likely to dip in Delhi but cold wave is not likely. Cold wave may be recorded in Haryana and Punjab,” said RK Jenamani. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees. Hisar in Haryana recorded 7.2 degrees on Monday, 4 degrees below normal.“There are two ways by which the temperature falls. One is a clear sky, which leads to the warmth radiating back quickly from the surface. It’s called radiational cooling. There are clear skies over northwest India now,” explained DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune. “The other reason for cold setting in is that northwesterly cold and dry winds are blowing over the region from the Himalayas. There is a low pressure area over Arabian Sea which also indirectly helps in incursion of northwesterly winds over the entire northwestern region. This happens during winter. Consecutive low-pressure areas have formed over the Arabian Sea,” A cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood in the lower tropospheric. It is likely to move west-northwestwards towards the Tamil Nadu coast in the next 4-5 days. A trough (line of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood to the Tamil Nadu coast. In association with the cyclonic circulation, moderate to heavy rainfall is likely over Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next five days, IMD predicted.“We are expecting cold air incursion. In Delhi, there may not be a cold wave condition, but minimum temperatures will fall to about 8 to 9 degrees, around 3 to 4 degrees below normal,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD. “In rural pockets, cold wave conditions are likely to set in.” Currently, weak La Niña conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific Ocean. Latest weather forecast is indicating that La Niña conditions are likely to strengthen and peak to moderate conditions during winter. Thereafter, La Niña conditions are likely to start weakening to reach to cold ENSO neutral conditions during second quarter of the next year, according to IMD’s ENSO bulletin for November.“La Nina conditions are associated with colder winters over northwest India,” said Pai. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-cold-wave-in-north-india-for-next-two-days-101637606329772.html
23-11-2021||India||Abhinandan who shot down Pak F-16 awarded Vir Chakra||Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman, who shot down a Pakistani F-16 during a dogfight over the Line of Control (LoC) on February 27, 2019, was on Monday awarded the Vir Chakra by President Ram Nath Kovind at an investiture ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Vir Chakra is India’s third highest wartime gallantry award after Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra.The dogfight in which Abhinandan was involved took place a day after the Indian Air Force’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot in response to the Pulwama suicide terror attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed on February 14, 2019.Abhinandan’s citation for the honour said he courageously engaged the Pakistani aircraft package despite its “immense numerical and technological superiority”, and his aggressive manoeuvres “forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos”.“All the enemy aircraft thereafter turned back including the rear echelon aircraft which were yet to launch their air-to-ground weapons. Wing Commander Varthaman Abhinandan then pursued a retreating enemy fighter bomber aircraft, and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16 aircraft with his onboard missile,” the citation read.Abhinandan’s Vir Chakra is the first for IAF after the 1999 Kargil war, when Squadron Leader Ajay Ahuja and Wing Commander AK Sinha were awarded the wartime gallantry medal. Ahuja was given the honour posthumously.Before the fighter pilot received his Vir Chakra on Monday, the President last awarded the wartime medal at the Rashtrapati Bhavan’s Durbar Hall in November, 2002 to Major Manoj Deshpande, Major Amitabh Roy, and Havildar Chuni Lal for special missions on the Line of Control with Pakistan, officials said. The awards given by Kovind on Monday included two Kirti Chakras, and 10 Shaurya Chakras.Sapper Prakash Jadhav was posthumously awarded a Kirti Chakra for his heroics in a counter-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir three years ago. Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal and Naib Subedar Sombir were posthumously awarded Shaurya Chakras for operations in J&K. Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra are the country’s second and third highest peacetime gallantry awards after Ashok Chakra.The President awarded the Kirti Chakra to CRPF deputy commandant Harshpal Singh. The Shaurya Chakra awardees were Colonel Ajay Singh Kushwah, Lieutenant Colonel Jyoti Lama, Major Konjengbam Bijendra Singh, Major Maheshkumar Bhure, Naib Subedar Narender Singh, Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey, Naik Naresh Kumar, and the Indian Navy’s Amit Singh Rana.Abhinandan’s citation further read: “Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft… Abhinandan alerted the other formation pilots towards this surprise threat.”He was then a wing commander, and was promoted to the rank of group captain earlier this month. An IAF group captain is equivalent to an army colonel.Abhinandan, then 35, scripted military aviation history by downing an F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject. Experts had hailed it as the first ever kill of an F-16 by a MiG-21 Bison, fighter jets of two different generations. He was captured after he bailed out of his aircraft, but Pakistan returned him to India on March 1, 2019, after holding him captive for almost 60 hours.His Vir Chakra was announced on Independence Day 2019. The citation said, “Despite being captured by the enemy, he continued to display exceptional resolve in dealing with the adversary in a stoic, brave and dignified manner till he was repatriated on March 1, 2019.”In February 2019, Abhinandan was posted with a MiG-21 Bison squadron and was on “operational readiness platform” duty at the air force station Srinagar when a large Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft package was detected heading towards LoC. The hostile jets were armed with advanced beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missiles and modern air-to-ground stand-off weapons.Abhinandan was scrambled to intercept this package five minutes after it was detected.“He then consolidated the riposte, by gathering his wingman in an offensive formation against the hostile Pakistani aircraft now dropping weapons on Indian Army positions. This audacious and aggressive maneuver forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos,” the citation said.It added that the wing commander then pursued a retreating enemy fighter aircraft and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16. “However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory.”On February 26, IAF’s Mirages hit three targets in Balakot with five Israeli-origin Spice 2000 bombs with penetrater warheads that allowed them to pierce through the rooftops before exploding inside to cause maximum damage.Gallantry awards were also given out by the President at a second investiture ceremony held at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday evening. Those awarded Shaurya Chakra at the ceremony included Lance Naik Sandeep Singh (Posthumous), Sepoy Brajesh Kumar (Posthumous), Sepoy Hari Singh (Posthumous), Sepoy Karmdeo Oraon, Rifleman Ajveer Singh Chauhan and J&K Police sub-inspector Imran Hussain Tak (Posthumous).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhinandan-who-shot-down-pak-f-16-awarded-vir-chakra-101637606328558.html
23-11-2021||India||Farm laws on Opposition agenda at all-party meet on November 28||The Congress and other Opposition parties will demand a full-scale discussion on the consequences of the farm bills when the legislation would be brought for repeal, at the all-party meeting on November 28 that would be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Opposition leaders said on Monday. The PM’s attendance in this customary all-party meeting ahead of the session might have added significance this time in the backdrop of his announcement on Guru Purab that the three controversial farm laws would be repealed. The meeting, convened by the parliamentary affairs minister, would discuss the government’s agenda and Opposition’s demand, the list of official bills and items for lengthy debate. But the Opposition had altered its earlier plan to corner the party in power over a host of issues including Rafale and Pegasus. Now, the three bills form the centrality of the Opposition actions in the session to take on the government’s policy-making and eyeing dividend ahead of the polls. A senior Opposition leader on condition of anonymity said, “We will definitely demand a proper debate on the repeal bill. There are many questions to be answered. Why it took a year and 700 deaths for the government to repeal those flawed bills?” The PM had always addressed these all-party meetings at the end of the discussions. This time too, his speech would give the general direction of the government’s strategy for the session. The PM had on earlier occasions maintained that MPs must work for the national cause and there is room for debate on all topics. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former party chief Rahul Gandhi have signalled the fight will continue over new demands for farm sector. In her statement on Friday, Sonia Gandhi mentioned remunerative price for farmers and “the huge increase in the cost of diesel and agricultural items used in the fields”. Rahul’s letter to the farmers stated: “The struggle is not over yet. Getting remunerative MSP for agricultural produce, ending the controversial Electricity Amendment Act, reducing tax burden on everything used for farming, reducing the unexpected hike in diesel prices and the debt burden are serious issues.” Apart from the repeal bill, the government is expected to bring the data privacy bill for passage during the session. The other two important bills for the ruling dispensation are the national university for pharmaceutical and research amendment bill and the assisted reproductive bill that is pending for some time now. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will also chair meetings of their respective Houses. The winter session, starting from November 29, is important as the last session was nearly washed out over the Pegasus snooping row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-on-opposition-agenda-at-all-party-meet-on-november-28-101637606269132.html
23-11-2021||India||Data protection bill: Panel calls for strict rules for firms, leeways for govt||The joint parliamentary committee (JPC) reviewing the proposed data protection law finalised its report on Monday, suggesting stricter compliance requirements for companies while adding or tweaking clauses that provide for lighter obligations on government agencies, and recommending that State have greater say in the legal mechanism that will be set up to safeguard personal and non-personal data, according to people aware of the matter.The JPC was set up in 2019 to take up the personal data protection bill after parliamentarians were divided over several provisions of the law meant to give a legal shape to the Right to Privacy after it was made a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017.The people cited above said that the panel has suggested new provisions that will build in additional compliances: companies will need to report a data breach within 72 hours, mandatorily disclose if information relating to a data principal (person or entity that owns the data) is passed on to someone else, and appoint senior management personnel as data protection officers who will ultimately be held responsible for lapses or violations.At the same time, the rule about mandatory disclosure of third party sharing need to the data principal need not be made in case it is for State functions (such as for offering benefits, or maintaining law and order) or to comply with a court order. Government departments will also be allowed to carry out an in-house inquiry to fix responsibility in the event of a leak, a person aware of the suggestions added.The report will be tabled for discussion in the Parliament session beginning November 29, following which the government will reintroduce the bill. The recommendations are not binding.There has been pushback from several opposition party members of the panel, who have argued that the new bill gives “unbridled power” to the government. At least five have already submitted their dissent notes and one more is expected by November 24.The report, the people quoted above added, makes suggestions as well as clause-by-clause tweaks.In one of these suggestions, it has asked the government to ensure that copies of sensitive and critical personal data already in possession of foreign entities be brought back in a timebound manner – a recommendation that could hold implications for financial systems services providers like Visa and MasterCard; and, in another recommendation, it has called for a mechanism in which social media companies can be treated as publishers in some circumstances.A mechanism may be devised under which social media platforms will be held responsible for the content from unverified accounts, one of the people said, citing the report. Treating a social media company such as Facebook or Twitter as a publisher will make it liable under laws pertaining to illegal speech, such as those punishing hate and libel, thus, allowing them to prosecuted for third party content, which they are so far protected from under the IT Act.The committee has, however, listened to the demands of stakeholders on some points, such as the removal of a blanket provision treating social media companies as publishers, and in implementing the legislation in a phased manner over a period of two years.“The recommendations tighten regulatory framework for big tech companies and enhances compliance framework,” Supreme Court lawyer and founder of Cybersaathi NS Nappinai said. “That stakeholders have been heard is apparent -- 24 months is something big tech has been pushing for, in as much as they have argued that they cannot be treated as publishers.”The people said that the panel has also suggested a change in a particularly contentious portion of the law: Clause 35, which deals with conditions under which the government can access personal data without consent. It has recommended that the procedure by which this exemption is claimed be “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate”. This clause is contentious because it allows the government to claim the exemption if it is satisfied that it is “necessary or expedient” to do so in the interest of purposes such as national security. The tests for “just, fair and proportionate” have been explained further as part of procedure.The committee was concerned about the possible misuse when a situation arises with privacy rights of the individual have to be subsumed for the protection of the larger interests of the State. The committee, therefore, felt that though the State has rightly been empowered, this power may be used only under exceptional circumstances and subject to conditions as laid out, one of the people cited above said, citing the report.Some of the additional powers of the State are the ability to frame policies for non-personal data, including anonymised data; define significant social media platforms based on a threshold of users; and decide penalties for data fiduciaries for failing to comply with the law.A Data Protection Authority (DPA), to be set up under the law, is meant to be regulator for deciding how personal and non-personal data will be managed in the country. The authority will be chosen by a panel shortlisted by the central government – a point that has already been a matter of contention since it raises questions about its autonomy. The panel’s report now suggests that DPA will need to follow the government’s lead on all matters and not just questions of policy.“Such a clause will further dilute the power of the data protection authority,” Nappinai said.Under clause 94, previously clause 93, which deals with granting powers to the government to make rules, the panel, the people said, recommends that the government decide the manner in which a data fiduciary can share, transfer or transmit the personal data to any person as part of any business transaction, and define the threshold of users of significant social media platforms and process of voluntary user verification.The recommendations suggest the government will decide the penalty for those failing to comply with the provisions, which was earlier defined with respect to the global turnover of the company as part of the bill.The panel says the government should take the final call on whether sensitive personal data can be shared with a foreign government or agency. The recommendations also give the government the scope to set up a future statutory body to look into the use of personal data by journalistic organisations, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-report-panel-calls-for-strict-rules-for-firms-leeways-for-govt-101637606267855.html
23-11-2021||India||Why govt failed to convince farmers about the new laws||While announcing the repeal of the three farm laws on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that while the laws were in the best interest of farmers, his government failed to convince a section of farmers about these benefits.What explains this? Both the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spent significant political capital in advocating the benefits of these farm laws. Are farmers being irrational in refusing to see the benefits of these laws, or is there more to the story? Here are three points that place this question in a larger context.Did the government underestimate support for minimum support prices?It is useful to begin answering this question by looking at the demand farmers’ groups have been making even after the government announced the repeal of the three farm laws, namely, a law that guarantees minimum support prices (MSPs) for farmers. What exactly do MSPs offer farmers?While the government announces MSPs for a large number of crops – 17 crops in the kharif (monsoon) season and six crops in the rabi (winter) season – effective procurement only happens for two most important cereals in India, rice and wheat. The procurement for rice and wheat, while a significant amount of the total production – more than 30% of total rice and wheat production is procured – is regionally skewed. In 2018-19, 60% of wheat and nearly 35% of rice procured was from Punjab and Haryana, although the share of these two states in wheat and rice production in the country was 30% and 14%, respectively. Even in Punjab and Haryana, the larger farmers gain disproportionately from these policies.The concentration by crop, class and region in MSP procurements is often highlighted. And, perhaps, the government thought this is exactly why a large number of farmers would be agonistic towards the demands of the small group of farmers in these states who gain from such policies.However, the government might have missed an important benefit of MSP procurements even to those who do not gain directly from the policy.This is the price stability which MSP procurements bring for cereals vis-a-vis other important crops in India. A comparison of subcategories of wholesale price index (WPI) for food items shows this clearly. It is not difficult to understand why MSP brings stability to cereal prices. With a large section of the producers assured of prices, thanks to MSP, both acreage and price speculation – these are the two biggest sources of price volatility apart from seasonal destruction of crops – are less susceptible to volatile movements.Farmers see a hypothetical situation where the government will procure a large share of other crops at predetermined prices as a source of price stability even if they do not enjoy the benefits of direct procurement. Farmers’ organisations may have made a smart move demanding a law guaranteeing MSPs after the passage of these laws, making even the non-beneficiary farmers sympathetic to the agitation.Only if the “Bihar Model” of agricultural reforms had workedThe “Gujarat Model” of development was an important plank for the BJP in the 2014 general elections. Irrespective of its merits, Narendra Modi and his party were able to convince the electorate that the economic policies followed under Modi’s chief-ministership in Gujarat had the potential to boost India’s economic performance if adopted nationwide.If the farm laws had to gain similar political traction, the government needed a similar model to sell. Bihar was a natural choice. One of the first things the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government did in Bihar after assuming power in 2005 was to repeal the monopoly of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) in the state, something which the farm laws did as well.So, why did the government not sell the Bihar Model in support of the farm laws? The short answer is there are no discernible success stories to sell from the experience of agricultural reforms in Bihar.“The aim of repealing the APMC Act in Bihar was to create new markets and attract private investment in agricultural markets and improve infrastructure. However, we find that private markets did not emerge... A priori, it is very hard to tell whether the repeal of APMC Act in Bihar is favourable for the farmer or not,” said an article published on the Ideas for India website by Avinash Kishore, a research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute and others.While researchers have struggled to find evidence of the agricultural reforms in Bihar proving to be beneficial, farmers continue to remain unimpressed. This is borne out by data from the national sample surveys on satisfaction with prices received, where Bihar is one of the worst performers.The pandemic’s shock might have revived economic stakes in farmingCounterfactuals are always difficult in politics. But there is a possibility that the decision to push for the farm laws during the pandemic actually worked against the government. Here’s why.Agriculture has been losing its importance in the Indian economy, both in terms of output and employment. The share of agriculture and allied activities in gross value added was 35% in 1990-91. It fell continuously to reach 14.8% in 2019-20. But during the pandemic’s shock to the economy, agriculture was the only sector which showed positive growth in 2020-21, which increased this share to 16.4%. Data from the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) shows that the share of agricultural employment also increased during the lockdown. 2019-20 – the PLFS follows a July-June calendar so 2019-20 included the lockdown period – was an exception to this trend when agricultural employment actually increased from 42.5% in the 2018-19 PLFS to 45.6% in the 2019-20 PLFS.The cushion which India’s largely informal migrant workforce received from agriculture during the lockdown might have made it realise the importance of pushing for a revival in farm earnings. The latest Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) shows that the share of income from crop production fell by 10 percentage points between 2012-13 and 2018-19 in India. The farmers’ protests were able to sell the belief that the farm laws would increase earnings for big business rather than farmers.In recently published paper, Class, caste and agrarian change: the making of farmers’ protests, in the Journal of Peasant Studies, an international refereed journal, sociologist Satendra Kumar has linked the widespread support for the farmers’ protests among young Jat men in western Uttar Pradesh to the realisation that non-farm incomes have proved to be inadequate to supporting the lifestyle they aspire for in urban settings.“The participation of young rural men like Jasvinder and Anil (field survey) also highlights a major shift in today’s farmers’ protests compared to the 1980s: instead of pointing to a classical rural urban divide (‘Bharat vs India’), attention and invective is now directed at the big corporates, who are perceived as threatening their land while failing to employ them in the city, and the BJP, which is seen as supporting corporate interests over farmers. By pushing corporate capital and big agribusiness, the farm laws passed in 2020 by the BJP government created fear among the farmers of losing land that remains essential to even diversified livelihoods,” the paper said.It is this contradiction that suggests that the politics over the farm laws might be just the beginning of a widening conflict in India’s political economy landscape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-govt-failed-to-convince-farmers-about-the-new-laws-101637606207825.html
23-11-2021||India||Building ban in Delhi lifted, calls grow to reopen schools||The Delhi government on Monday said the ban on construction and demolition (C&D) activities had been lifted across the capital, citing an improvement in air quality; however, no decision was taken to resume physical classes at schools, colleges and technical institutions, with a meeting now scheduled on November 24.The move was questioned by experts who pointed out that construction is a major contributor to pollution, while keeping students out of schools after in-person classes barely resumed following a near 20-month shutdown will further the significant losses in learning for children.“In view of the improvement in the air quality and inconvenience caused to workers, we have decided to lift the ban on construction and demolition activities... the government will continue to monitor dust control measures,” state environment minister Gopal Rai said. The ban on trucks carrying goods not considered essential supply will continue.Shutting schools is listed under the “severe plus” or “emergency” category of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) -- air quality in Delhi was in the lower end of “very poor” category on Monday.Santosh Harish, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), said the notion that keeping children at home will reduce exposure was not rooted in science. “If the idea is to reduce exposure, you could say the exposure is similar, or perhaps even higher, at homes. If one has to spend public money, then instead of using it on large smog towers, air purifiers can be installed at schools by the government. Physical classes are important for the learning process,” he said, stating if construction activities were being allowed, there was a clear argument to resume classes too.Experts also called for more proactive decisions that are based on real-time air quality and forecasting mechanisms.Delhi’s air remained between the higher end of the “very poor” category and the “severe” category beginning November 2, with the air quality index touching a season’s high of 471 (severe) on November 12.The next day, directions were issued by the Supreme Court, asking the Centre to hold an emergency meeting by November 16 and for states to look at extreme measures such as a two-day lockdown to bring down pollution.When directions to shut schools and stop construction activities across NCR were finally issued on November 16 by the Centre-led Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), the AQI began dropping. Delhi’s average AQI has since remained below the 400 mark, dropping down to 311 (very poor) at 4pm on Monday – the lowest recorded since the 4pm bulletin on November 2, when the AQI was 303. By 10pm, the 24-hour average AQI slipped further to 288 (poor).Conditions are forecast to improve further on Tuesday as strong surface winds continue to blow across the region, agencies said.Meenakshi Kuhar, president of Naya Samaj parents association, said that while parents were concerned about the impact of pollution on children’s health, they were also concerned about the loss of studies due to frequent closure of schools.“Whenever schools are closed on account of some reason or the other, there is loss of studies. Parents are definitely concerned about studies since online classes are not as good as regular in-person classes. Health of children is also an important factor due to which parents are compelled to wait till the situation improves. Pollution needs to be controlled so that children can safely resume school,” said Kuhar.A second expert said authorities must be think ahead when it comes to tackling pollution, and that shutting schools cannot be among the first responses.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said closure of schools is listed in the highest category of Grap in order to reduce exposure to “severe plus” or “emergency” air levels, but with air quality fluctuating based on meteorological conditions, it is more important to rely on forecasting mechanisms.“We need to rely on a system that can forecast possible severe or severe plus air days ahead and then there can be a one or a two day break from physical classes, but it does not make sense to stop classes when air quality is improving. There is a need to rely on forecasting more for future decision making,” she said.Roychowdhury’s comments tie in with the problem in the pollution response plan that has persisted for years: the core of the efforts is largely reactive, instead of being proactive. Every year, predictable meteorological conditions and the practice of burning farm residue by farmers in neighbouring states makes the air in the National Capital Region hazardously polluted.Experts said, in such situations, the indoor air quality could at times be even worse than outdoor conditions, and holding online classes was not a guarantee of reduced exposure.“In winters, the practice to shut down doors and windows to prevent polluted air from coming inside can over time trap pollutants inside. There are different sources of pollution indoors too and so the argument that the exposure is being reduced is not always valid,” said Priyanka Kulshreshtha from the Society from Indoor Environment (SIE).The government on Monday said while the ban on construction activities had been lifted, sites violating dust suppression norms will be shut down immediately with a penalty imposed on the spot.“We will not even wait to issue a notice, but issue a penalty and shut down the site first. A decision on other measures such as resumption of classes, government offices and on possibly allowing CNG trucks into Delhi, will be taken in a meeting on November 24, which will involve different stakeholders and government departments,” Rai said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/building-ban-in-delhi-lifted-calls-grow-to-reopen-schools-101637606151371.html
23-11-2021||India||Not a hegemon, won’t bully smaller nations: Xi to Asean||Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday told the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ (ASEAN) leaders that Beijing would not “bully” its smaller regional neighbours, as he announced the establishment of a “comprehensive strategic partnership” with the 10-country bloc.China would never seek hegemony nor take advantage of its size to coerce smaller countries, and would work with ASEAN to eliminate “interference”, Xi, was quoted by Chinese official media as saying amid rising tension with a number of littoral ASEAN states over the South China Sea.“China was, is, and will always be a good neighbour, good friend, and good partner of ASEAN,” Xi said.Xi was chairing the Special Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of China-ASEAN Dialogue Relations via video link on Monday morning.The group comprises Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte struck an angry note at the regional summit when he said that he “abhors” a recent altercation with Chinese ships in the South China Sea and said the rule of law was the only way out of problems.“We abhor the recent event. This does not speak well of the relations between our nations,” Duterte said.Duterte was referring to the actions of three Chinese coast guard vessels that blocked and used water cannon on resupply boats headed towards a Philippine-occupied atoll in the sea.The United States called the Chinese actions “dangerous, provocative and unjustified” and warned that an armed attack on Philippine vessels would invoke US mutual defence commitments, a Reuters report said.Speaking at the summit, Xi said: “We need to pursue dialogue instead of confrontation, build partnerships instead of alliances. China firmly opposes hegemonism and power politics. China will never seek hegemony, still less bully smaller countries”.China’s sweeping claims of sovereignty over the SCS has set it against ASEAN members Vietnam and the Philippines while Brunei, Malaysia and Taiwan, which Beijing claims as a breakaway region, are also part of the ongoing dispute.Announcing the “comprehensive strategic partnership”, Xi said it was “...a new milestone in the history of our relations and will inject new impetus into peace, stability, prosperity and development of our region and the world”.“China supports ASEAN’s efforts to build a nuclear weapons-free zone and is prepared to sign the Protocol to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone as soon as possible,” Xi said.China is ready to provide ASEAN with another $1.5 billion in development assistance in the next three years to support ASEAN countries’ fight against Covid-19 and economic recovery, Xi said.The summit was held without a representative from Myanmar, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-hegemon-won-t-bully-smaller-nations-xi-to-asean-101637606087820.html
23-11-2021||India||Centre launches first-ever survey of domestic help to shape employment policy||Union labour minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday rolled out the country’s first survey of domestic workers, the latest of a set of five national jobs enumeration campaigns aimed at collecting data on the country’s vast informal workforce that will, in turn, feed a forthcoming national employment policy in Asia’s third-largest economy.Domestic workers are believed to be at least 4 million strong, according to a 2017 International Labour Organization study, but there is little official information on their actual number; and little is known about their work conditions and average pay.The absence of such data leaves them out of any formal policy governing the country’s informal workers, who make up a majority of the total workforce. India lacks updated data on economy-wide number of workers in the informal sector, but estimates suggest their numbers to be between 350-400 million.The survey is designed to fill this gap and offer “time-series data on domestic workers”, the minister said.The survey for domestic workers is among five national jobs surveys that will be conducted periodically and provide crucial data for an upcoming national employment policy being planned by the Narendra Modi government, an official said, requesting anonymity.In September, the government released the results of the first All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey (AQEES) for the April-June quarter.The other four surveys are the All-India Survey of Migrant Workers, All-India Survey of Domestic Workers (launched Monday), All-India Survey of Employment Generated by Professionals and All-India Survey of Employment Generated in the Transport Sector.The survey launched Monday will provide, for the first time, a headcount of domestic workers and their employers through a nationwide household-based survey.According to the manual of the survey, specific features of domestic work, such as living conditions and employment relationships, will be extensively covered; these are usually not covered in the traditional labour force surveys.“The numbers will improve the availability of official data on DW (domestic workers) and would provide a basis for meaningful social dialogue,” the manual stated.Parameters the survey aim to capture the number and proportion of household workers by major states, with separate rural and urban break-ups, their percentage distribution, households that employ them and socio-demographic characteristics.The labour bureau’s AQEES in September showed a 29% increase in employment in nine sectors during the peak Covid-19 months of April-June over a base of 2013-14. The survey showed a jump in jobs in sectors such as IT, business process outsourcing and manufacturing.India lacks official short-term, high-frequency jobs data and the AQEES is meant to fill the critical gap. Economists usually depend on the Periodic Labour Force Survey, a government jobs survey, or data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private data firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-india-s-first-ever-survey-of-domestic-help-to-shape-employment-policy-101637606027887.html
23-11-2021||India||Create extra seat for Dalit student, SC directs IIT-B||Stating that it would be a “great travesty of justice” to deny opportunities to a meritorious Dalit boy, the Supreme Court on Monday directed the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay to create an extra seat for the 17-year-old candidate, who lost his berth at the prestigious institute for failing to make online fee payment in time because of a technical glitch. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna directed IIT Bombay to create a supernumerary seat for Prince Jaibir Singh and complete the process of his admission by Wednesday. Issuing its directive under Article 142 of the Constitution (authority to issue orders to do complete justice), the top court made it clear that no other student shall be displaced while accommodating Singh and that his admission shall be regularised in future in the event of some other student leaving the Bachelor of Technology (BTech) course midway.“This court has before it a Dalit student who is on verge of losing a valued seat allocated to him at IIT Bombay. The travails of the appellant have taken him from Allahabad, where he is presently studying, to Kharagpur and then to Bombay and eventually to the national capital...Having regard to the facts of the case, it will be travesty of justice for a young Dalit student who has finally come to this court to be turned away,” the court stated in its order.During the proceedings, the bench also urged the IIT management to have a “more robust system” so that students hailing from rural areas do not miss out on opportunities just because they may not have a superior banking facility or multiple debit or credit cards. “What about students from small villages, small towns where there may not be such banking facilities available with the child? Not everybody would have multiple credit cards! There may be instances of the bank not responding. Some modality is needed to deal with such cases. Students spend years and years preparing. There has to be some buffer for students facing insurmountable hurdles! Otherwise, only children from metropolitan cities would go to IIT,” the bench told advocate Sonal Jain, who appeared for IIT. The bench noted that Singh, who secured the 864th rank in the scheduled caste category and was being allotted a seat at the prestigious IIT Bombay for a BTech course in civil engineering, would not forego the opportunity had it not been for some genuine difficulties in arranging the acceptance fees.“It is elementary common sense. Which student would get into IIT Bombay and not pay ₹50,000 fee? It is obvious that he had some financial problems. You have to look at what the reality on the ground is – the reality of our social life...Look at his background. This is a different case. You cannot be wooden like this,” commented the bench.On Thursday, the bench observed that a young Dalit boy like Singh can be a leader of the nation in the future, imploring the IIT management to locate a seat for him at any one of the seven IITs. It took note that Singh, who is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, completed all other formalities on the admission portal on October 29, but could not deposit the seat acceptance fees as he was short of money. After his sister transferred the money into his account on October 30, he made several attempts to make the payment online, but failed to do so till 12 noon on October 31, which was the deadline, due to technical errors.When the proceedings resumed on Monday, Jain said there was no seat available in any of the IITs and the apex court may instead pass an order under Article 142 for the creation of a supernumerary position for Singh. Irked by this submission, the bench retorted: “You cannot throw up your hands like this. Deal with him with a humanitarian approach. You can do everything if it fits you. This is only bureaucracy. Speak to your chairperson and find a way out.”Later, Jain returned to the court but reiterated the IIT’s inability to accommodate Singh.Resolute to give relief to the boy, the top court invoked its extraordinary power under Article 142 and ordered for the creation of an extra seat at IIT Bombay for Singh. Singh initially moved the Bombay high court, contending that he secured an all-India rank of 25,894 and scheduled caste rank of 864 in the JEE Advanced and was allotted the seat at IIT Bombay. He said after failing to clear the seat acceptance fees by the deadline, he went to the authorities concerned on November 1, and requested them to allow him to make the payment. But IIT officials expressed their inability to help him.The high court on November 12 declined to give him any relief. It held that Singh “has entailed the consequence of rejection” because he failed to register his grievances before the deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/create-extra-seat-for-dalit-student-sc-directs-iitb-101637605967818.html
23-11-2021||India||After outrage from seers, Indian Railways withdraws Ramayan Express’ staff dress code||After seers from Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain demanded that the dress code of the staff aboard the Ramayan Express must be changed, the Indian Railways on Monday withdrew their uniform, news agency PTI reported.They threatened to stop the Ramayan Express at Delhi’s Safdarjung railway station if the staff continued to wear their saffron uniform while serving on the train, saying that it was an insult to the Hindu religion.“It is to inform that the dress of service staff is completely changed in the look of professional attire of service staff. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” the Indian Railways said in a statement, according to PTI.The Indian Railways said that the staff will now wear normal shirts and trousers and traditional headgear. They will, however, continue, to wear saffron masks and gloves. The staff on board the Ramayan Express used to wear saffron unfirm with rudraksha beads and traditional headgear to which the seers of Ujjain objected.Ujjain Akhada Parishad's former general secretary Avdeshpuri told PTI that the seers wrote to the railway minister earlier this week expressing their disapproval over the staff’s uniform.“We wrote a letter to the railway minister two days ago, lodging our protest against waiters serving refreshments and food in the Ramayan Express in saffron. Donning a saffron attire with a sadhu-like headgear and wearing malas (necklaces) of rudraksha is an insult to the Hindu religion and its seers,” Avdeshpuri was quoted as saying by the news agency.He said that the demand for the change in attire was necessary for protecting the Hindu religion. “We will sit on the railway tracks. This is necessary for protecting the Hindu religion,” Avdeshpuri said.The Ramayan Express, which kicked off its first trip earlier this month, takes people to 15 places associated with the life of Lord Ram. It covers a distance of more than 7,500km and takes pilgrims to Ayodhya, Prayag, Nandigram, Janakpur, Chitrakoot, Sitamarhi, Nasik, Hampi and Rameshwaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-outrage-from-seers-indian-railways-withdraws-ramayan-express-staff-dress-code-101637599726045.html
23-11-2021||India||Indian Army conducts major drills in Gujarat’s Creek area||The India Army’s Pune-based Southern Command on Monday concluded high-intensity combat manoeuvres in Kutch’s Creek sector, with the multi-agency drills involving the army, air force, navy, coast guard, Border Security Force, Gujarat state police and the fisheries department, officials familiar with the development said.Sir Creek is a 96-km maritime strip disputed between India and Pakistan in the Rann of Kutch. It divides the Kutch region of Gujarat and the Sindh province of Pakistan. The four-day exercise, codenamed Dakshin Shakti, was conducted in training areas scattered across Gujarat and Rajasthan.“The exercise involved the insertion of troops and manoeuvres by forces in all three dimensions simultaneously in an integrated manner. It involved comprehensive coordination for effective response in a multi-domain environment, real-time communication, and sharing of operational data to overcome emerging threats,” the army said in a statement. Top officials from the organisations taking part in the exercise witnessed the joint drills.The exercise saw India’s marine commandos being dropped from IAF’s Mi-17 helicopters into boats to simulate an attack on an enemy target, the officials said. Hovercraft from the coast guard also landed army reinforcements at the shore to neutralise an enemy post, they added.The exercise validated future concepts of warfighting in a tri-service battlefield environment, the Southern Command said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-conducts-major-drills-in-gujarat-s-creek-area-101637599069062.html
23-11-2021||India||‘Indian economy will face crisis if…’ Here's what SC-appointed panel member said||A member of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on agricultural laws cautioned on Monday that the Indian economy will face crisis if a legislation is brought for ensuring the minimum support price (MSP) for crops.Anil Ghanwat's remarks came close on the heels farmers' unions making fresh demands for a legislation on MSP even as they lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent announcement of Union government repealing the three contentious farm laws.On Monday, Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait pressed for legal guarantee for MSP, and said the movement of the farmers would continue till their demands were met. The president of Shetkari Sangathana, Ghanwat opined the demand for MSP is not sustainable and said if the government agrees to the proposal for extending MSPs to 23 crops, it would drive the country to bankruptcy."If there is going to be a law (on MSP), we (India) will face a crisis. With the law, if the (procurement) process goes down someday, no one will be able to buy the produce as procuring it at a price lower than the MSP will be illegal and they (traders) will be put in jails for it," Ghanwat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, are set such that they offer 50% returns over cost but mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities.ALSO READ | MSP law bigger battle for farmers, govt, say analystsHe outlined that both the Centre and the farmer leaders should think of some other way to boost farm income and remarked that a legislation on MSP is not the solution.Ghanwat cautioned that not only will the “crisis” affect the traders but it will also harm the stockists and everybody else related to it.  "Even the commodity market will be disturbed. It will be distorted," Ghanwat said, adding, “We are not against MSP, but the open-ended procurement is a problem. We require 41 lakh tonnes of grains for buffer stock but procured 110 lakh tonnes. If MSP law is made, all farmers will demand MSP for their crops and no one will be in a position to earn anything out of that.”Ghanwat went a step ahead to call the repeal of the farm laws “unfortunate” and said existing system of agriculture is “not enough”. "Even if the new laws which were introduced were not very perfect, there were some flaws which needed to be corrected. I think this government had the will to reform agriculture as the earlier governments didn't have the political will. I hope another committee will be formed comprising of opposition leaders and farm leaders from all states and then new farm laws are discussed in the parliament and should be introduced," Ghanwat told ANI.Ghanwat suggested the farmers to diversify their produce and go for high-value crops which will give them more returns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-msp-supreme-court-panel-on-agriculture-legislations-parliament-101637592246140.html
23-11-2021||India||Seers threaten to stop Ramayan Express if waiters’ dress code not changed||Seers from Ujjain on Monday threatened to stop the Ramayan Express if servers continue to wear their saffron uniform while serving in the train, saying that it is an insult to the Hindu religion.After outrage from seers, Railways withdraws Ramayan Express’ staff dress codeThe Ujjain Akhada Parishad's former general secretary Avdeshpuri said that he wrote to the railways minister expressing their disapproval of the servers’ dress code. He said that the seers will stop the train in Delhi on December 12 if the dress code is not withdrawn.“We have written a letter two days back to the railways minister lodging our protest against waiters serving refreshments and food in the Ramayan Express in saffron. Donning saffron attire with a sadhu-like headgear and wearing malas (necklaces) of rudraksha is an insult to the Hindu religion and its seers,” Avdeshpuri was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Avdeshpuri also said that the seers will sit on the railway tracks and block the train at Delhi’s Safdarjung railway station if the demands are not met. “This is necessary for protecting the Hindu religion. We have taken a strong view of this issue in Ujjain,” Avdeshpuri added.India’s first Ramayan circuit train chugged off on a 17-day journey from the Safdarjung railway station on November 7. The Ramayan Express takes devotees on a trip to 15 different destinations all of which are associated with the life of Lord Ram.The Ramayan Express train covers a distance of more than 7,500km and takes pilgrims to places such as Ayodhya, Prayag, Nandigram, Janakpur, Chitrakoot, Sitamarhi, Nasik, Hampi and Rameshwaram. The train is equipped with first-class restaurants, a library and shower cubicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seers-threaten-to-stop-ramayan-express-if-waiters-dress-code-not-changed-101637575954489.html
23-11-2021||Today's||Where crypto policy, geopolitics merge||New forms of digital money, whether publicly or privately provided, may become vectors of geostrategy. This is because international payments are a most critical use case of both central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) — electronic forms of central bank money — and private cryptocurrencies. Increasingly cheaper transaction costs, efficient and immediate settlement, and if regulated well, traceability, are just some of the characteristics that are conducive to their globalisation.
23-11-2021||Today's||Speaking the truth, fighting for my ideology||There is no better example for students of journalism, as indeed for keen observers of politics, of a distinguished scribe voluntarily showing his confusion or unwillingness to commit himself to a moral position as in Rajdeep Sardesai’s piece Limits of the Gandhi-Khurshid strategy on November 19 in this newspaper. Since journalists have a field day telling us politicians how wrong we generally are, might I be impertinent and show how terribly wrong that can be?
23-11-2021||Today's||In an era of diminishing expectations, the judiciary gives hope||“Revolution of rising expectations” was a much-used phrase in the India of the 1960s. It was about public aspirations for a better life outstripping the State’s ability to match them. But another phrase is waiting to be born — rise of diminishing expectations. It is about the gap between what we expect to be available to us as entitlements and the ability of the State to make it available.
23-11-2021||Today's||Hutong Cat | On climate, engagement must mark the India-China dynamic||There is a sense of irony here: As Indian and Chinese soldiers, braving a harsh terrain and glacial winter, continue to face-off along the disputed border in the Himalayas, well-dressed diplomats and climate negotiators from the two countries quietly backed each other up in air-conditioned rooms during the just-concluded 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference or COP26 in Glasgow, Scotland.
23-11-2021||Today's||Climate and Us | It is time to discuss just transitions||The Glasgow climate conference (COP26) is over, but it has indicated the massive scale of transition that India will be making in the next few decades.
23-11-2021||Editorials||When riparian nations join hands||A two-day meet on the Ganga-Brahmaputra-Meghna (GBM) river basins — jointly organised by the World Meteorological Organisation, ministry of earth sciences and India Meteorological Department — began in New Delhi on Monday. Hydrological experts from India’s Central Water Commission and scientists from Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and China (a part of the GBM river basin system) are attending the meeting. One of the key aims is developing a hydrological SOS system — one that will share data on reservoirs, rivers, and dam waters round the year — to help mitigate floods, droughts, mudslides, and accelerated erosion. This is important because the areas that fall under the GBM system are flood-prone. Its fragile ecology, varied terrain, and socio-economic-political situation add to the natural challenges.
