27-11-2021||Delhi||Shot fired at dentist’s clinic in Delhi’s Kalkaji, none hurt||Armed assailants fired outside a dentist’s clinic in southeast Delhi’s Kalkaji on Saturday afternoon, a shooting that Delhi Police said they suspected was due to either a rivalry or an extortion attempt.The incident took place around 1.30pm when two bikers came to the DDA flats in Kalkaji and fired one round outside a clinic. Police said the clinic is run by a resident of the DDA flats. DCP (south-east) Esha Pandey said the dentist filed a complaint, after which police registered a case at the Kalkaji police station. Pandey said that no one was hurt in the firing. “They fled the spot after firing one round. The crime team has inspected the spot,” she said. Police said they are examining CCTV footage, which an officer said shows the two assailants on a motorcycle wearing helmets. Eyewitnesses told police that at around 1.20pm, the two men arrived at the building where the clinic is located, hurled abuse and fired one shot. A police officer, who asked not to be named, said that the bullet, fired by the pillion rider, hit a register inside the doctor’s clinic. HT contacted the doctor on his cellphone listed on search engines, but he was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shot-fired-at-dentist-s-clinic-in-delhi-s-kalkaji-none-hurt-101638037679199.html
27-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: One held for attacking shopkeeper at Banjara market||A 38-year-old shopkeeper at Banjara market in Sector 56 was allegedly attacked with iron rods on Friday night by a group of local men after he refused to give them “protection” money. Police on Saturday evening arrested a 41-year-old man from Wazirabad crossing in connection with the case.The victim suffered a fracture to his left leg, and is presently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 56, police said.The suspect was identified as Sitam alias Satish of Wazirabad. Police on Saturday registered a case against Sitam and 15 others for allegedly assaulting and threatening the victim for life after he refused to pay the extortion amount. A case under sections 147 (riot), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (assault), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt),385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 506 (threatening for life) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 53 police station on Saturday, said police. The victim, identified as Jeetu Singh Rajput from Rajasthan, has been running an old furniture shop in Banjara market for the past 15 years, and lives with his wife and three daughters in the area. Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police, said that they received a call on Friday night following which a team from Sector 53 police station was sent to the spot. “Some men from Wazirabad assaulted the shopkeeper in Banjara market and demanded protection money. When the man refused, they started hitting him with iron rods. The assailants also attacked his wife when she tried to save him,” he said. Asha Rani, wife of the victim, alleged that they are regularly being harassed by the locals. “We were sleeping when Sitam and his gang members in an inebriated condition came and started abusing us. They take ₹6,000 monthly from each shopkeeper and threaten us for life if we don’t give. On Friday night, we asked for some time as we had not enough money to give them, on which he started hitting us,” she said. Rani said Sitam had come in his SUV and when she raised an alarm he left the car and fled the spot. Some shopkeepers recorded videos of the incident and gave them to police after which the suspect was identified, police said. Balhara said there are some areas where the locals are extorting money from people living in slums and running shops. “We will take strict action against anyone who try to extort money from shopkeepers. Strict directions have bene given to all the station house officers in this regard,” he said. The shopkeepers said that the locals have been extorting money from them for the past several years, and threaten to attack them and set their shops ablaze if they do not pay them ₹6,000 a month. Ram Kumar, another shopkeeper, said that these locals introduce themselves as ‘gundas’ of the area. “They have a big gang, threaten everyone and demand money. They ask for protection money to keep us and our shops safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-one-held-for-attacking-shopkeeper-at-banjara-market-101638037559154.html
27-11-2021||Other||Gurugram: Man arrested for posing as IAS officer to dupe people on pretext of jobs||Police have arrested a 31-year-old man for allegedly posing as an IAS officer and duping several people of more than ₹60 lakh on the pretext of getting them jobs in the army and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The suspect was identified as Roshan Pandey, a native of Bihar. More than 20 cases are registered against the suspect in several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh, police said, adding that he was living in Burari area of Delhi for the last one year. According to police, Vikesh Kumar Gupta, a native of Ranchi in Jharkhand who lives in a rented accommodation in Jharsa village in Gurugram, had filed a complaint at Sadar police station against the suspect last month. Gupta, who works at a private bank in Gurugram, said that he met the suspect through his colleague in January, said police. In his complaint, Gupta said that the suspect identified himself as Roshan Pandey, working as a joint secretary in the Union ministry of home affairs, and promised him to get him and his brother-in-law a job in the army and the DRDO through an IAS quota and took over ₹85,000 from him. Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that Gupta trusted the suspect as he had uploaded his picture on WhatsApp with a government ID card. “To gain his trust, the suspect had taken all relevant documents from Gupta and used to share the latest development, but never got him a job,” he said. Yadav said the suspect took the money between January and July this year. “We were already conducting an investigation against Pandey. He was arrested from Gurugram on Friday night, and was taken on two-day police remand after being produced before the court on Saturday,” he said. Police said Pandey cheated people on the pretext of getting them government jobs for a salary of ₹85,000 per month. After taking money from the victims, Pandey would email fake appointment letters to them, police said. Some of the appointment letters read that the jobs were at offices of the DRDO and the Indian Army, Yadav said. A case was registered against Pandey under IPC sections 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of a valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 472 (counterfeiting seal) at Sadar police station on Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-man-arrested-for-posing-as-ias-officer-to-dupe-people-on-pretext-of-jobs-101638037318898.html
27-11-2021||Other||Gurugram police set up checkpoints at Delhi borders||As the Delhi government banned the entry of heavy vehicles (except those carrying essential commodities) into the national capital from November 27 to December 3, the Gurugram police on Saturday set up barricades at several border points to prevent Delhi-bound trucks from entering the district. Police have set up barricades at 23 locations in the district and diverted the trucks through the KMP Expressway, Faridabad and Nuh towards other states, said officials.Police said that more than 500 trucks are being diverted daily from Shankar Chowk on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and Manesar to the KMP Expressway and towards Nuh. On November 25, the Delhi government announced a ban on the entry of commercial vehicles into the national capital. “Only CNG vehicles and electric vehicles will be allowed to enter Delhi,” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said .Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram, said more than 1,000 personnel are deployed at different places in the district where the movement of heavy vehicles is high. “Some truck drivers managed to enter the district last night which were later diverted through other routes. But due to this, congestion is being reported from Shankar Chowk, Manesar crossing and Udyog Vihar area,” he said. Balhara said that teams are checking all vehicles to ensure only vehicles carrying essential commodities enter Gurugram. Police said heavy vehicles that had already entered Gurugram were sent back from Shankar Chowk. Police have also set up checkpoints at Shankar Chowk, two kilometres before the Sirhaul toll plaza, Bilaspur, Bijwasan, Bajghera and Manesar. These points connect to industrial areas and witness heavy movement of trucks during the weekdays, said the officials, adding that there are 11 border points connecting Gurugram to Delhi and teams are deployed at each border. “We have impounded 375 vehicles without pollution certificates, 305 trucks for wrong lane driving and 524 for wrong parking,” said Balhara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-police-set-up-checkpoints-at-delhi-borders-101638037079148.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Israeli zebra dies at Lucknow zoo||One of three zebras brought to Lucknow Zoo from Israel on November 25, died on Saturday. Zoo director RK Singh while confirming the news said the three zebras had been quarantined since their arrival. “Around 10.30 am on Saturday they became aggressive and one of the male zebras slumped to the floor with internal injuries. The animal was rushed to the zoo hospital but unfortunately died. Cardio respiratory failure due to traumatic shock was the cause of death,” the zoo director said. Zoo officials said the animal died around 11.30 am. “The animals had started eating and were normal otherwise,” they added. Lucknow zoo is completing its 100 years on Monday and arrival of the zebras was part of the celebrations being held to mark its centenary year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/israeli-zebra-dies-at-lucknow-zoo-101638036899179.html
27-11-2021||Other||Gurugram’s air quality in ‘very poor’ zone for fourth consecutive day||The city’s air quality continued to remain in the ‘very poor’ zone on Saturday for the fourth consecutive day, even as the air quality index (AQI) improved marginally to 362 from 379 recorded a day earlier, according to the 4pm bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said that the air quality over Delhi-NCR is likely to improve marginally in the next three days, but will remain in the ‘very poor’ category as mostly calm or slow winds during night are unfavourable for effective dispersion of pollutants. “Winds are likely to be relatively strong on Monday and Tuesday. The air quality is likely to remain in very poor category on both days,” the IMD said. According to the data shared by the air monitoring stations in Gurugram, an AQI of 380 was recorded at Vikas Sadan, Sector 51 station recorded an AQI of 349, while AQI readings at Teri Gram and Gwal Pahari were 367 and 338, respectively.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Saturday, the IMD recorded maximum and minimum temperatures for the city at 24.7°C and 10.8°C. A day earlier, the maximum temperature was 26°C while minimum was 10°C. Experts said that a dip in temperature complicates the situation in urban areas as high-rises in cities like Gurugram not only restrict the passage of air but the concrete also gets cold, which has a negative impact on dispersal of pollutants. Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert, said, “There is strong thermal inversion and since concrete takes a lot of time to get warm, the dispersal of pollutants gets delayed in comparison to dispersion in open areas of rural belts. Smog formation will make it worse.”. Meanwhile, officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that they are keeping a close watch on the situation and their teams are checking construction sites and industrial areas regularly. “Following strict actions in the last two days, there was better compliance to the pollution norms at construction sites and industrial areas today,” said Kuldip Singh, regional officer (north), HSPCB. Sandeep Singh, another HSPCB officer, said that they are working in close coordination with other government agencies in Gurugram to check violations. The town and country planning department said that its teams are also visiting private colonies and sensitising the contractors and plot owners to follow norms. “Enforcement is strict and people are taking precautions due to regular checks,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugrams-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-for-fourth-consecutive-day-101638036780189.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Murder convict evading arrest held in kidnapping case: Police||An STF steam of Noida police has nabbed a murder convict evading his arrest since the pronouncement of his conviction, police said on Friday. The Noida STF, in the coordination of a Ghaziabad’s Crime Branch team, arrested Piyush Tyagi alias Amit Sharma alias Om Sharma after an exchange of fire in the Raj Nagar Extension area in Ghaziabad in which the accused also suffered a bullet wound in his leg, police said. On a tip-off that a man involved in a recent abduction of a motorcycle mechanic from the Tilla More area in Ghaziabad would be passing through that area, the police had set up a checkpoint in the area, STF’s Additional Superintendent of Police Raj Kumar Mishra said. He said Tyagi arrived there on a motorcycle driven by someone else but on being asked by the police to stop, he opened fire following which the police too retaliated and he suffered a bullet injury in his leg.He was admitted to a local hospital and is undergoing treatment, Mishra said, adding Tyagi, a resident of Madan Khadar area near Sarita Vihar in South East Delhi was involved in abducting motorcycle mechanic Amit Kumar from Gagan Vihar in Tilla More police station area for ransom. Tyagi had committed the abduction with two others, Jasbir alias Kaloo and Yogesh, who were arrested on November 11 from Hindan River Bridge near Farukh Nagar town, while travelling in a car along with Tyagi and the abducted mechanic on that day but had managed to escape.Tyagi and his two accomplices were travelling in the car in search of a safe place to keep the motor mechanic in their captivity when his two accomplices were arrested and the mechanic was rescued, he said. On his arrest, Tyagi confessed to the police that he had also killed a doctor in the Modi Nagar area and was convicted a court in 2016, the ASP said, adding that Tyagi, however, was not present in the court during the pronouncement of the judgement and never surrendered before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/murder-convict-evading-arrest-held-in-kidnapping-case-police-101638036255132.html
27-11-2021||Other||Swarnim Vijay Mashaal at Prayagraj kindles 1971 nostalgia at IAF, Army formations||As part of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav, the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal (victory flame) proceeded to residential areas of Central Air Command (CAC) at Bamrauli on Saturday.Maria Duckworth, president Air Force Wives Welfare Association (regional) received the flame amid cheers from the sanginis and school children of Kendriya Vidyalya and Air Force School, Bamrauli. Speeches, skits, group dances and group songs were presented by the school children with patriotic theme.Highlight of the programme at 29 wing of Indian Air Force (IAF) was participation of veterans in large numbers. Air Commodore AK Chaurasia, air office commanding, recounted the battle of 1971 and created an air of nostalgia.At Air Force station, Manauri, the Victory Flame was received by Air Commodore K Srinivasa Rao, Air Officer Commanding, of the station at Station Parade Ground. As a mark of respect to the soldiers who had made the ultimate sacrifice while protecting the motherland, ceremonial guards presented arms to the ‘Victory Mashaal’ in the presence of all Station personnel. Air Officer Commanding addressed the station personnel at Hollow Square and recalled the role and contribution of armed forces especially Indian Air Force in the victory of 1971 Indo-Pak War. Thereafter, the ‘Victory Mashaal’ was carried through the residential areas that wore a festive look as family members paid tributes. Children followed the procession in admiration and zeal. Human chain was formed on both sides of the road by Air Warriors, their families and school children to pay respect to the ‘Victory Mashaal. Col Gurminder Singh commanding officer, 4 Air Formation Signal Regiment welcomed the Mashaal with ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ slogans being raised by all personnel. Personnel of 14 Provost and security (P&S) Unit were at their ceremonial best when they welcomed the Flame. Victory Flame was received by Wing Commander P Prakash, APM. P&S unit personnel piloted the flame through its entire sojourn in Air Force units in the Prayagraj.The flame was received by group captain Samir Gangakhedkar, Defence PRO at Public relations Unit (PRU) in a solemn ceremony. Similar reception was given at 71 Radio Maintenance Unit (RMU). At 820 Single Unit (SU), group captain Kiran Kumar received the Victory Flame. Group Captain Hemant Pande of CAC handed over the Victory Flame to Major Ankush Pathania as it moved out of CAC and IAF formations at Prayagraj.At 508 Army base workshop Chheoki, a function was organised to welcome the flame. The Victory Flame was received in military traditions by Brigadier AK Chaturvedi, commandant and managing director to a rousing welcome. A series of events were organized including victory run by school kids followed by variety entertainment programme by the students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Chheoki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-at-prayagraj-kindles-1971-nostalgia-at-iaf-army-formations-101638036359026.html
27-11-2021||Kolkata||Six arrested including doctor for Codeine smuggling to Bangladesh||At least six persons including a doctor have been arrested for allegedly trying to smuggle Codeine Based Cough Syrup (CBCS) also known by the nickname `Lean' and `Sizzurp' in narcotics circles, across the Indo-Bangladesh border, a senior officer of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Kolkata Zone, said on Saturday.Acting on a tip-off, NCB Kolkata Zone sleuths on Thursday night conducted raids in Barrackpore and arrested the six, who are allegedly part of a syndicate involved in smuggling Codeine syrup, much preferred by drug addicts looking for a quick high, across the Indo-Bangladesh border, he said. The team also seized around 2,245 CBCS of Dialex DC bottles which they claimed had been stored for smuggling across the barbed wire fence which marks the border between the two countries. "They have been involved in trafficking CBCS from Barrackpore to Nadia in light medium vehicles. First, we apprehended two persons and then after grilling them nabbed the medical practitioner and a medical representative of Dr. Reddy's," he said. The doctor had provided his godown to store the CBCS while the medical representative had been coordinating the entire process, he said. The godown was an unlicensed one, the official added. Probe revealed that the contraband was supplied by 'Ram Medical Hall' in Barrackpore to a non-existent firm in the city's Mahisbathan (Dhapa) area, he said. Dhaka had earlier this year sought India's help in checking the smuggling of Myanmar origin `Yaba' tablets and Indian-made Codeine based syrups. While the syrup is legally manufactured in India, it is illegally smuggled to feed those prefer this cheap high in neighbouring Bangladesh. Liquor is not freely available in Bangladesh because of a partial prohibition. Tipplers consequently seek a high through various means. A bottle of Phensedyl, a popular cough remedy in India which costs less than ₹100 sells for as much as Taka 1,000 in Bangladesh in the illegal market, according to officials monitoring drug trafficking. Bangladesh Border Guards had at one time sought a ban on such medicines being imposed by India. However, as these are popular medical remedies in the country a blanket ban has not been possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/six-arrested-including-doctor-for-codeine-smuggling-to-bangladesh-101638035542015.html
27-11-2021||Other||Rajnath in Jaunpur, says farm laws to be taken back the day Parliament convenes||Asserting that the BJP government has always been sympathetic towards farmers, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said that the three farm laws will be withdrawn on the very first day of Parliament. Singh was addressing 30,000 BJP booth presidents, in Jaunpur, on Saturday, in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, UP BJP secretary organisation Sunil Bansal, state president Swatantra Dev Singh, and several other leaders. Singh said, “We consider farmers as God. The BJP government has always been sympathetic towards farmers. There was a movement against the three laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a decision to withdraw them. The day the Parliament session begins, the three farm laws will be withdrawn.” Recalling the terror attack on Mumbai on November 26, 2008, Singh accused the then Congress government of not taking effective action against terrorism to eliminate it. He said that even senior Congress leader Manish Tiwari accepted it in his book. He said that ever since Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014, terrorism was being tackled regularly and effectively. After the terror incidents in Uri and Pulwama, by taking strict action against the terrorists, India sent a message to the entire world that it has strength to take action across the border to eliminate terror. India has become a powerful country in the eyes of the world. The entire world listens seriously whenever India speaks as India’s respect has increased across the world. India has been a country that has never occupied an inch of foreign land. Rather, India has given the message of Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam to the whole world from its soil, Singh said and added that “hum kisi ko chhedenge nahin, hame kisi ne chheda, to use chhodenge nahin. If someone captures even an inch piece of our land, the army will not leave it. PM Modi has given a free hand to the Army.” Slamming SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for his claim that the BJP government didn’t give permission for Jewar airport, Singh said, “I had passed the proposal of Jewar Airport in 2001 as chief minister of UP. Yogi ji is completing that work today.” Did anyone ever think that the BrahMos missile will be made inside Uttar Pradesh? But this missile is being made on the soil of Uttar Pradesh, Singh said. Slamming SP chief for his statement on Jinnah, Singh said, “What was the need to take out Jinnah. From which bottle, did you take out Jinnah?”Singh accused the opposition parties of indulging in politics of division just for the sake of power. BJP takes everyone along. Instead of achieving power by dividing society on the basis of caste and creed, he would rather stay away from such power, he added. Taking a jibe at the SP-BSP alliance in 2019, Singh said that Bua and Babua formed an alliance in UP. But that alliance was broken. UP neither needs Bua nor Babua, UP needs Baba once again in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajnath-in-jaunpur-says-farm-laws-to-be-taken-back-the-day-parliament-convenes-101638035939127.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt allots ₹350 crore to support construction workers hit by ban||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Saturday said that financial assistance worth ₹350 crores will be provided to the registered construction workers in the city. A senior government official said that the livelihood of construction workers has been affected due to the closure of construction activities in Delhi. “Delhi government will provide assistance of ₹5,000 each to all 7 lakh registered construction workers and ₹350 crore has been allotted for this. The assistance amount has already deposited to the accounts of around 2.95 lakh construction workers on Saturday. The amount will be sent to the accounts of the remaining workers in the next two days,” the official said.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court had reimposed the ban on construction activities in Delhi-NCR until further orders. Non-polluting construction activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry are allowed. The apex court had also asked authorities to use funds collected as labour cess for the welfare of construction workers to provide them subsistence for the duration of the ban.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the Delhi government is standing with construction workers at every step. “Workers are the spinal cord which strengthens the country. The interests of the workers are the main priority of our government. In Delhi construction activities have been stopped but the Delhi government will assist them in every possible way,” said Sisodia. Sisodia added that the government will run registration drives through large-scale camps in Delhi. “There are 10 lakh construction workers in Delhi, out of which 7 lakh are now registered. With the help of these registration drives, the government will also register the remaining construction workers with the board. This way all the workers can benefit from the schemes introduced for the welfare of the workers,” deputy chief minister stated.A government official said that around six lakh workers are registered with the Delhi Construction Worker Board and about 1 lakh workers are under the process of registration. “After the registration of the workers whose registration is currently in process, the amount of ₹5000 will be sent to their accounts after completion of registration,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allots-rs-350-crore-to-support-construction-workers-hit-by-ban-101638035638920.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s 12-day streak of no Covid-19 death ends as one succumbs to infection||Delhi on Saturday reported death due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after a gap of 12 days, following one person succumbing to the infection, according to the health bulletin data. The last time the city logged Covid-19 fatalities was on November 15. After Saturday’s figures, the death toll in the national capital stands at 25,095.Delhi has already witnessed five Covid-19 deaths in November, even as three more days are left for the month to end. Last month, the city logged the lowest monthly toll due to the infection since March 2020. In September, as many as five total fatalities due to coronavirus were reported in the national capital, which at the time was the lowest monthly death toll recorded in the city in a year.The city also witnessed a marginal rise in single-day caseload with 27 individuals testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday as opposed to 23 on Friday. With the latest additions, the cumulative tally of Delhi stands at 14,40,834.Also Read | Delhi reports first Covid deaths after 21 days, active caseload at 371However, fresh recoveries on Saturday were on the higher side as 37 people recovered from Covid-19 as against 31 on Friday. The total number of recovered patients in Delhi has now climbed up to 14,15,448.As many as 86,544 eligible beneficiaries were administered Covid-19 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, of which, 32,393 were jabbed with the first shot while the remaining 54,151 received the second one. A total of 2,23,45,677 people have been jabbed against coronavirus so far in the national capital, of which, 1,37,40,405 have got the first dose and 86,05,272 have received the second one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-12-day-streak-of-no-covid-19-death-ends-as-one-succumbs-to-infection-101638035075803.html
27-11-2021||Other||Omicron scare:Agra hotels on alert as new corona variant poses global threat||In the wake of the global threat posed by the new Coronavirus variant found in South Africa, health officials sounded an alert in Agra on Saturday. Letters are being issued to hotels in the city of the Taj to keep a watch on visitors coming from South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong. “Although the new cases of Covid-19 are at a minimal level in Uttar Pradesh, yet there are threats being posed globally due to the new Sars-CoV-2 variant, Omicron, traced in South Africa and formally known as B.1.1.529. It has been designated as a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation,” said Dr AK Srivastava, chief medical officer (CMO), Agra.It was Agra which recorded the first case of Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on March 2, 2020. The city, with three monuments listed as world heritage structures in the Unesco list, attracts many tourists. Although international flights are yet to operate but Agra administration and health officials are not ready to take chances. “With a global threat looming large with the tracing of the new variant, precautionary steps are being mooted. Letters are being written to hotels in Agra that information be provided about any visitor coming from South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong. There is a need for intense monitoring of such guests till they stay here in Agra,” the CMO said. “In a meeting, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has directed to closely monitor those coming from these nations, besides monitoring those coming in their contact. We are also to keep an eye on those who have recently travelled to these nations or are holding passports of these nations. They are being asked to inform the health department immediately,” he said. Meanwhile, the health authorities are reviewing health infrastructure in rural areas because the load of hospitalisation during the second wave had strained urban facilities. As such, the idea is to strengthen hospitals at community health centres in the rural belt, especially where oxygen plants have been set up and beds are available so that the load on city hospitals is lightened.“The health infrastructure at the District Hospital and SN Medical College in Agra is being updated. Mock drills are being conducted and oxygen plants are being checked for larger output if required. Monitoring of visitors has been extended at Taj Mahal also,” added the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/omicron-scare-agra-hotels-on-alert-as-new-corona-variant-poses-global-threat-101638035338993.html
27-11-2021||Noida||3-year-old boy dies after falling from 10th floor flat in Noida||A three-year-old boy died after falling from the 10th floor of a high-rise apartment in Noida’s Sector 75 on Saturday afternoon. Vinod Kumar, station house officer of Sector 49 police station, said the boy’s mother was feeding him in the balcony in the afternoon. “She got some work and went inside the room for a few minutes, leaving her child in the balcony. On returning, she found her baby was not there,” said Kumar adding that the mother then started looking for the child. Kumar said the child accidentally slipped through the balcony’s railing and fell to ground. “The security guards found the child critically wounded and immediately rushed him to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead,” he said. A police team also reached the spot after getting information from locals. The child’s father runs a shop in Delhi’s Chandni Chowk while his mother is a housewife. Police said the family refused to conduct a post-mortem of the body. Police have not received any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/3yearold-boy-dies-after-falling-from-10th-floor-flat-in-noida-101638034918878.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ahead of civic polls, 5-time veteran Congress councillor joins AAP||Mukesh Goel, a five-time municipal councillor and current head of the Congress municipal councillors in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, joined the Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday, months ahead of the civic body polls due to be held in the city early next year.Two-time former councillor Parma Bhai Solanki also joined the AAP in the presence of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday.Later in the day, in a separate ceremony, another sitting Congress councillor, Poonam Bagri from Jahangirpuri ward, joined the party in the presence of it’s chief whip Dilip Pandey and Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti.Sisodia called it a “happy occasion” that the party was expanding. “Goyal, who is serving his fifth term as a municipal councillor in the national capital, was a member of the All India Congress Committee,” he added. Goyal called the AAP’s development model in Delhi “commendable”. “This is why I left the Congress and joined the AAP to work in the interest of the public,” Goyal said. Bagdi argued that lack of accountability in congress was the reason to switch the party. The municipal polls are likely to be held in March-April next year and the pace of defections is likely to increase in coming days. As the five year term of the corporations comes to an end in April 2022, the city will be electing 272 ward representatives in three municipal corporations of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiahead-of-civic-polls-5-time-veteran-congress-councillor-joins-aap-101638034858750.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar admin organises fourth round of voter enrolment drive||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration organised the fourth round of the voter enrolment drive this month by setting up camps at different polling booths in the district from 10am to 4pm on Saturday to revise the electoral rolls ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh early next year. Total 6,371 forms were received for inclusion of new voters, correction of voter details and deletion of names of those who have shifted. Vandita Srivastava, additional district magistrate (finance and revenue), and deputy district election officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the special summary revision of electoral rolls was conducted in these camps. “We had earlier organised similar camps on November 7, 13, and 21, where several people submitted forms for new enrolment or correction of details,” she said. There are 1,754 booths in the district with one booth level officer (BLOs) at each booth. The BLOs have been asked to make the necessary corrections in the electoral rolls of their respective areas.Officials said the revision forms can be submitted either online or offline. People can submit their forms to the BLOs and also at their tehsils. For online, they can use www.nvsp.in or voters helpline app – VHAPeople who complete 18 years as on January 1, 2022, are eligible to be enrolled as voters. As of October 31, 2021, Gautam Budh Nagar has 1,567,617 registered voters in three assembly constituencies – Noida (having 664,837 voters), Dadri (565,682) and Jewar (337,098). Uttar Pradesh may go to polls in May next year, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-admin-organises-fourth-round-of-voter-enrolment-drive-101638034799279.html
27-11-2021||Other||Magh Mela-2022: Only fully vaccinated pilgrims to be allowed to attend, camp at fair||Only fully vaccinated pilgrims will be allowed inside the tent city area of Magh Mela-2022, officials of the Prayagraj Mela Authority have informed. The annual religious fair begins on January 14/15 (Makar Sankranti) and will conclude on March 1 (Mahashivratri).Following strict instructions of UP CM, preparations have begun in earnest for the next edition of the fair. Besides the Covid-19 protocol like social distancing and mandatory wearing of face masks, the CM’s orders would be enforced stringently, they added.Although the number of coronavirus-positive cases have substantially come down in the district as well as in the state, the CM is not willing to take any chances and therefore, has issued clear instructions in this regard, said a senior official aware of the development.“In the meeting, the CM made it very clear that only those devotees, who have taken both doses of the coronavirus vaccines will be allowed to enter the Magh Mela area. Besides, we have been told to follow all the protocols that were followed last year and not to take things lightly, and restrict the mela area,” said Sant Kumar Srivastava, SDM, Prayagraj Mela Pradhikaran. “In case a devotee has taken just the first dose of the vaccine, the second dose will be administered in the mela area itself,” said the official. Besides, random reserve transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and antigen tests will also be conducted in all sectors of the Magh Mela, he added.Every kalpwasi or seer wishing to camp in the tent city for the month-long period of the fair will have to present proof of being fully vaccinated. Moreover, the Kalpwasis would be requested to minimise the number of visitors in their camps too. No one without a face mask would be allowed in the mela area, officials said.In the November 25 meeting with the CM, the Prayagraj administration led by the district magistrate, Prayagraj, Sanjay Kumar Khatri, made a detailed presentation regarding organising Magh Mela-2022. According to officials, the district administration had prepared a proposal requiring funds around ₹67 crore for the fair but the state government has sanctioned around ₹59 crore only for it. Reminding officials in the meeting that the threat of the pandemic was not yet over, the CM had also ordered that Covid-19 vaccination and testing centres be set up for the fair as a top priority.In Magh Mela 2021, the state government had made a three-day old RT-PCR report mandatory for every Kalpwasi and seer which was an effective deterrent in checking spread of the pandemic. In 2022, Kalpwas would commence on January 17 (Paush Purnima) and conclude on February 16 (Maghi Purnima). This will minimise the number of days of stay at the Magh Mela area. This year, Paush Purnima was on January 28 and Maghi Purnima on February 27, thus the stay had stretched far over one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/magh-mela-2022-only-fully-vaccinated-pilgrims-to-be-allowed-to-attend-camp-at-fair-101638034741301.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Cases against kin cannot be ground for revoking arms licence: Bombay High Court||Observing that an arms licence cannot be revoked only on the ground of offences registered against the licence holder’s family members, the Bombay high court turned down the Daman district magistrate’s order, revoking the arms licence of Jignesh Patile, son of former Member of Parliament Dayabhai Patel. The district magistrate had on October 8, 2018 revoked the arms licence granted to Jignesh Patel and directed him to deposit his licensed weapon at Nani Daman police station. He moved high court last year, after the Administrator, Daman and Diu confirmed the order and dismissed his appeal. Advocate HS Venegavkar, who represented the Union Territory, opposed the petition stating that the orders could not be faulted since in the back-drop of the past criminal record of the petitioner and his family, it had become necessary in public interest to cancel the licence. Justice SK Shinde, however, refused to accept the contention. The single judge bench said under section 17(3) of the Arms Act, 1979, the licensing authority can suspend or revoke an arms licence only when it becomes necessary for security of the public or for public safety. However, the court said, the licensing authority – the district magistrate - cancelled Jignesh’s licence only on the ground that several offences had been registered against his father and brother. “In fact, there is no material on record to establish necessary connection between the petitioner and his brother and father qua the offences registered against them,” said Justice Shinde, adding that the registration of offences against family members of the licensee that by itself was not sufficient to revoke the licence of the petitioner. Regarding the criminal cases registered against Jignesh Patel, the court noted that the last criminal case was registered against him way back in 2010 and his arms licence had been renewed from time to time thereafter. “Neither the District Magistrate nor the Appellate Authority has taken into consideration provisions of Section 17 of the Arms Act, 1959 at all,” the court concluded and turned down the orders revoking Jignesh Patel’s arms licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cases-against-kin-cannot-be-ground-for-revoking-arms-licence-bombay-high-court-101638034621708.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Greater Noida hospital lab readied for conducting Zika virus tests||The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida on Saturday said its Molecular Diagnostics and Research Laboratory (MDRL) has started conducting tests for Zika virus. The lab has been conducting Covid-19 tests since April last year. Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, said a team of four members, under the guidance of Dr Vivek Gupta (in-charge of laboratory and principal investigator of Virus Research and Diagnostics Laboratory (VRDL), tested the kits provided for testing Zika virus. “The kits for Zika virus testing have been provided by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The lab has seven RT-PCR and five automated RNA extraction systems for conducting both Covid-19 and Zika virus tests. There is a separate testing facility for the two viruses in the same lab,” he said. Dr Vivek Gupta said the laboratory staff have been trained for conducting tests for both viruses. “The lab will function 24X7 and diagnose patients for free. The hospital will also treat patients suffering from Zika virus,” he said. Zika virus disease is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquitoes. Its symptoms are generally mild, lasting for about 2-7 days, and include fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or headache. The WHO website states that during pregnancy, this virus can cause congenital abnormalities in the developing foetus and newborn. Dr Vivek Gupta said if a patient suffers from such symptoms, he/she first gets tested for dengue and chikungunya. “If these test reports come negative, then the patient is tested for Zika virus,” he said adding that the test reports come in 8-12 hours. Dr Sunil Kumar, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said no case of Zika virus has been reported in the district. “Earlier this month, some cases were reported in Kanpur; the cases are decreasing there too. I have not received information about this lab from GIMS. This may be a preparatory measure in case Zika virus cases emerge here,” he said. In a press statement, the GIMS also said it has been selected as a regional resource training centre for strengthening of first referral units (FRU) from Uttar Pradesh. The programme is running under the Uttar Pradesh Technical Support Unit (UP-TSU) since 2017 and is funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The aim, through this programme, is to strengthen the maternal and child health services to reduce maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-hospital-lab-readied-for-conducting-zika-virus-tests-101638034620329.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Most pollution complaints in Noida, Gzb go unresolved amid air hazard||Authorities responsible for managing the pollution levels in both Noida and Ghaziabad have been receiving a number of complaints related to air pollution this season as the two cities are reeling under ‘very poor’ air for days together. However, authorities have been able to solve less than half the complaints registered this year, shows records available with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to CPCB records, around 32% of the complaints registered by CPCB teams and the general public were resolved while about 38% of the complaints related to hotspots and areas other than hotspots, where CPCB teams paid a visit and found alleged violation of pollution norms, were resolved. Data available with the CPCB shows that its teams lodged 105 complaints in ‘hotspots’ and ‘other than hotspot areas’ between October 20 and November 25, of which only 40 complaints were resolved till November 25. With regard to complaints lodged by the CPCB teams and the general public in Delhi-NCR, 258 such complaints were registered, of which only 83 were resolved between October 15 and November 25. The complaints reported in Uttar Pradesh are mostly from NCR areas of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida and involves different agencies in the three cities. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said the complaints received this season are mostly related to burning of waste and road dust. “We are regularly resolving the complaints; the complaint registered against different agencies are immediately forwarded to the respective departments. They have been asked to update the records once the complaints are resolved. There is also regular monitoring of complaints by the district administration,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. In Noida, UPPCB officials said that they are taking up the complaints on priority basis, which go through different levels of monitoring up to the additional chief secretary level. “The complaints need to be resolved within 48 to 72 hours. Sometimes, we receive complaints which are not directly related to air pollution, such as instances of traffic jams and use of pressure horns in vehicles. Still, efforts are taken up for resolution of the complaints through different agencies. In Noida, there were many pending complaints; the respective agencies were asked to address them at the earliest,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida. Environmentalists said air pollution levels have mostly been in the “severe” to “very poor” category this season. “It is important to resolve the complaints on a priority basis given the high levels of air pollution. Speedy resolution will help in reducing the pollution and curbing the source. Instances of garbage burning and road dust are regular features in the three cities and strict ground level enforcement is needed,” said Akash Vashishtha, an environmentalist from Ghaziabad. On Saturday, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida ended up with ‘very poor’ air with AQI readings of 368, 322 and 381 respectively. A forecast by the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) indicated that the air quality is likely to remain same on Sunday. “Local surface winds are likely to increase moderately on 29th and 30th (November) that increases dispersion of pollutants leading to slight improvement but AQI remains in ‘very poor’ category. Low mixing layer height and low winds are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants. The percentage share of stubble burning related pollutants in Delhi’s PM2.5 is 6%,” said the Safar forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/only-32-of-pollution-related-complaints-resolved-in-noida-ghaziabad-101638034500140.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Noida authority takes measures to curb pollution as ‘very poor’ air plagues city||With the air quality in Noida showing no signs of improvement and hovering in the ‘very poor’ category for quite a number of days, the Noida authority has started taking measures to control pollution in the city. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI of Noida was 381 while Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 352 in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday. Avinash Tripathi, Noida authority’s officer on special duty (OSD), said the measures listed under the graded response action plan (Grap) have been enforced in the city. “We sprinkle water on total 134.93km of road and also on the plants and trees on the roadside using 77 tankers. Some developers were also fined on Friday for violating construction norms; we collected a fine of ₹3.35 lakh fine from them,” said Tripathi. Tripathi said that the Noida Authority also collected 449.87 tonne of construction and demolition (C&D) waste from different sites and sent it to the C&D processing plant in Sector 80. “We also conduct mechanical sweeping of 243 km of roads on 67 routes in Noida,” he said. On November 17, the Noida authority also inaugurated city’s first anti-smog tower along DND flyway with the aim of mitigating air pollution. The tower was built using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds arranged from the central government’s public sector undertakings (PSUs).Vikrant Tongad, an environmentalist, said the smog towers or outdoor air purifiers may not be effective in open areas. “Outdoor air is dynamic; the moment air is released from air purifier, the detoxified air mixes with the dense air in the surroundings, thus nullifying the overall impact,” he said. Tongad said he visited some areas with a portable air monitoring device on Wednesday and prima facie, found that the air quality index near the anti-smog tower was no better than other parts of the city. “Some effective long-term and short-term measures are needed to check pollution,” said Tongad. Tripathi said the anti-smog tower was set up by a private firm. “There are studies that show these measures (anti-smog tower) do have an impact on air quality. There are four pollution monitoring stations in Noida – Sector 1, Sector 62, Section 116 and Sector 125. Since there is no weather station in the tower’s neighbourhood, we do not have the readings of the air quality around it,” he said. Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Wisteria in Sector 77 and a member of Progressive Community Foundation (PCF), said he filed an RTI and got a response from CPCB on Friday that it received 114 pollution related complaints from Noida in the last four years. “People had complained to the CPCB on Sameer App, Twitter, and through other medium. This shows the board is serious about the pollution problem in Noida,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-takes-measures-to-curb-pollution-as-very-poor-air-plagues-city-101638034498912.html
27-11-2021||Other||Accept our demands, let us end stir with pride intact: BKU chief||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait has said that farmers don’t want to lower the esteem of the prime minister but at the same time the pride and dignity of farmers should be kept intact. Therefore, the government should accept the demands of farmers so that they could end their movement keeping their pride intact.Tikait was speaking with mediapersons in Baraut town, in Bagpat district, on Friday, on the way to Hajipur border. He welcomed the decision of the Modi government of repealing the three contentious farm bills and reiterated that the farmers’ movement had not ended. He said that it would continue till the government makes a law for the procurement of crops at the minimum support price (MSP) declared by the government.The union leader further said that an important meeting of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will be convened in Delhi on Saturday to discuss and decide the future course of the movement following withdrawal of the three farm bills. “We shall follow the decision taken by the SKM,” said Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/accept-our-demands-let-us-end-stir-with-pride-intact-bku-chief-101638034318783.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Nine arrested for oxygen cylinder fraud during Delhi’s fourth Covid wave||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Saturday said they have arrested nine people, from West Bengal and Bihar, for allegedly cheating several Delhi residents to the tune of over ₹1 crore after promising to deliver oxygen cylinders when the city was battling the fourth wave of Covid-19 infections.Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) KPS Malhotra said the nine arrested include two men who allegedly ran the gang’s operation and seven others who had allegedly shared their bank account details to collect the money deposited by the victims. Police said the gang also hired telecallers to make their racket seem genuine to potential victims.Police had registered the case after a city resident, Vinod Kumar, informed police that he had deposited ₹25,000 to the gang’s account to procure an oxygen cylinder for his wife who had contracted Covid-19.DCP Malhotra said that the gang switched off their contact number after Kumar paid the money. “He had filed a complaint. Unfortunately, his wife also passed away because of the infection. We had registered a case and started tracking the money trail,” he said.Earlier this year, the national Capital endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left health infrastructure overrun, overwhelmed medical workers, and led to crematoriums running out of space. Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, and over 13,000 died of the infection between April and May alone.When the city was reporting over 20,000 cases daily and hospital beds were full, citizens had started posting SOS messages for oxygen cylinders.Delhi police said that many fraudsters from across the country took advantage of the crisis and circulated their phone numbers and bank account details while promising to deliver oxygen cylinders. DCP Malhotra said that the two alleged leaders of the gang -- PhD student Pawan alias Pravin Kumar (26), and an MCA degree holder Kamal Kant Sinha (31), both residents of Bihar’s Nalanda -- allegedly took control of the bank accounts of different people after paying them a small fee. Simultaneously, police said, they allegedly shared the bank account details on social media and asked people to deposit money for home delivery of oxygen cylinders.Police suspect the two men are involved in other types of cyber fraud too and are probing the identity of their gang members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nine-arrested-for-oxygen-cylinder-fraud-during-delhi-s-fourth-covid-wave-101638034199812.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||District committee headed by Smriti Irani passes resolution hailing PM Modi in Sonia Gandhi’s Rae Bareli||Nearly a month after she hurled the “Rae Bareli has two MPs” barb at Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani arrived in Rae Bareli to chair a meeting of the District Development and Coordination Monitoring Committee which passed a resolution hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and thanking him for a variety of reasons. Sonia Gandhi, who was replaced as the head of the government panel in July, is the co-chairperson of the committee, whose resolution praising Modi was shared by Smriti Irani after the meeting, the first in nearly three years. This is the first time since replacing Sonia Gandhi to the government panel that is reconstituted after each Lok Sabha election that Smriti Irani chaired the committee meeting in Rae Bareli which till now was presided by Gandhi, the Lok Sabha MP since 2004. “DISHA Rae Bareli passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Covid vaccination, Rae Bareli AIIMS, free ration, piped water in rural areas and Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) dispensary,” Smriti Irani tweeted on Saturday. “Though as per protocol and convention, the Lok Sabha MP usually chairs the DISHA meeting, but since a part of Salon assembly segment of Rae Bareli is part of Amethi Lok Sabha constituency, hence technically, Smriti Irani too could head the government panel in Rae Bareli,” an official said. The official explained that government panel in Rae Bareli hadn’t met for around three years. Since its win in Amethi in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP has been eyeing Rae Bareli where its political clout has been growing. Only a couple of days back, rebel Congress lawmaker Aditi Singh from Rae Bareli (Sadar) assembly segment joined the BJP and expressed her faith in the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Five assembly segments make up Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat. The Congress could win just two of these assembly seats in the 2017 UP assembly polls. Since then, the MLA from one of them has now joined the BJP and the other Congress MLA from Harchandpur, Rakesh Pratap Singh has been openly praising the BJP leadership. Rakesh’s brother Dinesh Pratap Singh, a former Sonia aide and local MLC, had joined the party ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and contested against the Congress chief. Though he lost, Dinesh subsequently played a part in the Congress defeat in the region in the panchayat polls earlier this year. In October, during a visit to Salon, Smriti Irani had said that Rae Bareli had two Lok Sabha MPs. “One of them is here in front of you and can confidently state knowledge of each and every problem you face but what about your other MP?” she had asked. Before that she had said, “Amethi, BJP would take Rae Bareli too, if harassment of BJP workers continued.” “Since becoming Amethi MP, Smriti has missed no opportunity to connect with those areas of Rae Bareli that are part of Amethi,” a party leader admitted and said that BJP was developing constituencies where it had lost. Congress spokesman Zishan Haider on Saturday said, “As a political party, our leaders have always maintained a certain dignity. They have never stooped to a level that is being displayed these days. Our leaders are beyond such petty politics. The Congress has been in power for decades and will again return to power by the blessings of the people. As for a government panel praising Prime Minister, well, that isn’t surprising anymore.” Earlier in the day, Smriti Irani inaugurated the ESI dispensary and branch office at Pragati Puram, Rae Bareli, a move that is expected to benefit 60,000 ESI beneficiaries of Rae Bareli. “This dispensary will help many get better facilities,” she said adding that several workers would also be able to get cash benefits from the ESIC branch office that so far was operating from a rented building since 1978. The new 933 square metre ESI campus has been built at a cost of Rs. 2.27 crore. Union minister of state for labour and employment and petroleum and natural gas Rameshwar Teli and Rae Bareli municipality chairperson Purnima Shrivastava were also present. Irani also handed over monthly pension approval letters to the beneficiaries under the ‘Covid-19 Relief Scheme’, a measure by ESIC towards strengthening financial condition of the families affected by the pandemic. Teli said that through the Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana, if an insured person loses job, they are eligible for relief of 50% of the average daily earnings during the last four contribution periods. “The largest share of workers is of unorganised workers and for the first time under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi a National Database has been prepared for the unorganized workers,” Teli said while appealing to people to get registered on the ‘e-shram’ portal at the earliest. One gets an insurance cover of ₹2 lakh after registration and around 9.5 crore people have been registered on this portal so far. ESI is operational in 41 districts of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/district-committee-headed-by-smriti-irani-passes-resolution-hailing-pm-modi-in-sonia-gandhi-s-rae-bareli-101638034198758.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Yogi attacks opposition, exhorts people not to fall for their promises||Launching a scathing attack on opposition parties, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday exhorted people to not fall for their promises as they keep changing their statements. He also claimed that there had been no riot, farmer suicides, or deaths due to starvation after BJP came to power in the state.The CM said this while laying the foundation stone of an ethanol plant, to be set up on 65.61 acres of land at Balrampur Sugar Mills Complex, in Gonda’s Maijapur, at a cost of ₹450 crore.The CM once again raked up Akhilesh’s ‘Jinnah’ comment to say that those who believed in the founder of Pakistan engaged in attacking faith and “instigate riots” in their tenure. “Before 2017, the governments used to take back cases against those who attacked the Ramjanam Bhoomi in Ayodhya. These people are rioters and followers of Jinnah and they won’t be able to understand the sweetness of sugarcane. Since the BJP government came to power in the state, festivals were celebrated peacefully. This is the picture of new Uttar Pradesh and we made the state riot-free as not even a single riot has taken place in the last 4 years. BJP killed the terrorists after entering into their den,” the chief minister said.In 2013, the then SP-ruled UP government had issued an order for withdrawal of cases against Ayodhya serial blast accused as it believed them to be “innocent Muslims” implicated in false cases. The order was stayed by the Allahabad Court.He also warned people of being misled by opposition and claimed that they have dual character and change colour fast.“The Congress, Bua (referring to BSP chief Mayawati) and Babua (referring to Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav) got enough chance to do development but very less work was done,” he said. Speaking about the ethanol plant, Yogi said it was going to be the biggest in Asia once completed.He added that with the setting up of the plant the money that used to go to foreign countries for diesel and petrol will directly reach farmers.“With this farmers will be able to extract diesel and petrol along with sugarcane in their fields and the money which used to go abroad will land in their pockets. When farmers will be happy, prosperity will come. With ethanol plants job opportunities will also be created,” the CM said.He also said better connectivity was required for the plant and investment in the area will open the gate for employment opportunities and business.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-attacks-opposition-exhorts-people-not-to-fall-for-their-promises-101638033844547.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ex-Congress MLA held after video shows him beating up civic staff||New Delhi: Former Congress MLA Asif Mohammed Khan was arrested on Saturday after a video surfaced online purportedly showing him allegedly abusing and assaulting municipal corporation workers for removing illegal posters and hoardings from the road outside his office.A video of Khan purportedly forcing the four employees of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to squat as they are kicked and verbally abused was widely circulated on social media platforms.HT could not independently confirm the authenticity of the video but Delhi Police issued a statement confirming the arrest. Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) Esha Pandey said an inspector of the South MCD’s Lajpat Nagar zone had filed a complaint on Friday, after which police registered an FIR at the Shaheen Bagh police station. “Khan was thereafter arrested, investigation is progressing,” she said. The inspector told police that on Friday, a four-member team of MCD officers were removing illegal posters, billboards and advertisements in Kalindi Kunj and Shaheen Bagh, and were removing political posters outside the legislator’s office when they were allegedly stopped by Khan and his associates. The complainant alleged that the team was taken to Khan’s office nearby where they were forced to squat and assaulted.Khan, former Congress MLA from the Okhla constituency between 2009 and 2013, has been booked under Indian Penal Code sections related to stopping public servants from doing their duty, using criminal force and hurting them. SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan too confirmed that Khan assaulted the civic staff who were removing illegal banner hoardings. “I have directed the department to file FIR against the former MLA and take legal action against him. I will soon visit the site where the harassment took place. The corporation will remove all the encroachments in the area. I want to appeal to all SDMC officials not to be intimidated by such people and keep working,” Suryan said.A senior SDMC official said police have contacted the corporation and asked the four employees to join investigation. “We will fully cooperate with the police,” he said.Delhi Congress did not respond to requests seeking comment.According to the Delhi Outdoor Advertising Policy, 2017, no advertisement is allowed in residential areas. Further, according to the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property (DPDC) Act, defacement is a punishable offence with imprisonment for up to six months or a fine up to ₹50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiexcongress-mla-held-after-video-shows-him-beating-up-civic-staff-101638033418604.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Farmers to immerse ashes of Lakhimpur Kheri violence victims in Arabian Sea today||As part of their nationwide agitations against the three controversial farm laws, various farmers’ organisations on Saturday took out a rally with the ashes of farmers who had died during the agitation. The outfits will be holding a public meeting at Azad Maidan on Sunday. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that the laws would be repealed owing to the stiff opposition by the farmers. The legal process to repeal them is expected to be completed in the winter session that starts from Monday. The urns carrying the ashes were taken to the city’s historic places such as Chaityabhoomi, Shivaji Park and Babu Genu memorial as a tribute to the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh last month. The ashes would be immersed in the Arabian Sea after the rally on Sunday. Saturday’s rally was supported by the state’s ruling parties – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. NCP leader Supriya Sule participated in the rally at Chaityabhoomi.Eight people, including four farmers, had died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3.Farmers’ organisations, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, has organised a farmers’ rally at Azad Maidan on Sunday. “We are expecting more than 50,000 farmers, labourers and workers, representing various organisations, to attend it. Rakesh Tikait, who has been heading the farmers’ protest at Singhu border as well as other leaders such as Darshan Pal, Hanan Mulla and Dr Ashok Dhawle, among others, will address the rally. Though the political parties and their leaders are allowed to attend it, they will not be permitted to share the dais. It will be a rally of farmers,” said Shailendra Kamble, state committee member of Communist Party of India (Marxist) said.The farmers, who have been protesting against the laws for about a year, have announced to not withdraw the stir until the other demands, including that pertaining to the minimum of minimum support price (MSP) were met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-to-immerse-ashes-of-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-victims-in-arabian-sea-today-101638033238687.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Kailash Gahlot to inaugurate Raahgiri Day in Najafgarh||New Delhi: Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot will inaugurate the second ‘Raahgiri Day’ -- an initiative by the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi to reclaim the city’s streets from vehicles and promote pedestrian and sustainable mobility options -- in Najafgarh on Sunday. A government official said that the event will be held from 7.30am to 10.30am on the stretch near R C Institute of Technology, Najafgarh, leading towards Mitraon. “A range of activities such as walking, running, cycling, skating, street games, dancing, performing arts, yoga, aerobics and zumba etc. will be organised. This is the second of six Raahgiri days being hosted in Delhi over three months to raise awareness about pollution,” said the official. The previous Raahgiri day was held in Patparganj on November 14 and was inaugurated by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who said that the initiative also helps spread awareness about pollution.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was 402 in the ‘severe’ category, as per the bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at 4pm on Saturday.The Raahgiri event comes even as the sub-committee on the graded response action plan (Grap) has already issued several advisories, including limiting outdoor activities, amid the worsening air quality in the city.The government officials argue that the central idea of ‘Raahgiri day’ is to allow people to experience a street without cars and creating open streets and public spaces for activities that promote public health. Noting that the city’s roads belong to all, Gahlot said that the idea is to give back to pedestrians and cyclists by creating accessible and safe public spaces. “Projects like ‘tactical urbanism’ and the redesigning of Delhi roads are already underway. Areas like Najafgarh still have a village quality to them and the sense of community is very strong,” Gahlot said.Jasmine Shah, DDC vice-chairperson, said that reducing pollution by promoting sustainable mobility is a core aspect of the anti-pollution campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhikailash-gahlot-to-inaugurate-raahgiri-day-in-najafgarh-101638033118563.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Mock test for distance learning SPPU students from December 3 to 5||PUNE Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct a mock test for students from School of Open Learning (SOL) from December 3 to December 5. The final exam for distance learning courses at SPPU will be conducted from December 7. According to university officials, the examination will be conducted online as per the proctored method. Mahesh Kakade, head, SPPU examination and evaluation department said that students from Bachelors of Arts, Commerce, Masters in Arts and Commerce, Masters in Business Administration 2019 and Masters in Business Administration 2021 will be taking the test scheduled from December 7. “The examination will follow the multiple-choice format and will comprise of 60 questions, of which 50 are compulsory. For mathematics and statistics, 30 questions will be asked and 25 questions will be compulsory,” said Kakade. Students with grievances can note their complaints at solexam.unipune.ac.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mock-test-for-distance-learning-sppu-students-from-december-3-to-5-101638032458731.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Hathras gang rape and murder: Victim’s kin want to relocate to Noida||Family members of 19-year-old dalit girl, who was gangraped in a Hathras village and died later during treatment last year, want to relocate to Noida as “living in the same village was next to impossible for them”, said the family’s lawyer. To note, the girl was raped by four persons in Hathras on September 14, 2020 when she had gone to collect fodder for cattle. She was partially paralysed in the attack. As her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court took suo- motu cognizance of the incident on October 1, 2020Lawyer Seema Khushwaha, who is representing the victim’s family in Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, said “The family wants to relocate to Noida but the state government has refused to accept their demand. The government has instead offered them a house in Hathras city. They want the state government to reconsider their demand as living in the same village is next to impossible for them. We have apprised the court about this issue.” The matter came up during a two-day hearing of the case on November 25 and 26. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh has reserved the order for November 29.Khushwaha had also raised the issue of compensation and job to a family member of the victim. “The state government has provided ₹25 lakh compensation to the family. But this amount has been clubbed with the compensation that has to be provided under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989,” she said. “The family is yet to receive a house, land for farming, monthly pension of ₹5000 and a job to one member of the family,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hathras-gang-rape-and-murder-victim-s-kin-want-to-relocate-to-noida-101638032398563.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Woman, son die in road accident in Lucknow; another injured||Reckless driving claimed the lives of a 30-year-old woman and her eight-year-old son on Saturday morning when a speeding tractor hit a scooty on which the duo was riding on Lucknow-Sitapur road under Itaunja police station limits on the city outskirts, said police.Another woman identified as Mahi Tiwari was also injured in the mishap and is undergoing treatment at a near-by hospital where her condition is stated to be critical, they said.A police official of Lucknow Rural said the incident took place when the woman Priya, a resident of Kamlapur in Sitapur, along with her son was coming towards Lucknow city on a scooty at around 10.30 am. He said the woman and her son died on the spot while one other woman was injured.“The tractor driver along with the vehicle fled from the spot. An FIR under Indian Penal Code section 279 for reckless driving and section 304-A for causing deaths due to negligent act has been registered against the driver and efforts are on to trace him,” the official said.He said both the bodies have been sent for post mortem and their family members informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-son-die-in-road-accident-in-lucknow-another-injured-101638031558533.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||10-year-old Navi Mumbai resident wins gold at State-level skateboard meet||Ten-year-old Shiok Deshmukh, a resident of Seawoods Sector New 50, has won the State-level skateboard championship held last Sunday at Carter Road in Bandra.This was the first time that he participated in a State-level competition. Before this, he had participated just once in a local competition organised in Nerul.A Class 4 student of Goldcrest High School, Deshmukh has been training for the last two-and-a-half years at Nerul skatepark.“When I was in Canada, I had seen students carrying skateboards to schools and colleges. Skateboarding there is a means of transportation too. Hence, once when I found a skateboard in a toy shop on sale, I asked if he would be interested in having it. Since then, he has always been skateboarding, doing various tricks,” his father, Vishlesh Deskmukh, who is a social media marketing professional, said.In the beginning, when he got the skateboard, he managed the basics all alone at the age of eight, and later started training under a coach to learn the new tricks.“The thrill, the jumps and the stunts attached to the sport is what I like the most. The sport in itself is very exciting. While my building friends prefer to play cricket, I choose this sport and go to the skate park every day for one hour for practice,” Shiok said.This is the first year wherein the Olympics included skateboarding as a sport and hence his father feels that the sport has now got recognition and credibility. “He intends to take up a career as well on this sport,” his father said.On December 16, he would be representing Maharashtra in the under-11 age group category at the National Championship organised by Roller Skating Federation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10yearold-navi-mumbai-resident-wins-gold-at-state-level-skateboard-meet-101638031498574.html
27-11-2021||Indore||Bomb found in village bordering Army firing range in Mhow, defused||A live bomb was found on Saturday at Kuti village bordering the Army firing range in Mhow in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh, police said. The bomb was defused by Army personnel, an official said. A bomb was spotted by a resident of Kuti village while cutting bushes for the construction of his house, Badgonda police station inspector Amit Kumar told PTI. When it was confirmed that it was an Army bomb, all residents of the locality were evacuated and the Army and the police were informed, the inspector said. “A team of Army personnel arrived a the spot and defused the bomb. Army authorities have initiated an inquiry," Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/bomb-found-in-village-bordering-army-firing-range-in-mhow-defused-101638031110989.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh corruption case: Sanjeev Palande monitored collection from Mumbai bars, ED tells HC||Former home minister Anil Deshmukh’s personal secretary, deputy collector Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde jointly passed on the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s instructions to the dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze about the collection to be made from bars and restaurants in the city, Enforcement Directorate (ED) has claimed in its affidavit filed in Bombay high court (HC). ED added that the duo also monitored the collection. ED has registered the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) against Deshmukh and others on May 11, 2021, based on a first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Deshmukh on April 21. The CBI FIR, in turn, is based on the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter written to the chief minister and others on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh had instructed some Mumbai police officers, including dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from bar owners in the city. ED has arrested both, Palande and Shinde, on June 26 in the money laundering case. Palande has since moved the high court for quashing of the ECIR on various grounds. The affidavit filed by investigating officer of the case, assistant director Tassine Sultan, opposed the petition, stating that Palande and Shinde used to pass on Deshmukh’s instructions to Vaze and other Mumbai Police officers, who were entrusted to collect bribe amounts from bars and restaurants. It adds that the duo also used to monitor the work of bribe collection from Mumbai bars and the facts were corroborated by Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the Antilia explosive scare and connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, in his statements given to ED. In his statements to ED, Vaze has said that on Deshmukh’s instructions he held a meeting with some bar owners in his erstwhile office at the Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch and between December 2020 and February 2021, collected an amount of ₹4.70 crore from orchestra bars in Mumbai and handed over the cash to Shinde in two instalments. ED said its investigation revealed that Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh had subsequently got an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based shell entities as donations to a Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur, controlled by the Deshmukh family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-corruption-case-sanjeev-palande-monitored-collection-from-mumbai-bars-ed-tells-hc-101638031318586.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Minor girl sexually assaulted inside Varanasi school, accused arrested||A 9-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a sanitary worker inside a private school in Lahartara area of Varanasi on Friday, police said. The accused Sinku aka Ajai Kumar, who is in his mid twenties, has been arrested, they said and added that the incident happened when the girl-- a student of class three-- went to toilet on Friday.A senior police officer said the victim on reaching home informed her mother about the incident following which her parents reported the matter to police. A police team immediately reached the school and scanned the CCTV and identified the accused.The medical examination of the girl has been done, added the officer. Deputy commissioner of police (Varuna Zone) Vikrant Veer said Sinku, who worked as a sanitary worker in the school, was booked under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO (protection of children from sexual offences) Act following a complaint by victim’s father. Moreover, Commissioner of Police A Satish Ganesh constituted a SIT to probe the case. Headed by DCP (Varuna Zone) Vikrant Veer, the SIT has five members, including two female police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/minor-girl-sexually-assaulted-inside-varanasi-school-accused-arrested-101638031018354.html
27-11-2021||Bhopal||Congress taught wrong history by claiming…: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The Congress has taught the wrong history to the people by claiming that the country became independent only due to the contributions of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan alleged on Saturday. Addressing a gathering at Baroda Aheer, the birthplace of tribal revolutionary Tantya Bhil aka Tantya mama to mark the launch of Gaurav Kalash Yatra, Chouhan said, "We were not taught the right history. We were told that only Mahatma Gandhi ji, Nehru and Indiraji got Independence for us. I salute Mahatma Gandhi. He is a vishwa bandhu (universal brother) but the Congress taught us the wrong history". He said the life and role of revolutionaries who laid their lives for the country such as Tantya mama, Rani Laxmibai, Nana Saheb Peshwa, Bhima Nayak, Raghunath Shah, Shankar Shah, Birsa Munda and several others were never taught to the people. Chouhan thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for declaring 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas' to mark the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda, a tribal icon. He said Tantya mama had fought against the exploitation by money lenders and led an armed battle against the British. Tantya mama used to loot treasuries of the British government and distribute the wealth among the poor, the chief minister said. Tantya mama was caught by deception and hanged by the British in the Jabalpur jail, he said, adding that the BJP government will teach the right history of Tantya mama. Chouhan said that it was painful to note that Congress had named a tribal university in the name of (ex-prime minister) Indira Gandhi and not after revolutionaries hailing from tribal communities. “They (Congress) glorified only one family while the rest of the martyrs were forgotten. But we (BJP) are rectifying this historical mistake,” he said. On the occasion, the CM honoured the descendants of Tantya Bhil and also announced the installation of Bhil's statue. Gaurav Kalash Yatra will conclude on December 4, the martyrdom day of Tantya Bhil, at Patalpani after passing through various parts of MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-taught-wrong-history-by-claiming-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101638030289130.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Pune receives rains 11 months of this year||Pune: As weather patterns have changed, Pune city has reported rainfall every month this year starting from January, with more rainy days compared to past years. As per the weather department, the rainfall has been in excess for the city along with pre and post-monsoon rains this year. According to weather scientists, it is not unusual to receive rainfall during pre and post-monsoon season though more rainy days were reported in these 11 months. Dr DS Pai, who heads climate research and services at India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune said that due to regular low-pressure areas over the state and country, there has been rainfall almost throughout every year. “In the pre-monsoon season, there has been frequent low-pressure areas which have originated due to Easterly waves. These low-pressure belts either were present over Maharashtra or passed through the state which resulted in rainfall,” said Pai. He said rainfall in July and August during monsoon were comparatively below normal. Whereas in September and October, the rainfall received in Pune city was above normal. In January this year, IMD reported 32.5 mm rainfall at Shivajinagar in just 24 hours which was the highest rainfall in 52 years. The all-time record for rainfall in January so far has been 14.7 mm. February saw traces of rainfall along with hailstorm reported in parts of the city. Between March and May, Pune city has received at least 131 per cent more rain in comparison to the normal rainfall as per IMD. In May, Pune city witnessed more than two intense rainfall events. In May, Pune reported over 30 mm rainfall in just three hours causing waterlogging in streets. He added that due to climate change, weather overall has been less predictable. “Due to climate change, there has been more intense rainfall events and extreme weather events have also increased. However, this climate variability and rainfall in every month so far may or may not occur next year. This may not be a regular event,” said Pai. Monsoon withdrawal this year was reported in October but rains continued in November as well. From October to November 27, Pune district has reported 38 per cent excess rainfall. In November alone, Pune district has reported 93 per cent excess rainfall. Senior IMD scientist KS Hosalikar, who also heads the surface instruments division at the Climate Research and Services at IMD, said the climatology of Pune states that rainfall may occur in each month. “However, this year due to various weather systems there has been rainfall in Pune and many parts of the state. In April, May, October and November there were thunderstorms and lightning along with rainfall. The climatology suggests that there is a probability for rainfall every month as this data is for 30 years. Pre and post-monsoon rainfall was very good this year,” Hosalikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-receives-rains-11-months-of-this-year-101638030238419.html
27-11-2021||Dehradun||Ensure compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour: Uttarakhand CM instructs DGP||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday instructed the chief secretary, DGP and health secretary to ensure compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour in public places, informed the Chief Minister Office.CMO further informed that CM Dhami instructed the health secretary to make all necessary arrangements in hospitals in view of the new variant of Covid-19.Dhami has appealed to the people of the state to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and get fully vaccinated.Amid rising concern about a new Covid-19 variant 'Omicron' first detected in South Africa, India has also added several countries to the list from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing for infection.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare adds Hong Kong and Israel to the list of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing considering the detection of the new Covid-19 variant 'Omicron' in South Africa.This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations, and thus, has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ensure-compliance-of-covid-appropriate-behaviour-uttarakhand-cm-instructs-dgp-101638029901593.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Amendment clauses of Unified DCPR to allow for high-rises, redevelopment of buildings in old Thane||The amendment in some of the clauses of the Unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) will now pave the way for high-rises and redevelopment of buildings in congested areas of Naupada and Uthalsar in old Thane.The state had approved the Unified DCPR for the entire State excluding Mumbai last December. On Friday, Urban Development Minister, Eknath Shinde, released the amendments to this Unified DCPR in Thane.The permissible Floor Space Index (FSI) for old buildings, which was 50% earlier, was reduced to 10 % last year. The amendment has now restored the original 50% FSI. The restriction of 24m height is also now increased to 70m, thus paving the way for high-rises in old Thane.Most redevelopment projects are stalled in this part of the city owing to the demand for extra FSI or TDR for congested areas. With the narrow roads that are merely 6m to 8m, this FSI was not permissible. The cap on 2 FSI is removed as per the new amendment and FSI as high as 4.16 can be permitted.Shinde said, “The Unified DCPR approved last year did not resolve the issue of Thane residents. As per the revised rules, for general redevelopment, approved FSI (1.1) + 0.5 Premium FSI + Permissible TDR + 60% ancillary FSI will be given, while for redevelopment of dangerous building, approved FSI (1.1) + 0.5 Premium FSI + 50% Incentive FSI + Permissible TDR + 60% ancillary FSI will be given. Also the narrow 9m roads will be considered as 12m and the building height will be approved up to 70m.”This means that buildings can be as high as 22m to 23m in the old part of the city. Moreover, if the road is narrower than 9m, the corporation can widen it to 9m and the constructions along it can get the benefits of 9m road.Shinde has also appealed to the developers in the city to participate in the cluster development scheme as it is aimed to resolve the issue of old and dilapidated buildings in the city.As per the existing clauses of Unified DCPR, parking space was not adequately available. Therefore, the existing provision of parking space in UDCPR is further relaxed by 20%. The provision of having more space for two-wheeler parking is revised. Also, earlier a ramp and lift was compulsory for the basement. With the amendment, car lift is now permitted. The parking tower can also be around 1.5m from the redeveloped plot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amendment-clauses-of-unified-dcpr-to-allow-for-high-rises-redevelopment-of-buildings-in-old-thane-101638029582826.html
27-11-2021||Ranchi||Kashmiri traders thrashed in Ranchi, three detained||Three Kashmiri youths staying in the Jharkhand capital and engaged in selling blankets were allegedly beaten up by a group of men on Saturday, the police said.Prabhat Ranjan, deputy superintendent of police (Ranchi Sadar), said a case has been registered and investigation is on. “We have detained three persons who were named in the complaint and are questioning them. We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area and the videos provided by the complaints. As far as the allegation of religious chanting is concerned, that is yet to be established. We will proceed further as per findings,” said Ranjan.The incident occurred near Kadru railway overbridge under Doranda police station limits, said police.In their complaint with Doranda police station, the three men, Riyaz Ahmed Wani (34), Sartaj Ahmed and Tanveer Ahmed (in their 20s), have alleged they were attacked by a group of around 20-25 people without provocation and forced to chant Hindu religious slogans. “I was hit on my head with a rod. I escaped injury due to my helmet that got badly damaged. We have submitted the broken helmet to the police. Our scooty was also damaged badly. It was clear we were targeted in a planned manner as the group was already present there. A similar incident had happened earlier this month with our boys who had filed a complaint with Doranda police station,” Wani said. The three detained accused have been identified as Deepak Jha, Tarun Kumar and Arvind Kumar. Ranjan said one person was arrested and sent to jail in the previous incident that happened on November 11.“We are also taking corrective measures to ensure safety for these groups of traders. We have sought details of all such men staying here and areas they are practising their trade so that we devise some mechanism for their safety. Be it increasing security or patrolling, we will take corrective measures accordingly,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/kashmiri-traders-thrashed-in-ranchi-three-detained-101638029338244.html
27-11-2021||Other||Bibi Jagir Kaur, president SGPC: My tenure was about reconnecting with people||With the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) House assembling on November 29 (Monday) to choose its office-bearers, including the president, incumbent chief Bibi Jagir Kaur tells HT that reaching a consensus over the calendar issue will be an important challenge for her successor. She adds that she moved cautiously during her one-year tenure as the SGPC needed to reach stability and reconnect with people.ARE YOU SATISFIED WITH YOUR PERFORMANCE? WHAT ARE THE INITIATIVES YOU TOOK?A year is a short time; many tasks are pending. I devoted myself, full-time, to serve as the president and am satisfied. I started the ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’ (sacred shrine within every home) drive. I will be happy if my successor takes it forward. Work on two serais has started; the new building of Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan is near completion.YOU HOSTED MODERN SIKH MISSIONARIES, ANNOYING TRADITIONAL SEMINARIES LIKE THE DAMDAMI TAKSAL. HOW DID YOU TACKLE THIS?I never compromised on principles, and there were no direct attempts to pressure me; the media might have been used. Modern Sikh Missionary institutions were happy that the SGPC had invited them, for the first time, and allowed them to share views from the stage at Sri Darbar Sahib. Globally, the community hailed the move. YOU SUPPORT THE ORIGINAL NANAKSHAHI CALENDAR, BUT THE ROW COULD NOT BE SETTLED. WHY?The community must reach a consensus. I did not want to create confusion. The SGPC was under fire when I joined and I aimed to bring stability and then reconnect with people. My successor must address the calendar issue and bridge rifts within the community.YOU FAILED TO ENSURE THAT WOMEN BE ALLOWED TO PERFORM KIRTAN AT THE GOLDEN TEMPLE.The Sikh faith, unequivocally, grants equality to women. Hence, Sikh women perform kirtan at the Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on the Golden Temple premises. They don’t do it at the sanctum sanctorum, which has its own protocol. During recruitment, ‘ragis’ take a tough exam and fulfil some conditions. We have not produced eligible women ragi jathas. Only politicians, activists, intellectuals or journalists raise this demand, not women ragi jathas. THIS WAS YOUR FOURTH TERM. HOW WAS IT DIFFERENT?There is dip in the quality of employees at the SGPC. The system has weakened, and will take 2-3 years to be set right. The president has to be strict.ARE YOU HINTING THAT THE ONE-YEAR TENURE IS TOO SHORT?If the SGPC House is elected for five years, the president should also be there for five years. Till the Sikh Gurdwara Act is amended in Parliament, this is not possible.WILL YOU CONTESTS ASSEMBLY POLLS?I will abide by the party decision. I am more satisfied when I do ‘sewa’ though, serving as an MLA or a minister is also important. THE PERCEPTION IS THAT THE SGPC PRESIDENT BATTLES POLITICAL PRESSURE. IS IT TRUE?Not at all. The Badals have never asked anything from me. Sukhbir has expressed satisfaction at my performance.THE PLAN TO RAZE THE HISTORIC GURU RAM DAS SERAI HAS INVITED PUBLIC WRATH. HAS IT BEEN SCRAPPED?No. It has been delayed, as we don’t have a place to accommodate devotees, when renovation or construction starts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bibi-jagir-kaur-president-sgpc-my-tenure-was-about-reconnecting-with-people-101638029278317.html
27-11-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP president reviews preparations for Amit Shah's Dec 5 Jaipur visit||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday reviewed preparations for Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit here on December 5 and issued necessary directions to party leaders.The review meeting was attended by BJP general secretary (organisation) Chandrashekhar and other party leaders."A large number of party workers and people will gather in Jaipur. The meeting of public representatives will be grand and there is enthusiasm among all BJP workers about the visit," Poonia told reporters after the meeting.He said Shah's visit and address will boost the morale of the party workers and infuse them with new energy.Another BJP leader said Shah will hold a huge roadshow from the airport to Birla Auditorium. He will be welcomed by party leaders and workers at several places during the roadshow.During his visit, Shah will chair a meeting of the BJP's state working committee and address a meeting of around 10,000 public representatives, including MPs, MLAs, zila pramukhs, panchayat samiti members and pradhans etc.He is also likely to visit some temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-president-reviews-preparations-for-amit-shah-s-dec-5-jaipur-visit-101638028491057.html
27-11-2021||Patna||Biometric voter identification in Bihar panchayat polls draws praise, likely in Delhi civic polls||The biometric system for voter identification introduced in the ongoing panchayat polls in Bihar is not only getting praise from various election bodies, but is also likely to be adopted in the upcoming municipal polls in New Delhi early next year. State Election Commissioner of Delhi and Chandigarh, S K Srivastava, who was in Bihar from November 24 to 26, visited several booths during the eighth round of panchayat polls at Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur and also took an update on the latest digital system adopted in the counting process from his State Election Commissioner Bihar, Dr Deepak Prasad. “The biometric system of voter identification adopted by the State Election Commission (SEC), Bihar, is unique and has proved to be an effective tool in checking bogus voting and rigging. We are impressed by it and are contemplating of using the same in the upcoming municipal polls in New Delhi. I did visit booths and saw the system,” Srivastava told reporters before returning to Delhi on Friday evening.The SEC, Delhi, who is also chairman of standing committee of state election commissioners across the country, said advanced electronic voting machines (EVMs) being used for assembly polls and parliamentary polls should be provided by the Election Commission of India ( ECI) to SECs for maintaining a synergy in conduct of the polls. He said the SECs should also get the permission for procuring multi-post and single-post EVMs for civic polls and panchayat polls as per need from the manufacturing agencies like BEL (Bharat Electronics Limited) and ECIL. “We are soon going to write to the law ministry in this regard. The concept of ‘one nation, one election’ requires that we use same medium for all elections with similar type of EVMs,” Srivatasa said. Before the panchayat polls in Bihar, there was some controversy over procurement of multi post EVMs from ECIL. The SEC had moved Patna High Court over delay in grant of permission to ECIL from the ECI to provide requisite number of multi-post EVMs. Later, the matter was resolved with the ECI providing single post EVMs to the state poll panel from various states. Bihar panchayat polls are being held both with EVMs and ballot papers for six posts in the three tier rural local bodies. Bihar SEC Deepak Prasad emphasized that cameras put over all counting tables and OCR (optical character recognition) to capture images of votes secured by candidates in the EVMs and put on server was also a new step adopted in the panchayat polls and its impact has been positive. “Complaints of manipulation in counting process has been negligible from candidates. The human interface in counting process has been reduced and there is more artificial intelligence( AI) in the system,” he said. Bihar’s 11-phase panchayat polls will conclude on December 12 with election of 2.55 panchayat representatives, from ward member to district board members in the three-tier local bodies. Panch and sarpanch in gram kutcheries are also being elected at the village panchayat level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biometric-voter-identification-in-bihar-panchayat-polls-draws-praise-likely-in-delhi-civic-polls-101638028918204.html
27-11-2021||Patna||Education minister meets Guv amid flying graft charges against VCs||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Saturday called on Governor Phagu Chouhan, who also happens to be the Chancellor of state universities, amid allegations of corruption against top officials of varsities.The minister said there was discussion with the Governor on the state of affairs in state universities and recent developments pointing to administrative issues, especially the corruption charges levelled by Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University vice chancellor Md Qudus against Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) VC SP Singh.“I apprised him of the stand of the chief minister and the education department with regard to corruption issues in detail. The CM has written to the Governor for probe into the allegations and a copy was also sent to the department. The Governor listened to everything patiently and assured to get the matter thoroughly examined so that action could be taken against the guilty,” Choudhary said. The minister said he was satisfied with the assurance from the Governor that “proper legal action would be taken against whoever is found guilty in the probe”.A Raj Bhawan communique said the minister called on the Governor for a courtesy visit. “During the meeting, the discussions revolved around development of higher education and qualitative improvement,” it said.The meeting is significant, as the entire education department had stayed away from the maiden function to present Chancellor’s awards in the wake of controversies surrounding LNMU VC SP Singh due to serious corruption charges levelled against him by a contemporary VC last week. Earlier, vigilance sleuths also carried out raid at the office and Magadh University VC Rajendra Prasad.Later, the CM met the Governor and two long-pending appointments of VC and Pro-VC were cleared before the Governor went to Delhi. There are several vacancies still existing in varsities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/education-minister-meets-guv-amid-flying-graft-charges-against-vcs-101638028858190.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai school ropes in parents to chalk out SOPs of physical classes||Weeks after the state government announced the physical reopening of schools for classes 8-12, several parents shared their angst about putting their child’s health in danger by sending them for physical classes. In such confusing times, a city school found an innovative way to tackle this fear. Campion School in Cooperage brought together a team of parents of students studying in their school to form a committee to put together the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for school reopening. The parents, mainly doctors, attended school for a few days and inspected key areas—washrooms, corridors, playground, school gate, etc, where students need to maintain social distance and other protocols. Speaking to HT, Cyril D’Souza, vice-principal of the school said, “We invited a group of parents to form a committee and asked them, along with a few more willing parents, to help us put together SOPs to follow once school reopens for students. This group of parents spent time in the school premises for some days and inspected every nook and corner of the institute before working on the SOPs.”Essentially, six parents divided the task among themselves to pull together SOPs for six important departments. They wrote separate protocols and compiled their ideas.Dr Farah Mistri, a physiotherapist by profession and mother to a grade 4 and grade 8 student of Campion School shared, “We wanted to make sure that we have a robust system in place before students return to school. Once the SOPs were ready, we invited more parents to attend school to ensure the practicality of implementation of the SOPs is done.”As part of the inspection, parents also attended school while students were around and checked every place from classrooms to washrooms to ensure that students are following Covid protocols at all times. “We realised during these inspections that at the school gate, students would maintain better distance if a teacher was at the gate other than the security,” added Fr Francis Swamy, school principal. In October, once the state education department released the order to reopen schools for classes 8 to 10, the school management as well as the parents were ready. A series of trial runs helped, eventually convincing nearly 60% of parents to give consent forms for physical classes. “The involvement of parents since the very beginning ensured many apprehensions were resolved. With the guidelines in hand, parents also managed to prepare the children before sending them off for physical classes,” said Mistri, and added that apart from students, the teaching and non-teaching staff of the institute also attended a workshop on Covid appropriate behaviour and how to conduct hybrid classes, starting October this year.“With the SOP in place, reopening school for students from higher grades became easier for us and at the same time, parents as well as students were more aware and at ease. We hope to re-work the SOPs and guidelines once the younger grade students start coming to school. We are planning to run the school in two shifts if needed,” added Fr Swamy.Some rules under SOP put together by the school-Upon entering the school, each student must sanitise their hands and move along the designated path to their respective class. The same will apply during the exit from the school. Entry and exit protocols should be followed strictly at all times.-No sharing of books, stationery or any other personal items will be permitted. Water bottles or sharing of snacks will not be permitted.-If any child leaving school on their own or with the driver, must bring along their parent’s consent letter in two copies. -Wearing a fresh, triple-layered mask as well as hand sanitisation from home is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-school-ropes-in-parents-to-chalk-out-sops-of-physical-classes-101638028798536.html
27-11-2021||Kolkata||First enemy property sealed in West Bengal to keep away alleged illegal occupants||An eight-storey building in central Kolkata, which is an enemy property, was sealed off by officials from the Custodian of Enemy Property for India (CEPI) on Saturday. This is the first time that an enemy property has been sealed in the state, officials said.“We sealed off the building at Ganesh Chandra Avenue after some people tried to occupy it illegally. They had also undertaken some reconstruction work inside the building. The owner of the building moved to Pakistan after the 1971 war. This is the first time that an enemy property has been sealed off,” said a senior official of the CEPI. West Bengal accounts for the second-highest number of such enemy properties in India, according to data placed in the Lok Sabha earlier this year. While Uttar Pradesh has 5936 enemy properties, West Bengal has 4301. “We have received information that a section of these properties is being illegally occupied. We are looking into these. More buildings may be sealed in the next few weeks,” said the official. The owners of the enemy properties are those who have left India and settled in Pakistan or China after the India-Pakistan wars of 1965 and 1971 and the 1962 Sino-Indian war. The government has vested these properties in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India, an office instituted under the central government. At least enemy shares of 302 companies and 12426 immovable enemy properties are vested in the Custodian of Enemy Property for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/first-enemy-property-sealed-in-west-bengal-to-keep-away-alleged-illegal-occupants-101638028677516.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CID to question Param Bir Singh next week||The state crime investigation department (CID) will question former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh next week in multiple rounds, as the agency is probing three separate first information reports (FIRs) against him. Singh is currently posted as the commandant general of Maharashtra home guards. After hiding for months, the 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer resurfaced in his hometown Chandigarh on Wednesday, two days after the Supreme Court gave him protection from arrest by Maharashtra Police and directed him to join investigations in the cases against him. Singh will appear before investigators at CID’s regional office in CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai, on Tuesday and Wednesday, sources said. “Three investigation officers of the three cases will separately question Singh next week. The questioning may go on for two-three consecutive days,” said a senior CID officer, adding that they have prepared three separate questionnaires for Singh’s interrogation, which will be supervised by MN Jagtap, superintendent of police, CID, and CID chief Retesh Kumaarr. One of the three cases was registered against Singh at Kalyan on April 28 on the basis of a complaint by serving inspector Bhimrao Ghadge. The inspector has alleged that Singh, during his tenure as Thane Police commissioner, put pressure on him to drop corruption charges against three Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioners and other civic officials. The other two cases being investigated by CID are pertaining to the extortion complaints registered by Bhayander-based developer Shyamsunder Agrawal against Singh and some other police officers. The first FIR based on Agarwal’s complaint was registered at Marine Drive police station, in which the builder had alleged that Singh and his subordinates extorted money from him at the behest of his former partner Sanjay Punamiya, by registering false cases against him. Another FIR against Singh was registered at Kopri police station in Thane. The FIR is on the basis of a complaint lodged by Agarwal’s nephew Sharad, alleging that former top cop, a deputy commission of police and others threatened him at Singh’s official residence in Thane and extorted money from him by threatening to frame his uncle in more criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cid-to-question-param-bir-singh-next-week-101638026524375.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||More than 30% in Kalyan Dombivli civic body limits not taken first vaccination dose against Covid||More than 4.12 lakh people out of the total eligible population of 13.59 lakh are yet to get their first vaccination dose, reveals the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) data.The KDMC has so far vaccinated 69.63% of its 13.59 lakh listed beneficiaries. Among these, 9.46 lakh people have taken their first dose. In the 18-44 years category, 94.75% of the listed 5.57 lakh beneficiaries have taken their first dose. Meanwhile, 59.11%, which amounts to 3.23 lakh of those who have taken the first dose, have taken their second dose too.In a door-to-door survey initiated recently, the civic body surveyed 2.81 lakh homes through their 18 health centres and found that 57,492 residents had not taken even a single dose. The vaccinators managed to convince 15,271 residents to take the first dose while 25,241 were either out of station or assured that they would soon take the dose. However, the remaining 16,980 residents, who despite the vaccinators going to their doorstep, refused to get vaccinated. Of these 16,980 residents, 10,130 are from the Ansari Chowk area.The door-to-door survey initiated by the KDMC earlier this month has seen several such cases where the entire family has not taken the dose while some have taken their first dose and are due for second dose but have failed to take it, and some others who refuse to take the dose at all.“There are 16,980 individuals who are not willing to take the dose at all. They are either scared of the side effects or have some other myths. We try to convince them, take their contact details and keep following up with them. The civic body is also holding vaccination camps in such areas so that people can come to the nearest place and get the dose,” said Vidya Talekar, a nurse at Kolsewadi health post.The 25,241 who have not taken their single dose are being mobilised to the nearest vaccination centres as they have agreed to get it. KDMC claimed to be following up with them on a regular basis. “In case any resident who cannot go to the centre, we give the dose at their house by deciding a day for such residents,” said Talekar.“There are certain places in the city wherein the minority community is reluctant to come out and take the dose. They directly refuse to take the dose. We are talking to their general practitioners requesting them to convince the people,” said Ganesh Doiphode, in-charge of the vaccination drive in KDMC.The survey will be conducted in a total of 4.66 lakh houses in the city. Apart from 57,492 due for the first dose, the surveyors also found 1.33 lakh due for the second dose out of which 40,036 were administered the second dose on the spot. KDMC has plans to increase the number of health posts by adding 18 new centres to help increase the door-to-door survey and reach out to maximum people in the KDMC limits.Three members of the Sangle family from Karpewadi in Kalyan (E) – Vandana Vilas Sangle, 40, her husband and 20-year-old son – have not taken their single dose of Covid vaccine.“I was in my native place for a month recently and before that, we did not think about taking the dose. We thought we would take it later but never took the initiative. This doesn’t mean we will not take the dose. We will soon take it,” said Vandana.The health department of KDMC reached out to the Sangle family on Thursday. “Since the nurses have told us the dose is available in a nearby clinic, we will take it without hesitation and delay. I will also tell my husband and son the same,” said Vandana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-30-in-kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-limits-not-taken-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-101638026523094.html
27-11-2021||Patna||Delhi municipal polls next year likely to see biometric voters verification system||The biometric system for voter identification introduced in the ongoing panchayat polls in Bihar is not only getting praise from various election bodies but is also likely to be adopted in the upcoming municipal polls in New Delhi early next year, State Election Commissioner, Delhi and Chandigarh, SK Srivastava said.Srivastava, who was in Bihar from November 24 to 26, visited several booths during the eighth round of panchayat polls at Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur and took an update on the latest digital system adopted in the counting process from State Election Commissioner Bihar, Dr Deepak Prasad.“The biometric system of voter identification adopted by the State Election Commission (SEC), Bihar, is unique and has proved to be an effective tool in checking bogus voting and rigging. We are impressed by it and are contemplating using the same in the upcoming municipal polls in New Delhi. I did visit booths and saw the system,” Srivastava told reporters before returning to Delhi on Friday evening.The SEC, Delhi, who is also chairman of the standing committee of state election commissioners across the country, said, advanced electronic voting machines (EVMs) being used for assembly polls and parliamentary polls should be provided by the Election Commission of India (ECI) to SECs for maintaining synergy in the conduct of the polls.He said the SECs should also get permission to procure multi-post and single-post EVMs for civic polls and panchayat polls as per need from the manufacturing agencies like BEL (Bharat Electronics Limited) and ECIL. “We are soon going to write to the law ministry in this regard. The concept of ‘one nation, one election’ requires that we use the same medium for all elections with a similar type of EVMs,” Srivatasa said.Before the panchayat polls in Bihar, there was some controversy over the procurement of multi-post EVMs from the ECIL. The SEC moved Patna High Court over delay in grant of permission to the ECIL from the ECI to provide the requisite number of multi-posts EVMs. Later, the matter was resolved with the ECI providing single post EVMs to the state poll panel from various states.Bihar panchayat polls are being held both with EVMs and ballot papers for six posts in the three-tier rural local bodies.Bihar SEC Deepak Prasad emphasized that cameras put over all counting tables and OCR (optical character recognition) to capture images of votes secured by candidates in the EVMs and put on the server was also a new step adopted in the panchayat polls and its impact has been positive. “Complaints of manipulation in counting process has been negligible from candidates. The human interface in the counting process has been reduced and there is more artificial intelligence(AI) in the system,” he said.Bihar’s 11-phase panchayat polls will conclude on December 12 with the election of 2.55 panchayat representatives, from ward members to district board members in the three-tier local bodies. Panch and sarpanch in gram kutcheries are also being elected at the village panchayat level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/delhi-municipal-polls-next-year-likely-to-see-biometric-voters-verification-system-101638025859874.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||NMMC to keep an eye on international travellers||Navi Mumbai The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has started keeping a track of international travellers in order to ensure that the new strain does not become the cause of the third wave. From Saturday onwards, the travellers from the countries categorised as risky by the government and also the transit travellers are being tracked. “We get a list of travellers to Navi Mumbai from the airport authorities. They conduct the RTPCR there and if found positive, they are isolated there itself. If negative, they are sent here. The list is circulated to the Urban Health Primary Centre (UHPC) heads of Navi Mumbai as per the area,” said NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar.He further added that the list is also forwarded to the call centres set up for Covid-related work by NMMC. The travellers will be tracked daily by the UHPC as well as the call centre asking if they face any discomfort or symptoms. “On the eighth day after they reach, we would be conducting their RTPCR test as per the protocol,” Bangar added. He also said that the task force is thinking about conducting alternate days testing of high-risk travellers as it may take a few days for the virus to show its symptoms. “The decision on the alternate testing is yet not finalised,” Bangar added. As per the notification issued, there are 10 countries with high risk and other 98 countries with whom there is a mutual agreement on recognising vaccination certificates. “As of now, we have been able to delay the third wave due to our testing ratio and higher number of testing. The vaccination drive and now the ‘har ghar dastak’ is still going on making sure that all the citizens are vaccinated fully,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-to-keep-an-eye-on-international-travellers-101638025324826.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district sees 207 new cases, 2 deaths||On Saturday, Pune district has reported 207 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.13 million have recovered, 20,049 deaths and 2,077 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 60,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 78 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 367,691 and the death toll stood at 6,971 as no more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 96 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 523,009 and the death toll stood at 9,217 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 33 new virus cases and the progressive count went up to 269,768 and the toll stood at 3,511 as one more death was reported. Pune district also saw 60,053 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 12,999,660. Of which 8,070,192 are first doses and 4,929,468 are second doses. A total of 652 sites saw vaccination of which 464 were government centres and 188 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-sees-207-new-cases-2-deaths-101638025017884.html
27-11-2021||Other||Tripura govt asks police to review UAPA cases against 102 social media users||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb asked the director-general of police to review the cases where 102 social media users, including advocates, journalists, social activists, were booked for sharing and speaking online over alleged vandalism of religious structures, which occurred in October, and submit a report. Accordingly, DGP VS Yadav directed the Crime Branch to investigate these cases. An official statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that stern action will be taken against those who attempted to spread rumours to disturb communal harmony. If the review report finds no evidence against the accused persons of spreading rumours of communal disturbances, the state might drop their cases, it added. Tripura police booked at least 102 social media account holders, including 68 Twitter accounts, under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with other charges for posting alleged distorted news regarding communal violence in the state on November 3 and also sent letters to these social media platforms to block these accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-govt-asks-police-to-review-uapa-cases-against-102-social-media-users-101638024780620.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||BMC ready with revised boundaries for 236 seats, 8 seats to increase in suburbs, 1 in south Mumbai||While the state government is yet to issue final notification paving the way to increase electoral seats for upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, from the current seat strength of 227 to 236, the civic body has said it is ready with the revised ward boundaries for the 236 seats. According to BMC officials, the nine additional seats are being added as five extra seats in western suburbs, three in eastern suburbs and one seat in the island city.According to BMC officials, the 2011 census was considered for the redrawing of the ward boundaries for taking the count to 236 seats. The BMC officials have said it will forward the revised ward boundaries for its approval to the state election commission once the final notification is issued by the urban development department. The current composition of the civic body’s electoral ward has been unchanged since 2001. The state government did not increase the number of corporators in 2012 even when the population rose by 3.87% since 2001. Hence, the 2011 census has been used as the base as the 2021 census has been delayed owing to the Covid pandemic.The state cabinet, earlier this month, had cleared a proposal to increase the strength of the Mumbai civic body from 227 to 236 members. Following the decision, the urban development department will amend the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, to change the composition of the corporation. The state government said that the move was necessary owing to the growth in the city’s population in the past two decades.A senior BMC official from the election department of the BMC, said, “We are ready with ward boundaries for both 227 and 236 seats, and are in a position to submit to the state election commission for scrutiny. However, we are waiting for final notification from the state government. Once the notification is issued, we will send the revised ward boundaries, in which, we have changed boundaries of the existing 227 electoral wards, and not of the 24 administrative wards.”The BMC official added, “As per the revised boundaries, we are increasing around five electoral wards in western suburbs, three in eastern suburbs and one in the island city. We have calculated the average voting population in each ward to balance out while increasing the electoral seats.”According to the procedure, once the BMC submits the list of 236 seats to the state election commission, it will scrutinise the proposal and call for suggestions and objections from the general public.Post this, the BMC will conduct a lottery for deciding the reservation status of the administrative wards. The tentative dates for elections are expected to be in the last week of February or the first week of March, considering the term of current corporators ends on March 7, 2022. In the current upcoming polls, the BMC is also going to increase polling booths from the current 8,500 booths to around 11,000 polling booths.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We are well-prepared to conduct polls as per schedule. We are in the process of completing the administrative work for it.”Further, in the city, during the 2017 BMC elections, there were around 9.2 million voters, which went up to around 9.6 million in 2019 during the Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The number is now expected to have crossed the 10-million mark. Meanwhile, currently, in the civic house of 227 seats, the Shiv Sena has 97 seats while the Bharatiya Janata Party has 83, Congress 29, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) 8, Samajwadi Party (SP) six seats, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen two seats and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena has one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-ready-with-revised-boundaries-for-236-seats-8-seats-to-increase-in-suburbs-1-in-south-mumbai-101638024778492.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||More than 3,000 complain against arrested VGN Jewellers owners of cheating to the tune of Rs90 crore||The number of complainants against the owners of the VGN Jewellers chain has crossed 3,000 in less than two months of their arrest. The value of the money that is alleged to have been swindled by them has gone beyond ₹90Cr, investigating officers said on Saturday.The accused, Virithgopalan Nair and his wife Valsala, were arrested on October 5 by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Thane Police Crime Branch for allegedly running a Ponzi scheme.Initially, 13 people from all over the Thane district had registered complaints with the Kolsewadi police station in Kalyan, alleging that they had collectively been cheated to the tune of ₹7.99Cr. The EOW had subsequently taken over the probe and arrested the couple.“We are still conducting further investigations into the matter. In the meantime, we have now recorded statements from more than 3,000 people who have all been cheated by the accused. The total value of the money that the accused have fraudulently obtained from the victims is more than ₹90Cr. A large number of the victims are senior citizens with many being above 75 years,” ACP (EOW), SN Patil, said.Following the arrest of the accused, the EOW had instructed all police stations in the Thane city commissionerate to direct any and all pertinent complaints to them. People who were reaching out through social media were also contacted and asked to register formal complaints.According to the EOW officials, from 2006 to 2021, the accused lured their customers into investing money in a variety of schemes promising impossibly high returns. The accused had jewellery stores in Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Mulund as well as a finance company in Kalyan, which were all allegedly used in the offence and the accused allegedly used the money received from new investors to pay the old ones.The EOW has invoked the Maharashtra Protection of Interests of Depositors Act in the case, which empowers the investigating agency to attach the assets of the accused. These assets, with due permission from the court, are auctioned off and the proceeds are used to reimburse the victims.“We have already started the process of evaluating the movable as well as immovable assets of the accused, and will take further action in this regard soon,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-3-000-complain-against-arrested-vgn-jewellers-owners-of-cheating-to-the-tune-of-rs90-crore-101638024717892.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Pune man promised job at Mantralaya duped of ₹1 crore; four booked||PUNE Four people, including one woman and three men, were booked for allegedly duping a dentist of over ₹1 crore by falsely offering him a job at the Mantralaya in Mumbai.The 36-year-old complainant doctor was in touch with the people through a widely-used online messaging service, according to the police.“The transaction allegedly happened in cash within two-three days last year (2020). The doctor was approached by these people and then they got talking. It has been almost one year since then. We will see if Information Technology Act, 2000 needs to be added,” said assistant police inspector Dilip Jadhav of Sangvi police station who is investigating the case.The callers promised him a post in the micro, small, medium enterprises department which they claimed was in the Mantralaya. One of the four accused also claimed that he works as a department head at Mantralaya.The people allegedly used documents with the Government of Indian emblem or stamp to earn the complainant’s trust. However, over the months since the payment of ₹1,06,00,000, the people started waning out their communication with the complainant.A case was registered under Section 406, 420, 467, 468, 469, 470, 471, 472, 473, 504, 506, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-promised-job-at-mantralaya-duped-of-rs-1-crore-four-booked-101638024418045.html
27-11-2021||Other||Gauhati HC allows five declared foreigners to prove their Indian identity||Five members of a family in Assam’s Cachar district were declared foreigners by Tribunal Court-4 of the district in 2018. Now after three years, the High Court has directed Foreigners Tribunal-4 of Cachar to hear the case again on December 24 and give them a chance to prove their identity again.Rajendra Das, along with his wife Renubala Das and three kids (all minors), was declared foreigner on January 18, 2018, by FT-4 of Cachar district. It was an ex-parte judgement, issued after they failed to appear before the court. They are residents of Mahadevpur village under Katigorah police station of Cachar district and the court is almost 60 kilometres far.The 2018 order was recently challenged at Guwahati High Court by lawyer Swati Bidhan Baruah on behalf of Rajendra Das and his family. The High Court found that the family has documents that can prove their Indian identity.In their order, Justice N Kotiswar Singh and justice Malashri Nandi mentioned that Rajendra Das’s father’s name appeared in the voters’ list of 1965 and was regular in upcoming years as well.They wrote, “The voters’ list of 1965 has the names of one Gandhi Lal Das and Sumurta Bala Das are shown, who the petitioner No.1 (Rajendra Das) claims to be his parents. Similarly, the petitioners have also annexed one photocopy of the voters’ list of 1970, where the aforesaid names of the parents of the petitioner are shown.”“They have also referred to a certificate issued by the Mahadevpur Gaon Panchayat which shows that the petitioner No.2 (Renubala Das) is married to the petitioner No.1 (Rajendra Das). And we believe that the petitioners have sufficient materials to show. We are of the view that if the petitioners are able to prove the aforesaid documents, they may have a legitimate claim that they are Indians and not foreigners,” the order stated.The High Court also observed that Rajendra Das could not appear before the FT-4 in 2018 due to his physical illness and he deserves another chance.“Lawyer of petitioners submitted documents which shows that because of his ill health, he, along with his family members, could not appear before the Tribunal resulting in the passing of the ex-parte order,” they wrote.High Court feels even if the order of the Tribunal is merely quasi-judicial in nature, it has huge implications for the right of a person.“We are conscious of the fact that ex-parte orders cannot be interfered with in a routine manner. But the present case pertains to a very important right of a person, which is citizenship. If the person could not appear before the learned Tribunal and ex-parte order was passed, it would have a cascading effect on other members of his family, as the rest of the family members are dependent on him,” they said.The order further states that, if the petitioners are not able to engage any counsel on their own and of their choice, the petitioners may approach the Cachar District Legal Services Authority for providing a legal aid counsel.However, since the citizenship of the petitioners has come under a cloud, they will remain on bail during the proceedings for which they will appear before the Superintendent of Police, Cachar, within 15 days from today by furnishing a bail bond of 5,000/- each with one local surety of the like amount to the satisfaction of the said authority.The concerned Superintendent of Police shall also take necessary steps for capturing the fingerprints and biometrics of the iris of the petitioners. It is also made clear that the petitioners shall not leave the jurisdiction of the Cachar district without obtaining permission from the Superintendent of Police, Cachar.It is to be mentioned that the FT-4 is located in Silchar town which is almost 60 kilometres away from the residence of Rajendra Das. Some lawyers (without revealing their names) mentioned that the petitioners appear before the court but the members (judges) keep delaying the hearing.“In most of the courts, either there are no government lawyers or they are absent. The petitioners keep returning and if they miss any date, members declare them foreigners. This has become a process of harassing common Indians and the victims are mostly financially backward,” a lawyer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gauhati-hc-allows-five-declared-foreigners-to-prove-their-indian-identity-101638023819849.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Cops nab two for rape and murder of a young woman in Kurla||Two people have been taken into custody for the rape and murder of a young woman whose decomposed body was found on the terrace of a vacant residential building in Kurla, Mumbai police said on Saturday. The body was found on the top of the 13-storey building on Thursday evening by some boys who had arrived there to shoot a video, police added. An officer from Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station told HT, “Soon after they discovered the body, the boys informed the police control room after which we were intimated and a team was sent to the spot. The deceased woman appears to be between 20 and 24 years of age.” “After completing the formalities, an accidental death report was registered and the body was sent for post-mortem. The autopsy report issued on Friday revealed that the victim was sexually assaulted and murdered by slitting her throat with a sharp weapon,” the officer said, adding that they are now checking if any person matching her description was reported missing in the nearby areas. A case under sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered. The officer said, “We have also circulated the photo of the deceased woman in the area and to other police stations.” The officer said they are also checking CCTV footage of the nearby areas to ascertain if any camera has captured the movement of the deceased or any other person accompanying her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decomposed-body-of-woman-found-cops-say-she-was-raped-murdered-101638022857781.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Thane District Collector takes action against 37 doctors in rural areas||The Thane District Collector has taken action against 37 doctors in the rural parts of the district for not taking appropriate permissions and no objection certificates from the Taluka before starting their practice in clinics.From among these, 31 have been found to be bogus doctors. An investigation has been initiated against these doctors and their clinics have been closed down. All gram panchayats across the district have been given notices to verify all the documents before issuing no objection certificates to doctors.“We conducted a special drive in all the five talukas including Ambernath, Shahpur, Kalyan, Murbad and Bhiwandi. After a detailed investigation and strict action that went on for a few days, a case has been registered with local police stations. The matter is subjudice now and we have alerted local authorities as well to verify all the documents before issuing a no objection certificate to doctors,” said Dr Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-collector-takes-action-against-37-doctors-in-rural-areas-101638022560396.html
27-11-2021||Ranchi||3 Kashmiri blanket traders allegedly attacked in Ranchi, 3 detained||Three Kashmiri youths staying in Ranchi and going door-to-door selling blankets in the state capital were allegedly beaten by a group of men near Kadru railway overbridge area under Doranda police station limits on Saturday, officials said.In their complaint with Doranda police station, Riyaz Ahmed Wani (34), Sartaj Ahmed and Tanveer Ahmed (in their 20s) alleged that they were attacked by a group of around 20-25 people unprovoked, and were forced to chant Hindu religious slogans.“I was hit on my head with a rod. I escaped injury due to my helmet that got badly damaged. We have submitted the broken helmet to the police. Our scooter was also damaged badly. It was clear we were targeted in a planned manner as the group seems to have been stationed there. A similar incident took place earlier this month with our boys who filed a complaint at the Doranda police station,” Wani told Hindustan Times.Prabhat Ranjan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, (Ranchi Sadar), said, a case has been registered and investigation is on.“We have detained three persons who were named in the complaint and are questioning them. We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area and the videos provided by the complaints. As far as the allegation of religious chanting is concerned, that is yet to be established. We will proceed further as per our findings,” said Ranjan.Those named as accused in the complaint include Deepak Jha, Tarun Kumar and Arvind Kumar.On such an incident being repeated under the same Doranada police station limits twice in a month in the state capital, Ranjan said one person was arrested and sent to jail in the previous incident (on November 11) as well.“We are also taking corrective measures to ensure safety for these groups of traders. We have sought details of all such men staying here and areas where they practise their trade so that we can devise some mechanism for their safety. Be it increasing security or patrolling, we will take corrective measures accordingly,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/3-kashmiri-blanket-traders-allegedly-attacked-in-ranchi-3-detained-101638022558859.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Pak using drones to drop explosives, Indian drones meant to serve humanity: Union minister Jitendra Singh||Unlike Pakistan which uses drones to drop weapons and further terrorism in Indian territory, India uses its drones to serve humanity, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Saturday at the launch of operations of an unmanned aerial vehicle to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to areas along the international border in Jammu and Kashmir. The indigenously built medium-class multicopter unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) took off from the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine Complex here and successfully delivered 50 vials of Covid-19 vaccines along with syringes to a public health centre in Jammu’s Marh area near the India-Pakistan border. “Pakistan is using drones to drop explosives to cause harm to human life and further terrorism, but our drone will act as a carrier of ‘Sanjeevani Boti’ for the betterment of humanity and is going with a message of peace,” Singh said.He said health workers engaged in Covid-19 vaccination are facing problems in reaching families in remote and mountainous regions, and difficult terrains of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and elsewhere. The use of this type of drones will be of great help and also aid in fulfilling the government’s resolve of 100% vaccination, Singh said.The GPS-guided beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) Octacopter UAV has been developed by the National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL), a constituent of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), and has a range of 55 kilometres, an official said, adding that it can carry a payload of 20 kilograms.The UAV is integrated with a powerful on board embedded computer and latest generation sensors for versatile applications like agricultural pesticide spraying, crop monitoring, mining survey and magnetic geo-survey mapping, he said. On restrictions on use of drones in Jammu and Kashmir, the minister said there is no need to be concerned as all necessary security measures have been taken and permissions sought from authorities concerned. The civil aviation ministry had granted conditional permission to CSIR-NAL for conducting BVLOS flight trials on September 13.Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a spurt in drone activities from Pakistan over the past one year with terrorists using the technology to drop bombs at an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu in June. Following the bombing, authorities ordered ban on storage, sale or possession, use and transport of the flying machines in various districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pak-using-drones-to-drop-explosives-indian-drones-meant-to-serve-humanity-union-minister-jitendra-singh-101638021838925.html
27-11-2021||Patna||Bihar winter session likely to be stormy, speaker appeals for smooth conduct||Ahead of the winter session of the Bihar Legislature, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha appealed to all the parties to ensure its smooth conduct so that maximum issues of public importance could be taken up.The session, starting November 29 and ending December 3, could witness at least one or two bills - one related to the Bihar technical service commission and another related to private universities.During an all-party meeting prior to the start of the session, Sinha said that more and more discussions on the issues of public importance on the floor of the House would increase people’s faith in democracy and add to the state’s progress. “In a democratic system, the opposition is also part of the government and therefore both treasury and opposition benches have to contribute in making the session meaningful,” he added.All the leaders of the political parties assured the Speaker in one voice of their positive cooperation toward smooth conduct of the House but sought timely availability of logical answers to the questions asked in the public interest.After the ugly scenes in the House during the Budget session, the brief monsoon session was much smoother, with the smooth run of the question hour and nearly 99% submission of replies to questions.The Speaker said that the target was to get 100% online replies to questions from different departments and concerned officers have been given necessary instruction in this regard. “I have asked the chief secretary to ensure that nodal officers are nominated in the departments concerned for the coordination so that the answers to the questions asked by legislators are submitted in time,” he added.The Speaker also asked the officials about the action taken on complaints on misbehaviour by district officials with legislators and asked the chief secretary to take it seriously, else the House would have to use its privilege in this regard.Earlier this month, the general administration department also issued detailed guidelines for officials regarding their conduct while dealing with elected representatives to give them the utmost respect.He said that after the winter session, an orientation programme would also be organised for legislators after consultation with the CM. “We will like Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to be there for the orientation programme. The days will be finalised later,” he added.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief whip Lalit Yadav said that the party’s strategy for the forthcoming session would be decided at the legislature party meeting on the first day of the session.“But our approach has been consistent and clear all through and we would keep raising the issues of public importance and expect the government to give a pointed reply,” he added.Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma said that the party, as well as the entire opposition, would expose multiple failures of the government, which is solely engaged in reviewing prohibition that has failed on the ground but the government refused to accept what is apparent to all.“Corruption is another issue, as it is not confined to universities alone. Ask a common man and he will narrate the woes, which does not get attention even from the media. Prohibition is now a sham. Young boys and girls are engaged in ferrying liquor bottles as there is unemployment. Development has taken a backseat and the Opposition will raise the issues and seek proper replies. It will like the House to function,” he added.Senior Janata Dal-United (JDU) leader and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that the government would be ready to face any challenge posed by the opposition as its work was transparent and for inclusive growth.“We are confident about our bona fide. Bihar government’s zero tolerance to corruption has been apparent right through. Even in the case of universities, the CM, as well as the education department, has demanded a probe. Elsewhere, those indulging in corruption are facing action. As far as prohibition is concerned, the government is serious about it. Those opposing it should say liquor is good. Spurious liquor causes death because people drink it. The opposition should call for stricter enforcement, else it would appear they were supporting illegal legal trade,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-winter-session-likely-to-be-stormy-speaker-appeals-for-smooth-conduct-101638021539631.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of election year, Himachal CM announces new pay scales for government employees||In a bid to appease employees ahead of the assembly elections next year, the Himachal government on Saturday announced new pay scales for employees of the state government with effect from January 1, 2016. The pay of January 2022 will be payable in February 2022 as per the revised pay scales. The government also reduced the period of contractual employees from three to two years.Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur made the announcement while addressing a meeting of the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) of the Himachal Pradesh non-gazetted employees federation, held after a gap of six years. Thakur said all pensioners and family pensioners will be given revised pension and other benefits from January 1, 2016. The dearness allowance and dearness relief will be given on revised pay scales and revised pension/family pension. He said these new pay scales and revised pension will put an additional burden of ₹6,000 crore annually on the state exchequer.The CM also announced the implementation of the new pension system (invalid pension and family pension ) from May 15, 2003 according to the office memorandum dated May 5, 2009 of the central government to the employees of the state government. He said this would put an additional burden of about ₹250 crore on the state exchequer.He announced a reduction in the period for regularisation of contractual employees from three years to two years. He said that one year will also be reduced for regularisation/daily wages conversion in respect of daily wage employees, part-time workers, water guards and water carriers etc.He announced the release of additional ₹10 crore for clearance of pending medical reimbursement bills. The CM said a committee will be constituted for appointment on compassionate grounds under the chairmanship of the chief secretary. He said the government will also consider providing a tribal allowance to daily wage and contract employees serving in the tribal areas of the state.Thakur said NPS employees will now have the freedom to choose any pension fund for investment for ensuring better returns. He said until now, these employees could invest only in those pension funds selected by the government. The CM said that all NPS employees were being provided death-cum-retirement gratuity benefits and now, the government has decided to provide gratuity to NPS employees deprived of this benefit from May 15, 2003 to September 22, 2017.Thakur said the employees hard work, dedication and commitment helped the state emerged as a role model for other states of the country. The CM said the state government was spending about 4% of its total budget on employees and pensioners, which will increase up to 50% after the implementation of the 6th pay commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-election-year-himachal-cm-announces-new-pay-scales-for-government-employees-101638020397434.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Extension of deadline to prepare Pune ward structure is an administrative decision: Ajit Pawar||PUNE After Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar wrote a letter to the state election commission and requested an extension of 15 days to prepare the draft ward structure for the upcoming municipal election, the state election commission had extended the deadline to November 30.Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister, who was in the city on Saturday, said, “By considering geographical areas, at some places they require more time. It is an administrative decision and the state government does not interfere in the process. Even elections for some municipal councils have already been announced.”Opposition parties have alleged that the municipal administration is helping Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to delay the civic election.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ujwal Keskar and Suhas Joshi blamed the NCP and said, “As the current situation is in favour of BJP, NCP wants to delay the municipal elections.”Inquiry in recruitment processAfter 23 villages were merged in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits recently, there are allegations about excess recruitment in municipal corporations.Pawar said,” There are complaints about excess recruitment in transition time. The administration will conduct inquiry and will take appropriate decision soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/extension-of-deadline-to-prepare-pune-ward-structure-is-an-administrative-decision-ajit-pawar-101638020217352.html
27-11-2021||Other||Tripura man arrested for killing 5 including minor daughters, police officer||A 40-year-old man was arrested after he allegedly killed five persons, including his two minor daughters, his brother, a passer-by and a police officer, and injured two others including his wife, at Ramchandraghat in Khowai district, nearly 50 kilometres from Agartala on Friday late night, officials said. Pradip Debroy, the accused, was arrested and would be forwarded to court on Saturday. Police said that the accused neither has any past criminal record nor history of psychological problems as per their preliminary investigation. “We registered a case. The motive behind the incident is still unclear. Our investigation is on,” said a senior police official. According to people familiar with the matter, Pradip went out of control in a fit of aggression at around 11:30 pm on Friday and allegedly killed his daughters - Aditi Debroy (one-year-old) and Mandira Debroy, 7, with an iron shovel and also injured his wife, who managed to escape from the house. Pradip later attacked and killed his brother Amalesh, who asked him to open the door and then moved out of the house and attacked a passer-by Krishna Das, who died on the spot, according to police. Krishna’s son received injuries from the attack and is currently admitted at Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital in Agartala. He is known to be stable. After getting reports, a duty officer of Khowai Police Station, Satyajit Mallick, came to the spot and tried to stop Pradip but the latter hit the officer on the head. Mallick was rushed to the local hospital as he suffered severe blood loss. Later, he was referred to GBP hospital where he breathed his last. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb condoled the death of the police officer and tweeted, “Deeply shocked at the martyrdom of Khowai Police Station second officer Satyajit Mallick during his duty, following an attack of a miscreant. I pray for all those and the police officer who died in the incident so that their souls might rest in peace. I extend my condolences to the bereaved family members. I pray to God for the speedy recovery of the injured persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-man-arrested-for-killing-5-including-minor-daughters-police-officer-101638018417945.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Indian Railways to carry out jumbo, mega blocks in Mumbai: Check local train routes, timings||The Indian Railways has said it will carry out a jumbo and a mega block for maintenance work on Sunday.The Western Railway said in a tweet that there will be no block during the day on Sunday on its suburban section on Sunday. “To carry out maintenance work of tracks, signaling and overhead equipment, a Jumbo Block of four hours will be taken on UP and DOWN Slow lines between Borivali and Bhayandar stations from 00:45 hrs to 04:45 hrs on Sunday, 28th November, 2021,” it said in a tweet.“According to a press release issued by Shri Sumit Thakur - Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway, during the block period, all UP Slow line trains will be operated on UP Fast lines from Virar/Vasai Road to Borivali/Goregaon stations and all VIRAR bound DOWN Slow line trains will be operated on DOWN Fast line from Goregaon to Vasai Road/Virar stations. Passengers are requested to take note of the above arrangements,” a statement posted also said.NO BLOCK in DAY TIME over WR Suburban section on Sunday, 28th November, 2021.Jumbo Block of four hours will be taken on UP and DOWN Slow lines between Borivali and Bhayandar stations from 00:45 hrs to 04:45 hrs on Sunday, 28th November, 2021.@drmbct @RailMinIndia pic.twitter.com/KMNuqT90R8The mega block by Central Railway will be between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Chunabhatti/Bandra harbour line and Thane-Kalyan slow lines.The Indian Railways has also announced the Mumbai suburban rail will be partially shut for up to 72 hours in December to complete the construction of the fifth and sixth railway lines.Also read | Rampath Yatra Express: IRCTC flags off special train for pilgrimage to AyodhyaThe entire rail route will not be affected but some stations between Thane and Diva, where the construction is due, will be affected for 18-72 hours in the next month.Meanwhile, the Indian Railways has rolled back the price of platform tickets, which was raised to decongest railway stations to contain the transmission of the coronavirus disease. The platform tickets will now be available for ₹10 as before, officials said on Thursday.Also read | Private players can operate Bharat Gaurav trains on tourism circuitThe decision came a day after Central Railway announced it will revert the price of platform tickets at key stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region from ₹50 to ₹10 from Thursday.The stations include Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Thane, Kalyan and Panvel railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-railways-jumbo-mega-blocks-in-mumbai-check-train-routes-timings-101638017474575.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Cases against family members can’t be grounds for revoking arms license: HC||Mumbai Observing that an arms license cannot be revoked only on the ground of offences registered against the license holder’s family members, the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday struck down Daman district magistrate’s order, revoking arms license of Jignesh Patel, son of former Member of Parliament Dayabhai Patel. The district magistrate had on October 8, 2018, revoked the arms license granted to Jignesh Patel and directed him to deposit his licensed weapon at Nani Daman police station. He moved the HC last year, after the Administrator, Daman and Diu confirmed the order and dismissed his appeal. Advocate HS Venegavkar, who represented the Union territory, opposed the petition stating that the orders could not be faulted with since, in the backdrop of the past criminal record of the petitioner and his family, it had become necessary in the public interest to cancel the license. Justice SK Shinde, however, refused to accept the contention. The single-judge bench said under Section 17(3) of the Arms Act, 1979, the licensing authority can suspend or revoke an arms license only when it becomes necessary for the security of the public peace or for public safety. However, the court said, the licensing authority – the district magistrate - cancelled Jignesh’s license only on the ground that several offences had been registered against his father and brother. “In fact, there is no material on record to establish a necessary connection between the petitioner and his brother and father qua the offences registered against them,” said Justice Shinde, adding that the registration of offences against family members of the licensee that by itself was not sufficient to revoke license of the petitioner. As regards the criminal cases registered against Jignesh Patel himself, HC noted that the last criminal case was registered against him way back in 2010 and his arms license had been renewed from time to time thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cases-against-family-members-can-t-be-grounds-for-revoking-arms-license-hc-101638017638310.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan RTO approves hike in auto fares||Commuters in and around Kalyan will have to pay more for auto rickshaws as the Kalyan Regional Transport Office (RTO) has approved the revised fares proposed by the auto unions.The fare for the nearest route is the same as before while the fare for long routes has been hiked by ₹1- ₹3.“This hike was introduced last year by the state transport ministry. However, due to the lockdown, it was not imposed then. Now, since the transportation is back to normal, the revised fares will be imposed in Kalyan RTO jurisdiction,” Tanaji Chavan, regional transport officer, Kalyan.Cities like Kalyan, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Murbad and Titwala fall under Kalyan RTO. The revised fares would be applicable for all these cities. Meanwhile, the RTO has also invited suggestions and objections before December 4.Although the auto rickshaw unions have approved the hike for long distances, some are not satisfied with the decision for short distances.“There is no hike for short distances, and this has led to disagreement among several auto drivers. A meeting will be held with the RTO on Monday to discuss the same,” said Santosh Navale, representative of Kalyan auto rickshaw driver and owner union.The new fare for auto rickshaw, for instance, from Ganpathi Chowk to Katemanivali Naka, which is around 0.9km is ₹9 by share auto and by meter is ₹21. Earlier, it was ₹10 by share auto and ₹18 by meter for the same route.“Now, when the fare by share auto is ₹9, there will be a conflict between the passenger and auto driver for ₹1 change. The RTO should also consider a hike for the short rates as, in Kalyan, most people opt for share autos and no meter autos ply in the city,” said Rakesh Gupta, 29, an auto driver from Kalyan (E).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-rto-approves-hike-in-auto-fares-101638017039156.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||To reduce traffic congestion, 2 new bridges to come up on Vashi creek by Oct ’23||People travelling via the Sion-Panvel Highway will soon have a traffic-free commute near the Vashi creek as the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has started developing two new bridges on the creek.Heavy machinery has been mobilised in the creek water over the past two weeks and both the bridges would be ready by October 2023.At present, there are two bridges for vehicles on the Vashi creek. The first bridge was developed in 1973 but due to its poor condition, it was declared unfit for heavy vehicles nearly two decades ago. The second bridge was developed in the early 1990s. Now the light vehicles are diverted to the first bridge only when maintenance work is conducted on the second bridge.A senior officer from MSRDC said, “The Sion-Panvel Highway has a total of 10 lanes both in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. However, the second bridge, which is located on that highway, has only six lanes. Therefore, the area of that bridge has turned into a bottleneck and it sees heavy traffic congestion during the peak hours. Taking the gravity of the issue into consideration, we have now started developing two new bridges on either side of the second bridge.”The officer added that each of the new bridges would have three lanes, each 1.837km long and the total budget for the two bridges is ₹775Cr.“With the new bridges in place, we will have a total of 12 lanes (three each on the new bridges and six on the second bridge) on the bridges,” he said. In view of frequent cases of suicide or attempt to suicide, MSRDC has also decided to install suicide barriers on the sides of the existing bridges and the tendering process of that project is now on.The officer said, “In the upcoming bridges, we will develop 1.5m-tall concrete walls on the sides and hence there will be no need for such suicide barriers. Once we are done with the new bridges, we will also repair and do asphalt coating on the first bridge (developed in 1973) so that it can also be used when the situation demands.”Purushottam Karad, DCP (traffic), Navi Mumbai, said, “With the new bridges, the number of lanes will be doubled on the creek. So, there will be no chance of a traffic jam near the Vashi toll plaza.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/to-reduce-traffic-congestion-2-new-bridges-to-come-up-on-vashi-creek-by-oct-23-101638016802463.html
27-11-2021||Other||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths, J&K to up testing||The average daily Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir in the past 10 days increased by 32 per cent when compared to the first half of November, while it doubled than the October numbers, an analysis of official health data has revealed.Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday urged officials for an increase in testing with a minimum 30% share of RT-PCR tests.The data revealed that the number of deaths due to the novel coronavirus disease this month has reached 38 - the highest monthly count in the past four months.The Union territory is witnessing over 180 average cases daily since November 17 from the 136 daily average cases which were recorded between November 1 and 16. Last month, the average number of daily cases in J&K stood at 91.Even though the number of average daily tests in the union territory went up by 14 per cent in the past 10 days than the period of November 1-16, the lieutenant governor on Friday urged officials to further increase the testing rate. Sinha reviewed the Covid situation with deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and health officials at Raj Bhavan.“During the meeting, the Lt Governor directed the health department and district administrations to increase testing with a minimum 30% share of RT-PCR tests,” the government’s information department said in an emailed statement.An analysis of the government’s daily health data on Covid-19 reveals that Jammu and Kashmir recorded 3,988 infections from November 1 to 26 of which 1805 cases or 45 per cent were reported in the past 10 days (November 17 to 26). Most of the cases in the Union territory this month came from the Kashmir valley with 3,377 infections. The month has already crossed October’s 2,819 cases mark and is almost equal to September’s 4,011 cases and August’s 3,957 cases.The month is also taking a heavy toll in terms of deaths due to Covid-19. So far, 38 people – 29 in Kashmir and nine in Jammu – have lost their lives between November 1 and 26, the highest monthly fatalities in the past four months. There were 30 fatalities due to Covid in August and 10 each in September and October.Experts are sounding the alarm over the increasing cases and higher hospital admissions, particularly in Kashmir.Professor Dr Mohammad Salim Khan, head of the department of community medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar and nodal officer Covid attributed the rise to uninhibited social gatherings and lack of Covid appropriate behaviour.“Majority of infected persons attributed their source of infection to social gatherings like marriages, condolences, get-togethers where you find almost everyone without masks and never suspect any Covid-19 cases around when you have a majority of cases without any symptoms who roam around without masks,” said Khan in a social media post.“Kindly wear a mask, maintain social distance and break the chain of Covid-19 transmission,” he said. L-G Sinha also expressed dismay over the flouting of permitted limit rules on social gatherings.“The L-G asked the respective DCs and SPs to ensure that Covid protocols and measures put in place to prevent the spread of the virus are followed in letter and spirit,” the government statement said.Sinha impressed upon the Deputy Commissioners and health teams to ensure rapid vaccination, covid appropriate behaviour, community awareness, and quick execution of micro-containment zones to tackle the surge in certain districts.“We can effectively prevent the spread and recurrence of the pandemic only by strict implementation of Covid guidelines,” he said and asked the DCs to complete the pendency of the second vaccination dose, wherever due, at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-j-k-to-up-testing-101638016438324.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia tweets on reopening of Delhi schools for all classes from Monday||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday all schools in the national capital will reopen from Monday (November 29) for all classes.Sisodia shared a tweet on the same along with an order issued by the additional director of education Rita Sharmda that said the department of environment and forest has allowed the reopening of schools in Delhi.“Therefore...all the government, government-aided, unaided recognised, NDMC, MCDs and Delhi Cantonment schools will reopen from November 29 for all classes,” it said.All the Schools in Delhi will reopen from 29.11.2021 for all classes. pic.twitter.com/wOHR7Y9CJ9The order further directed heads of all such institutions to share the information among students, staff members, management committees and parents.Schools and colleges that had largely been shut since March, 2020 were reopened briefly in the capital before the authorities ordered their closure to minimise exposure of children to the bad air.Earlier this week, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said schools, colleges and other educational institutes will open from next week in the national capital amid growing calls for in-person classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-to-reopen-for-all-classes-in-delhi-from-monday-manish-sisodia-101638015376686.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||First e-charging point in Navi Mumbai at Nerul ready with eye on reducing carbon footprints||The work on the first ever e-charging point for the citizens of Navi Mumbai has been completed and will be soon available for public use.According to an official from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), the charging point would be ready for use by the public either by November end or early next month. The charging point is kept outside the Jewel of Navi Mumbai in Nerul.“By August 2022, the plan is to have 20 charging places in the city with six points at each location that will make it 120 charging points in the city. Even the one in Nerul will have six points, but as of now we would be starting with two points as an introduction to the public. The idea is to encourage people to go for electric bikes that would help in reducing carbon footprints in the city,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.NMMC has been taking initiatives to reduce the carbon footprint in the city. One such initiative that has clicked well is of the Yulu bikes and cycles. Even as the corporation has been promoting the ‘go green’ concept, there were no charging stations in the city and hence the plan to have charging stations came up.Of the 20 places planned, six would be in Nerul, four in Belapur while Koparkhairane, Ghansoli, Sanpada and Vashi would have one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-e-charging-point-in-navi-mumbai-at-nerul-ready-with-eye-on-reducing-carbon-footprints-101638013202505.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||100X.VC’s Pitch Day on Dec 3, 4Early-stage venture capital firm 100X.VC has announced sixth edition of its VC Pitch Day, ‘Class 06’. The all-online showcase will be held on December 3 and December 4, 2021 and is expected to receive participation of 1,000 investors from all over the world. 100X.VC has a model where there is no fee for investors and founders. 100X.VC is showcasing Class 06 funded list of startups from a pool of 2,800 startup applicants.Ninad Karpe, partner, 100X.VC, said, “The founders of the selected startups have gone through a rigorous mentoring by the team at 100X and have also been exposed to more than 100 hours of masterclasses from industry experts. These startups are well-prepared for the next phase of growth and we are confident that they will be able to rapidly scale their businesses in the future.”“We work closely with the VC community to help them with credible deal flow. The 70 portfolio companies together have raised US$ 20 million+ till date post ‘VC Pitch Day’ reaching an average of US$ 400-500k per startup,” said Yagnesh Sanghrajka, founder and CFO, 100X.VC.Della Leaders Club launches Pune chapterDella Leaders Club (DLC), a global community of entrepreneurs, young leaders and professionals has launched its Pune chapter. The DLC Pune chapter was virtually inaugurated at the hands of Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta and Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar, Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Pune) Ashok Kumar Pandey and SBI independent director, Ganesh Natarajan.Eximius Ventures announces ‘The Gaming Lounge 2021’Eximius Ventures, a micro-VC investing in pre-seed-stage startups, will organise ‘The Gaming Lounge 2021’ on December 8 and 9, 2021. This international virtual gaming event will feature three keynote sessions, six panels, a BGMI match, and a Gaming PitchFest for early-stage gaming startups.The Battleground Mobile India “BGMI” match will witness the participation of top esports teams who will compete to claim a prize pool ₹4 lakh. Leading investors including Dream Sports, and JetSynthesys will be participating in the Gaming PitchFest, a pitch competition for early-stage gaming startups.Pearl Agarwal, founder & managing director, Eximius Ventures, said that “The Indian gaming industry is on the cusp of revolution. Gaming is one of the fastest growing segments in entertainment, second only to OTT platforms in terms of spending. However, many Indians consume games that are developed outside of India. The country needs a strong nexus of gamers, content creators, developers, and investors who promote the development of the Indian gaming market. Through ‘The Gaming Lounge 2021’, we aim to promote new gaming genres and subgenres in India, connect ecosystem players, and encourage gaming enthusiasts to take an active interest in growing the Indian gaming community further.”Ecolab gets the water goals flowingEcolab Inc announced the best practices for organisations looking to make progress on ambitious water and climate goals. The role of smart water management in enabling business resilience and advancing carbon goals, with India targeting net-zero carbon emissions by 2070 was also discussed during the virtual session.Ecolab’s Pune-based System Assurance Centre monitors more than 36,000 customer systems in more than 125 countries, and in 2020, helped customers save 780 billion litres of water, globally.“Water and climate are linked; companies cannot advance decarbonisation strategies without focusing on water. Companies need to make water a boardroom priority and need to develop strategies that harness technologies and digitise their operations for efficient water management,” said Emilio Tenuta, Senior vice-president and chief sustainability officer, Corporate Sustainability, Ecolab Global. Easiloan expands operations to PuneFintech start-up Easiloan with its platform for end-to-end home loans has entered Pune market following a rapid scale-up journey in Mumbai, where the company started its operations in July 2021. Easiloan is servicing customers for major developers in the cit,y apart from opening its platform for any direct home loan seekers. “Pune is a major IT hub with a large, aspirational and young population who either end up settling in the city or look at real estate as a smart investment option. This has fuelled the demand for home buying among a truly tech savvy generation. Hence, it was about time that we prioritised Pune as our next destination for providing digital home loans. Our success and learnings from Mumbai ensure that we have a head start to serving this market and making home buying easier for Punekars”, said Pramod Kathuria, co-founder and CEO, Easiloan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101638011216542.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: SaaS ‘Lego bricks’ re-create a smarter workplace||The Pune-based enterprise SaaS platform Zvolv is an intelligent no-code, or low-code, platform for automating business processes. In the words of Zvolv’s co-founders Hardik Gandhi and Sujoy Chakravarty, it’s the “Lego Bricks” version of application development with the best combination of features, flexibility and price. Every technology component that you need to build a complex enterprise application is pre-build, pre-tested and available for you to configure and stitch together as you want in this intelligent process automation platform for enterprises. In the beginning…Gandhi and Chakravarty share a lot of things in common. They studied in St Vincent’s school and later went to the College of Engineering Pune (COEP). Post-graduation they both moved to Bengaluru and joined Texas Instruments. Gandhi later moved to the USA to pursue his higher education and Chakravarty stayed in Bengaluru to build a new start-up. Says Gandhi, “After working at TI and Apple and observing other companies too, we had a few ideas about improving the employee experience at workplaces. Companies still work with tools that were designed years ago. Employees are using state-of-the-art applications in their daily lives, but when it comes to work applications, those are large antiquated applications which are cumbersome to use. So, we thought why not build applications to manage the employee work-life?”“We started to build a proof-of-concept to validate our ideas. We wanted this to be an enterprise product. We hired some IITians and did some experiments. In 2018 we had something worthy to show,” Gandhi added.Proof of concept (POC)After the POC was ready, Gandhi decided to move back to India in 2018. Chakravarty, a repeat entrepreneur, too moved from Bengaluru to Pune. The duo considered Pune over Bengaluru to start their venture as the tech-talent pool was much better in Pune and that they also could leverage their connects. Says Gandhi, “When I was in the US during the initial days, we had setup a team here to run the initial experiments. There were four to five people at that time in the team. Chakravarty and I thought these engineers can start building a product. In 2018 we decided to actually start setting up and running a company. We were around 12 people at that time. Chakravarty actually did the initial hiring mostly through the contacts that we had. Later on, very senior people took pay cuts to join us. As founders we were very liberal and open about distributing equity and ESOPs to our employees.”Customers ring inGandhi believes it’s the value of connections when you are a startup in the early stages. “The connection at Future Group happened through a banker who was a part of the team which was evaluating us for their use case. It’s all about demonstrating value to anyone that you meet and work with, and eventually that leads to some connect or other. The other two big customers - Dominos and Titan – came through a public event and during our participation in the Wadhwani accelerator respectively. These first three customers were acquired even before we formally launched a product. We didn’t really build a sales team in the early stage. We got all this organic growth. Now we have to have proper sales team to generate leads from scratch,” Gandhi said.“The first 20 customers are still with us. We had the writing on the wall that we will make sure we never lose our first 10 customers and we have ensured that. A lot of our success is because of them. Now we have a total of 35 enterprise customers of which a third are large companies, and others are mid-sized companies,” he added. Seed fundingSays Gandhi, “Three big enterprises using our product gave us confidence and hence, we decided to raise a seed funding round of $0.5 million. I had put in around $0.5 million while we were bootstrapped. Angel investors, CEOs and CIOs of companies joined this round and we used that money to hire a stronger engineering team. We were focussed on India as a base and we ‘stress-tested’ our product as India has a varied set of users, with finicky demands of customers which pushed us to build all kinds of flexibility into the product.”“During Covid we decided to double down on the accumulated customers. Our focus this year was what we can do in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) and Middle East market. Earlier in the year we got Srivatsan Srinivasan, a veteran from Salesforce, who wanted to be part of our team. It was a great validation for us. He joined as board advisor and then took an executive role as chief revenue officer. He became a part of our leadership team which gave us confidence to expand. In the last two years we have got clients like Swiggy, Lenskart and partners like KPMG and Accenture. Now we are a 30-member strong team and continuing to hire as much as we can,” added Gandhi.Employee churn“Today, hiring is one of the biggest challenges for a young company,” says Gandhi. “We are lucky that lot of our early employees are excited about the platform and its future potential and that they are all still around us. With a solid leadership base, we can keep on hiring younger people underneath and thus handling churn in the right way.”On ESOP, Gandhi says, “In today’s day and age it can be your life changing event if you have enough equity in a company that is fast growing and goes through an exit. That’s what excites a lot of employees joining. Your return on equity can be multi-fold compared to the salary you are losing out by working with a younger startup. A lot of our employees are in our ESOP pool and are getting more and more equity. We have demonstrated every year that the value of the equity keeps on growing as we are raising funding at higher and higher valuations. They see the growth and future potential roadmap and that’s what motivates them to stick on.”Funding and expansionElaborating on the expansion plans, Gandhi said, “Our India operations are now self-sustainable, but not enough to expand in other geographies. So we raised just enough money to run the experiments in APAC and the Middle East. JSW Ventures, a tech focused venture capital fund and Riso Capital, a Silicon Valley- based VC fund that invests in India-based startups solving global problems at scale, had showed an interest and we started engaging with them. We raised $1.5million this month and now we are aggressively building out a proper global sales infrastructure and process.”“JSW brings a lot of large industry exposure for us while Riso Capital brings us the Silicon Valley connection, where they can help us in all aspects of migrating our company to US at some point. We also have individual advisors who have reinvested and who come from the ‘large industry’ background,” he stated.Impact of CovidThe impact of Covid-19 was positive for platforms like Zvolv. “A lot of enterprises saw the need for evolving their legacy applications to modern no-code or low-code platforms. IT teams were backlogged during the outbreak and hence, building apps was least priority for them. So, the natural alternative was the no-code, low-code platforms.”“As a platform, Zvolv reduces or eliminates dependence on developers for developing enterprise applications. It is designed for business users to conceptualise, experiment and build applications by themselves. Some support is needed to ensure IT security and scalability and compliance aspects,” claims Gandhi. Future plansWith its international expansion in the offing, Zvolv will now compete with global giants on their turf. Says Gandhi, “There are a very few enterprise companies from India that have become global success stories. Along with a focus on customer success and on the products’ UI/UX, we are expanding in APAC and Middle East and will generate a few million-dollar revenues from those geographies in addition to India. We will also be raising a Series A from US based investors towards end of next year. We want to utilise that money specifically to make an entry into the US market and to make any meaningful entry to the US enterprise market you need to raise about $10 million dollars to have enough of a presence there.”“In the next three years we want to be at a $50 million revenue run rate. And in five years we want to be a $1 billion revenue company and not a $1 billion valuation company,” said Gandhi. CompetitorsExplaining the market potential for no-code, low-code platforms Gandhi says: This is a $30 billion dollar market in the next four years and this number has increased significantly post-Covid.”“It’s a crowded space from the competition perspective. There are three categories of players in this segment. Large enterprise legacy players like Pegasystems, Apian and Servicenow; Rapid application development platforms like Outsystem or Mendix; and Robotic Process Automation (RPA) players like UIPath. We consider all as competitors because the boundaries between these three segments is blurred. Everyone wants to offer end-to-end integrated solutions and the industry is consolidating,” stated Gandhi.Investor speak“Zvolv’s intelligent no-code platform is creating immense value for their customers. We are seeing accelerated demand for platforms like Zvolv that empower businesses to rapidly design and implement secure applications. We are excited to partner with Zvolv to help in fuelling their growth, product innovation, and expanding the global footprint. We believe that Zvolv is well positioned to become a global leader in the no-code intelligent business process automation marke,” says Sachin Tagra, Partner, JSW Ventures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-saas-lego-bricks-re-create-a-smarter-workplace-101638010977093.html
27-11-2021||Pune||Pune theatres to operate at 100% capacity, cultural programs permitted in open spaces||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar announced fresh relaxations in Pune on Saturday after conducting a Covid-19 review meeting after a gap of over a month. Pawar announced that the restrictions of only 50% capacity in establishments such theatres, auditoriums would be eased from December 1. Offering relief to the organisers of cultural programmes, Pawar announced that events, and musical festivals would be allowed on open grounds in adherence with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “Schools are reopening so there is no point in keeping this 50% limit. Currently, the Covid-19 situation is under control but a new variant has put everyone on alert. Regarding the new variant, we will follow whatever instructions are given by the Union government. In Pune, from December, the restriction of 50% occupancy is being removed in establishments like theatres but the adherences to Covid-19 protocols are a must,” said Ajit Pawar while addressing a press conference after the review meeting. The Maharashtra government, after a gap of five months, had allowed theatres and auditoriums to reopen with 50% seating capacity from October 22, though cinema hall owners and film personalities have been complaining about its adverse impact on business. Pawar did not specify anything about restaurants, but Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar said eateries will also be allowed to function with 100% capacity. “Will issue the orders soon,” Vikram Kumar told Hindustan Times over a text message. On Friday, Pune district reported 231 fresh Covid-19 cases with three fatalities. In the past two weeks, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Pune city alone has jumped from 647 to 823. While the number of critical cases has not shown any drastic change due to patients resorting to temporary solutions and over-the-counter medication according to doctors, the surge in active cases has prompted the civic body not to shut down jumbo centres, yet. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, in the past two weeks between November 8 and 24, the number of active Covid-19 cases has risen by 176. However, the number of critical cases has not changed during that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-theatres-to-operate-at-100-capacity-cultural-programs-permitted-in-open-spaces-101638010796573.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu dares Sukhbir to prove he met Punjab DGP against Majithia||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday challenged Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal to prove his closed-door meeting with Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. Also read: Shiromani Akali Dal leaders arrested outside Punjab CM Channi’s houseSidhu’s statement came even as Badal and senior SAD leaders courted arrest outside chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s official residence in Chandigarh to protest the alleged plan of the state government to arrest former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a fake drugs case. Sidhu, who was in Amritsar to preside over public meetings in his constituency, said the SAD president has been lying to the media that he (Sidhu) had met the DGP. “I don’t backstab. He (Sukhbir) should prove that I met Sahota, the blue-eyed boy of former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini. I have been against him (Sahota) since the day he was appointed. I have been raising the issue of sacrilege since the first cabinet meeting. When I meet him, I will tell the world. It is your job to meet stealthily at your farmhouses,” Sidhu said at a press conference after the public meetings. He said unlike the Badals, he did not own any transport, sand mine or hotel. “You are in fear that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is conducting raids. The raids are being conducted on Fastway (cable network) against which I had been raising a voice. Those who held monopoly are being found to have transactions with the accounts owned by you and your men,” he said. Sidhu said the Badals had looted the people of the state for their personal benefits, besides working as puppets in the hands of the central government. “Now the people’s government will be elected and the benefits will go back to the people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-dares-sukhbir-to-prove-he-met-punjab-dgp-against-majithia-101638010256372.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||BJP organises 'dangal', SP instigates 'dange': Anurag Thakur's swipe at Akhilesh Yadav||Union minister for youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur on Saturday took a swipe at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav as the war of words between opposing parties has heated up ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Anurag Thakur, who is also the Bharatiya Janata Party's Uttar Pradesh election co-incharge, claimed that unlike the BJP, which organises dangal (wrestling competitions) in the country, Akhilesh Yadav's party instigates dange or riots.“...Akhilesh Yadav says that the BJP organised sports events for MPs here. Akhilesh bhai, tum dange karwate ho, hum dangal karwate hain,” news agency ANI quoted Thakur as saying in Baghpat.#WATCH | Union Minister and UP election co-incharge Anurag Thakur says in Baghpat, "...Akhilesh Yadav says that BJP organised sports event for MPs here. Akhilesh bhai, tum dange karwate ho, hum dangal karwate hain." pic.twitter.com/d8NxzWHuUoAnurag Thakur's attack came after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath took a dig at opposition parties, urging people to not fall for their promises as they keep changing their statements.The chief minister also raked up Akhilesh Yadav’s ‘Jinnah’ comment to say that those who believe in the founder of Pakistan engaged in attacking faith and “instigated riots” in their tenure.Also read | UP polls: SP, RLD strike pact, discuss seat-sharing formula"Rioters, who are followers of Jinnah, how can they understand the sweetness of sugarcane,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.Adityanath then went on to accuse Akhilesh Yadav, the former UP CM, of withdrawing cases against “terrorists” playing vote bank politics.“Remember, the cases on terrorists who attacked the birthplace of Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram were shamelessly withdrawn by the previous government. Thanks to the Allahabad high court who did not allow this intention of the previous government to succeed,” he said.In 2013, the then SP-ruled UP government issued an order for withdrawal of cases against the Ayodhya serial blast accused as it believed them to be “innocent Muslims” implicated in false cases. The order was stayed by the Allahabad high court.Elections to 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP received a landslide victory by securing 312 assembly seats and registered a 39.67 per cent vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-organises-dangal-sp-instigates-dange-anurag-thakur-s-swipe-at-akhilesh-yadav-101638009493226.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal joins protest of contractual teachers in Punjab’s Mohali||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday joined the protest of contractual teachers in Mohali in support of their demand for the regularisation of their services. Also read: Shiromani Akali Dal leaders arrested outside Punjab CM Channi’s houseKejriwal, accompanied by AAP Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann, assured the protesting teachers: “I guarantee to resolve the issues of teachers on priority. Give your younger brother a chance and if I fail, you can show me the door. We will improve the (standard of) education in Punjab.” The contractual teachers have been protesting outside the Punjab State School Education Board building in Phase 8, Mohali, for the past 165 days. Mann, the AAP Sangrur MP, said: “Teachers are the builders of the nation. It is unfortunate that they have to sit on protest for their demands. I am the son of a teacher so I understand your pain. The AAP is with you.” The contractual teachers want their services regularised as some of them have been working on contract since 2003. Kejriwal also met physical training instructors on protest atop a water tank near Gurdwara Sahib Singh Shaheedan, Sohana. Is Punjab CM lying, asks Kejriwal Taking a dig at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s claim over regularising the services of 36,000 employees, Kejriwal said: “I was coming from the airport and I saw the CM’s posters after few metres claiming that the services of 36,000 contractual employees have been regularised, but if you’re not among them, then the CM is lying.”“Delhi sends its teachers for training abroad and the Punjab government is driving its teachers up towers to protest,” Kejriwal added.With an eye on the assembly elections in Punjab early next year, Kejriwal had recently launched Mission Punjab. He will be visiting various places in Punjab over the next month and announce the party’s programmes for the state and its people. Addressing a press conference in Punjab during his last visit, Kejriwal had said, “We will improve Punjab government schools just like we have improved Delhi government schools; only we know how to do it, no other party does. I guarantee to resolve multiple issues of teachers on an emergency basis.” He also announced an eight-point poll plank to transform the education sector in the state, including regularising the services of contractual teachers. He had also promised to implement a transfer policy for teachers and assured them cashless medical treatment facilities if the party comes to power. In the 2017 Punjab assembly polls, the Congress won an absolute majority in the state by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after 10 years. The Aam Aadmi Party emerged as the second-largest party, winning 20 seats in 117-member Punjab assembly. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could only manage to win 15 seats, while the BJP secured three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arvind-kejriwal-joins-protest-of-contractual-teachers-in-punjab-s-mohali-101638007676224.html
27-11-2021||Bangalore||Omicron scare: Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nations||In the wake of the new Covid-19 variant 'omicron' that has been detected in South Africa, Bengaluru on Saturday made it mandatory for people arriving from affected countries to take the RT-PCR test upon landing in the city. Home quarantine has also been mandatory for these passengers.“People coming from these affected countries will take the RT-PCR once they land in Bengaluru. If found positive, they will stay in and around the airport and undergo treatment when required. Home quarantine will be mandatory after their arrival,” state health minister Dr K Sudhakar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We came out with six genomic laboratories in the last six months and are in a situation where we can sequence, send samples and understand the progression of the mutation,” he added.Also read | Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scareThe health minister further said that he was in touch with the Union ministry of health and family welfare regarding the new strain that has been detected in South Africa, Hong Kong, Israel and Botswana. “The variant is very contagious amd has overtaken the Delta variant,” he said.People coming from these affected countries will take the RT-PCR once they land in Bengaluru. If found positive, they'll stay in and around the airport & will be treated, if needed. Home quarantine will be mandatory after their arrival: Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar pic.twitter.com/4sKwDSwnelSudhakar also requested those who have not yet taken the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to get the same on priority.WHO avoids Greek alphabet Xi and names new Covid variant Omicron. Here's whyEarlier in the day, Mumbai announced similar precautionary measures, including mandatory quarantine for individuals arriving in the city from South Africa, amid the new variant scare. The samples collected from these people will be sent for genome sequencing, said the city's mayor, Kishori Pednekar.Omicron was first detected in Botswana in southern Africa on November 9. Since then the variant has been reported in Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has already categorised omicron as 'variant of concern'. It has 32 mutations, more than any other variant of coronavirus. Omicron has twice as many mutations as delta that had wreaked havoc across the globe earlier this year.During a meeting on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked officials to review the plans to ease international travel restrictions in light of the "emerging new evidence".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/omicron-scare-bengaluru-makes-rt-pcr-quarantine-must-for-arrivals-from-affected-nations-101638002939526.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal leaders arrested outside Punjab CM Channi’s house||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, were arrested by Chandigarh Police on Saturday when they arrived to hold a demonstration in front of the official residence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Also read: ‘Farmer unions to be represented in govt MSP panel, urge farmers to go home’: TomarSenior leaders of the party were stopped outside Channi’s residence in Sector 2 and were taken to Sarangpur police station after their arrest. On Friday, the SAD core committee members had announced they would court arrest in front of the CM’s residence to protest against the alleged conspiracy to implicate former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a false drugs case. While being arrested, Sukhbir Singh Badal warned state government officials against becoming part of the conspiracy against the SAD leaders. He claimed that the SAD leaders had definite information that the chief minister has ordered the state DGP to register a false case against Majithia. “This has been done after the chief minister held a meeting with Punjab Congress chief (Navjot Singh Sidhu) and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa,” he said. All core group members of the party accompanied Sukhbir in the demonstration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shiromani-akali-dal-leaders-arrested-outside-punjab-cm-channi-s-house-101638007076565.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Congress leader Mukesh Goel joins AAP in presence of Delhi DyCM Manish Sisodia||Senior Congress leader Mukesh Goel joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday. Goel is a legislator from the Adarsh Nagar constituency in Delhi.Delhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joins Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. pic.twitter.com/7OOiNHaZrZEarlier, AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said during a last visit to poll-bound Punjab that 25 Congress MLAs and two MPs were in touch with his party."Ahead of elections, every MLAs from all the parties switch sides. Party-hopping is common everywhere. If there is competition over MLAs switching sides and joining rival parties, then I can assure there are a minimum of 25 MLAs and two MPs from the Congress party who are in touch with AAP. But we don't want their 'kachra'," he had said during a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/congress-leader-mukesh-goel-joins-aap-in-presence-of-delhi-dycm-manish-sisodia-101638003692448.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Former Congress MLA arrested for assaulting, abusing MCD personnel||Former Congress legislature from Delhi’s Okhla constituency, Asif Mohammed Khan was arrested on Saturday for abusing and beating municipal employees who removed his posters, put up illegally along the road outside his office. A video of Khan forcing four employees of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation(SDMC) to squat and hitting them with a stick while hurling abuses, is being widely circulated on social media platforms, police said. HT could not independently confirm the authenticity of the video but police confirmed the incident and said that an inspector of the SDMC had filed a complaint, that on Friday, a four-member team of MCD officers was assaulted while removing illegal posters, billboards and advertisements from the area around Kalindi Kunj. He alleged that Khan and his associates stopped them after they removed one such illegal poster from the road outside Khan’s office, where they were taken and thrashed. Also Read: RML, Lady Hardinge resident doctors protest over delayed NEET counseling“A complaint was registered by Ram Kishore, Inspector, MCD Lajpat Nagar Zone, stating that one person Asif Mohammad Khan abused and assaulted MCD staff which was on duty and obstructed government work. A case FIR No. 394/21 dated:26/11/2021 u/s 186/353/332/34 IPC was registered at PS Shaheen Bagh. The accused Asif Md Khan has been arrested thereafter and investigation of the case is under progress,” a statement by Delhi police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/former-congress-mla-arrested-for-assaulting-abusing-mcd-personnel-101638002035758.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||‘Dabangs terrorising people': Mayawati on murder of Dalit family in Prayagraj||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) President Mayawati on Saturday termed the recent murder of four members of a Dalit family in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj as shameful and blamed the poor law and order situation under the BJP government for the incident.In a series of tweets in Hindi, the BSP chief said, "Very sad and shameful murder of four people of a Dalit family in Prayagraj, UP recently. This incident also shows the poor law and order of the government. It seems that the BJP is also following in the footsteps of the SP government in this matter."In a related tweet, she said, "After this incident, a BSP delegation led by Babulal Bhanwra that had reached there said 'dabangs' (strongmen) in Prayagraj are terrorising the people due to which the murder happened."The BSP demands that the government should take strict legal action against all the strongmen who are guilty of this crime, the former chief minister said.Four members of a Dalit family were brutally murdered in Gohri village under Phaphamau police station area of Prayagraj district on Wednesday night.The head of the family, around 50; his 45-year-old wife, 16-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son were sleeping in the house when the incident happened.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had visited the village and met the bereaved family in Prayagraj on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dabangs-terrorising-people-mayawati-on-murder-of-dalit-family-in-prayagraj-101637999489521.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||RML, Lady Hardinge resident doctors protest over delayed NEET counseling||Resident doctors of three central hospitals – RML, Safdarjung, and Lady Hardinge - on Saturday suspended OPD services in protest against the repeated delay in conducting NEET-PG 2021 counseling.The move was following a nationwide call by the Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) for suspension of out-patient department (OPD) services at hospitals from November 27."Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, admission to various courses in NEET PG 2021 has been delayed indefinitely. The residents are carrying both Covid and non-Covid services tirelessly in the last one-and-a-half years and exhausted both physically and mentally."They have been waiting patiently till date for some positive outcome of the Supreme Court proceedings in the matter of already delayed NEET PG 2021 counselling. However, there seems no respite to their physical and mental distress, with the next court hearing scheduled on January 6, 2022.“To mark our protest against these repeated delays and postponement in counseling, we the residents of ABVIMS and RML hospital decide to withdraw OPD services on Saturday, 27 November 2021 onwards, including Sunday OPDS," RML RDA said in a letter to the hospital administration.The doctors' associations demanded the government and the top court to take necessary measures to expedite the NEET PG counseling and admission process and to fast-track the court proceedings.Issuing support, AIIMS RDA also urged the Government of India to actively intervene in this matter urgently and expedite the counseling process, stating it is extremely unfortunate that NEET-PG 2021 counseling is being delayed indefinitely despite the fact that nearly two months have passed since the results of the entrance test were announced.The entrance exam that usually happens in the first quarter of the calendar year was already delayed by many months as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This extreme delay has led to a shortage of manpower in medical colleges all across India, the AIIMS RDA said in a statement."Thousands of postgraduate seats will remain unfilled this year if the counselling remains postponed. As Covid-19 cases are increasing in many countries across the world, it is prudent that our nation remains prepared for another wave of the pandemic.“The current working pool of resident doctors are already overburdened, which can have an adverse impact on optimum delivery of healthcare services. The admission process of the new batch of residents should therefore be completed without any further delay," the statement said.In a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the FORDA had on Friday said the "already over-burdened and exhausted" resident doctors of the nation fighting at the frontline since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, waited patiently till November 25 for some positive outcome of the ongoing Supreme Court proceedings over NEET-PG 2021 counselling."However, there seems to be no respite to their physical and mental distress with the next court hearing scheduled on January 6, 2022."To mark our protest against these repeated delays and postponements of counselling, following discussion with representatives of multiple Resident Doctors Associations (RDA) across the nation, we have decided to withdraw from Out Patient Department (OPD) services, Saturday, November 27 onwards," FORDA said.They urged the Union Government and the Supreme Court of India to take note of the grievance of resident doctors of the nation and to take necessary measures for expediting the NEET-PG 2021 counseling as well as the admission process and to fast-track the court proceedings on an urgent basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rml-lady-hardinge-resident-doctors-protest-over-delayed-neet-counseling-101638000316011.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Anyone coming from omicron-hit South Africa to be quarantined in Mumbai, announces mayor||Every individual arriving in Mumbai from South Africa will be quarantined in the wake of the spread of the new omicron variant of coronavirus there, the city's mayor Kishori Pednekar announced on Saturday. The samples collected from these people will be sent for genome sequencing, she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read | What do we know about risks and symptoms of omicron variantPednekar made the announcement as calls grow for banning the flights coming to India from South Africa. A few hours ago, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop these flights."I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India," he said on Twitter.The Prime Minister is holding a virtual meeting today to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and the pace of the ongoing vaccination drive.The government has not imposed any flight ban, but directed states to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from African of omicron-affected countries. India has not reported any case of omicron.After being detected in Botswana in southern Africa on November 9, omicron is fast spreading across the world, jumping continents in matter of days. It has so far been reported in Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel.The World Health Organization (WHO) has already categorised omicron as 'variant of concern'. It has 32 mutations, more than any other variant of coronavirus. Till now, the delta variant was wreaking havoc across the globe; omicron has twice as many mutations as delta.Countries have raced to announce travel bans. Thailand is the latest to join the growing list, banning entry of people from eight African countries: Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe.Earlier, the European Union, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Japan and Russia too announced similar curbs. The United States too has imposed travel ban from the region, with exceptions for American citizens and permanent residents and for a few other categories, including spouses and other close family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anyone-coming-from-omicron-hit-south-africa-to-be-quarantined-in-mumbai-announces-mayor-101637999560302.html
27-11-2021||Bangalore||99 more test Covid positive at Dharwad medical college, Karnataka; tally reaches 281||As many as 99 more medical college students and faculty members were tested Covid-19 positive in Karnataka's Dharwad, taking the total number of affected medical students to 281 on Saturday, informed Dharwad District Collector Nitesh Patil."This tally may increase as 1,822 test results are awaited," said Patil.He further said that out of 281 only six patients are mile symptomatic and others are non-symptomatic. All have been quarantined and treatment is given.SDM College of Medical Sciences in Karnataka's Dharwad has reported 66 positive cases. After this, the district administration tested more people including students, staff and primary contacts of infected students, and 116 of them tested positive on Friday, taking the total number of infected students to 182.The students had attended a function held on November 17 in the college campus.Patients have not shown serious symptoms associated with the virus due to the fact they have all taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine. As a preventive measure, a holiday has been declared in educational institutions in a radius of 500 meters near the college till Sunday.Nitesh Patel, the District Collector had earlier said, "We are doing RAT and RTPCR tests of around 3,000 people inside the campus. College administration has been directed to not allow any visitors inside the campus. Attendees will be not allowed inside the hospital where the patients are undergoing treatment."Karnataka reported 402 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Saturday. As per the state's health department, the state has 6,611 active cases of infection. Karnataka has recorded 29,94,963 infections since the onset of the pandemic last year.With 277 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, the total recoveries climbed to 29,50,130. The death toll is 38,193. Of the six deaths reported on Friday, one each was reported in Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwada, Hassana, Kodagu and Raichuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/99-more-test-covid-positive-at-dharwad-medical-college-karnataka-tally-reaches-281-101637987258654.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||JP Nadda rules out change of guard after BJP debacle in Himachal byelections||BJP national president JP Nadda on Friday put to rest all speculations about a possible change of guard in Himachal Pradesh. “I’ve heard the speculation, but a party doesn’t function on what’s being said on social media,” Nadda said while virtually addressing the state executive meeting of the Himachal Pradesh BJP. In his 44-minute speech, he made every attempt to boost the party’s morale. “I’m confident that party workers will put in united efforts to strengthen the BJP in the state and the Jai Ram Thakur government to ensure victory in the assembly elections,” he said. After the BJP’s defeat in the recently held byelections, rumours were rife that the party may change its chief minister. Instead, Nadda heaped praises on the CM and his government for their performance despite the challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic. Targets dynastic politics During the three-day meeting of the BJP state executive, he said a roadmap would have been laid out to strengthen the party and the government. “Today, the BJP is the only party in which a person coming from a common man’s family can become a chief minister, state party president and national president. All other parties are family-based, including the Congress. For them, the family is the party, but in the BJP, the party is the family,” he said. Nadda said the BJP has cultural nationalism as its principle and works for the downtrodden. “I want to remind you that we are not for a position but to change the destiny of society, state and the country. Therefore, we are associated with the principle of integral-humanism. Antyodaya is our mantra and empowerment of the poorest of the poor our objective,” he said, adding Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expanded the ambit of Antyodaya with his “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas aur Sabka Prayas”. Become agent of change, workers told Stressing on the self-introspection from time to time, Nadda said, every party worker should improve their competence and skill and become an agent of change in society. “Those who don’t change cannot be agents of change. When you are in a political party, you have to work hard and change with the time. It will benefit the party and the governments,” he said. He said the BJP has grown rapidly in Himachal and has a presence in all 7,792 polling booths besides the party implemented Vistarak and e-Vistarak programmes, the model which is being now implemented across the country. He said Himachal Pradesh has progressed in every sphere, including health, education and road transport. “Due to the benevolence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the state has premiere institutes coming up, including AIIMS, Bilaspur, four medical colleges and a PGI satellite centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jp-nadda-rules-out-change-of-guard-after-bjp-debacle-in-himachal-byelections-101637980313151.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Air pollution: CNG, e-vehicles allowed to enter Delhi from today. Details here||Transport vehicles running on CNG and powered by electricity will be allowed to enter Delhi form Saturday, when the lifting of ban announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) comes into effect. The petrol and diesel-run transportation vehicles, however, will continue to remain banned. The Arvind Kejriwal government had earlier announced a ban on the entry of trucks, barring those engaged in essential services till December 3 in order to improve the worsening air quality in the capital city.The AAP government had announced the rule, among other directions, following the orders from the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).However, the rule does not apply to the entry of private vehicles and trucks transporting essential goods, the Delhi government clarified.Earlier this week, the Delhi government reimposed the ban on construction and demolition activities following the Supreme Court's order. Meanwhile, it decided to resume physical classes in schools, colleges and other educational institutions and reopen government offices from November 29 after a two-week ban.Delhi woke up to a shallow fog and hazy conditions this morning. The air quality index stood at 386 in the 'very poor' category, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), India.The capital's air quality has remained 'very poor' to 'severe' on most of the days in November so far. However, Delhi's AQI is expected to improve from November 29 due to high wind speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-pollution-cng-e-vehicles-allowed-to-enter-delhi-from-today-details-here-101637976282568.html
27-11-2021||Patna||Bihar: Nitish Kumar to launch NTPC's power units today at Barauni and Barh||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will dedicate to the people state-run NTPC's power units at Barauni and Barh on Saturday, a statement said. The NTPC Group has an installed capacity of 7,970 MW in Bihar and another 1,980 MW is under construction.“Nitish Kumar, Chief Minister of Bihar in the presence of R K Singh, Union Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy will do Lokarpan of Stage -II 500 MW (2x250 MW) of NTPC Barauni Thermal Power Station and Unit #1 (660 MW) of NTPC Barh Super Thermal Power project on 27th November,” the statement said.Giriraj Singh, Union minister of rural development and Panchayati Raj; Rajiv Ranjan, member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Munger; Neeraj Kumar, member of legislative council, Bihar; Ram Ratan Singh, member of legislative assembly, Teghra, and other senior leaders of Barh and Barauni regions will also be present.The event will also be attended by NTPC CMD Gurdeep Singh and other senior officials.Barh has a total installed capacity of 3,300 MW, out of which 1,320 MW is already under commercial operation since March 2016.To accelerate the development of the power sector and increase the availability of electricity and cost efficiencies for the larger benefit of people, the state government had transferred the Barauni Thermal Power Station to NTPC Ltd on December 15, 2018.NTPC, a Maharatna firm of the Government of India, presently has an installed capacity of 67,907 MW (including JVs/subsidiaries) and plans to become a 130 GW company by 2032.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-nitish-kumar-to-launch-ntpc-s-power-units-today-at-barauni-and-barh-101637976236091.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi to hold special voter enrolment drive across all polling stations||The office of the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Delhi will hold special camps on November 27-28 across all polling stations in the city to facilitate the enrolment of voters, as part of the special summary revision (SSR) exercise. To encourage people to enrolment in the electoral roll, CEO Delhi has decided to hold special camps this Saturday and Sunday from 10am to 5pm.Notably, such camps are already running in different areas of Delhi and now these camps are being organised on this weekend so that such people can also come who are unable to come during the weekdays due to duty.A special stall has also been established at the Delhi Pavilion of the ongoing India International Trade Fair (IITF) to assist voters, particularly the youth, as part of the special summary revision exercise. This initiative has been taken by the New Delhi District Election Office.In a statement, chief electoral officer Dr Ranbir Singh said since the event attracts a large number of young people, the decision was made to assist young people who have already turned 18 or will turn 18 by January 1, 2022, but are not on the voters' list, as well as other left out voters.Dr Singh further said that visitors to this stall are encouraged to follow the official handles of @ceodelhioffice on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube, as youth are the most important and dynamic sector of the population, and their influence can significantly boost electoral awareness, particularly through their widespread use of social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-hold-special-voter-enrolment-drive-across-all-polling-stations-101637975748215.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Railway police to ramp up patrolling, surveillance||After a grenade blast near the Pathankot army camp, security was ramped up at the Ludhiana railway station on Friday.The move comes after director general of police (DGP) Sanjeev Kalra issued directions to the effect at a meeting with senior railway police officials on November 24. The security protocols were put in place under the supervision of superintendent of police (SP) Amandeep Kaur.Railway police officials carried out a checking at the platforms, within the trains and in the parking lots of the railway station. Dog squads were also enlisted to sniff out explosives and contraband. Passengers’ luggage was also thoroughly checked.Inspector Jaskaran Singh said, “Patrolling on the tracks has been increased and teams have been deputed at the Ludhiana-Jagraon, Phillaur, Sahnewal and Goraya railway tracks. The station is under constant surveillance.”Lone luggage scanner still non-functionalDespite increased surveillance, the lone baggage scanner at the Ludhiana railway station remains non-functional. The station has three entry points, but one luggage scanner, which usually remains defunct, adding to the railway station’s vulnerabilities.On Friday, while passengers carrying huge luggage sacks were being frisked, the sacks themselves escaped scrutiny.The railways personnel on duty said the machine has to be switched off time and again as it gets overheated.Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar said, “The machine was recently repaired by the maintenance department. However, I will get it re-checked on priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-railway-police-to-ramp-up-patrolling-surveillance-101637961409892.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2 days after RD Sharma gets SAD ticket, BJP sacks latter’s mother||Two days after former BJP leader RD Sharma was given ticket by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to contest the assembly election from Ludhiana North constituency, the saffron party sacked his mother, Prem Sharma, who is the BJP councillor from Ward 89 for anti-party activities.Confirming the development, district president Pushpinder Singal said Prem Sharma had been sacked with immediate effect. He said the decision had been taken after due deliberation. Prem Sharma, however, said that she had submitted her resignation on the same day as her son had joined SAD.‘BJP frustrated’ She said that by making a public announcement saying she had been sacked, the local unit of the BJP was “venting out its frustration as they are baffled by the response my son is receiving from the people of his constituency.”Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badalhad on November 24 announced RD Sharma as the SAD candidate from Ludhiana (north) constituency for the 2022 assembly elections. SAD has announced 84 candidates for the assembly polls. Sharma, a three-time councillor from Ludhiana has also remained the deputy mayor of the city’s municipal corporation. At present, his mother is the councillor from the ward that Sharma represented. He joined the SAD after quitting the BJP along with former minister Anil Joshi in August.After severing a two-decade-old alliance with the BJP, the SAD has entered into a pre-poll arrangement with the Bahujan Samaj Party, giving them 20 seats to contest in the Punjab elections. The SAD will contest 97 of the 117 assembly seats.On Tuesday, the SAD had swapped the Ludhiana (North) seat with alliance partner BSP along with Mohali and in its place it has given Raikot and Dinanagar to its ally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-days-after-rd-sharma-gets-sad-ticket-bjp-sacks-latter-s-mother-101637961169024.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Fire breaks out at cloth unit, firefighter among 2 injured||Two including a fireman and a labourer were injured after fire broke out at a garment/textile unit in Focal point phase 7 on Friday. As per the information, the fire broke out at the boiler installed at one side of the unit and leakage in the fuel/oil supply lines of the boiler is said to be the reason behind the fire incident. The fire fighting operation continued for over seven hours.The contractual fireman Dharamjot among others firefighters were dousing the flames, when a flash fire was witnessed at the site due to leakage of oil and two including fireman and a labourer got injured. While the labourer sustained minor injuries on arm, Dharamjot suffered burn injuries on face and leg. The fireman was rushed to a private hospital at Chandigarh road, from where he was referred to ESIC hospital. As per the information the fireman was not wearing the fire safety suits, which have been recently handed over to the fire brigade. The firefighters also rued shortage of suits in comparison to the number of firefighters.Leading fireman Rajan Singh stated that the firemen had doused the flames at one point and moved forward to douse the flames further. Suddenly flames again ignited from that spot following which both of them got injured. The fire broke out at around noon and three fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The fire fighting operation continued for seven hours as hundreds of litres of oil was stored for the boiler and the flames could not be stopped until the oil got burned completely. The situation was however under control and the condition of the injured fireman is also said to be stable, said Singh. (sub head) LPG cylinder catches fire in cycle parts unit:Another fire incident was reported from a cycle parts manufacturing unit in Focal point phase 6 on Friday evening wherein a 425 kg LPG gas cylinder caught fire due to a leakage. The flames were however controlled by the fire brigade in time and no injury was reported at the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fire-breaks-out-at-cloth-unit-firefighter-among-2-injured-101637960930624.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 2 days after hit-and-run mishap, 21-yr-old woman succumbs||A 21-year-old woman who fell victim to a hit-and-run accident on November 23 succumbed to her injuries on Thursday. The victim, Simranpreet Kaur, was crossing the road after alighting from a bus near Daba Cut at the National Highway when she was run down by a Baleno Car, which was coming from Jalandhar side. The driver, Tajinder Singh of Kurukshetra, immediately fled from the spot. Onlookers rushed her to hospital, where she succumbed after two days. Simranpreet was pursuing masters in computer application from Regional Institute of Management and Technology (RIMT), Mandi Gobindgarh. An FIR was registered against Tajinder on the complaint of Jashandeep Singh of Sherpur Kalan, the victim’s brother. Assistant sub-inspector Lakhbir Singh said the onlookers had jotted down the registration number of the vehicle and informed the police.A case was registered under Sections 279 (reckless driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-days-after-hit-and-run-mishap-21-yr-old-woman-succumbs-101637960569556.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Bishnah ASI in CBI net for taking bribe||The CBI on Friday conducted a raid at the Bishnah police station of Jammu district and caught an ASI red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹3,000 from a complainant. Officials said the ASI who was posted at the Bishnah police station was accepting the bribe when CBI sleuths raided the police station and took him in custody. The early morning raid triggered panic among the policemen in the police station and within no time senior officers also rushed to the spot. The CBI has not issued any official statement as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-bishnah-asi-in-cbi-net-for-taking-bribe-101637960150313.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board holds investors’ meet||The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) successfully organised an investors’ meet here on Friday for promoting the 11th City Gas Distribution (CGD) bidding round. The PNGRB is the nodal agency for facilitating economic activities in natural gas distribution with an objective to promote competitive markets, create infrastructure and increase the share of natural gas in the country’s energy mix. Earlier, the PNGRB has successfully concluded the 9th and 10th CGD bidding rounds for the selection of authorised entities for the development of promoting the CGD networks in their geographical areas (GAs). Ranjan Prakash Thakur, principal secretary, Industries and Commerce, was the chief guest for the event. In the 11th CGD bidding round, 1 GA covering five districts from Jammu & Kashmir namely, Jammu, Udhampur, Samba, Reasi and Kathua is being offered by the PNGRB. After the authorisations under the11th round, 27% of the population of Jammu & Kashmir would be covered under the CGD network. This is a huge initiative towards providing clean energy to the consumers in Jammu & Kashmir. In the presentation on the 11th CGD bidding round, PNGRB highlighted the opportunities in the CGD sector in Jammu & Kashmir and India, upcoming gas infrastructure in Jammu & Kashmir and India along with key policy enablers that will provide a boost to the domestic gas market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-petroleum-and-natural-gas-regulatory-board-holds-investors-meet-101637960149286.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana crockery store owner booked for beating up wife, daughter||A crockery shop owner was booked for beating up his wife and daughter after the couple quarreled over his extramarital affair on Friday. The complainant, Harmeet Kaur, 40, alleged that her husband, Paramjit Singh of Metro Road, was romantically involved with his employee, and when she objected to the same, he assaulted her. Singh also thrashed his daughter when she intervened. After the complainant and her daughter raised the alarm, their neighbours came to their rescue. Head constable Kuldeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against Paramjit Singh. A hunt is on for his arrest.Dugri man assaults wife, booked In another case, a man and his family were booked for thrashing his wife on Friday. The complainant, Tarranjeet Kaur, 39, said she had gotten married to Prabhjot Singh on December 5, 2012. She alleged that Prabhjot Singh was addicted to drugs and on November 25, her husband, mother-in-law Rajinder Kaur and relatives Arvinder Singh and his wife Harinder Kaur had assaulted her after an argument. Assistant sub-inspector Surinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-crockery-store-owner-booked-for-beating-up-wife-daughter-101637960088893.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Police destroy 24 kg RDX, 71 hand grenades in Reasi||The Reasi police on Friday destroyed explosives seized during various anti-militancy operations in Mahore subdivision of Reasi district, said officials.“The Police and Special Operations Group (SOG) had seized grenades, IEDs, RDX in 15 militancy cases registered since 2009 in the Mahore-Chassana area. These explosives remained in the safe custody of the police since then,” said a police spokesperson. “Sensing security threat of accidental explosions, the Reasi police approached the courts for seeking orders of lawful safe destruction of seized explosives that included RDX and grenades,” he said.Subsequently, destruction orders were passed in two cases by the court of sessions judge, Reasi. The two cases were followed up in the NIA Court, Jammu, and required orders were issued by the latter, wherein the destruction order in the rest of 11 cases was passed by the JMIC, Mahore. Accordingly, a special team of the Mahore sub-division, bomb disposal squad and engineering regiment of the 58 RR complied the orders.“With due precautions and meticulous planning, all explosives and allied materials were taken to a safe place and the team of experts in explosives and blasts destroyed it with special care while following the due protocol,” said the spokesman. “Destroyed explosives included 71 hand grenades, 24 kg RDX, detonators, IED fuses, remotes of IEDs and its covers,” he added.ADGP Mukesh Singh has directed the police to follow the pending similar cases in the courts and get rid of seized explosive materials lying in the police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-police-destroy-24-kg-rdx-71-hand-grenades-in-reasi-101637960030340.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Army foils intrusion bid on LoC in Poonch, Pakistani guide killed||The Army gunned down a notorious terror guide and foiled an infiltration bid along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district. The slain guide was identified as Mohammad Arif of Matrian village in Khuiratta area of Pak-occupied-Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK). Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Late Thursday, Pakistani terrorists attempted an infiltration bid along the LoC in the Bhimber Gali sector. However, the alert Indian troops successfully foiled the infiltration attempt and killed a terrorist.” The body of the terrorist along with weapon and ammunition was recovered, he added. Intelligence officials said the slain terrorist was actually a notorious guide of the terrorists. “He used to guide Pakistani terrorists in small groups into this side of the LoC. Late Thursday, he was again guiding a group of three to four terrorists into Poonch when alert soldiers noticed the movement and opened fire killing him on the spot. The group immediately fled back to the PoJK,” said an intelligence official. He informed that Arif was responsible for the successful infiltration of small groups of terrorists into J&K for nearly two decades. Pakistan’s ISI had been actively supporting him, he added. It may be recalled here that the Army lost nine soldiers, including two JCOs, on October 11 and 14 at the Chamrer and Nar Khas forests in Poonch district in two separate encounters with terrorists. These were the worst casualties suffered by the Army in the recent years.DGP Dilbag Singh suspected them to be part of the freshly infiltrated group of terrorists and hoped that the RR troops will account for them.Since October 11, the Army has launched a massive search and combing operation in Nar Khas, Bhata Dhurian and Chamrer areas of the district.Intelligence sources said the slain guide was earlier a havildar in the Pakistan army and after retirement was commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba launch pads located in Dharkundi-Khuraitta. “He was well versed with the terrain and guided Pakistan’s Special Services Group (SSG) into the Indian territory in Nowshera in October 2018 where BAT action was carried out. On his retirement from the Pakistan army, Arif was given land in Khuraitta where he raised some structure and housed terrorists before launching them into India,” they said. “He was the main conduit between the ISI and terror outfits and received big money from the Pakistan army. His family is settled in Dubai,” they said. “Arif was the main guide for the LeT in the area and was in-charge of terror launch pads in Tarakundi area. He has two sons who are settled in Dubai. After retirement from the Pakistan army, he was working for the ISI,” said sources. On October 22, 2018, Pakistan’s BAT had ambushed an Indian Army patrol along the LoC in the Sunderbani area of the Nowshera sector killing Havildar Kaushal Kumar of Nowshera, Lance Naik Ranjeet Singh of Doda and Rifleman Rajat Kumar Basan of Pallanwala. The intruders had come inside the Indian territory and ambushed the patrol. The soldiers had also retaliated eliminating two BAT members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-foils-intrusion-bid-on-loc-in-poonch-pakistani-guide-killed-101637960028996.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir records 174 Covid cases, four deaths; Srinagar reports 63 infections||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded four deaths and 174 new cases.Of the four new deaths, three were reported from Kashmir Valley. November has seen a continuous spike in the fresh cases and deaths in the UT.Of the total cases, 131 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 26 fresh infections. Kashmir reported the highest 63 cases in the summer capital Srinagar followed by 23 cases in the northern district of Baramulla. Jammu district in Jammu division saw the highest 17 cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 606 followed by Baramulla and Ganderbal districts with 370 and 133 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 264 with active positive cases reaching 1,719.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 43,661 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.64 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,30048 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.16%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,36,237 and the death toll has reached 4,470.The officials said that 55,394 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,151 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 864 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,36237Total recovered patients: 3,30048Total Deaths: 4,470Active cases: 1,719||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-records-174-covid-cases-four-deaths-srinagar-reports-63-infections-101637959908957.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir reels under intense cold wave; Srinagar records -1.3°C, Pahalgam -3.3°C||The Valley is again reeling under an intense cold wave as many places witnessed freezing nights and foggy conditions during the day.Srinagar that had witnessed improvement in the night temperature in the last few days recorded -1.3°C, the tourist resort of Pahalgam recorded -3.3°C - the coldest place in Kashmir.Qazigund recorded -1.2°C, while Kupwara recorded -1.9°C. The famous ski resort Gulmarg recorded a minimum of -1.8°C.Leh registered -7.5°C while Kargil town recorded -3.4°C. Drass in Kargil -10.8°C. The MeT office said the cold wave in Kashmir and Ladakh will continue and there is not any forecast for the snowfall until next week.The Valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings for the past 12 days. Officials say that the foggy conditions are owing to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased traffic and the burning of stubble and tree foliage. On Monday, the MeT department predicted dry weather till the month-end except for light snowfall in north Kashmir on Thursday“Weather is most likely to remain cold and dry till ending November in the entire J&K. However, there’s 40-50% chance of very light snowfall over extreme North Kashmir on November 25. Overall, there is no forecast of any major weather for the next two weeks, “ said J&K’s MeT director Sonam Lotus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-reels-under-intense-cold-wave-srinagar-records-1-3-c-pahalgam-33c-101637959611229.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rambagh encounter: Shutdown in Srinagar downtown over killing of militants||The parts of Srinagar especially the old city (downtown) observed shutdown against the killings of three militants at Rambagh on Wednesday whom the police described as militants of the TRF, including its commander MehranShops in most of the areas in the old city and some pockets the civil lines remained shut, however, the transport was plying without any hindrance. No group had given a call for Friday’s shutdown. On Thursday also, some areas in the old city witnessed shutdown. The mobile internet has been suspended in some parts of the old city by the authorities after the killings of three militants.Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday raised “doubts” over the killing of three militants at Rambagh.The police had on Wednesday said the militants, including TRF commander Mehran Yaseen Shalla, were moving in a Santro car when they were signalled to stop. But instead of stopping, the trio fired indiscriminately at the police party and was killed in the ensuing gunfire.Even locals had raised suspicion over the killings.As per the police spokesperson, the slain militants were identified as LeT (TRF) commander Mehran Yaseen Shalla of Jamalatta Srinagar, Manzoor Ahmad Mir of Babhar Pulwama and Arafat Ahmad Sheikh of Nikloora Pulwama. DGP Dilbagh Singh on Thursday during a press conference in Jammu criticised former CM Mehbooba Mufti for raising suspicion over the killings of the militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rambagh-encounter-shutdown-in-srinagar-downtown-over-killing-of-militants-101637959493078.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal records 102 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths; Kangra highest with 38 infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 102 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,26,859 while the death toll reached 3,825 after three more patients died of the infection. The highest of 38 cases were reported from Kangra, nine of them students and staff of Upper Tibetan Children Village School. Twenty-three cases were reported from Shimla, 11 each from Hamirpur and Una, seven from Solan, six from Mandi, four from Bilaspur and one each from Kinnaur and Sirmaur. The active came down slightly to 827 while the recoveries have reached 2,22,190 after 107 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 51,813 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 31,858 cases and Shimla with 27,827 cases. TRACKER Total Cases: 2,26,859 Recoveries: 2,22,190 Deaths: 3,825 Active: 827||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-records-102-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-kangra-highest-with-38-infections-101637959370092.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||7th International Film Festival of Shimla begins at Gaiety Theatre||A three-day 7th International Film Festival of Shimla began at the historic Gaiety Theatre on Friday. The festival, which is organised by the Himalayan Velocity in association with the Language Art and Culture, was inaugurated by VS Kundu, additional chief secretary, the government of Haryana, former director-general, films division. Pankaj Lalit, director, Language Art and Culture, Himachal Pradesh, was also present on the occasion.Parallel screening of the film festival was done at the Model Central Jail Kanda, Shimla, and was inaugurated by the superintendent of police (jail), Jaigopal Lodhta.Kundu also released a film booklet on the occasion. The screening started with Eva, directed by Sohan Lal. A total of eight films were screened on Friday, including, “Ziro Kilometers” by Shamas Nawab Siddiqui, and Sumitra Bhave; “A Parallel Jour” by Santosh Pathare; “Hatti, We exist” by Vivek Tiwari and “Breaking the Ice” by Devkanya Thakur.Films by Himachali filmmakers were screened and appreciated by the audience. Irani film, “12 o’clock” by Sajad Soleymani also got a good response.Fifty-eight national and international films will be screened during the three-day fest. More than 35 national as well as international filmmakers are in Shimla to participate in the film festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7th-international-film-festival-of-shimla-begins-at-gaiety-theatre-101637959311516.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Himalayan Monal National Aerofest 2021 begins at Chamba’s Khajjiar||A three-day Himalayan Monal National Aerofest-2021 began at Chamba’s famous tourist destination Khajjiar on Friday.The Aerofest being organised under “Chalo Chamba” campaign was inaugurated by Pradeep Bharadwaj, Group Commander, Air Force Station, Dalhousie. About 100 participants from 15 states are participating in the paragliding competition besides acrobatic paragliding, remote-controlled paramotor show and remote-controlled drone show.During this, he inaugurated the paragliding competition by hoisting the competition flag and flagging off the participants.The participants also included contingents from the Army and the Indian Air Force.In his address, Bhardwaj said based on the initiative of the district administration, various competitions organised under the Chalo Chamba campaign will undoubtedly give a fillip to the tourism in the district.“The campaign is also important in the promotion of the rich art and culture of Chamba,” he said.Bhardwaj said participants from the other states would also get an opportunity to enjoy the natural beauty, art and culture while local youth would get a chance to make their mark in paragliding at the national and international level.He said such adventure sports activities at the famous tourist places also open new employment opportunities for the local people.Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana said the Himalayan Monal National Aerofest-2021 was the fourth competition under the Chalo Chamba campaign.Earlier, The Himalayan Ghoral 9th National Dragon Boat Race Competition, Mountain Biking and Rally of Chamba have been successfully organised.He said the district administration was organising various sports and cultural events across the district under the Chalo Chamba campaign throughout the year.It would not only help tap the tourism potential of Chamba but also bring the district on the world tourism map in terms of art and culture.Artists and craftsmen would also get an opportunity to exhibit their talent, said Rana.The deputy commissioner said the winners of the competition would be given prize money of 2 lakh. There will also be 10 consolation prizes.Local folk singers presented “Masudha” singing while an Army Band also performed on the occasion.Folk music was also held near the famous Khajjiar Lake while an exhibition of traditional handicraft and metalcraft was also put up. The fest will conclude on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himalayan-monal-national-aerofest-2021-begins-at-chamba-s-khajjiar-101637959250923.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Will launch drive to propagate govt’s policies among masses, says BJP state chief Suresh Kashyap||Owning the responsibility for the party’s defeat in the recently concluded bypolls to three assemblies and one parliamentary seat, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief Suresh Kashyap admitted the party was not able to propagate the policies and programmes of the government at the ground level.“The party will work hard and launch a state-wide programme to propagate the policies of the Jai Ram Thakur government among the people,” said Kashyap while addressing mediapersons in Shimla. Kashyap admitted that shortcomings in the party, complacent cadres, overconfidence and sympathy in favour of deceased Congress leaders, including former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, led to the party’s defeat in the elections. However, he repeatedly parried questions when asked about infighting in the party. “I accept the responsibility for the defeat. The party will work on the shortcomings and infuse a new strength in the cadres,” he said. However, he did not come clear whether changes in the organisation was on the cards. Discuss shortcomings with state leadership, Dhumal tells party workersFormer chief minister Prof Prem Kumar Dhumal on Friday said programmes that the BJP would decide as its future strategy would have to be implemented on the ground and the public welfare schemes of the Centre and state government must also be propagated by the workers among the common man. The BJP veteran was addressing the party executive committee meeting in Shimla. He said the party would listen to all its workers and form the government again in 2022 by taking the workers along. Dhumal said if the BJP had become the biggest party today, it was due to its workers who toiled hard for many years. “If a worker finds any shortcoming in the functioning of the party or otherwise, he or she must discuss it with the state leadership,” he said. “Our Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done a lot for the country and the state and it really makes a difference as the country has been strengthened under his leadership. “We all have to think in the interest of the party, think about the workers and work in a positive direction. Lotus will bloom once again in Himachal,” said Dhumal. He said the BJP does not enjoy the power but serve the people of the state, especially unprivileged and downtrodden sections of society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-will-launch-drive-to-propagate-govt-s-policies-among-masses-says-bjp-state-chief-suresh-kashyap-101637959249779.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||What is stopping Punjab govt from acting against drug mafia, asks Navjot Sidhu||Intensifying his attack on the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government on drugs and sacrilege issues, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday asked under whose fear it was not taking action against those running the drug business in the state. It came a day after Sidhu threatened to fast unto death if the Congress government did not make the report of the special task force (STF) on drugs public and justice was not delivered in the sacrilege cases.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, the cricketer-turned-politician said, “Being the PPCC president, I have met lakhs of party workers. There are two core issues for them — the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and the drug smuggling. Raising these issues is my duty.”The government, he added, should at least follow the directions of the high court which this year underlined that drug suppliers were enjoying political patronage while small fish were being made scapegoat. Citing the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures, the Congress leader said Punjab topped the chart in drug-related crimes. Referring to former CM Amarinder Singh, he said, “People who have been removed now had promised to end these crimes in four weeks. A report the Enforcement Directorate (ED) was handed over to the Punjab Police’s STF in November 2017 on direction of the high court. The STF’s report was submitted to the court in February 2018. On both occasions, the HC ordered to take action as per the law. But what stops them from acting is beyond my comprehension.” On the sacrilege issue, Sidhu said the court had asked the government to file chargesheet within six months. “Six months have passed now but the chargesheet is nowhere. How can we get justice when you ensure blanket bail to former DGP Sumedh Saini who is a prime accused?” he asked. Casting aspersions on the intent of the government, he said, “If Saini was granted this bail, why has the government not filed a special leave petition (SLP) against the move in court even after two-and-a-half months?”Replying to a query, he said, “Some of the measures taken by the Channi government recently came only after I raised the issue. There is no lack of coordination between the government and the party.”Taking a jibe against his predecessor Sunil Jakhar, he said, “The previous president is active posting tweets. Has he ever raised his voice?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/what-is-stopping-punjab-govt-from-acting-against-drug-mafia-asks-navjot-sidhu-101637959128862.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Month after Deep Nagar road cave-in, shopkeepers agitate over slow pace of repair work||A month after the Deep Nagar Road had to be cordoned off due to a cave-in on October 28, shopkeepers in the area staged a protest against the municipal corporation alleging that the slow pace of the repair work had hit their business. The shopkeepers also blocked the main road near the Dandi Swami Chowk for around half-an-hour, disturbing the movement of traffic. The protesting shopkeepers said that it had been a month since the road had caved-in, but the civic body had till not installed new sewer and water lines. “A stretch of around 200ft has been dug up, leaving no space for movement of traffic, due to which there is meagre footfall in the market,” said the traders, who were protesting under the banner of the Deep Nagar Shopkeepers Association. Around 100 shops have been hit due to the road cave-in, and subsequent repair work. Shopkeepers’ association president Tarun Kumar said no business was seen in the area even on Diwali. “The shopkeepers are a harried lot and are struggling to make ends meet. The MC officials are not paying heed, which has forced us to stage a protest,” said Kumar. One of the shopkeepers Narinder said, “Tenants are the worst affected, as they are struggling to make rent. Business was already in a slump after the pandemic broke out last year, and this has added to the woes of the shopkeepers. The MC officials have failed to expedite work, despite repeated complaints, said Narindr, a shopkeeper.MC sub-divisional officer (SDO) Anshul Garcha said, “It is difficult to lay sewer and water supply lines in the area as it is a narrow street, and work has to be done very carefully so that the foundations of the houses and shops are not damaged. Most of the work has been done, and repair work will be completed in four to five days.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said he had also directed officials to expedite work. Two students and a woman had a narrow escape after a major portion of the Deep Nagar main road had caved-in on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-month-after-deep-nagar-road-cave-in-shopkeepers-agitate-over-slow-pace-of-repair-work-101637959008962.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Killing of bovines: Shiv Sena blocks traffic at Jagraon Bridge in Ludhiana||Commuters had to contend with traffic jams for the second consecutive day as members of the Shiv Sena blocked traffic on the Jagraon Bridge for an hour on Friday and sought the arrest of those responsible for killing cows and dumping their carcasses at a vacant plot in Jeevan Nagar.The protesters gathered on the Jagraon Bridge around 11.30am and raised slogans against the police for not bringing the culprits to book. Meanwhile, hundreds of vehicles were stuck in a jam in areas surrounding Jagraon Bridge. Alleging police inaction, Punjab Shiv Sena (Bal Thakeray) spokesperson Chandarkant Chadha said that two days had passed since the carcasses had been found in the plot. However, the police did not take any action, apart from lodging an FIR. “Cows are sacred to the Hindus, but someone had deliberately thrown their carcasses in the plot to hurt the community’s sentiments.” “Today’s protest was symbolic, and only held for an hour. However, if the police do not arrest the accused within two days, protests will erupt across Punjab,” he said. Detours and diversions With protesters blocking the Jagraon Bridge, traffic from the Jalandhar Bypass was diverted to Samrala Chowk to avoid traffic jams. Similarly, traffic coming from Sahnewal was also diverted on Gill Road from Vishwakarma Chowk. Some vehicles were also diverted from Lakkar Bridge.Ashish Arora, a resident of Gill road, said “I was en route to pick up my daughter from school, but was stuck in a jam on Jagraon Bridge. I had to request her teacher to keep an eye on her, till I reached school. Protesting is our right, but protestors should not harass people by blocking roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/killing-of-bovines-shiv-sena-blocks-traffic-at-jagraon-bridge-in-ludhiana-101637958588622.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will contest against minister Mohindra, says suspended Patiala mayor Bittu||Sanjiv Sharma Bittu, who was suspended on Thursday from the post of Patiala mayor by the municipal corporation (MC) general house, announced to contest the assembly elections against local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, who, according to him, orchestred the plan to remove him. “To promote his son, Mohindra misused government machinery against me and my supporters. Now, I will contest against him from the Patiala (Rural) assembly seat. I will ensure his defeat as he did all this to remove me as mayor,” said Bittu. He will contest from his party of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s newly floated outfit, Punjab Lok Congress. In 2020, Mohindra had tasked the Patiala Improvement Trust to undertake development works in the Patiala (Rural) segment by taking it out of mayor’s purview. The civic body on Friday made public the general house proceeding of mayor’s suspension signed by senior deputy mayor Yoginder Yogi. With this, the commissioner asked Bittu to return the official vehicle. The orders for vacating the official accommodation will be issued the next working day, it is learnt. Amarinder, who participated in the proceedings, said he will approach the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday against the move. “Whatever happened in the general house was illegal. There is no provision of suspension of mayor in the Municipal Corporation Act. One can only remove a mayor by passing no-confidence motion with two third-majority of the house, which they didn’t have. I have asked my lawyers to prepare the case against this illegality of the state government,” said Amarinder.Of the 30 councillors from his assembly segment, 25 are with him, he said. “Even two councillors from Mohindra’s segment are with me. The government used police to threaten my supporters which I will not tolerate,” he added.Yoginder Yogi held meetings of councillors to speed up development works. “Bittu had stalled development works as he was incompetent. Now, the process has been reinitiated to complete the majority of works before elections,” said Harvinder Nippy, who led a group of councillors against the suspended mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-contest-against-minister-mohindra-says-suspended-patiala-mayor-bittu-101637958172253.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor gives green light to ₹5 hike in bus fare||The mayor and municipal commissioner gave the nod to increase the bus fare by ₹5 and extend the route of city buses to 5km beyond the city limits on Friday.The decision was taken during an all-party meeting held at the mayor’s office near the Rose Garden. Leader of opposition SAD councillor Jaspal Giaspura, BJP councillor Sunita Rani, and LIP councillor Swarandeep Chahal were among those who attended the meeting. The resolution will be tabled before the Ludhiana City Bus Service Limited board of directors for final approval. At present, the contractor charges ₹5 for the first 5km, ₹10 for 10km, ₹15 for 15km and an additional 75 paisa per kilometre beyond it. The rates have been increased by ₹5 under all the categories.The fare has been increased on the condition that the contractor will run all the 83 buses handed over to him, service will be provided on more city routes, and he will withdraw the case filed against the MC seeking fare revision. Service to extend to 7 routes Around 12 buses are operational on two city routes at present. It has been proposed that the service will be extended to at least seven more routes after the fare is increased.In the wake of the rising diesel prices, the contractor had warned the MC that he would surrender the contract, if the fare was not increased. The contractor had said that diesel was being sold at ₹48 per litre when the contract was signed in 2015, but diesel rates have almost doubled, due to which it was difficult to run the buses without increasing the fare.The city bus service, which provided the only public transport facility in the district, has been in deep waters for a long time. Of the 120 buses purchased under the project, 83 have been handed over to the contractor, but only 12 are being plied, while others gather dust at depot. The remaining 37 buses in the civic body’s possession are also not in use.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said nod was given to increase the fare due to the increase in prices of fuel, and after considering the Chandigarh model. Officials have been directed to finalise more routes where the service will be resumed in the coming days.Political implications An MC official, requesting anonymity, said that the Congress party also has vested interest in resolving the issue as the assembly polls are in the offing, and the city bus service is usually a hot-button issue. The Opposition, too, has been taking digs at the Congress party, saying that its leaders had been protesting to improve the city bus service during the SAD-BJP regime in the state, but had themselves failed on the front.In a nutshellMayor Balkar Sandhu said nod was given to increase the fare due to the increase in prices of fuel, and after considering the Chandigarh model. Distance Present fare Hiked fare5km ₹5 ₹1010km ₹10 ₹1515km ₹15 ₹20||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-gives-green-light-to-5-hike-in-bus-fare-101637958108511.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Monument dedicated to BSF jawans unveiled at Attari border||A monument dedicated to the valour of Border Security Force (BSF) jawans was unveiled on Friday at the Attari integrated check post (ICP).The monument, originally an old guard post, was erected by the FICCI Ladies’ Organisation (FLO) and is emerging as a new point of attraction.Bengaluru-based visual artist Narendra Raghunath and Amritsar FLO chairperson Manjot Kaur Dhillon conceptualised designed the project as a special tribute to ‘mahila prehari’ (women solders). On the unveiling ceremony, FLO national president Ujjwala Singhania and BSF DIG Bhupinder Singh were the guests of honour. Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill were also present.Dhillon said, “The FLO Amritsar is enthusiastically celebrating the 75 years of Independence through various initiatives. With the installation, they have paid tributes to the contribution of women in the country’s independence as well as that of BSF jawans.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monument-dedicated-to-bsf-jawans-unveiled-at-attari-border-101637957868731.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sets fresh Covid testing target after Centre flags low sample collection||With the central government flagging low testing in Punjab and some other states, the state health department on Friday set a daily target of collecting at least 60,000 samples in all districts. Punjab’s average testing in November remained around 23,000 tests a day. In the past around one week, the state carried out nearly 17,500 tests a day. The state’s highest daily testing was recorded at 82,000 during the second wave of the pandemic. According to the Centre’s directions, Punjab should be conducting minimum 50,000 tests a day despite low positivity rate, a senior health department official said. The Centre’s fresh concern comes in the wake of reports of third and fourth wave hitting different countries. The Punjab health department claims that the state’s 2,400 tests a day per million is much better than what the World Health Organisation (WHO)’s recommendation of 150 tests per million. The state’s data reveals that 51,674 tests per every lakh population are being conducted. “Since our positivity rate is low, so are the follow-up samples. Moreover, a change has been witnessed in the behaviour of people as well. The threat of Covid has decreased because of sharp decline in cases and people are now staying away from testing,” said state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Of a total of 6,15,351 tests conducted by the health department in November, 753 persons were found positive with a positivity rate of 0.12%. A senior official said both testing and the vaccination were hit badly due to the strike by various employee unions demanding job regularisation ahead of the assembly polls. With the state bracing for the assembly polls early next year, gatherings of people are going to increase with each passing day. “This is why we have directed all the district health administrations to increase their testing to collect 60,000 samples a day. Directions have been issued to the civil surgeons,” the nodal officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sets-fresh-covid-testing-target-after-centre-flags-low-sample-collection-101637957631244.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||ED freezes ₹7-cr bank deposits; I-T raids Fastway cable owner’s properties||A day after raiding properties belonging to Fastway Cable Network owner Gurdeep Singh Jujhar and his contacts, including former Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) chief engineer Surinder Pal Singh alias Pehalwan, in Punjab and Chandigarh, the enforcement directorate (ED) froze the fixed deposits totalling around ₹6.70 crore and five lockers in connection with a money laundering case, the central agency said on Friday. The ED officials said the fixed deposits belong to Gurmesh Singh Gill, who is also one of the accused in the case.Also, income tax officials on Friday raided about a dozen properties linked to Jujhar in Ludhiana, Mohali and Haryana. A team of around 100 income tax officials searched Jujhar’s properties and offices in Ludhiana. The ED had raided properties of Jujhar, Pehalwan and his kin, Tarandeep Sangha and Gurmesh Singh Gill at eight locations in Ludhiana, Chandigarh, Mohali, Banga (SBS Nagar) on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and seized more than ₹10 lakh in cash, some foreign currency, documents and cell phones. An official said the ED launched money laundering investigations in April 2021 in consequence to an FIR and charge sheet filed by the Punjab Vigilance Bureau against Pehalwan and his associates in 2017 for allegedly misusing his official position and favoured some companies in allotting multi-crore projects. It is alleged that the proceeds of illegal income was invested in bogus firms in the name of Pehalwan’s family members and his close associates. The VB had arrested Pehalwan, who is reportedly close to the Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, on June 9, 2017, after it found he allotted works totalling ₹1,200 crore at exorbitant rates to favour some private companies. He was accused of parking his black money in accounts of bogus firms and family members. According to the VB probe, Pehalwan had registered three fake companies in the name of family members and made transactions of hundreds of crores. During his GMADA stint, he allegedly formed a fake construction company, Ek Onkar Builders and Construction Pvt. Ltd., and illegally allotted tenders, thereby amassing ill-gotten money to the tune of ₹400 crore. Pehalwan had joined the Punjab Mandi Board as a junior engineer in 1993. He became a superintending engineer in GMADA in 2014 and officiated as a chief engineer there from 2016. In September 2019, the VB attached 59 properties of the former GMADA chief engineer, amounting to ₹26 crore on the orders of a Mohali court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-freezes-7-cr-bank-deposits-i-t-raids-fastway-cable-owner-s-properties-101637957508362.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University launches int’l project on education, deep learning||Chitkara University is the coordinating institution of the international Edu-reform project that will help mitigate the impact of the fourth industrial revolution in India by promoting pedagogical tools to encourage deep learning among secondary school students. The project has received a grant of ₹9 crore in the framework of the Erasmus+ programme financed by the European Commission. The project will train future and in-service secondary school teachers to foster students’ critical, analytical, and creative skills. With artificial intelligence taking over routine tasks, there will be several opportunities for youngsters with resilient skills in the fast-changing labour market demand. Chitkara University is leading an alliance of 11 institutions that will capitalise the synergies developed between four Indian universities – Chitkara University, The Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, Savitribai Phule Pune University, Shivaji University – assisted by four European universities – University of Latvia, University of Hamburg, JAMK University of Applied Sciences, Italian University Line – and supported by Chitkara International School, the Italian High School Candiani-Bausch, and CXS Solutions Ltd. Chitkara University, Punjab,also organised an edu-reform inaugural event and empowerment camp on November 26 and 27. The event kick-started with a talk by renowned personalities such as Syed Sultan Ahmed, founder and chief Learner-LXL Ideas, festival director IKFF and Chitkara International School director Niyati Chitkara. Chitkara University pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara said, “Empowering students to succeed amid the fourth industrial revolution demands superlative skill-based and hands-on learning of young children through pioneering methods and techniques and Edureform is doing a commendable job by deeming it necessary to frame relevant and constructive curriculum for the future and in-service secondary school teachers, one which focuses on building and refining their soft or professional skills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-launches-int-l-project-on-education-deep-learning-101637957388244.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||HT Readers’ take| Ghaggar choking on a stream of toxic waste||Use treated water for cleaning roads, bus standsWe as a community must explore new technology that can help us control pollution. At the outset, the waste water from hospitals and factories must be properly treated before being released into water bodies. Better still, the treated water must be used for gardening and cleaning of roads, bus stands, railway stations etc. Sensors must be installed in rivers and other water bodies so that these can send alerts in case the pollution levels go beyond permissible limits. The cleaning agents used in homes, such as detergents, should also be environment friendly so as to reduce toxic waste. Deepak Kanojia, ChandigarhHuman activities harming the environmentPollution is one of the most pressing issues of our times. It is sad that humans are themselves engaging in activities harmful for their health. Apart from untreated factory waste and sewage, religious offerings wrapped in plastic and idol immersions also pollute the water bodies. Authorities should work to the stop all kinds of non-biodegradable waste from contaminating the water bodies. Krrish Madaan, AmbalaReduce use of toxic chemicalsWe should cut down on the use of toxic chemicals, which come in the form of daily use items such as cleaning agents, fertilizers and pesticides, which ultimately pollute our water bodies and enter our food chain. Other steps, such as planting more trees to stop erosion into the water bodies and having fauna that control the pH-levels of the water body will also. It is shameful that the rivulets flowing through Chandigarh, a city that boasts of being one of the cleanest and well-planned cities of the country, are polluted. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhLay sewer lines in periphery villagesProper treatment of waste water can go a long way in controlling the Ghaggar river pollution. Villages in the periphery that are still devoid of a proper sewerage system would do well to take corrective measures. We need to make the general public aware of the harmful activities that cause pollution and sensitise them to stop such activities. It is on our generation to act when we can, or the subsequent generations will pay the price for our negligence. We need to get innovative to plug all pollution points , impose penalty on those causing pollution and create a common platform to address the issue.Anju Mohan, PanchkulaTricity authorities must work togetherThe authorities of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali must work together to plug sewage and other waste water from mixing with the water bodies. Sewage and waste water, especially those coming from industries, must be treated and used for gardening, cleaning etc. The centre must take the lead in the cleaning of the Ghaggar river and frame laws to ensure that environmental norms are not violated. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliA wake up call for authorities More than the effluents from industrial units , it is the untreated sewage and open defecation in in villages and colonies located close to the banks of Sukna and N-Choe that make polluted the Ghaggar river near Zirakpu. The authorities concerned must take immediate steps to provide a proper sewerage system with septic tanks to stop the sewage from flowing into these choes and ultimately the Ghaggar river. Chandigarh has lost its reputation of a clean city with its sanitation ranking going lower every year just because authorities appear to be in deep slumber. SC Luthra, ChandigarhStrict ban on dumping waste in streamsOne of the main reasons for pollution in tricity is dumping of waste along the open nullah’s and sewage water getting into nullah. The not only causes pollution but also becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes, which lead to spread of diseases such as dengue and malaria. Residents living in sectors through which the N-choe passes often complain of foul smell. The authorities have not been able to clean the nullah even though this has been an old problem. Authorities should strictly ban the dumping of waste in nullah as a first step. Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliStop flow of untreated sewage into GhaggarStop the discharge of untreated sewage into seasonal rivulets passing through the city. Pollution of Sukhna choe and N-choe, which ultimately merge into the Ghaggar river, must be checked. Sewage must not discharged into the rivulets and the municipal corporation has the responsibility of ensuring this. Residents of colonies living on the banks of Ghaggar and in areas from where the two streams flow, must be sensitised about their responsibility of ensuring that the water bodies are not polluted. For this, they must stop dumping garbage into it and ensure that their localities have a proper sewerage system.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhHuman malice causing environmental degradationEarlier, residents used to treat the water bodies as sacrosanct and refrain from polluting these in any form. But over the years, malice crept in and residents started violating the environment for their own selfish reasons. The n-choe, which passes through Chandigarh and subsequently merges into the Ghaggar, is one of the best examples of how selfish human activities can lead to environmental degradation. The n-choe is polluted even by irresponsible hospital and clinic owners who discharge their biomedical waste into this season stream while authorities turn a blind eye to it. While authorities must bring in strict enforcement measures, such a fines, for checking such as activities, non-governmental organisations and religious bodies can also play a role in sensitising the public. Kundan Lal Sharma, MohaliAct before it’s too latePollution of all forms—air, water and soil—is increasing at a rapid rate. To check this, authorities must take strict action against all activities that lead to pollution. It is important so that our future generations don’t pay the price for our selfish activities. Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurLeave no stone unturned to check pollutionOn matters related to the environment, the administrations of the three cities that form the tricity—Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali – must work as a unit. It is due to the lack of coordination between the authorities of the three cities that pollution of the water bodies goes unchecked. A special body must be constituted to ensure that sewer lines are laid in all colonies in the tricity so that the mixing of sewage into water bodies can be checked. Special budget must also be sanctioned for the laying of sewer lines in all areas devoid of it. Industries near the Ghaggar river must be shifted to some other place and waste water from such units must be properly treated. Strict action must be taken against all units discharging untreated water into the rivulets.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhLackadaisical attitude of authorities to be blamedDuring ancient times, the rivers were considered sacred. No one was allowed to pollute the water resources and there were death penalties for polluting water. Even during the wars, ethics and rules specified that no army would pollute the water with poisonous substances to harm the enemies. Today, we have multiple agencies to check pollution but are still not able to check the menace. This is only because of the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities. In the name of development, all the natural sources of water have been blocked. Agricultural land is also being used for habitation, and that too without the proper sewerage. Industrial units have been allowed to operate without any checks. These in turn pollute the water bodies with toxic and chemical waste, which ultimately prove harmful to human beings and animals. Even if there are protests by locals or villagers against sewage or hazardous waste flowing into rivers or streams, the protests are crushed by authorities. Suresh Verma, ChandigarhBe the change you wish to seeNature nurtures. We are a threat to it. We as responsible citizens need to work in unison to conserve it. Rivulets are choked with waste and we are responsible for this. Treat water, create awareness and support positive actions in this direction. How can we expect any improvement or change when our own bureaucrats are seen using plastic bottles while holding meetings on Swachh Survekshan. Change will not take place on its own, we need to work on that. Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaVerification before nod Discharge of industrial effluents into water bodies lower down BOD (biological oxygen demand) levels. Harmful chemicals and metals in waste water pollute the water bodies, making it unfit for human use. Animals roaming around such water bodies can drink the polluted water and get sick. Untreated polluted water can harm the crops in nearby fields too. It is laxity on the part of the government that is leading to such widespread pollution. While giving approvals to industries, the authorities must first check if it has all the environmental clearances.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliSmall changes for big impactSmall changes in our everyday lives can help us conserve the environment. Household solvents, pesticides, and cleaners might not seem that bad. But, bleach, paint, paint thinner, ammonia, and such chemical can leave a long-term impact on the environment. We should cut down on the use of such items as much as possible. Besides, using phosphate free detergents and dish cleaners is advised. We should also stop using plastic as much as possible. Ishita Nara, via emailNGT warnings fell on deaf earsEven after several warnings from the National Green Tribunal, the pollution of Ghaggar river has gone unchecked. Stricter action must be taken against the states and UTs that allow environmentally harmful activities to continue unabated. Besides, a platform must be created for those willing to work towards conserving the environment. Subhash Chugh, via emailFailure on the part of authoritiesThe failure on the part of authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh to install necessary sewage treatment plants (STP), resulting in the discharge of polluted water into Ghaggar, in appalling. The polluted water is used to farmers for cultivation of crops and washing of vegetables which are consumed by residents, ultimately affecting the food chain and public health. Despite the enactment of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, which makes discharge of untreated effluents into a water body a criminal offence, the states are still struggling to prevent untreated sewage from mixing into water bodies. NGT has been passing repeated orders but to no avail. Stringent action must be taken against authorities who let such harmful activities go unchecked.Sanjay Chopra, Mohali Don’t let rivulets turn into toxic dumping groundsPollution of the tricity rivulets is serious problem, which is an outcome of the ever-growing population. Administration must take proper preventive steps to stop these rivulets from becoming toxic dumping grounds. Due to the increasing pollution, the aquatic flora and fauna have either shifted their habitats or have become extinct. CCTV cameras should be installed along the banks of these rivulets to apprehend those who are dumping garbage into these. Submersion of idols of religious festivals should be prohibited in these water bodies. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhReader of the weekPlug the pollution pointsThe seasonal rivulets passing through Chandigarh carry sewage and industrial waste to the Ghaggar river. The administration must plug the discharge points that release polluted water into the rivulets and also punish those responsible for this. Residents must also be made aware of their responsibility towards the environment. Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhExpert takeCombined effortWe (monitoring committee) had made several recommendations on Ghaggar river pollution through these choes. The three authorities should work in coordination to stop this. Justice Pritam Pal, chairman Monitoring Committee (now disbanded) of National Green TribunalSTPsWe are coming up with new sewage treatment plants and also upgrading the existing ones. Directions have already been given to the dept concerned to make sure that sewage is not discharged into any choe. Isha Kalia, Mohali deputy commissioner PhytomediationAs per the directions of the UT adviser, we have plugged most leakage points in all three choes. In Sukhna choe at Faidan village near Punjab border, the admn is planning a solution through phytomediation. NP Sharma, chief engineer, Chandigarh municipal corporation Health impactThe concentration of heavy metals such as nickel and lead cadmium are quite high in the vegetables grown in sewage water, which can harm the human body, especially lungs, kidney and liver. Waste water which contains urine and faeces lead to water-borne diseases such as cholera, dysentery, typhoid, and diarrhoea.Dr Sonu Goel, professor, School of Public Health, PGIMER Residents’ roleCamps must be held to motivate residents to keep the rivulets clean. Our staff will also visit the area to clean the rivulets. Dharamvir Singh, Panchkula MC commissioner||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-readers-take-ghaggar-choking-on-a-stream-of-toxic-waste-101637957148613.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Environmental group to contest Chandigarh MC elections||The Chandigarh Environmental Group (CEG) on Friday announced the first list of its candidates for the upcoming municipal elections.The list included Sanat Dutt Bhardwaj, an advocate, from Ward No. 13; Yashpal Yadav, a retired army man, from Ward No. 25; Nakesh Kumar Jhingan, a retired labour bureau officer, from Ward No. 32; and Shekhar Modgil, an advocate, from Ward No. 34.A group member, Rahul Mahajan, said: “We want to contest elections from all 35 wards. Our aim is to make people aware about the environmental issues, save the heritage of Chandigarh and emphasise on education.”The Chandigarh MC goes to the polls on December 24. Nominations can be filed from November 27 to December 4. The main contenders are the BJP, Congress, AAP and SAD-BSP alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/environmental-group-to-contest-chandigarh-mc-elections-101637956608290.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh golfer Karandeep shines at Asian Tour event||Chandigarh golfer Karandeep Kochhar climbed to a tied-15th spot after firing a two-under 70 on Day 2 of the Blue Canyon Phuket Asian Tour golf tournament. The Asian Tour, which faced a 20-month-long disruption due to the pandemic, teed off on Thursday with the $1million event being held in Bangkok, Thailand. Karandeep is the highest placed Indian in the fray at the halfway stage and is tied with five other golfers. Two other Indians, Veer Ahlawat and Shiv Kapoor, are in a 12-way tie at the 23rd spot.Meanwhile, home-favourite Sadom Kaewkanjana continued his purple patch on Day 2, delivering yet another solid performance with a round of eight-under 64.The 23-year-old, ranked 328th in the world, marched up the leaderboard, hitting eight birdies and claiming a one-shot clubhouse lead over America’s John Catlin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golfer-karandeep-shines-at-asian-tour-event-101637956488132.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar will turn into a model town: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced that Kharar will be turned into a “model town”, with significant improvements being made to all basic amenities. Channi, who was in Kharar to lay the foundation stone of a slew of projects worth around ₹130 crore, said: “I have been brought up in Kharar and will make it a model town.” In an earlier address at the municipal council office, the chief minister (CM) described his visit as a “homecoming”. “I started my political journey from here itself. I know every nook and corner of the city. The people of Kharar have showered immense love upon me as my voting percentage increased every time during the three times when I got elected from here as municipal councillor and also served as its president,” said Channi, adding that he would remain indebted to the people of the city. He also exhorted the councillors to work diligently and go strict especially on the illegal encroachments. ‘Latest projects will transform Kharar’The new projects include a sewerage treatment plant ( ₹59.06 crore), water treatment plant at Kajauli ( ₹47.06 crore), beautification project for both the Ajj Sarovar ( ₹4.83 crore) and Pandusar Sarovar ( ₹3.14 crore) and a Government Model Senior Secondary School at Badali village ( ₹13.47 crore). Describing the water treatment plant a “game-changer”, the CM said it would ensure clean drinking water for both Morinda and Kharar. He also highlighted the Ajj Sarovar beautification project as a long-standing dream, adding that an additional sum of ₹10 crore would be allotted for sprucing up the infrastructure in the vicinity. A development board has been constituted for it, he said.Channi earmarked ₹5 crore for the infrastructural development of the Government Model Senior Secondary School at Badali, on the condition that the village panchayat adds another three-acre land for the construction of a stadium in addition to the five acres allocated for the school. He said the school would benefit the people of as many as 37 surrounding villages.The CM also announced ₹10 and ₹2.5 crore, respectively, for laying an Astroturf at the Khalsa school and providing water supply at Gharuan village . In his address, Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu said that it is a matter of pride that a representative of the people has risen to become the CM. Lauding him for his pro-people and pro-development approach, Sandhu expressed hope that the region would undergo further development under Channi’s leadership. Protests force CM’s cavalcade to change routeChanni’s cavalcade was forced to take an alternative route due to a road blockade put up by protesters in Kharar. Holding black flags, the unions of PSPCL contractual employees and Punjab State Aides Control Society staffers had blocked the national highway under the flyover from where the cavalcade had to return after visiting Kharar. Police had to resort to mild lathicharge to stop the protesters from marching towards the function venue. No FIR was lodged against the protesters following Channi’s directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharar-will-turn-into-a-model-town-punjab-cm-101637956248300.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC executive engineer among three in dock for misuse of funds||The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Friday issued a chargesheet against two senior officials, including an executive engineer, and initiated legal action against a junior engineer, who is now retired, for alleged misuse of government machinery and funds to recarpet a road on a private land at Faidan Nizampur village near Sector 48. The action has been initiated against executive engineer (roads-1) Ajay Garg, subdivisional engineer (buildings and roads) Jagdeep and junior engineer Amrik (retired) on the orders of MC commissioner Anindita Mitra, after a detailed inquiry report was submitted to her.According to the report, rules framed by the MC for the use of ward development fund, including the guidelines for selection and execution of projects to be undertaken, were flouted. Such works can be done only on land owned by the civic body, while the revenue records revealed that the land on which the road was repaired belonged to a private person.Sources said the request for the release of funds for the work had come from a mayor with the justification that the “land was within the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation.” Commenting on the chargesheet and financial loss to the MC, Mitra said: “Full details and all aspects of the case will come out after the full inquiry proceedings are completed.” According to the procedure, the officials who have been put on chargesheet will be given an opportunity to explain their version of events. After it, the competent authority may decide on minor or major penalties against the officials or drop the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-executive-engineer-among-three-in-dock-for-misuse-of-funds-101637956135077.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn issues advisory as Covid pandemic shows uptick||With an uptick in the pandemic in the past one week, the Chandigarh administration on Friday issued an advisory, asking residents to come forward for vaccination and follow strict Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.There are more than 1.8 lakh people who have failed to turn up for the second dose of Covid-19 pandemic despite the passage of their due date. Greater laxity has also been observed in adherence to the Covid protocol in public places, it was noted.“For the past many days, we were getting about three or four positive cases daily. However, on Thursday, we tested nine cases and it is serious matter. All the citizens are requested to ensure that they have taken both the doses of the vaccination and also to ensure that their friends/relatives/known persons are also covered,” said a UT spokesperson.On Friday, the fresh Covid-19 cases crossed the 20 mark in the tricity, with 26 people testing positive. Chandigarh accounted for eight of these cases. Last Saturday, the tricity had reported just five cases, including two in Chandigarh, but the daily tally has been rising since then. However, no death due to the virus has been reported in Chandigarh and Panchkula this month, though Mohali has recorded three so far.1.8 lakh fail to turn up for 2nd doseDuring the review of Covid-19 vaccination, it was observed that 1.2 lakh people have exceeded the maximum gap of 16 weeks for the second dose while around 60,000 have completed the minimum gap of 12 weeks but have not turned up for the jab. “Each of the person is being separately contacted on the given mobile number and a drive has been undertaken to administer second dose in all the above overdue cases. The UT administration has sufficient number of vaccines and there is no waiting time for getting the vaccination either for first dose or second dose,” said the spokesperson.The spokesperson said that currently the administration is engaged in preparing for an impending third wave. During the peak of second wave, the tricity had recorded 2,612 cases on May 10 while Chandigarh’s daily tally had peaked at 895 a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-issues-advisory-as-covid-pandemic-shows-uptick-101637956133920.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two girls go missing after school, kidnapping case registered||Police are investigating a case involving two minor girls from Jagatpura, Mohali, who went missing after attending school in Chandigarh on Thursday. The father of one of the missing girls, lodged a missing person complaint after the 11-year-old did not return from school. He told police that he last dropped off his daughter at the Government Model School, Sector 48, on Thursday morning, but had not heard from her since. The police, on checking school records and CCTV footage, found that the child had attended school on Thursday. They found additional footage of her leaving school premises after working hours.During preliminary investigation, the police found that a friend of the 11-year-old girl, who is studying in Government School, Sector 47, had also gone missing. The police said both girls reside in the same locality and are suspected to be together. Police teams have been sent out to nearby areas in search of the children. Meanwhile, two separate cases under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the IPC were registered in the Sectors 49 and 31 police stations.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITYCyclist killed in hit-and-runA 40-year-old resident of Sector 21 died after his bicycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle on Thursday night. Identified as Krishan Sunar, he worked as a waiter at a restaurant in Sector 19 and was going back from work when the accident took place. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.80 sanitation workers found absent A day after 82 sanitation workers were issued notices by the Chandigarh municipal corporation for skipping their duty, another 80 workers were found absent on Friday. MC chief Anindita Mitra said: “We will be initiating action against the workers missing from duty. Services of habitual offenders can also be terminated.” Bankers protest over privatisation moveThe tri-city unit of All India Bank Officers Confederation held a protest at Housing Board chowk in Manimajra on Friday evening, over the central government’s move to privatise public sector banks. The protesters shouted slogans, pointing out that the move will weaken the security deposits of banks and exclude the poor from banking. Conclave fetes women leadersWomen’s Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (WICCI) organised its annual conclave for the year 2021 on Friday. The event was aimed at celebrating the leadership potential of women heading major industries. Mohali deputy commissioner Isha Kalia and former Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik were the chief guest and the guest of honour respectively.190 cadets attend NCC camp at CUA total of 190 cadets from various educational institutions in Mohali district underwent training at a National Cadets Corps (NCC) training camp organised by the Chandigarh University wing under the banner of PB 23 Battalion NCC, Rupnagar, and the aegis of NCC Group Headquarters, Patiala. The participating cadets were given a comprehensive course on the military methods, operations and strategies used by the Indian Army during the week-long camp. All participants were awarded with certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-girls-go-missing-after-school-kidnapping-case-registered-101637956132868.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Neha Shoree murder: Father says SIT closed case in ‘tainted manner’||Captain Kailash Shoree, 70, father of drug officer Neha Shoree who was shot dead at her office in Kharar in 2019, has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court alleging that special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police closed the case in a “tainted manner “ without looking into the facts. Balwinder Singh, 49, a Morinda resident, had opened fire at Neha, zonal licensing authority of Food and Drug Administration, before shooting himself on March 29, 2019. Singh, a chemist, was nursing a grudge against Shoree for suspension of his drug licence, according to police. The fresh application has been filed in a November 13, 2019, plea in which Neha’s parents had demanded that police be asked to submit a final report before the court. In January 2020, police had filed a closure report, and subsequently, the CBI and NIA were made party on the request of petitioners. The case could not be taken up due to pandemic since April 6, 2020. Acting on the fresh application on Friday, the HC bench of justice Jaishree Thakur has advanced the hearing from April 26 to January 18, 2022. The court also asked the CBI to file a reply by then. The NIA has filed its reply and expressed inability to take over the case due to workload. While the parents allege Neha was murdered due to her honest working as she had become an irritant to drug cartels, the police probe denied the role of drug smugglers in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/neha-shoree-murder-father-says-sit-closed-case-in-tainted-manner-101637956131796.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Overflowing drains rile up residents in Ward 20||Ward No. 20 comprises Hallomajra, a semi-urban locality that was earlier a part of Ward No. 23, and Behlana village, which came under the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) in 2018 and will elect a councillor for the first time.Residents of both these localities, situated on the outskirts of the city, say they have been neglected by the MC.In Behlana, residents expected better facilities after coming under the MC, but say nothing much has changed so far. Dilapidated streets, blocked stormwater drainage, low water pressure, lack of lighting on streets and electricity wires hanging loosely on the narrow lanes are among the key irritants. Balkar Singh, 44, a Behlana resident, says: “We face water blockage very often due to lack of maintenance of drains. The surroundings used to be cleaned when the village was under a panchayat, but the things have deteriorated now.”Residents also complain of lack of parking spaces and poorly maintained public spaces, and demand a park for recreational activities.“The condition has not improved over the past two years in the village. There is no maintenance of roads and the cleanliness level has gone down,” says Rajinder Kumar, 65, who retired from the Indian Air Force and lives in the locality.The situation is even worse in Hallomajra, where residents face a plethora of civic issues. The most common among them are choked sewerage lines, blocked drains and dirty drinking water. Many also face parking issues.Kuldeep Singh, a 39-year-old resident of Hallomajra, says: “The situation here is extremely poor. Sewerage lines remain blocked and the water supply is mostly dirty. The sewerage lines are old and should be replaced.”Residents also complain of poorly maintained streets, and lack of sanitation in the area, as heaps of garbage can be seen on the roadside.“No one comes to pick the garbage regularly. It ends up choking the sewers, due to which the overflowing wastewater enters our houses during the rainy season,” says Pooja Giri, a resident of Hallomajra.Councillor Bharat Kumar, who represents Hallomajra, says: “I have not received any complaint regarding the dirty water supply. Action is taken immediately whenever we receive any complaint of sewer blockage, which sometimes happens during the rainy season.”Know your wardLocalities: Hallomajra and BehlanaGeneral wardVoters: 15,000Key issuesChoked sewers, blocked drains, dirty water supplyDilapidated roads and dangling electricity wiresParking woes and poor sanitationLocal voicesThe surroundings used to be much cleaner when the village was under a panchayat. All civic amenities need regular maintenance.Balkar Singh, 44, BehlanaThe condition of our village has not improved even after coming under the MC. Roads are not repaired and garbage is not cleared.Rajinder Kumar, 65, BehlanaSewerage lines remain blocked and water being supplied is mostly dirty. The sewerage lines are old and should be replaced. Kuldeep Singh, 39, HallomajraThe situation is extremely poor. Due to choked sewers, the overflowing wastewater enters our houses during the rainy seasonVinod Kumar, 45, Hallomajra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-overflowing-drains-rile-up-residents-in-ward-20-101637956130902.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Road rage: SUV driver beats up elderly pedestrian in Panchkula||In a case of road rage, an elderly man was beaten up mercilessly in Sector 11, Panchkula, after his walking stick reportedly touched and left a scratch on a new SUV.The accused, a 43-year-old insurance surveyor who lives in the same sector, has been arrested. He has been identified as Manoj Kumar. A video shot by another resident shows him hitting the senior citizen – who is visually impaired in one eye – with the latter’s walking stick. The accused repeatedly slapped and hit the victim and abused him while he kept pleading for him to stop.The victim, Ram Sarup Kalra, 69, who also resides in Sector 11, submitted a written complaint to the Haryana director general of police (DGP) on Friday. He stated that on November 22, when he was returning to his house from a nearby park, he spotted a speeding Toyota Innova car approaching him on the narrow street. He reportedly signalled the car to slow down, but it did not. “The car crushed my foot, following which I lost balance and fell on the road. The accused picked up my walking stick and started beating me mercilessly. Other senior citizens from the locality requested him to stop, but he kept on beating and abusing me,” he stated in the complaint.According to Kalra, the accused threatened him with dire consequences if he sees him again. A few senior citizens tried to save him, and one of the neighbours shot the incident. In the video, children can be heard crying and women screaming with fear as the accused hit the old man with sticks.In trauma, victim hid incident from family“I got so scared that I did not tell my family about this incident. However, later they got to know and my son informed the local police about the incident on Thursday,” Kalra stated in the FIR.Kalra’s son Jitender, who runs the family business, said: “Although the incident happened on Monday, my father didn’t share it with us. He has been in a trauma. I received the video on WhatsApp, and realised what had happened.”While Jitender reported the matter to the local police station on Thursday, Kalra submitted a complaint to the DGP on Friday morning and an FIR was registered. Pleading for his safety, the elderly man stated in his complaint: “A senior citizen has been beaten mercilessly on the road and threatened to death with dire consequences in front of many residents, which has duly been videographed. You are requested to protect my life and liberty which is at imminent danger at the behest of the accused, who is a criminal in the society. You are requested to take stern action against the accused after registering the FIR against him (sic).”After arresting the accused, the Panchkula police shared his picture on their Twitter account, promising to take “strictest action” against him.“The accused had bought a new car and at the turn, the elderly man’s stick touched it, leading to a scratch. It was unintentional, but it angered him. He got down and started arguing and beating the old man,” said assistant sub-inspector Desraj, who is the investigating official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-rage-suv-driver-beats-up-elderly-pedestrian-in-panchkula-101637956129530.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh family alleges youth’s illegal detention by police||A Chandigarh family has alleged illegal detention and custodial torture of a 23-year-old youth, who was reportedly rounded up for questioning in connection to an armed robbery in Sector 28. Police have denied the allegations.Hours after the family, which resides in Sector 29, moved a habeas corpus writ petition before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday, the youth returned home.In the petition moved by Sunita Rani, through her counsel advocate Padamkant Dwivedi, she sought the production of her son, Nitin, who she alleged had been picked up by the CIA Staff, Sector 26, in front of his fiancee from the market in Sector 29 around 8pm on November 24. Sunita alleged the uniformed cops had slapped Nitin multiple times and then stashed him in a police vehicle. According to the petition, the male cops also slapped Nitin’s fiancee when she tried to intervene.The petitioner alleged that when she and other family member went to the police station in Sector 26, the cops claimed that Nitin had been detained for some inquiry and he would return home in the morning. “Instead, about 10-12 police officials entered and searched our house the next morning. The police also checked footage of CCTV cameras installed in the house besides our car parked outside and took away its keys,” alleged the mother.After Nitin returned home on Friday afternoon, the family alleged he was limping and had injury marks on his body. “He was being pressurised to confess to the armed robbery,” alleged Sunita while talking over the phone. Police deny, HC seeks affidavitsEarlier, additional public prosecutor Parampreet Singh Paul on Friday submitted before the high court (HC) that “Nitin has never been illegally detained, nor is confined in any of the police stations falling within the jurisdiction of Chandigarh”. The HC has asked station house officers of both Sector 26 and the Industrial Area to submit affidavits in this regard within one week. The court also directed both SHOs to ensure Nitin’s production before the court on November 30.Superintendent of police (SP, operations) Ketan Bansal, said: “We have been questioning a few youths but no one was detained by the operation cell.” Police have been questioning drug addicts, history-sheeters and other suspects in connection to the armed loot near the mango orchard in Sector 28 on November 18 . The person who executed the robbery is suspected to have fired at a home guards volunteer on November 23.Sources in the police, privy to the investigation, claim that half a dozen youths were rounded up by different teams for questioning. All were reportedly let off on Friday after the robbery victim failed to identify them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-family-alleges-youth-s-illegal-detention-by-police-101637956128262.html
27-11-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand village has begun sliding downhill due to construction, seepage, warn geologists||Dar, the first village of Darma valley in Dharchula area of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district is gradually sliding down, endangering the lives of people living in the area, according to a team of geologists who surveyed the area. Pradeep Kumar, district geologist and leader of the team that surveyed the village on orders of the district administration said 35 families living in the village should be immediately shifted to a safer area as all the houses are slowly sliding down the hillside posing a risk to residents of the village. Kumar said the reason for this is the widening work on the road stretch from Sobla to Tidang and underground water sources that are seeping into the landmass beneath the village, weakening it and resulting in slow sliding of the land.“The village is already situated on an old landslide area and has fragile terrain, with weak soil, having no hard rocks beneath,” said Kumar. Savita Devi, gram pradhan of Dar village had written to the administration, complaining that some houses in the village were sliding from their positions and many houses had been damaged and developed big cracks. “On my complaint, the district administration sent a team of geologists to our village. We want families in our area be immediately shifted to safer places as a disaster is just waiting to happen,” said Savita Devi. AK Shukla, sub-divisional magistrate Dharchula said on receiving the complaint of houses sliding in the area, he immediately sent a team of geologists, led by chief district geologist Pradeep Kumar. “We will take further action in the matter after we receive the survey report of the team of geologists,” said Shukla. Kumar said that the landmass of the village is continuously sliding as it is located on the debris of landslides that took place in the surrounding hills nearly 200 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-village-has-begun-sliding-downhill-due-to-construction-seepage-warn-geologists-101637955948196.html
27-11-2021||Other||No justice for dalits, women, farmers and minorities in UP: Priyanka||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of the four members of a dalit family who were murdered, allegedly over a property dispute, in village Mohanganj Gohri, in Phaphamau area of Prayagraj district, on Friday.Priyanka consoled the bereaved family members and assured them that all help possible would be extended to them. Later, interacting with newspersons, Priyanka expressed shock and anger over the murders. She said that women in the family had told her that policemen used to mock them whenever they approached the police to take action against the accused. The police openly sided with them instead of taking action. The accused assaulted the family twice earlier but the police failed to provide security to them, she added.Priyanka said that there is no justice for dalits, women, farmers and minorities in Uttar Pradesh. Justice is only available to those who have connections with ruling parties, industrialists and the powerful.“I have been working in the state for two years and I have again and again witnessed that the Constitution is under threat here. I am with anyone who is denied justice and the media should also not sit silent on the harassment of dalits and repeated attempts to cause damage to the samvidhan in the state,” she added.“The brother of the deceased, Phulchandra, is in the SSB and is posted in Naxal-infested area in Jharkhand. He is fighting for the country’s security but the family was still denied justice. The women in the family are living in terror and are scared that they may face harassment again. It is shocking that a young girl and differently-abled 10-year-old boy were killed in a brutal manner. The family was under constant threat but the officials remained silent despite the grave situation.“The country is celebrating ‘samvidhan diwas’ but it is unfortunate that the constitution is not followed in such incidents while it is clearly written in it that justice should prevail. There is no sense in celebrating samvidhan diwas when dalits are being harassed and oppressed,” Priyanka said. “Repeated harassment of dalits is taking place whether it is in Hathras and Agra or now in Prayagraj. I am coming again and again to meet families of persons who are subjected to harassment. We cannot sit silent on harassment of dalits anywhere and must stand with them,” she added.During the visit, senior Congress leaders including UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu, national secretary Bajirao Khade and former MLA Anugrah Narayan Singh among others accompanied Priyanka Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-justice-for-dalits-women-farmers-and-minorities-in-up-priyanka-101637955888345.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Two booked for extortion threat to Homeland Heights director||The Mataur police have booked two residents of Homeland Heights residential society, Sector 70, for trying to extort the project’s director, Dheeraj Singh Jaswal.A case was registered against Srikrishna and Rajeev Malhotra under Sections 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday.Jaswal alleged that the duo had bought flats at the project but their dues were pending. The complaint said notices were issued to them on behalf of the company, but both were trying to sell the flats to a third party by forging documents. According to the complaint, the duo threatened the director and demanded an extortion amount of ₹1 crore, following which a complaint was lodged with the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.Mataur station house officer (SHO) Naveen Pal Singh said, “Our police party raided the place twice, but they are at large. We are hopeful of arresting them soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-two-booked-for-extortion-threat-to-homeland-heights-director-101637955589367.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Ex-SSP wants framing of charges against accused deferred till Feb||Citing the Punjab and Haryana high court decision to grant exemption to former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini from personal appearance till February 2022, former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma has urged the Faridkot court to defer framing of charges against the accused in the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing case till then. Sharma, who is an accused in the 2015 police firing case, filed an application under Section 223 (persons accused of the same offence committed in the course same transaction) of CrPC for framing of joint charges against all the accused in person, including Saini, to defer the proceedings against him till February 2022. Sharma said that as per law all the accused are to be tried together for the offences charged. “When all the accused are jointly facing trial, in the absence of one of the accused legally charges against remaining accused cannot be framed. Even section 223 of CrPC provides that a person may be charged and tried jointly if such persons committed the offence in the course of the same transaction. Meaning thereby the accused appearing before this court are to be charged and tried jointly. In the absence of Saini, it impermissible to charge and all accused. Furthermore, the trial of one of the accused cannot be split,” he added. Sharma asked the court to adjourn the matter till February 2022 in the interest of justice, adding that “the framing of charges against the accused in person may also be deferred till then”. Additional district and session judge Harbans Singh Lekhi issued a notice to the state to file a reply on December 3. Hearing another application of Sharma, the court directed the special investigation team (SIT) to assist the court by providing details of the status of the investigation in the FIR no. 129 registered at the Bajakahan police station against protestors for attacking cops on October 14, 2015. Last month, Sharma had filed a plea seeking directions to Punjab Police to conduct further investigation with regard to the injuries suffered by the cops as well as damage to the public property during the Behbal Kalan firing incident of October 14, 2015. Two Sikh protesters were killed in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-ex-ssp-wants-framing-of-charges-against-accused-deferred-till-feb-101637955288069.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Electricity (Amendment) Bill: Power staff demands Centre to withdraw contentious Bill||The All-India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) demanded the Central government to withdraw the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill and adopt the Pre Legislative Consultation Policy (PLCP) before introducing the contentious Bill in Parliament, on Friday. Shailendra Dubey, chairman, AIPEF, said in a statement, “We have sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to intervene in the matter and direct authorities to ensure adoption of PLCP policy before introducing the Bill in Parliament.” The winter session of Parliament begins from November 29.AIPEF further said that if the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 was not withdrawn and was unilaterally introduced in Parliament, then 1.5 million power employees and engineers across the country would have no option except to resort to a nationwide movement till the Bill was withdrawn. “The National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees & Engineers (NCCOEEE) meeting scheduled on December 3 in Delhi shall decide the future course of action,” Dubey said.He regretted that the government listed the Bill for introduction in Parliament without adopting any of the points mentioned in its own PCLP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/electricity-amendment-bill-power-staff-demands-centre-to-withdraw-contentious-bill-101637955228310.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal govt to provide free pilgrimage to Kartarpur Sahib||The Delhi government on Friday announced that it will provide free pilgrimage to Sikh and Christian communities to Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni in January.According to a statement by the office of the minister of revenue, Kartarpur Sahib in the Punjab province of Pakistan and Velankanni in Tamil Nadu were added to the “Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana” after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement. The first batch of passengers to Kartarpur Sahib will leave on January 5, 2022, in a deluxe bus from Delhi and the first train for Velankanni will leave on January 7, 2022.“Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot reviewed the preparations for the launch of Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yoajna as well as flagging off the train on the Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi route. The first train to Ayodhya is scheduled to be flagged off on December 3,” according to the statement.The yojana was launched by Kejriwal on July 12, 2019. Under the scheme, the Delhi government offers free travel packages for pilgrimage to senior citizens from the national capital. A total of 1100 residents per assembly constituency can avail of this facility in a year subject to the cap of total 77,000 yatris per year. Since its formal launch, a total of 35,080 beneficiaries have travelled under the scheme, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-govt-to-provide-free-pilgrimage-to-kartarpur-sahib-101637955108109.html
27-11-2021||Other||Ahmadiyya Muslims holds peace symposium in Amritsar||Amritsar Ahmadiyya Muslim Community conducted a peace symposium in Amritsar, on Thursday night, bringing people from different faith and walks of life under one roof to exchange their ideologies toward building a peaceful world. The conference was presided by Shiraz Ahmed, chief secretary of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, in India. He was joined by eminent personalities from the government, religious communities, and all cultural backgrounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahmadiyya-muslims-holds-peace-symposium-in-amritsar-101637954928282.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav says Samajwadis will work to save Constitution||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said “Samajwadis” will work with “Ambedkarvaadis” (Ambedkarites) to save the Constitution and democracy.Akhilesh Yadav was speaking as the chief guest at the Samvidhaan Bachao Virat Mahapanchayat (Save the Constitution rally) at Kanshi Ram Smriti Upvan in Lucknow. He shared the dais with Prakash Ambedkar and Bhimrao Yashwant Rao Ambedkar, the grandsons of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, and Swarna Kaur, a sister of Bahujan Samaj Party founder Kanshi Ram, on the occasion of Constitution Day.Dalit leader and former BJP MP Savitri Bai Phule, the national president of the Kanshi Ram Bahujan Moolniwasi Party, organised the programme.“These people (BJP) might even snatch the right to vote. They are anti-Constitution,” Yadav said. “We don’t know when and what decision these people will take,” Akhilesh Yadav further said.Stating that Dr BR Ambedkar gave the country its Constitution, Akhilesh Yadav also said, “No other country in the world had as many differences on the lines of caste, creed, religion and gender, but the Constitution established equality. The Constitution is the soul of our democracy.”The SP had won the direct elections to the panchayats in UP, but in the indirect elections, the BJP government manipulated and won, he alleged.Akhilesh said the people of UP had opened the door to power at Delhi (central government) for the BJP, and now people have decided to shut that door on BJP in 2022 (UP assembly polls).He also made a veiled reference to the SP’s tie-up with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.“We had made an effort to unite once earlier, and then again in 2019. But it did not work. But now we will fulfil the dream of Lohia and Ambedkar (SP icon Dr Ram Manohar Lohia i and Dalit icon Dr BR Ambedkar),” he said. Swarna Kaur asked people “to choose good leaders who work for the poor and downtrodden”.Bhimrao Yashwant Rao Ambedkar urged people to support Akhilesh and said: “We need to understand who is standing by the Constitution, and who is anti-Constitution. In the next elections, we have to displace those who are anti-Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-says-samajwadis-will-work-to-save-constitution-101637954688004.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhna Choe pollution: Combined Chandigarh, Punjab panel to plug sewage disposal points||To plug all the points from where sewage leaks into the Sukhna Choe, falling on the Punjab-Chandigarh border, a committee, comprising senior officials of the UT and Punjab, has been constituted.The committee comprises principal secretary local government, Punjab, principal secretary urban development, Punjab, and Chandigarh municipal corporation commissioner among others.“A meeting of senior UT and Punjab officials was held here on Friday. The decision to constitute the committee was taken with an aim to work on a joint strategy to solve the problem,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.“In Chandigarh, the leakages come from Faidan colony in Faidan village. The colony is located on a private land. Sewer lines cannot be laid in unauthorised colonies. Also, there are multi-point entry leakages, and the geography is such that one cannot stop the follow by blocking one entry point,” said the UT official.N-Choe flows from Faidan village and then enters the Jagatpura village in Mohali. The leakages are on both sides.Notably, on the Chandigarh-end, on the directions of the UT adviser Dharam Pal, the MC, after an extensive survey, had suggested to employ the technique of phytoremediation (using living plants to clean up water, air etc) at Faidan village.“All the options will be considered by the joint committee. We will have to now see whether the administration will go ahead with the phytoremediation method,” officials said.Dhaka colony near Raipur Khurd is the only remaining outlet from where untreated water is entering the Sukhna Choe.The MC, under a short-term measure, diverted the sewage from the village to a sewage treatment plant in Raipur Khurd after providing a gate at one of the manholes. The work is expected to be completed by year-end.Under a permanent solution, a sewer line will be laid outside the Dhaka colony which will be used for carrying waste water of the colony to the Raipur Khurd STP. The expenditure involved is about ₹1 crore. The work will be completed by December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhna-choe-pollution-combined-chandigarh-punjab-panel-to-plug-sewage-disposal-points-101637954627947.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Jharkhand ATS arrests BSF constable posted in Punjab for supplying arms to naxals||The Jharkhand anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has arrested a Border Security Force (BSF) head constable for allegedly supplying arms and ammunition to naxals, extremists and organised gangs across the country.The arrested BSF man has been identified as Kartik Behra. He is alleged to be the kingpin of the syndicate supplying arms and ammunition to naxals, maoists, organised gangs across the country.“He was posted at BSF 116 Battalion at Ferozepur, Punjab, at the time of his arrest. He was in-charge of the armoury of the battalion. A total of 8,304 cartridges were recovered from him. Besides this, three arrests were made in Maharashtra in connection with the case. 14 pistols, 21 magazines and mobile phones were recovered by the ATS,” said Prashant Anand, SP, ATS, to the media. During the course of the investigation, Behera disclosed the location from where the syndicate used to procure arms and ammunition further given to extremist forces. According to the ATS, these arms were procured from bordering areas of the Burahanapur district of Madhya Pradesh and the Buldhana district of Maharashtra.A few days ago, Jharkhand ATS had arrested a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan Avinash Kumar along with two others accused of their involvement in supplying arms and ammunition to naxals. The investigation led to another BSF jawan Arun Kumar Singh, who has retired from the force. Singh gave the ATS details about Behra.“Singh had taken voluntary retirement from force and had come in contact with people associated with the syndicate after that. He was serving in Ferozepur where Kartik Behra was also serving,” added Prashant Anand. So far, nine persons of the syndicate have been arrested. Raids were conducted in Maharashtra, Bihar, Ferozepur and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jharkhand-ats-arrests-bsf-constable-posted-in-punjab-for-supplying-arms-to-naxals-101637954568779.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Election duty death: GO restricting time period to 30 days challenged, HC seeks reply from govt||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has directed the state government to file a reply on a petition challenging its order regarding filing of Covid-19 compensation claims by government employees. The government order (GO) restricts the time period to claim compensation for government employees, who died due to Covid-19 after being allotted election duty, to 30 days. A single judge bench of justice Manish Mathur on November 24, said: “It is submitted that paragraph 12 of the government order dated 01.06.2012 however has restricted this time period to merely 30 days for such government employees who were allotted work in election duty.“And provides that compensation would be granted only in case death has occurred within 30 days of the person being found Covid positive. It is submitted that such fixation of time period is completely arbitrary and unreasonable and is also in the teeth of directions issued by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” added the court. “The high court has taken serious note of the issue. Accepting the petition, the court has granted three weeks- time to the state government to file a counter affidavit,” said advocate Sharad Pathak, who represented the petitioner in court. Dileep Kumar Yadav, a primary teacher in Ambedkar Nagar district, died on the 31st day due to Covid-19 after being allotted election duty. Kushlawati, wife of the deceased, was denied compensation, as the GO had restricted the time period to 30 days to be eligible for compensation. Govt stats say...According to the state government, 2,128 government employees died during election duty of which 2,097 succumbed to Covid-19 while 31 others died of other causes.In Uttar Pradesh, the Panchayati Raj elections were held in four phases this year from April 15 to 29. The counting of votes was carried out on May 2.Almost 95% of government employees assigned election duty and who died due to Covid-19 were teachers. The government initially made a provision for ₹30 lakh ex gratia but this covered only the day the employee was on election duty. By this criterion, only 74 personnel died (40 due to Covid-19 and 34 for other reasons) during election duty.The government later changed the definition of election duty to accommodate more personnel by increasing the duty period to 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/election-duty-death-go-restricting-time-period-to-30-days-challenged-hc-seeks-reply-from-govt-101637954449511.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Mann slams successive govt for recruiting non-Punjabis||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Friday termed the recruitment of non-Punjabis by the Congress and the Akali-BJP government for the security of the chief minister as a “betrayal” with Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiyat. In a statement, Mann appealed to the people of Punjab to give a stern response to the distrust shown by the two parties and their leaders towards in the forthcoming Punjab Assembly elections. “SAD’s Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Badal as well as Congress’ Capt Amarinder Singh had no faith in the people of Punjab and gave jobs to 209 people from other states in the ‘Special Protection Unit’ set up for their security while only 19 youth of Punjab got the job,” he alleged. He asked present chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa what decision their government had taken on this. “Will a case be registered against them?” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mann-slams-successive-govt-for-recruiting-nonpunjabis-101637954387885.html
27-11-2021||Other||Lucknow: Don’t ignore, overactive bladder may impact your life, says doctor||LUCKNOW: Despite available treatment, many people suffer in personal and social life due to Over Active Bladder (OAB) that causes a frequent and sudden urge to urinate. “Both men and women may suffer with OAB and it is an under-reported problem in the country. Therefore, exact number of cases is not known but studies mention that around 14% men suffer from OAB whereas around 12% women have some type of urinary incontinence issue,” said Prof Diwakar Dalela, senior faculty, department of urology at King George’s Medical University (KGMU). According to him, when suffering with OAB one feels the need to pass urine many times during the day and night, and may also experience unintentional loss of urine. OAB is embarrassing and is potentially debilitating. “It’s a condition that can be treated, but most patients do not consult doctors. If left untreated, OAB can negatively impact life by interfering in daily activities such as work, social activities, exercise, and sleep. Women who have gone through menopause and men who have had prostate problems are more likely to get OAB,” said Prof Dalela. “Management of OAB involves an escalatory or stepping up the ladder approach. The first step is lifestyle changes, and next are oral medicines, progressing further to injections into the bladder wall, electrical stimulation of bladder-related nerves, and finally but very rarely, surgery,” he said. Avoiding bladder irritants such as coffee, tea, carbonated beverages and spicy foods would also yield good results, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-don-t-ignore-overactive-bladder-may-impact-your-life-says-doctor-101637954267794.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 41 fresh Covid cases, 2 deaths||Punjab on Thursday reported 41 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,173, according to a medical bulletin. With two Covid-related fatalities, one each in Faridkot and Jalandhar districts, the death toll reached 16,593 in the state, it said. The state’s positivity rate was 0.18% and the number of active cases in the state rose to 335, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 10 were reported in Mohali, five in Pathankot and four in Patiala. With 18 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586,245, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-41-fresh-covid-cases-2-deaths-101637954207941.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A living landmark in Lambi Walli||The empty haveli has lost its grandeur. A part of its wall collapsed some months ago during a night of lightning, here in Lambi Walli Gali, a few steps away from the long-closed Excelsior Cinema in Chawri Bazar. Like many Walled City galis and kuchas, the locality is punctuated with remnants of old edifices, but most structures betray a more recent appearance. Many of these modern-day multi-storeys are residential, each floor boasting a small balcony.In this crowd of new and newer, at least one long-time sight is prospering — that of coppersmith Sonu. In his mid-30s, he has been working as a “kalai wale” for 20 years. “I bring shine to copper or brass utensils by coating them with a layer of tin.” Sonu sits on the pavement, beside the aforementioned haveli. His establishment is five or six steps away from the spot where the wall collapsed. The rubble is still piled up on the street, with pedestrians going past it as if it were just another novelty to adjust to. “Walid Saheb was a kalai wale, too, he would sit on this same spot,” Sonu says of his father, Muhammed Saleem, who lies buried in the Dilli Gate graveyard. Sonu’s grandfather, Nawab Ali, was a weaver and worked in a “mill” in Bara Hindu Rao.The coppersmith’s stall is modest, and consists of a set of basic tools (such as punkha machine, bhatti, sandasi, pan, tin), and a few stacks of cotton wool. But one thing is standing out immodestly in its exquisite beauty — a copper bucket, embossed with flowers. “It’s a customer’s balti.” Sonu looks unimpressed with the object. “It’s part of a would-be bride’s dowry.”During the course of this brief chat, Sonu reveals that his name was given to him by his customers “because my real name, Ashqeen Ansari, can be difficult to pronounce”.It’s nearly evening. Two of Sonu’s three daughters run up to his stall; his house is just around the corner. Afifa is too shy to speak in the presence of a stranger, but Sumaiya, a 7th standard student, graciously agrees to pose with her father for a portrait. Sonu now starts to work on the sculpted bucket. The stall is open daily from 11am to 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-living-landmark-in-lambi-walli-101637953898139.html
27-11-2021||Other||Punjab minister Verka launches projects at Patiala govt hospital; visit curtailed due to protest||Patiala Punjab minister for medical education and research Raj Kumar Verka inaugurated multiple projects at Government Rajindra Hospital on Friday, but he had to curtail his visit due to the ongoing protest from health workers, appointed during the Covid-19 pandemic last year. Demanding the regularisation of their services, protesters gathered at the event site and raised slogans against the Punjab minister. Addressing protesters, Verka said the file related to regularisation of these health workers has been cleared and is with the finance department for approval. “Their grievances will be resolved soon,” said Verka, adding that the state government was committed to provide all highly equipped and updated medical facilities to the people visiting the Rajindra Hospital. The projects he inaugurated were a lab in the super-speciality unit worth ₹2.7 crore, a multi-storey parking lot worth ₹12.22 crore. The other projects are new buildings for ₹30 crore and ₹5.46 crore, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-minister-verka-launches-projects-at-patiala-govt-hospital-visit-curtailed-due-to-protest-101637953907777.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Nirmala Sitharaman asks BJP women workers to propagate achievements of govt||Lucknow: Senior BJP leader and Union finance and corporate affairs minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday exhorted women party workers here to reach out to women and tell them about the work the government had done for them. She said that there was a strong network of around 50,000 women workers in UP and stressed the need for using the same network to create a buzz around about the Central and the state government’s achievements. Sitharaman was addressing a group of around 50 selected women leaders and workers at the BJP headquarters after inaugurating the Income Tax department’s new building here. “She boosted the morale of women workers by telling them that they had a lot of potential to work and help the party win the coming assembly polls,” senior BJP leader Vikajay Bahadur Pathak said. Sitharaman explained women workers about the schemes like Mudra Yojana, Ujjawala Yojana andthe work done in the field of sanitation by providing individual household toilets to all families, the schemes that party’s women workers must highlight to state’s women. Amethi MP and Union minister Smriti Iranai will be addressing the party’s women workers in a function scheduled to be held as a part of BJP’s ongoing ‘Kamal Shakti’ campaign here on Saturday, Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-nirmala-sitharaman-asks-bjp-women-workers-to-propagate-achievements-of-govt-101637953613292.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress workers protest fuel price rise in Karnal||The Congress workers took out a protest march against rising fuel and cooking gas prices on Friday.The protesters alleged that due to regular hikes imposed in the past couple of years by the BJP government, the prices of fuel and LPG have doubled.The sloganeering agitators also burnt effigies of the government and leaders of the ruling party.The agitation was led by local Congress leader Tarlochan Singh and they reached the mini-secretariat and handed over a memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the district administration, demanding immediate relief for people.People are suffering due to rising prices of essential commodities, especially fuel and LPG, Tarlochan Singh said, adding that the Modi government has failed to control the inflation and the prices making life of the common man miserable.On the first anniversary of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the Congress workers also demanded the government to enact a law to guarantee the minimum support price of agriculture produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-workers-protest-fuel-price-rise-in-karnal-101637953608876.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||Nirmala Sitharaman says advance instalment of tax devolution to states will remove hindrances in infra development||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the Central government had released two instalments of tax devolution to states, including an advance instalment, to ensure that no hindrances were caused in the way of infrastructure development.Nirmala Sitharaman also said the number of income tax returns filed in the east UP region (spread over 44 districts of Uttar Part and a part of the Kumaon area of Uttarakhand) went up nearly six fold in about five years, from 3.80 lakh in 2016 to 21.83 lakh on March 31, 2021. She quoted data for the east UP region of the income tax department in this connection.The Union finance minister said this was an indication of increasing economic activity and the money thus collected was provided for development work being carried out in the stateShe was addressing a gathering after inaugurating, along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the income tax department’s new building Pratyaksha Kar Bhawan (Direct Tax Building) in Lucknow.About tax devolution to the states, Nirmala Sitharaman said, “Whatever the states used to get on the 20th of every month through devolution, the Union government has released double the amount (two instalments). The amount for instalment to be paid in March (2022) has been paid in advance to the states so that no hindrance is caused to the expenditure on infrastructure.”“We have front-rolled whatever was to be paid in March 2022,” Nirmala Sitharaman said, referring to the Union government’s move to release two instalments of tax devolution of ₹95,082 crore to the states a few days ago.Commenting on her observations about the release of funds for infrastructure development, Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics at Lucknow University, said, “The Centre’s advance payment of UP’s share in taxes will complement the state government’s efforts to give a push to developmental activities, especially infrastructure projects, ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in the state.”Nirmala Sitharaman said the land for the new building of the income tax department was bought in 2002 but the construction work started in 2017.Without naming them, Nirmala Sitharaman referred to the delay to target the previous regimes in the state and said the new building has been constructed in just three yearsFor 15 years before that, no steps were taken to get the building constructed and rent was being paid for running the department’s office elsewhere, she said.Yogi Adityanath, who also addressed the audience, used the occasion to point out how investment of more than ₹3 lakh crore had flown in after the state organised the Uttar Pradesh Investors’ Summit in February 2018. He also referred to an improvement in the law and order situation in the state and the Centre sanctioning the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor.Listing the development projects being implemented in the state, he said next month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway project for which over 86% land has been acquired. Nirmala Sitharaman lauded the Yogi Adityanath government’s efforts to build health infrastructure, put up additional Covid-19 beds and laboratories, provide oxygen and set up new medical colleges. She said facilities had been provided to the people even during the second wave of Covid-19.“There was no shortage even during the second wave in Uttar Pradesh. This was available to the people,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nirmala-sitharaman-says-advance-instalment-of-tax-devolution-to-states-will-remove-hindrances-in-infra-development-101637953368911.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ battle is not over: Rajewal at Tikri mahapanchayat||Thousands of farmers on Friday participated in a mahapanchayat at Tikri border on completion of one year of their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. The farmers distributed sweets and danced on drum beats on the first anniversary of the farm agitation.Addressing the gathering, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “Farmers have won half the battle as the Union cabinet has given nod to repeal three farm laws but the battle is not over.”“We will hold a meeting of SKM leaders on Saturday at Singhu border to decide the future course of action. We need to be alert as this government can bring these laws from other routes. Our other demands including a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP), amendment in the Electricity Act, revocation of the Air Pollution Bill, compensation to the deceased farmers’ families, and one job to their next kin are yet to be accepted,” Rajewal said.“Besides, demands of cancelling FIRs registered against farmers and action against Union minister Ajay Mishra are not met. We will continue to stay put at the Delhi border until our pending demands are not accepted,” he added.He said 500 farmers will take part in a tractor march from Tikri and Ghazipur border to the Parliament starting from November 29, per day.BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, who was organiser of the mahapanchayat, said they cannot forget the contribution of over 700 farmers who sacrificed their lives during the agitation.“The farmers have won the battle against the Union government by staying at Delhi borders in chilling winter conditions and hot summer. There will be ‘ghar wapsi’ after the government accepts all our demands,” he added.8 farmers who stayed put at Delhi borders awardedAs many as eight farmers, who did not visit their house since November 26 last year, were awarded and applauded for their dedication towards the farm stir.Manpreet Singh, a farmer from Punjab, said he will go back home after the government accepts all pending demands.“My family members asked me to come back home on multiple occasions but I refused. Then, they come to meet me. My wife and children have been taking care of my fields. This year long period was difficult but we sustained here. Now, we have new neighbours who are staying in tents and the Tikri border has become our new home,” he added.Security beefed upThe Delhi Police have beefed up security arrangements at Tikri border and the Haryana Police also remained on high alert as the farmers’ numbers swelled.The farmers have assigned duties to their volunteers to ensure peace and keep a vigil on miscreants.Agitation still on for political reasons: Vij
27-11-2021||Gurugram||HSVP directed to expedite construction of country club in Gurugram||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran has been directed to expedite the construction of a proposed country club in Sector 56, which has been delayed by several years. The directions were issued by AK Singh, principal secretary, town and country planning department (DTCP), during a meeting last week. According to details of the meeting shared by the department, Singh also directed that the name of the country club should be changed to ‘Aravalli Club’. The principal secretary of DTCP is also the administrative secretary of the HSVP.In 2014, the state government had announced the construction of country club for residents in Sector 56 and the HSVP had given the contract to a private firm for ₹11.88 crore. The deadline to complete the project was 15 months, which was extended repeatedly thereafter. The project remained incomplete despite inflated payment to the tune of ₹19.60 crore, officials said.Singh, during a recent visit to the site, also pointed out that the progress was slow. “It was directed that the entry gates of the club be completed soon and the park adjoining it should also to be developed,” said a senior HSVP official, seeking anonymity. During the meeting, Singh also directed that the GTPL Colony in Sector 34 developed by HSVP should be maintained in a better way. Singh also directed the officials to prepare a plan for the remaining vacant land in the colony, and discuss the proposal within a month. The GTPL Colony has been developed as a commercial colony, and it is maintained by HSVP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-directed-to-expedite-construction-of-country-club-in-gurugram-101637953187776.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||National Milk Day celebrated at ICAR-NDRI, Karnal||The ICAR-NDRI, Karnal on Friday celebrated the birth centenary of the father of white revolution and the ‘Milk Man of India’ Dr Verghese Kurien by conducting a webinar on ‘sustainable development in dairy sector-clean milk production’.During the webinar, Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, secretary of the department of agricultural research and education (DARE) and the director general of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research stressed on the importance of the theme of the webinar and launched a mobile app ‘MILKSAFECON’ for clean milk production.The speakers said the responsibility of the scientists should be oriented towards developing an action plan on what strategies are required to be taken up for increasing the share of India in the international milk market and more national awareness campaigns need to be organised on a continuous basis.In his address, Dr Mohapatra appreciated the 11.5 times increase in milk production in India since 1951 to 198 MT, though low productivity of dairy animals still remains an important concern.The webinar was attended by nearly 1,500 participants as panellists, on YouTube, Facebook and groups of farmers in KVKs and dairy entrepreneurs.Dr MS Chauhan, director and vice-chancellor of NDRI, Karnal stressed on the importance of clean milk products and how NDRI has been engaged in developing technologies to detect adulteration in milk.The NDRI also carried out tests of the milk samples to make people aware of adulteration in the milk.Of the 61 samples analysed, 21% were found deficient in fat and SNF. But no adulteration was detected in the tested samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-milk-day-celebrated-at-icar-ndri-karnal-101637953069437.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana speaker wants Panchkula to be added to Chandigarh railway station’s name||Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta wants the name of Chandigarh Railway Station to be changed to Panchkula and Chandigarh Railway Station. Gupta, who also represents Panchkula in the state assembly, submitted a proposal regarding this to Passenger Services Committee (PSC) chairman Ramesh Chandra Ratn, who visited the railway station for an inspection on Friday.The PSC is a statutory body under Railway Board (Ministry of Railways) and is tasked with resolving grievances of passengers for the ease of railway transport in India.“Though there is a limited availability of land towards the Chandigarh side, more development has taken place there. There are around 4,000 acres of land available for expansion towards Panchkula side, and since both cities share the same railway station, it should be named after both,” said Gupta, adding that Ratn has assured him that the proposal will be taken up at the PSC meeting on November 29.Sub-inspector Vilayati Saini, who is the in-charge of the government railway police station here, requested the visiting team to set up a beat box towards the Panchkula side “to make people feel safe”. He claimed that many passengers have fallen prey to snatchers after exiting the railway station on the Panchkula side.World-class makeover delayed furtherMeanwhile, the railway station’s wait to get a “world-class makeover” is likely to get prolonged. The project, which was delayed till at least December 2022 because of Covid-19, is expected to face further delays. “Earlier IRSDC was looking after the railway station, but now it is directly under the ministry. At the November 29 meeting, we will discuss how to go about this. The positive thing here is that work has started and tendering will be started soon too,” said Ratn. However, he didn’t share any time frame.Other pending works were also discussed. It was announced that a railway underpass will be built at Baltana, Zirakpur, within six months to ease traffic congestion. ‘Start Shatabdi Express from Mohali’Ratn also visited the Mohali railway station, where the local BJP unit urged him to get Shatabdi Express’ route extended to Mohali.The BJP team led by Sanjeev Vashisht also requested that the Amritsar-Lalkuan Express be extended to Haldwani in Uttarakhand as many businessmen go there for work from Mohali, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, and other nearby places. Ratn also announced a reward of ₹10,000 for the Chandigarh railway station and ₹5,000 for the Mohali station for their cleanliness and housekeeping services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-speaker-wants-panchkula-to-be-added-to-chandigarh-railway-station-s-name-101637953067749.html
27-11-2021||Noida||2 men open fire during vehicle checking drive in G Noida, cop injured; search on||Police arrested a man for allegedly shooting at a sub-inspector during a vehicle-checking drive in Greater Noida’s Dankaur on Friday afternoon. Sikandar (goes by first name) -- an accomplice of the arrested suspect, identified as Vipin Nagar, 25 -- is still on the run, police said.Ankur Chaudhury (28), in-charge of Bilaspur police check post in Gautam Budh Nagar, received a bullet injury in his left leg after the two bike-borne suspects opened fire when they were stopped during a routine vehicle-checking drive near a bank in the Bilaspur market. Chaudhury was admitted to a nearby private hospital around 3:30pm on Friday, police said.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that a police team headed by Chaudhury was conducting a routine drive in that area. “When they signalled the two suspects to stop their motorcycle for checking, they tried to escape. When the officers chased them, the suspect riding pillion opened fire and the sub-inspector got injured. The police officers admitted Chaudhury to Yatharth Hospital in Greater Noida, where he is undergoing treatment.”A video of the incident was circulated on social media, in which some police personnel could be seen assisting the injured sub-inspector board a car to reach the hospital.Amit Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said “During a search operation on Friday, police found Nagar and was going to arrest him, when he again opened fire at the police personnel. Police returned the fire, during which Nagar was shot in the leg and later arrested,” he said.Dr Sunil Kumar, medical superintendent, Yatharth Hospital in Greater Noida, said Chaudhury received an injury below his left knee. “He has got a fracture due to the injury, and a surgery will be performed on him shortly... He is out of danger,” Kumar said.A team of forensic experts have collected evidence from the crime spot, and teams from neighbouring police stations have launched a joint search to nab the other suspect. Brij Nandan Jha, assistant commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said, “We are scanning CCTV footage from near the spot. We will arrest the other suspect soon.”“We will register a case against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 307 (attempt to murder) at the Dankaur police station,” said a police officer on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-men-open-fire-during-vehicle-checking-drive-in-g-noida-cop-injured-search-on-101637952948998.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Noida woman posts video, says ‘fled home, became sadhvi after assault by family’||A 30-year-old woman, who went missing from Noida’s Chhalera village on October 30 this year, announced on a social media platform on Thursday that “she had fled her house following harassment by her family members, and became a sadhvi”.The woman, in a saffron dress, posted a video on Twitter to issue her statement.The 30-year-old said that she had left home on her own will. “My mother hit me and abused me on October 15... and my family members did not support me in my studies and job. They also stopped me from meeting my friends. They followed me everywhere I used to go. Due to these reasons, I had decided to leave my house... and then I became a sadhvi,” she said in her statement.Mohar Singh Tomar, senior sub-inspector, Sector 39 police station, said that the woman’s brother filed a missing complaint on October 31. “We had launched a search, but could not trace her. The woman’s recent video shows that she had left home on her own will. It is not clear through the video where or which city she is at present,” Tomar said.Police will interrogate the family members of the woman to confirm reasons behind her escape, Tomar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-posts-video-says-fled-home-became-sadhvi-after-assault-by-family-101637952947522.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Man jailed, fined ₹2,000 for disobeying court orders in matrimonial dispute||Taking exception to an attempt “to act over smart”, the Delhi high court on Thursday sentenced a man to simple imprisonment for three months and also fined him of ₹2,000 for disobeying repeated directions of the court in a matrimonial dispute. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that the man has concealed his true income and expenditure, and said that his actions or omissions in choosing to show complete disregard to its orders, if permitted, would “lead to anarchy”.The order was passed on a contempt petition filed by the man’s wife in connection with an order in September directing him to pay maintenance and also disclose his income. The family court had earlier directed that the wife be granted a monthly maintenance of ₹35,000 and ordered clearance of arrears through instalments in six months. The high court had directed the man to comply with the interim maintenance order passed by the family court.In its latest order, the court said that the rule of law would become a casualty and orders of the court would be taken lightly and breached at will by individuals. “We have considered the aspect that mere imposition of a fine of ₹2,000 would not meet the ends of justice, and that a sentence of imprisonment is necessary considering the fact that the arrears owed by him are far in excess of the fine imposed, and the fact that he has deliberately, wilfully, intentionally and defiantly disobeyed the directions issued to him by the family court and by this court despite grant of opportunities,” the court directed.It, however, said that it would consider recalling the punishment provided that the man complies with the aforesaid direction within a period of two weeks and exhibits his apology by complying with the orders.In its order, the court noted that the man had suppressed his true income only with a view to evade orders passed by the family court and the high court requiring him to pay maintenance to his wife.“The situation is that the respondent has stubbornly and obstinately refused to comply with the said orders on completely false premise of his financial inability. Despite our repeated orders, he has failed to make a clean breast of all his accounts, incomes and expenditures,” the court said.It said that the man has shown no remorse or regret for non-compliance of the orders.“If there is wilful disobedience to any judgment, decree direction, order writ or other process of a court, or wilful breach of undertaking given to the court, the contempt court shall take note of such violation, that needs to be punished. The willful disobedience by the contemnor undermines the dignity and authority of the Courts and outrages the majesty of law.”The court said that the judiciary as an institution has garnered faith of the common masses as a trusted institution only because judicial orders are enforced, in an appropriate case, even at the pain of contempt. The faith posed by the people in the judiciary has to be protected in the interest of society, and also to meet the ends of justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-jailed-fined-2-000-for-disobeying-court-orders-in-matrimonial-dispute-101637952888929.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s east civic body commissioner proposes 2-3% property tax hike||While presenting budgetary proposals worth ₹4,735 crore for financial year 2022-23, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) commissioner Vikas Anand has proposed a 2-3% hike in property tax on residential properties, apart from a bouquet of tax hikes and a couple of new taxes thrown in — all for improving the financial health of the cash strapped civic body.Anand also pushed to hike the theatre tax and the fee on sanctioning new building plans, apart from an additional 5% education cess, and two new discretionary taxes— the betterment tax and professional tax.With the Delhi municipal elections slated to be held early next year, the latest proposals have a very slim chance of being cleared by the BJP-led house, civic body sources said. In the past, too, no new tax hike was approved by the house.
27-11-2021||Gurugram||Neighbour arrested for raping two-year-old in Gurugram||A two-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a man in her neighbourhood in Chakkarpur on Thursday. The suspect was arrested on Friday, police said. According to police, the suspect, who is in his early twenties, lured the girl with a chocolate when she was playing near her house with other children. He then took her to his room and raped her, police said. In her complaint registered at Sector 29 police station, the victim’s mother said that her daughter returned home and was crying with pain. “She could not explain what had happened, but she was bleeding,” she said. The mother checked with other children playing outside and they told her that the suspect had taken the girl to his room, police said. Aman Singh, station house officer of Sector 29 police station, said that the suspect raped the victim and fled his room after she started crying. “But the suspect was arrested within an hour from the area. He has confessed to the crime, and will be produced in court on Saturday,” Singh said. A case was registered at Sector 29 police station on Thursday night under Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/neighbour-arrested-for-raping-two-year-old-in-gurugram-101637952828869.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar inaugurates 4 development projects worth ₹40 cr in Rewari||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday addressed his first rally in Rewari’s Bawal after the Union cabinet decided to repeal three farm laws during the upcoming Parliament session.Khattar said the foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will be laid in Rewari district.“All formalities related to construction of AIIMS have been completed. We have also decided to fulfil the pending demand to establish a labour court in Rewari,” the CM added.He also inaugurated four development projects worth about ₹40 crore and laid the foundation stone for 14 projects to be completed at an estimated cost of ₹112 crore.“Our democracy, governance and the federal structure works only because of the Constitution. During the last seven years, development works worth about ₹2,250 crore have been done in the Bawal assembly constituency,” Khattar said.“At the same time, about ₹7,000 crore was spent on development projects in Rewari district during this period. To bring in developmental reforms in southern Haryana, including Rewari, the present government has worked on the mantra of ‘Haryana Ek, Haryanvi Ek’,” the CM added.‘Ensure transparency in recruitments’Addressing the Pragati rally at Bawal in Rewari, Khattar said his government has ensured transparency in government jobs and recruitments are done on merit basis.“During the tenure of the previous governments, interests of the youth were being neglected. The court had to intervene with regard to recruitments during the previous governments and many recruitments were cancelled. However, not a single recruitment was cancelled during our government,” he said.“Whenever there was a complaint of a paper leak, the state government had cancelled examinations. During the tenure of the present government, 48 people have been arrested for violating the sanctity of recruitments. Our vision is clear regarding making recruitments on merit, violators will not be spared at any cost,” the CM added.Khattar invites PM Modi to Gita Mahotsav
27-11-2021||Noida||Foundation stone laid, now work to begin on Noida airport’s terminals & runways||The Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) is focusing on “early construction works” of the upcoming airport in Jewar, to ensure that the project is completed within the deadline of September 29, 2024, officials said on Friday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the airport project in Jewar on Thursday.NIAL gave permission to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) on July 31 to carry out “early construction works” which involves work on the boundary wall, levelling of soil, and removing unwanted trees or structures from the site among others. Subsequently, the YIAPL started all such works at the site in full swing.NIAL has expedited the process to enable work on main construction of the passenger terminal, runways and other facilities.“YIAPL has submitted the developmental plan of the main project to us. The NIAL board concerned will now give its approval, paving way for the construction work to begin at the terminal and runways. NIAL has already examined the developmental work at the site,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of NIAL.NIAL approved the master plan for the airport -- which defines the outline of work on the project -- on August 17 this year.YIAPL has also expedited the work on hiring a company, which will carry out the work on terminal, runways and other passenger services. “YIAPL has already roped in an agency to carry out early construction works at the site. It will hire an engineering procurement contractor soon, which will be engaged in developmental work of the main project with a budget of ₹5,730 crores,” said Shailendra Bhatia, NIAL’s nodal officer. According to NIAL officials, the process for hiring the engineering procurement contractor is underway.On November 9 this year, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) gave a nod to commence work at the airport site. “We have almost completed assessing the developmental plan submitted by the YIAPL, so that the board can issue permission for the same formally... YIAPL will rope in an agency for the work by the time the developmental plan is approved,” Bhatia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/foundation-stone-laid-now-work-to-begin-on-noida-airport-s-terminals-runways-101637952767723.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||DDMA to meet on Monday to act against Covid variant: CM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he has called a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday to take steps that need to be taken against the new coronavirus variant detected in South Africa.“In view of the threat from new COVID variant from African countries, we have requested experts to make a presentation to DDMA on Mon and suggest what steps we shud take. We will take all steps necessary to protect u and ur family,” the chief minister tweeted. The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday classified it as a “variant of concern”, and renamed it Omicron. The Union health ministry on Thursday directed all states and union territories to strictly screen and test international travellers from Botswana, South Africa, and Hong Kong where infections with the new variant were detected. The states were also asked to send the samples of any of these international travellers found to be positive for genomic sequencing. In May this year, as the second wave of Covid-19 was subsiding in the city, there was a diplomatic embarrassment after the Delhi CM had said that a new variant from Singapore affected children more. At present, delta and its sub-lineage continue to be the dominant variant. “Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main VOC in India. No new VOI or VOC are noted and other VOC and VOI other than Delta are now negligible in sequencing data from India,” according to the latest data from INSACOG. Several countries on Friday moved to restrict travel from South Africa on Friday after the variant was reported by the country. “The world should provide support to South Africa and Africa and not discriminate or isolate it! By protecting and supporting it, we will protect the world!” said Tulio de Oliveira, Director of Centre for Epidemic Response & innovation, South Africa on twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-calls-disaster-management-authority-meet-over-new-covid-variant-101637952647585.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Rakesh Tikait: MSP our key demand, govt has time to think till winter session||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the ongoing farmers’ protest will continue and that the government has time to think about their demands, especially guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) for a range of crops, till the winter session of the Parliament. Tikait was addressing a gathering of farmers at the UP Gate protest site in Ghaziabad on Friday (November 26) on completion of one year of the farmers’ protest against the three controversial agri laws passed by the Parliament. On November 26 last year, farmers arrived at the UP Gate, among other borders around the Capital, and occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of National Highway 9 to press their demand for the roll back of the three farm laws. “The roll back of the three laws was beneficial for the common man. Our demand is for a law guaranteeing MSP for a range of crops. The government has time to think and understand our demands till the winter session goes on in the Parliament. The winter session will decide the future course of our agitation,” said Tikait while addressing the farmers at the UP Gate. “Our main demand is the MSP; this issue will also impact the upcoming elections. If this demand is not met, we will oppose the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The future course of action will be decided by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM),” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader and spokesperson for SKM at the UP-Gate protest site. On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the three farm laws will be withdrawn. On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 – a draft legislation to repeal the three controversial farm laws. The development comes ahead of the state assembly elections due to be held in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab early next year. “A meeting by SKM is scheduled on November 27 while a tractor march will be taken out by farmers on November 29,” said Tikait adding that 500 farmers in 30 tractors will proceed to the Parliament from UP-Gate to press their demands.Asking farmers to exercise caution, Tikait added that “a game will be played” over the course of the next 10-15 days, where questions will be directed at farmers as to why they are still continuing with their protest despite the Prime Minister announcing the repeal of the three farm laws. “The government too will issue a statement in this regard once the three laws are rolled back (in the Parliament),” he said. Calling the three farm laws a ‘disease’ which came along with Covid-19, Tikait said, “The three laws and Covid came together in 2019-20 and farmers fought both of them...the three laws were sort of a disease and it got treated. In fact, the fight against the three laws delayed our demands by one and half years,” said Tikait. Farmer leaders said an open letter was sent to the Prime Minister in which they have reiterated the following demands-- MSP for their entire crop; withdrawal of Electricity Amendment Bill 2020/2021, removal of penal provisions for farmers in pollution law; withdrawal of cases lodged against farmers; compensation for families of farmers who lost their lives during the course of the agitation and resignation and arrest of Union minister of state (home) Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son is the prime suspect in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3. Social activist Yogendra Yadav, who also addressed the farmers at UP-Gate, said it is not a question of when will the farmers get up or vacate the areas. “The issue is about when their demands will be fulfilled. Till then, the agitation will go on and the future course of action will be decided in SKM’s meeting on November 27,” Yadav said. Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and state secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Uttar Pradesh, said both the state and the Centre have done their best for farmers. “Our governments have done the best in terms of getting the highest price for the farmers’ crops or making record purchase of their crops. For some people, it is just an agitation ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rakesh-tikait-msp-our-key-demand-govt-has-time-to-think-till-winter-session-101637952587791.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Elderly man charred to death at Delhi home||New Delhi: A 75-year-old man was charred to death after a fire broke out in his one-room house in central Delhi’s Kamla Market area in the early hours of Friday. Though the exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, police suspect that it was caused by a bidi which was not fully put out.Police identified the deceased as Sabje Hasan and said he lived alone in the house.His son had dropped by with dinner an hour before the incident and had left only after feeding him, police said.A fire department official said they received a call about the blaze at around 12.25am, following which five fire tenders were rushed to the spot.The victim was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elderly-man-charred-to-death-at-delhi-home-101637952409084.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Residents’ groups to keep watch on air pollution hot spots in Delhi||The United Residents’ Joint Action (URJA) of Delhi, a consortium of over 2,500 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the Capital, on Friday launched a citizen-driven monitoring campaign against air pollution.As part of the campaign, representatives from Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots will be working closely with Delhi’s corporations to help report incidents of waste burning, debris dumping and other pollution-related violations in their respective areas.In 2019, The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee identified Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri as pollution hotspots in the city. These locations have an annual average PM10 concentration exceeding 300μg/m3 and PM2.5 concentration of over 100μg/m3. While the CPCB safe standards annually are 60μg/m3 and 40μg/m3 for PM10 and PM2.5 respectively.PM10 are coarse pollution particles and PM 2.5 are fine, inhalable particulate matter.“The air pollution in these hotspots is consistently high and there is a need to ensure implementation of the government’s action plans. Residents in these hotspots are affected by the high levels of pollution and can be instrumental in changing things on ground,” Atul Goyal, president, URJA said.“The representatives could be community leaders, RWA or market trader association members. Those with a background in education and health can be appointed as coordinators. We need to establish the state government’s accountability to its citizens and demand a roadmap for reducing 12% pollution annually, to begin with, and two-thirds by 2025, as was committed by them during Delhi elections,” he added.Jasbir Chaddha, general secretary, URJA, said open waste burning has emerged as an important local source of pollution, and their campaign will focus on empowering citizens to report such instances.“There needs to be a plan for the protection of vacant land near these pollution hotspots, which will ensure no fresh waste is dumped, which in turn can be set on fire,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/residents-groups-to-keep-watch-on-air-pollution-hot-spots-in-delhi-101637952347599.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots cases: No distinction between police and prosecutor, Govt tells HC||Trials in cases filed in connection with northeast Delhi riots that took place in February 2020 and the Republic Day farmers’ violence cases this year are a “mockery”, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government told the Delhi high court on Friday.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the AAP government, submitted that there is no distinction between the prosecution and investigation in these cases, because all the Special Public Prosecutors (SPPs) were chosen by the Delhi Police and appointed by the Lieutenant Governor (L-G).“There is no difference between the police and prosecution today. The entire trial is a mockery. If the investigating agency is allowed to enter the domain of the prosecution, what is the fairness left in the entire criminal procedure? This is a basic principle,” Mehra told the bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh.The court was hearing a plea by the Delhi government challenging the L-G’s July 23 order appointing lawyers chosen by Delhi Police as SPPs in cases related to violence during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 this year and the northeast Delhi riots cases of February 2020.“The police obviously want that people should be tried and they should be punished, but a prosecutor is the officer of the court. He is not bloodthirsty. Prosecution’s only allegiance is to the truth and to the majesty of the court and today, with these orders, the prosecution and the investigating agency, there is complete synergy between them,” Mehra said.He stated that the appointment of prosecutors was the government’s domain, and the L-G was supposed to be aided and advised of the council of ministers.“The constitutional bench of the Supreme Court also said it is purely in the domain of the state government and L-G is bound by the aid and advice of the council of ministers. L-G has gone completely contrary to that and appointed prosecutors based on the suggestion of Delhi Police,” Mehra contended.Highlighting that the matter is of “great urgency”, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, also appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that the respondents—L-G and Centre—were yet to file their responses.“This is a matter of great urgency. The court gave four weeks to file counters. [It has been] more than nine weeks and no counter is filed. We are in grave urgency. This is an uncertainty that can be avoided,” Singhvi said, urging the court to close the respondents’ right to file counters if it is not done before the next date of hearing.The court, however, granted more time to the Centre and L-G to file their responses and posted the matter for hearing on January 28, 2022.AAP’s petition also challenged L-G’s July 26 notificationon the appointment of the SPPs as well as the Centre’s August 4 order endorsing the L-G’s view and approving the appointments.The plea said that it is contrary to established legal principles and violates the Constitutional guarantee of a fair trial. It said the SPPs are taking charge of the matters by displacing the regular public prosecutors and, therefore, urgent directions are required from the court to enable them to continue so as to not jeopardise fair trial in the cases.The Delhi government added that “appointment of SPPs is a routine matter and not an exceptional matter for which reference to the President can be made” and that the L-G had “no sound reason for referring the matter to the President when the government had agreed to appoint independent SPPs”.As reported by HT on Friday, of the total 758 cases registered in connection with communal riots in northeast Delhi in February last year, the Delhi Police has completed the investigation and filed charge sheets only in 361 (42%) cases as of October 4, the Delhi high court was informed on Thursday. Even in cases where the charge sheet has been filed, the trial has begun in just over 67 cases (18%), Delhi Police told the court Thursday while submitting a status report in a batch of petitions related to last year’s violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-cases-no-distinction-between-police-and-prosecutor-govt-tells-hc-101637952287661.html
27-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Phones, wallets stolen at Sector 65 concert, case filed||Unidentified persons were booked on Thursday for allegedly stealing mobile phones and wallets during a live concert in Sector 65 on Wednesday night. More than 2,500 people attended the event, police said, adding that they received at least 36 complaints from people who lost their valuables at the event. Nitika Sood, a college student from Delhi, said that she and another friend lost their mobile phones during the concert. “While we were coming out, I wanted to book a cab and was shocked that my phone was missing from my jeans’ back pocket. My friends called on my number, but the phone was switched off,” said Sood, who went to the concert with six friends. Another victim alleged that his mobile phone was stolen while he was dancing with his friends. “Many people were complaining that their wallets and mobile phones were missing. We had approached the policemen deployed there, but to no avail,” said Shamsher Singh, a resident of Saket in Delhi. Gaurvit Mehta, a resident of Devi Lal Colony in Gurugram, said that his mobile phone and wallet were stolen while he was standing in a queue outside the concert venue. “I was standing in a queue with my friend when I realised that someone had taken out my mobile phone and wallet containing ₹9,500 cash. I attended the concert half-heartedly,” he said. Deepak Kumar, station house officer, Sector 65 police station, said the complaints were clubbed and six cases were registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.“Some miscreants took advantage of the gathering and stole mobile phones and wallets of several people. We have put the stolen mobile phones on surveillance,” the SHO said. Kumar said they have shared IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) numbers with the cyber police station teams while the local teams are checking footage to identify the suspects. Police said IMEI is a unique 15-digit code that precisely identifies a device with SIM card input, and many times thieves try to change IMEI code before selling it. Some victims also alleged that the location of the police station on Google map was not updated and it took them more than an hour to find it.Police officials said earlier the police station was at Kadipur and recently shifted to Golf Course Extension Road, but the location has not been updated yet on Google map.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-phones-wallets-stolen-at-sector-65-concert-case-filed-101637952168782.html
27-11-2021||Noida||Noida: ₹15.54cr fine imposed for violation of pollution norms, shows RTI reply||A reply to an RTI (Right to Information) query filed by a Noida resident has revealed that the regional office of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Noida, has imposed penalties amounting to ₹5.75 crore on 1,054 individuals and establishments for violating pollution norms in the last four years. In the same RTI, the Noida authority said it has imposed a penalty of ₹9.69 crore during the same period. If the figures are taken into consideration together, then the state pollution control board and the Noida authority have collectively imposed penalties to the tune of ₹15.44 crore for violation of pollution norms in the last four years. Amit Gupta, a resident of Sector 77, filed an RTI on October 5 asking the regional office of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board, Noida, and the Noida authority the quantum of fines imposed on those who were caught violating pollution norms in the city in the last four years. “The purpose of filing the RTI was to understand whether rules and regulations made to control pollution in the city are being enforced or not. If yes, then how much fine has been imposed by the board and the authority in the last four years,” said Gupta, who is a member of the Progressive Community Foundation, a citizens’ group in Noida.According to the reply filed by the pollution control board, it has received 939 complaints of dust and air pollution on social media and ‘Sameer’ app between 2017 and 2020, for which they have taken action. The board further shared that till November 17 this year, it has addressed 106 complaints of pollution. The maximum fine imposed was ₹1.80 crore in 2019 on the back of 390 complaints. This year alone, fines of ₹69.9 lakh have been imposed, the board said.“On the directions of the district magistrate, the pollution department recommends imposition of penalties to the office of city magistrate, which then issues the fine on violators,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB.When asked as to how much amount has been realised, Kumar added, “Almost all the fines imposed on violators are usually collected”. The official data on the amount collected was unavailable.According to the reply filed by Noida authority, ₹9.69 crore penalty has been imposed on violators in the city from November 25, 2016 to November 11, 2021. Of this, ₹5.70 crore penalty has been imposed on building construction work and ₹1.19 crore has been imposed for solid waste management and garbage burning. In addition to this, ₹2.11 crore was imposed for hot mix plants, stone crushers and use of polythene attracted a fine of ₹68 lakh from violators.Of the total penalty ( ₹9.69 crore) imposed by the Noida authority in the last four years, the authority has been able to recover ₹5.86 crore.“Pollution norms are being enforced across the city strictly and our staff deployed across the city are taking necessary action. Besides this, sprinkling of water and mechanical sweeping are being carried out to control dust pollution,” said an official of Noida Authority.Gupta said he will file another RTI to get details on how much of the total penalty imposed in the last four years has the pollution control board been able to recover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-15-54cr-fine-imposed-for-violation-of-pollution-norms-shows-rti-reply-101637952167645.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman abducted, raped in Sarita Vihar; auto driver arrested||A 26-year-old woman and a 12-year-old girl were allegedly abducted and raped in two separate cases registered in southeast Delhi -- in Sarita Vihar and Govindpuri.In the first case, police said an autorickshaw driver allegedly abducted a woman passenger and raped her before stealing her phone and dropping her off at an unknown place in Sarita Vihar.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) Esha Pandey said that a case of abduction and sexual assault was registered after the victim approached the Sarita Vihar police station. The woman alleged that the suspect thrashed her when she resisted the rape.Police said an FIR was registered under IPC sections 376 (rape), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt).“The suspect was traced through CCTV footage from the spots,” said an senior police officer who did not want to named.Police identified the suspect as Vajid (34) and claimed that they recovered the woman’s mobile phone and the autorickshaw used in the crime from him. Police said he allegedly admitted to the crime during questioning.Investigators said the accused, who is married and has two daughters aged five and two, came to Delhi in 2010 and has been driving an autorickshaw since then.In the second incident, a rickshaw puller allegedly lured the 12-year-old girl when she was playing with friends outside her house in Govindpuri on Monday. He allegedly took her to his rented room in nearby Sarita Vihar and sexually assaulted her.According to police, though the suspect allegedly threatened her against talking about the incident to anyone, the girl confided in her mother, who approached the police on Wednesday.“An FIR was registered under IPC sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 377 (unnatural offenses), and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” said DCP Pandey.Police arrested the suspect, identified as Mohommad Akub (57), on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwoman-abducted-raped-in-sarita-vihar-auto-driver-arrested-101637952108729.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Vijay Kumar Dev to be Delhi’s election commissioner from April 2022||Chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev will assume the position of the election commissioner of Delhi from April 21, 2022, according to an order issued by additional chief secretary (urban development) Praveen Gupta on Thursday.The order stated that Dev will hold office for a term of six years from the date he assumes the charge, or till he turns 65.“In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (66 of 1957), as amended by the Act 67 of 1993 and Delhi Act 12 of 2011, the Lt Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi is pleased to appoint Shri Vijay Kumar Dev, IAS, as Election Commissioner in the Election Commission of the National Capital Territory of Delhi w.e.f. 21.04.2022,” the order said.Dev is a 1987 batch IAS officer from the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territories) cadre. He had assumed charge as Delhi’s chief secretary in 2018, replacing Anshu Prakash.The last municipal elections were held in Delhi in April 2017. The five-year term of the elected government in the three corporations—East, North and South Delhi Municipal Corporation—is set to come to an end in April 2022 and polls will be held to elect 272 municipal councillors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vijay-kumar-dev-to-be-delhi-s-election-commissioner-from-april-2022-101637952107662.html
27-11-2021||Lucknow||More than law, expansion of MSP coverage needed: Experts||Experts differ on the issue of demand for an MSP (minimum support price) law and the need for a free market economy for agriculture even as the official data for the last five years in Uttar Pradesh show that the average open market prices of paddy and wheat have been always below MSP, except for in 2015-16 when the open market wheat price was marginally above it.This is the situation when farm unions, which are far from ending their stir despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s categorical announcement on November 19 that his government would repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws, are now exerting pressure on the Centre to make a law guaranteeing that no crop in the market is purchased below the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. They want such a law so that farmers could get a remunerative price for their produce. MSP is a threshold price that acts as a safety net for farmers when they sell particular crops. These crops are procured by government agencies at a promised price to farmers and MSP, once declared, cannot be changed to the farmers’ disadvantage in that particular season. However, MSP that the Centre fixes every crop season is not binding on private traders.Though Centre declared MSP for 23 crops, in Uttar Pradesh wheat and paddy are the two prominent crops that the state government buys from farmers at MSP to meet its public distribution system (PDS) requirement. But official reports reveal only a very small number of farmers in Uttar Pradesh, like in the rest of the country, sell their produce to the government agencies, using the MSP route. A majority of them end up selling the same in the open market—often below MSP and sometimes at a price that does not even recover the production cost.“It is true only a very small number of farmers are able to avail of MSP benefits in the country,” agriculture expert Ajit Kumar Singh said.“The National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) data show that only 6% farmers in the country get to sell their crops at MSP because of reasons like lack of awareness among farmers, corruption at government procurement centres and delayed payments,” he added. Niti Aayog also found the same in its “Evaluation Study of Efficacy of Minimum Support Price on Farmers”. The sample study published in 2016 with a reference period between 2007-08 and 2010-11 covered farmers of 36 districts (six in UP) in 14 states.“It is observed that 28% of the farmers in UP sold their grains under MSP, 63% sold their grains in the open market and the remaining 8% kept for their self-consumption. It has also been observed during the course of study that 82% of the farmers reported to have faced various limitations in selling their food grains/crops at MSP,” the study found.A senior official posted in the UP Council of Agriculture Research said the fact that most of the farmers were compelled to sell their crops to traders in the open market at a price that was often below the government-determined MSP lends legitimacy to farmers’ demand for a law that ensures that even private agencies did not buy their produce below MSP. “Many people may romanticize the idea of free market economy for agriculture but we have seen how farmers feel compelled to sell their crops in the market below MSP because they cannot afford the difficulties they face in carrying their crops to government procurement centres,” he said.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president Rajveer Singh Jadun said the market prices of paddy and wheat, the two main MSP crops in UP, were always below the government’s threshold price. Most of the farmers, he claimed, had to sell their produce in the open market only below the MSP or at a loss. He questioned as to why prices of wheat, maida (flour) and rice, for example, were not lower in the market. “This is why we have been demanding an MSP law so that no agency could buy any crop below MSP saving farmers from selling their produce at a loss,” he said. Ajit Kumar Singh said there was no denying the fact that farmers did need minimum income guarantee like workers, who enjoyed a statutory minimum wage guarantee. He also agreed that the prevailing MSP system certainly helped keep the open market prices at a certain level and in the absence of MSP mechanism market prices could further dip.“But whether making a law for MSP will be the right choice to achieve the objective remains a big question,” he said. “I do not think it is possible to make such as law as it does not exist anywhere in the world. Moreover, the enforcement of such a law and compelling private buyers not to buy below the MSP will be a huge challenge,” he said.Ram Saran Verma, a progressive farmer and Padma Shri awardee, had a different take on the issue.“I am not sure if making an MSP law will be a desirable move at all. But what I genuinely feel is that government must ensure that farmers’ produce is not sold below the cultivation cost under any given situation,” he stressed. “During the current season only, a lot of farmers in the state are compelled to sell paddy for ₹1200 per quintal in the open market against MSP of ₹1,940 per quintal. The cultivation cost of paddy is ₹1200-1300 per quintal and it pains to see farmers sell paddy at a loss,” he said.The solution, according to Singh, lies not in making an MSP law but in expanding the present MSP coverage to more crops and making arrangements that ensure that government procurement centres buy crops from a maximum number of farmers. The government, according to him, must think of giving MSP benefits to more farmers by making fundamental changes in the current system of procurement, he said.“To make this possible, it can start an additional system of buying crops from farmers’ doors or fields because distance to procurement centres and the transportation cost involved, apart from many other difficulties, act as a major deterrent to farmers in selling their produce to the government agencies,” he suggested.Verma has advice for farmers too.“Farmers should also think of diversifying and lowering their dependence on paddy and wheat. They should adopt a rotational pattern of cropping by growing crops like pulses and oilseeds that are in scarcity in the state while the Food Corporation of India’s (FCI) godowns overflowed with rice and wheat,” he said. The demand-supply situation, he pointed out, also determined prices.“This is why currently the oilseeds prices in the open market are much above the government’s MSP in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-than-law-expansion-of-msp-coverage-needed-experts-101637952047633.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt adds Kartarpur and Velankanni under free pilgrimage scheme||New Delhi: The Delhi government will add two more sites—Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni Church—to the list of routes under the Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana.Kailash Gahlot, the revenue minister, said on Friday that the first train under this scheme to Ayodhya is scheduled to be flagged off on December 3 and the government has decided to add two more routes for Sikh and Christian devotees in addition to the existing 13 routes. Gahlot reviewed the preparations for the launch of the scheme on the Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi route on Friday. Senior officers from the revenue department, IT department, Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) and the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) took part in the review.A senior government official said that the devotees will be provided berths in AC-III tier trains on the Delhi-Velankanni-Delhi route whereas they will be given seats in deluxe AC buses for the Kartarpur Sahib route. “The first batch of yatris to Kartarpur Sahib will depart on January 5, 2022, and the first train for Delhi-Velankanni-Delhi will depart on January 7, 2022,” Gahlot informed.He added that the 15,000 applicants who had applied to take part in the yatra under the scheme in 2019 but could not avail of the facility due to the Covid-19 pandemic will be contacted by the government regarding the option of amending their applications and uploading vaccination certificates. “The Delhi government will also provide doctors and paramedical staff to accompany the applicants,” Gahlot stated.Under the Mukhya Mantri Teerth Yatra Yojna, Hindu pilgrims who are over 60 years of age can also visit Vaishno Devi, Shirdi, Rameswaram, Dwarka, Puri, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Mathura, Vrindavan, among others and Sikh residents have the option to do a Delhi-Amritsar-Wagah Border-Anandpur Sahib-Delhi tour for four days.Senior citizens availing of the free pilgrimage scheme are issued certificates by the MLAs of their respective areas, ministers of the Delhi government, or the chairman of the Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti. The Delhi government bears all the expenses on the pilgrimage, including travel, food and accommodation. Facilities such as paramedical staff and attendants are also provided during the journeyThe scheme was approved by the Kejriwal government in 2018, but no visit could be organised in 2020 and 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So far, over 36,000 people have availed of the scheme. The Delhi-Ayodhya-Delhi tour is the 13th route. With the addition of Ayodhya, Kartarpur Sahib and Velankanni Church, the total number of routes under the scheme is now 15.A total of 1,100 residents per assembly constituency can avail of this facility in a year subject to the cap of total of 77,000 beneficiaries per year, according to Delhi government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-adds-kartarpur-and-velankanni-under-free-pilgrimage-scheme-101637951867351.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Services may be hit as several docs at govt, MCD hospitals go on strike||Senior doctors from the north corporation-run hospitals, dispensaries, maternity centres, and TB facilities will go on an indefinite strike from Monday to protest against not receiving salaries, along with arrears and allowances, for nearly three months, said the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association on Friday. The doctors wrote to the authorities over a week ago, demanding that their pending salaries be paid or they will go on a strike. “It is now nearly three months since we received our salaries. We have given ample notice to authorities but all we keep hearing is that they have no funds. We are just asking for what we are owed. All routine services will be stopped from Monday onwards; however, we will keep the emergency running,” said Dr RR Gautam, president, Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association. “Patients who can be discharged will be sent home, and those who can be moved will be referred elsewhere. Only the most critical patients will remain in the hospital,” he said. With resident doctors, who manage most wards and clinics, going on strike from Saturday (November 27), as part of a nationwide call given to protest the delay in carrying out NEET-PG counselling, 2021, services in most municipal hospitals are likely to be severely affected from Monday, hospital sources said. In addition to monthly salaries, doctors are also asking for the increased dearness allowance that was given to all employees of central government hospitals and also those of facilities run by east and south Delhi corporations. “Doctors in our sister organisations are already receiving the increased DA, and that too a significant increase. Also, the north corporation has still not implemented the seventh pay commission and are yet to give us arrears of various components,” said Dr Maruti Sinha, general secretary of the organisation. The north corporation did not comment on the announced strike.Meanwhile, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) has called for a nationwide strike from November 27 over the delay in NEET-PG counselling, 2021. Resident doctors in government hospitals across the country will withdraw from outpatient department (OPD) services from Saturday. FORDA, in a letter to Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya, said, “The already overburdened and exhausted Resident Doctors of the nation fighting at the frontline since the beginning of the COVID-19 Pandemic, have been waiting patiently till date for some positive outcome of Supreme Court proceedings in the matter of already delayed NEET-PG 2021 counselling. However, there seems to be no respite to their physical and mental distress, with the next court hearing scheduled on 6th January 2022.”The ministry did not comment on the letter. Although doctors will continue with emergency services and routine work of surgeries, they will stop working in OPD. The full impact of the strike will be visible Monday when OPDs run at full strength; Saturday OPD is run for half day and on Sunday, the clinics are shut at all hospitals other than Centre-run hospitals. In addition, all doctors from corporation-run hospitals and clinics will also go on a strike from Monday over delay in NEET counselling. “For now, we will not work in the OPDs, but if nothing happens, we will stop all routine services. The NEET examinations were delayed since May, due to the pandemic, and was conducted in September. But someone filed a petition about the economic reservation policy and the next date of hearing is on January 6; we don’t know when there will be a decision,” said Dr Manish Kumar, president, FORDA. Supreme Court on Thursday deferred the hearing of the ongoing case in NEET counselling till January. The same day the Centre requested a time of four weeks since it has decided to revisit the criteria of ₹8 lakh annual income limit for economically weaker sections(EWS) category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-civic-body-doctors-to-strike-from-monday-resident-doctors-in-all-hospitals-from-today-101637951687516.html
27-11-2021||Mumbai||Lessons from 26/11: Triage and equitable distribution of victims is a must||When a mass disaster, like the November 26, 2008 terror attacks strikes, it is vital for the city’s administration to distribute victims across nearby hospitals without overloading any one. This requires thorough triage at the site of the disaster. These are some of the learnings from the attacks that shook the city 13 years ago, which were published in a study last year. The study, conducted by a team of JJ hospital doctors and published in the Journal of Disaster Risk Studies in August 2020 analysed the medical response after the 26/11 Mumbai attack. The study stated that a majority of victims — 166 persons died and 238 were injured — were taken to the state-run JJ Hospital in Byculla overloading the hospital within a short period of time (271 victims were admitted to this hospital, the study said). The JJ Hospital is about 3.5 km from the main disaster sites, including the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station, Leopold Cafe and Chabad House in Colaba, Trident-Oberoi in Nariman Point and the Taj Palace hotel in Apollo Bunder. Other hospitals which were closer to these sites, like the state-run St George Hospital, the state-run GT Hospital and the privately-run Bombay Hospital, received fewer victims by comparison (38, 30 and 79, respectively).“An equitable distribution of patients is crucial in any disaster, and this did not happen during 26/11,” said Dr Dhiraj Sonawane, an orthopaedic surgeon from JJ Hospital and co-author of the study. The study also highlighted that the city lacked the means to provide emergency medical care at a pre-hospital level. While disaster protocols were immediately activated at the hospitals, the absence of a robust on-site triage — a team of trained medics at the disaster site stabilise then shift patients to hospitals depending on the nature of their injuries and proximity of the hospital — led to an unnecessary overburdening of the hospital’s resource.Disaster protocol at the hospital level include triage at the entry point, activating beds, operation theatres, summoning back-up doctors and other staff, among other things.“There was an unequitable distribution of patients amongst the major public hospitals. Had there been a comprehensive disaster module, involving triage, field teams and transport teams, the number of casualties could have been reduced,” the study noted. After the attacks, a majority of patients were brought to the hospitals by Samaritans using taxis and private vehicles. Some were even taken to the hospitals on handcarts. Since the terror strike, the most important addition to the city’s disaster preparedness has been the ambulances under the Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS), known as the 108 ambulances. A fleet of 937 ambulances was introduced in the state in 2014. Of these 93 are in Mumbai. The 108 ambulances are on standby for any kind of disaster — floods, fire, building collapse or terror attack — and were used extensively during the Covid pandemic in 2020. The ambulances are dispatched through an automated response mechanism based on the estimated number of people affected by a disaster. “We are linked with the BMC’s main control room, police control as well as fire control rooms,” said Dr Dnyaneshwar Shelke, chief operating officer, MEMS. “For triaging, we label patients as yellow and red. Yellow are the ones who are injured yet stable, while red are the ones who are critical,” he said.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the civic body has a comprehensive disaster management protocol, which is refined every year. “Our protocol includes activating all the nearby public hospitals, summoning doctors residing in the area, cordoning off the area around the hospitals to allow movement of emergency vehicles and activating blood banks in the area.” “It is an internal document, circulated among doctors and stakeholders,” he said, adding that it held the contact information of various hospitals and authorities to be contacted in case of a disaster. The study authors however proposed a comprehensive disaster module for the city, including the formation of a central medical control committee (CMCC) comprising of experts trained in handling trauma and mass casualties. They also proposed forming field disaster teams, grading health facilities for basic and advanced trauma care and training health care staff in protocol. In developed countries, emergency medical services during mass disasters are offered free of cost,” health activist Dr Abhijit More of not-for-profit Jan Arogya Abhiyan said. “Here, patients have to be taken to public hospitals for free treatment. There is a tendency to avoid rushing patients of mass disasters to private hospitals even if they are closer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lessons-from-26-11-triage-and-equitable-distribution-of-victims-is-a-must-101637951567547.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Slow winds, fog keep air pollution in severe zone||Delhi’s air quality has deteriorated to the “severe” category once again, with the Capital’s average air quality index (AQI) hitting 406, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily 4pm bulletin on Friday. The city’s air had already deteriorated to the brink of the “severe” category by Thursday afternoon, before slipping into deep red later that evening. While the Delhi government had banned construction activities in the Capital from Thursday on the orders of the Supreme Court, calm winds and low temperatures trapped pollutants. Delhi also saw shallow fog in the morning, which mixed with pollutants to cause smog, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said calm winds were recorded over Delhi till 1pm, with wind speeds only picking up between 1pm and 4pm. “From 4pm onwards, they dipped again. Visibility at Safdarjung [airport] remained between 300 and 500 metres till 10am, after which it marginally improved to 800 to 1,000 metres. This can be attributed to smog coverage and after the November 11-13 smog spell, this is the second such spell this month where such poor visibility has been recorded at the airport,” he said.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), relief is expected from November 29 onwards, when surface winds touch 15-20 km/hr. “Local surface winds are likely to increase slightly for the next two days, which will increase dispersion of pollutants, leading to slight improvement, but AQI will still remain in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category. Mixing layer height and wind are the dominant factors controlling air quality, but from 29th, significant improvement in AQI is expected due to high wind speed,” it said.Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 27.6 degrees Celsius on Friday, while the minimum was 11 degrees. Temperatures are expected to dip below 10 degrees once again only after November 30, when cold northwesterly winds start blowing towards the Capital. Saturday’s forecast shows a maximum and minimum of 27 and 10 degrees Celsius respectively, with shallow fog expected in the early hours.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) said forecasts need to be considered while announcing mitigation measures and relaxing them.“The air quality in Delhi has dipped to ‘severe’ category over the last two days, especially during the morning and evening time. This is primarily due to lower wind speed and temperature, which prevent the dispersion of pollutants. According to forecasts, the transport sector is the leading local contributor to Delhi’s air pollution. Just like the Delhi government has restricted the entry of diesel commercial vehicles, it should continue to actively consider forecasts before relaxing restrictions within the city,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhislow-winds-fog-keep-air-pollution-in-severe-zone-101637951509606.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||With end of farmers’ protest in sight after a year, gloom gives way to relief||Delhi’s three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- were chock-a-block with people and tractors on Friday as protesting farmers marked the one-year anniversary of the protest against three farm laws that the government has announced it will repeal in the upcoming Parliament session.The scene at the border points -- which led to jams and blockades for commuters -- was festive. Punjabi music was blaring, vendors were selling flags and memorabilia, and there were performances by artistes and speeches by protesters who have camped at these spots for months, refusing to budge despite appeals by the government and local authorities.Jeet Singh and Sukhwant Singh, two elderly farmers from Amritsar, who stayed at Singhu site for the entire year, said the place was like home for them now, but they longed to go back to the real homes. “It will feel strange when we do leave, but we hope this moment comes soon. We hope the Prime Minister will stick to his word and repeal the three laws,” Jeet, 80 At langar (community food) services in the area, the menu was beyond the regular -- with jalebi, kheer and sweetened rice among the delicacies. Gurnam Singh, a volunteer at one such service said the dishes were decided based on the demand over the past one year. “Jalebi stalls would particularly get a lot of people, so we decided to make them for the occasion,” he said.Avtar Singh, a vendor selling bags, badges and flags, said he earned several thousand rupees on Friday, much more than his usual collection, with people wanting to take something back home. “Not just farmers, but Delhi locals have also come today,” he said. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait earlier this week said 30 tractors will head to Parliament on November 29, to coincide with the first day of the winter session, to press for a law guaranteeing minimum support price (the price at which the government buys agricultural produce). However, senior farm leaders said protesting groups had called for a meeting on Saturday to take a call on the tractor march.“We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM [Samyukt Kisan Morcha] will take a call about it on Saturday,” Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay said.At the Tikri border protest site, farmers were seen crowding around the main stage to cheer performers and speakers. Rajbir Singh, a farmer from Batala who made his way to Delhi on November 27 last year after crossing multiple barricades at the state crossings said: “We did not bow down. For days, our body would ache and our eyes would constantly be watering, but this only made our resolve stronger.”Last year, thousands of farmers reached Delhi’s borders to protest against the three laws brought by the Centre, that aimed to reform farm the trade. While several mini protests broke out, Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur emerged as the ground zero for the farm protests. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government will repeal the three laws in the winter session of the Parliament, beginning from November 29. Most farmers say they will leave once the repeal is official, while some they want to hold on for other related demands, including a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs).Farmers at the Ghazipur border (which connects Delhi and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh) said their protest had grown in strength over the past year, and said they will hold out till their remaining demands are met.“I left my two children and family behind to come here in November last year. I thought the agitation will go on for two or three years... We will continue to serve here till all our demands are met,” said Pawan Deep Singh, who hails from Bijnor in UP. Officers of the Ghaziabad police said the Ghazipur protest site saw between 3,000 and 3,500 people on Friday, up many fold from the usual attendance of around 500.“The numbers don’t matter. At a single call, hundreds of farmers can arrive here from their areas,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, an SKM member and spokesperson of the Ghazipur protest site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-end-of-farmers-protest-in-sight-after-a-year-gloom-gives-way-to-relief-101637951148646.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Concretisation of trees is worst kind of human rights abuse: Delhi HC||Coming down heavily on the concretisation of trees and rampant construction in the national capital, the Delhi high court on Friday said these activities were changing neighbourhoods and making people feel like aliens in their own environment. It is the “worst kind of human rights abuse”, the court said. “You are changing people’s neighbourhoods. They become alien in their own environment and that is the worst kind of human rights abuse. Citizens will not be pushed back because the corporation is not working on it. Every day, it is the same position in every colony,” justice Najmi Waziri said, while hearing a plea against the concretisation of hundreds of trees in Vasant Vihar.The judge said a fully grown tree “is worth a crore”, but for the citizens a tree is greater than its monetary value.Stating that the absence of trees changes the neighbourhood, Waziri narrated an anecdote, “Ordinary citizen, or a lady who has lived in a colony for 50 years…She used to get up and see the tree every day. But it gets chopped off, or becomes ill because some contractor of the MCD comes and concretes it up to the tree trunk.There is no water, no air, no nitrogen...the tree dries up and in one aandhi (storm), it is blown away. That neighbourhood is not the same for the lady; for the children.”“This is no more a joke. The symbiotic relationship is far too extensive. We can’t do without it (trees). We don’t want only to concretise the city. You can’t take care, you tell us. RWA will take care. I am confident that any number of RWAs is ready to take it up,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by a resident against the concreting of hundreds of trees in Vasant Vihar and alleged inaction on the part of the authorities to preserve trees. The plea also cited non-compliance of earlier orders passed by the high court as well as the National Green Tribunal.HT reported in December last year that of the total 4,993 trees on the streets of Vasant Vihar, 3,859 were heavily concretised. A tree census conducted by local residents showed over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires etc. in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off and at least 793 trees were infested with termites. Based on HT’s report a complaint was filed with the Delhi forest department by environmental activists, and a petition was also filed at the Delhi high court. The report has also been quoted in the petition.The counsels for the authorities on Friday said they have taken several steps for the de-concretisation of trees.During the hearing, the court also pulled up the authorities after it perused pictures of trees given by the authorities. It took strong exception to cars parked on the pavement and said pavements are for citizens to walk on. “Is the car not an obstacle, sir? Then what were you doing? Give me an answer which is worthy of making a submission in the court...You have done nothing, therefore you are in contempt... You are an officer of the government? Law officer? Is this the answer you want to give us that we will not comply with the court’s orders,” Justice Waziri told the corporation counsel.Asking whether there is no sense of urgency for citizens rights, the judge said, “Look at the condition. Do you have no concern for your immediate neighbour, elderly gentleman who wants to go for a walk. How will he go for the walk? Look at the footpath... Every portion of it has been just concretised... Who comes first? Citizens and their rights, not the gadiwalas.”A court passed a slew of directions but a detailed copy of the order is yet to be uploaded on the high court’s website.The matter will next be heard on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/concretisation-of-trees-is-worst-kind-of-human-rights-abuse-delhi-hc-101637950728591.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||Delhi Assembly resolution seeks compensation for farmers’ families, MSP law||The Delhi assembly on Friday passed a resolution seeking compensation for families of farmers who lost their lives during the protest against the farm laws, withdrawal of cases against farmers, assurance of minimum support price (MSP) for crops, and removal of Union minister of state (home) Ajay Mishra over the deaths of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri.The resolution, which was proposed by Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai during a special assembly session, demanded compensation for families of over 700 farmers who died during the protest.Speaking at the session, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal lauded the farmers for their patience and peaceful protest despite being called “anti-nationals”.“In my understanding, this is the longest farmers’ protest in the world. Over 700 farmers were martyred while fighting against their own government. Never thought farmers would be subjected to filthy abuses like anti-national, Khalistani, agents of China-Pakistan... The ruling party didn’t leave any chance to instigate them,” he said.The CM also noted that measures such as use of water cannons and nails drilled onto the roads to stop farmers at the Delhi borders couldn’t break their spirit.“This is not just farmers’ victory; it is the victory of democracy. In the past few years, people had started losing faith in the democratic system ever since they (BJP) came to power with a majority. But this has restored people’s faith in democracy,” said Kejriwal.He added that the government will support the farmers till the time they want to continue their protest at Delhi borders.The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is the main opposition in the Delhi assembly, said that the special session on farm laws was unnecessary, as the Centre has already initiated the process to repeal them. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government will repeal the three contentious laws against which farmers have been protesting on Delhi’s borders for the past one year.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the Opposition in the Delhi assembly, said, “There was no need to convene this session as the Centre has said that the laws will be withdrawn. There should have been discussion on the increasing pollution levels in Delhi, the new liquor policy which several residents are opposing, the need to reduce tax on diesel, and the plight of Delhi’s farmers.”The AAP, which is gearing up for elections in Punjab where it is the principal opposition party, has supported the farmers from the start and the CM even visited the protest site in Singhu in December last year to review the arrangements made there.Deputy CM Manish Sisodia noted that Kejriwal didn’t allow Delhi Police to use stadiums as temporary detention centres to keep protesting farmers. “Initially, the Central government took their protest lightly. They thought that they would be able to handle it, as Delhi Police is under them. But Kejriwal took a courageous decision to not allow stadiums to be used as jails to keep the farmers,” he said.While the Centre has initiated the process to repeal the farm laws in the upcoming winter session, Rai said that the government should consult farmers and provide a guarantee on MSP. “The laws were prepared and passed without any discussion with the farmers. This is not good for democracy. Even now, the government is not talking to farmers,” he said.Kejriwal also called for immediate sacking of Union minister Ajay Mishra: “I do not know what is their compulsion, but the entire country wants him (Mishra) to be removed.”Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, who is currently in jail, is the prime accused in the October 3 Tikunia violence at Lakhimpur Kheri where eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed.BJP leader suspendedMeanwhile, Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel suspended BJP MLA Jitender Mahajan from the day-long special session, and also marshalled out BJP MLAs Mohan Singh Bisht and Anil Bajpai, for disrupting the proceedings and demanding discussion on issues such as the rising pollution level and the new liquor policy.Though the other BJP MLAs walked out of the House and protested outside, some of them later came back to participate in the discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-resolution-seeks-compensation-for-farmers-families-msplaw-101637949887766.html
27-11-2021||Delhi||SC seeks Centre, Delhi police reply on petition challenging Asthana appointment||The Supreme Court on Friday sought replies from the Union government and Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana on petitions challenging the latter’s appointment as head of the police force for the national capital.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna issued notices to the Centre and the 1984-batch IPS officer on the petitions filed by an NGO, CPIL, which has alleged several irregularities and violation of the Supreme Court’s directives in appointing Asthana as the city police commissioner on July 27.As soon as the matter was taken up, the bench told advocate Prashant Bhushan, who appeared for CPIL, that it was issuing notice. Solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appeared for the Centre and Asthana respectively. The case is likely to be listed in the second week of December.The bench was considering two petitions by CPIL. The first was a writ petition against the Union home ministry’s July 27 order appointing Asthana and granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. The second petition is an appeal against the Delhi high court’s October 12 judgment affirming Asthana’s appointment.On August 25, the top court asked the Delhi high court to decide within two weeks the petition filed before it by a lawyer, Sadre Alam, challenging Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police commissioner, observing that “time is of the essence”.That direction came when CPIL’s writ petition came up for a hearing for the first time before a bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, and the bench asked Bhushan to first argue his case before the high court so that the top court could have the benefit of a judgment.CJI Ramana also expressed his reservations in hearing the petition, pointing out he had conveyed his views about Asthana when the officer was being considered for the post of chief of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).In May, CJI Ramana, while participating in the high-powered committee for the selection of the CBI director (the Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition in the Lok Sabha were the other members), flagged a landmark 2006 Supreme Court ruling in Prakash Singh case that required a police chief to have a minimum residual tenure of six months, resulting in the disqualification of Asthana from being considered for the post of CBI director.The petition by advocate Alam and CPIL’s intervention application before the high court demanded quashing of MHA’s July 27 order appointing Asthana the Delhi Police commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre, and extension of service to him. They also argued that Asthana’s appointment was in flagrant violation of the apex court’s direction in Prakash Singh case.Rejecting the pleas on October 12, the Delhi high court upheld Asthana’s appointment holding that the Union government has a free hand in deciding who is best for the job of the top cop in the national capital, especially when the officer concerned does not have a blemish in his entire service career.The high court further noted that the requirement of a minimum six months of service left (as articulated in the Prakash Singh order) is confined only to the selection of the DGPs of the state and is not applicable in Delhi.“The executive, which is responsible for the law-and-order situation in the national capital, must have a reasonable discretion to select an officer it finds more suitable, based upon the career graph of such an officer, unless there is anything adverse in the service career of such an officer,” said the high court.It added there was no violation of the statutory rules and that the central government had the powers to give extension as well as of inter-cadre transfer to Asthana for appointing him to deal with the complexities and sensitivities in the city.The bench, while dismissing the PIL as well as the intervention application, also said that no officer with appropriate seniority and requisite experience was available in the AGMUT Cadre.“It ought to be kept in mind that Delhi, being the capital of India, has a unique, special and specific requirement. It has witnessed several untoward incidences and extremely challenging law and order situations/riots/crimes, which have an international implication, which in the wisdom of the Central Government necessitated appointment of an experienced officer possessing diverse and multifarious experience of heading a large para-military security force apart from other factors,” the bench said.Affirming the appointment, the high court also accepted the Centre’s submission that most of the appropriate level of officers of AGMUT (cadre of IPS officers for Union territories) did not have the sufficient balance of experience and policing for appointment as a top cop of the city. It also agreed to the submissions that following the same procedure, eight commissioners have thus far been appointed for the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-seeks-centre-delhi-police-reply-on-petition-challenging-asthana-appointment-101637949409006.html
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Acclaimed Punjabi short story writer Mohan Bhandari passes away at 84||The news of the death of acclaimed Punjabi short story writer Mohan Bhandari travelled in Chandigarh’s literary circles in no time on Friday. Ailing for some years, the writer breathed his last at his Sector 34 home. He was 84. A recipient of several awards, Bhandari, besides being a prolific writer of short fiction, was also a translator. He had to his credit five collections of short stories and as many books of stories translated from Hindi and Urdu. Apart from that, he edited a number of books. He won the Sahitya Akademi award for his collection of stories ‘Moon di Akh’ in 1997. He, however, returned the award in 2015 in solidarity with the nationwide protest by writers against alleged growing intolerance. “It pains me to see growing intolerance and communalism against which we writers have always raised a strong voice in our writings. Returning the award is a way of bringing attention to the disturbing conditions prevailing in the country today,” he had said. Early life Bhandari was born in Banbhaura village of Punjab’s Sangrur district to unlettered parents on February 14, 1937. His father had a small shop which he gambled away along with the little land he owned. Bhandari grew up in tough times but the village landscape and life influenced him richly and he wrote his first short story in Class 9 and there was no looking back since. The story that made him famous, which I had the privilege of translating into English was ‘Mainu Tagore Bana de, Ma’. It is a tale of love and longing of a bright village schoolboy with a flair for writing and has to give up schooling for want of resources. Poverty forces the teen to become a daily-wage labourer. The story had a great impact and Bhandari was counted among one of the progressive writers of Punjabi language.Chandigarh, the second homeVery much the life and soul of the Coffee House culture in Sector 17, Chandigarh, he worked in the Punjab education department. The city was home to him since the 1960s. Usually, he would spend his lunch time with friends such as late writers Bhushan and Amar Giri, painter Raj Kumar among others. The motley group would hold deep discussion on life and literature over coffee and cigarettes (there was no ban on public smoking back then).The writer is survived by his wife Nirmal and three sons, Sanjeev, Rajiv and Rahul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/acclaimed-punjabi-short-story-writer-mohan-bhandari-passes-away-at-84-101637937105782.html
27-11-2021||World||Czech Republic testing woman who landed from Namibia via South Africa & Dubai for omicron||The sample of a woman, who was in Namibia and arrived in Czech Republic via South Africa and Dubai, is being tested at the European country’s central laboratory for the new Covid-19 variant omicron, Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said on Saturday.Taking to his Twitter account, Babis cleared media speculation that the woman also travelled to Egypt. “The woman who was tested for the new omicron coronavirus strain, had been to Namibia, and returned to the Czech Republic through the South African Republic and Dubai. We are waiting for her test results. She is in isolation now, and all her contacts are being checked,” he tweeted in Czech.The Prime Minister also informed that the woman is vaccinated against Covid-19 and is deemed as normal. “The result of the sequencing test will [arrive] tomorrow,” Babis wrote in another tweet.
27-11-2021||World||‘Unjustified, counterproductive’: South Africa’s health minister reacts to travel ban over omicron Covid-19 variant||With multiple countries imposing travel restrictions or bans on passengers arriving from South Africa owing to the discovery of new Covid-19 variant omicron, the country’s health minister Joe Phaahla has called the move “unjustified” and “counterproductive”.“We want to assure South Africans and other people elsewhere in the world that we believe some of the reactions have actually been unjustified, referring here specifically to the reaction of countries in Europe, the UK, and a number of other countries,” Phaala said, according to Sputnik.He further stated that the reactions in the forms of travel bans and other measures are entirely against the “norms and standards as guided by the World Health Organisation (WHO).”Talking to reporters on Friday, the health minister said that the move is “very counterproductive reaction” and will make people feel that it’s a “risk to disclose” their findings, Al Jazeera reported.His statements come as the US, UK, Japan, Brazil, Russia, and the 27-nation European Union (EU) have imposed travel curbs or bans on travelers from southern African countries. South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Lesotho are some of the nations from where passengers’ entry have either been banned or require the mandatory undergoing of additional measures.On Saturday, Japan announced the addition of three more nations – Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia, to its list of countries where travel curbs have been imposed. The restriction has already been announced for people arriving from Botswana, South Africa, Lesotho, Namibia, Eswatini, and Zimbabwe.The WHO has termed the B.1.1.529 variant of Covid-19 as a ‘variant of concern’. The United Nations (UN) health agency’s southeast Asia director Poonam Khetrapal Singh on Saturday urged southeast Asian countries not to lose their guards, and boost surveillance and enhance vaccination in order to combat the new coronavirus variant.Meanwhile, the United Kingdom (UK) on Saturday confirmed its first two cases of omicron Covid-19 variant. The country’s health secretary Sajid Javid said in a statement as reported by AFP that they have moved “rapidly” and the patients are currently self-isolating while contact tracing is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-health-minister-says-travel-ban-over-omicron-is-unjustified-101638027768132.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron: 5 things Dr Fauci says about this new variant of Covid-19||Scientists of the United States are actively communicating with their colleagues in South Africa to get more details about Omicron, the new variant of Covid-19, America's top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci said. Reports of the new variant have triggered panic and brought back fresh restrictions across the world. The variant is heavily mutated and is thought to be more transmissible than the previous variants.Here are five things that the White House chief medical advisor said about the Omicron in an interview with CNN. Fauci was asked about the concerns regarding Omcron and whether there is any chance that it has already spread to the United States. 1. There are concerns over more transmissibility and the possibility of the evasion of the immune response. We do not know for sure right now. This is really something in motion.Shouldn’t let guards down’: WHO tells southeast Asian countries over omicron2. The variant seems to be spreading at a reasonably rapid rate in the sense of when they do test positivity, it seems to be a bit more widespread than what was previously thought. It is in a fluid motion.3. Anything is possible. There is no indication that the new variant is present in the United States. There is a lot of travel involved in how the variant spread from South Africa to Hong Kong. And so, we are trying to get the actual molecular make-up of the variant so that we can test for it. And that's something that will take time.WHO avoids Greek alphabet Xi and names new Covid variant Omicron. Here's why4. When you look at a mutation, it is going to give you a hint or prediction that it might evade the immune response. You need to get that particular sequence of the virus, put it in a form in the lab where you can actually test the different antibodies so you can have a prediction that it might evade or you can actually prove it. Right now, we are getting the material together.5. You are talking about sort of like a red flag that it might be an issue but we don't know. Once we test, you can tell for sure whether it does or does not evade the antibodies that we make for example against the virus through a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-5-things-dr-fauci-says-about-this-new-variant-of-covid19-101638024418061.html
27-11-2021||World||Britain confirms first two cases of new Covid-19 variant omicron||Britain has confirmed its first two cases of the omicron variant of Coronavirus, considered more contagious and resistant to the vaccines. Both the cases infected with the new strain have travel links to southern Africa, reported news agencies on Saturday."We have moved rapidly and the individuals are self-isolating while contact tracing is ongoing," news agency AFP quoted Britain's health secretary Sajid Javid as saying in a statement.While one case of the omicron variant has been detected in the southeastern English town of Chelmsford, another has come to light from the central city of Nottingham, Javid confirmed.Prime Minister Boris Johnson, along with the chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance, will hold a news conference later on Saturday "to set out further measures", Javid said.Also read | Shouldn’t let guards down’: WHO tells southeast Asian countries over omicronThe British government has placed another four African countries on its travel 'red list', including Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia and Angola. Earlier, the country banned travel from six southern African nations: South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Zimbabwe and Botswana.‘Omicron’, first detected in Botswana in southern Africa on November 9, has since been reported in a number of countries, including Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. The variant is known to be highly contagious and has a number of mutations.Also read | WHO avoids Greek alphabet Xi and names new Covid variant Omicron. Here's whyMany countries have slapped restrictions on various African countries over the past couple of days including Australia, Brazil, Canada, the European Union, Iran, Japan, Thailand and the United States, in response to warnings over the transmissibility of the new variant — against the advice of the World Health Organization.Pharmaceutical companies expressed optimism that they could finesse their vaccines to deal with the new variant though that would clearly take some time.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-confirms-first-two-cases-of-new-covid-19-variant-omicron-101638023784036.html
27-11-2021||World||Taliban kill young doctor for not stopping at checkpoint in Herat: Report||Taliban have killed a young physician in Afghanistan's Herat province, local media reported citing sources on Friday. According to Khaama Press, the doctor, identified as 33-year-old Amruddin Noori was killed in Herat city after he did not stop at a police security checkpoint, the victim's family members claimed while speaking to media.According to sources, Noori used to have a small private medical clinic had newly got married.The Taliban came to power in Afghanistan after the seizure of the capital, Kabul, on August 15, which led to the collapse of the previous government and triggered mass evacuations of foreign workers and Afghan collaborators.Earlier, the Taliban had assured the people of Afghanistan of security and safety of their lives and assets but this kind of incident contradicts the Taliban's claims.The country plunged into crisis in August after Kabul fell to the Taliban and the democratically elected government of former president Ashraf Ghani collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-kill-young-doctor-for-not-stopping-at-checkpoint-in-herat-report-101638020245138.html
27-11-2021||World||Amid omicron scare, Japan imposes travel curbs on 3 more countries: Reports||With the identification of the new Covid-19 variant, omicron, in Botswana in southern Africa, Japan has added three more countries to its list of travel restrictions. The announcement was made by Prime Minister Fumio Kishida on Saturday, who told reporters that his government wants to ensure “border control measures” are strictly in place, according to Nikkei Asia.In the latest additions, travellers from Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia will have to undergo mandatory quarantine at a government-designated accommodation for 10 days. The country has already imposed tighter entry norms for individuals arriving from Botswana, South Africa, Lesotho, Namibia, Eswatini, and Zimbabwe. Passengers from these nations will also have to take Covid-19 tests on their third, sixth and 10th day of mandatory quarantine.This comes after the World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday urged Southeast Asian countries not to let their “guards down” and increase surveillance, boost health and social measures, and intensify vaccination coverage as the world grapples to combat the omicron Covid-19 variant.In a statement, WHO Southeast Asia director Poonam Khetrapal Singh said that countries in the region must gauge the risk of import of omicron variant via international travel and adopt measures accordingly to tackle it.“The more Covid-19 circulates, the more opportunities the virus will have to change and mutate, and the pandemic will last longer,” she added in the statement.Also Read | Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, testsShe stated that till now 31 per cent of the southeast Asian region’s population is fully vaccinated against coronavirus, while 21 per cent has been partially jabbed. “Nearly 48 per cent of about a billion people are yet to receive even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine,” Singh noted.Japan is among a host of nations, which have imposed travel restrictions or bans on travellers from African nations owing to fear over the omicron Covid-19 variant. The B.1.1.529 variant has been listed by the WHO under its ‘variant of concern’ category, causing paranoia in the global sphere. Although the global health agency said that studies are still being done on the new Covid-19 variant to understand it, scientists have pointed out that it can undergo nearly 30 mutations in the coronavirus protein that determines its transmissibility among people.As far as India is concerned, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level review meeting on Saturday where discussions pertaining to the country’s Covid-19 situation amid the omicron threat were held for two hours. Multiple states, including Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Delhi, among others, have announced flight bans, mandatory RT-PCR tests and vaccination proof for travellers coming from ‘at-risk’ countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-omicron-scare-japan-imposes-travel-curbs-on-3-more-countries-reports-101638021226631.html
27-11-2021||World||Shouldn’t let guards down’: WHO tells southeast Asian countries over omicron||The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Saturday southeast Asian countries must scale up surveillance, strengthen health and social measures and enhance vaccination coverage as several countries across the world rushed to contain omicron, a new variant of the coronavirus that has the potential to be more resistant to vaccines.Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO’s regional director of the southeast Asia region, said they should assess the risk of importation through international travel and take measures accordingly against omicron."Though COVID-19 cases have been declining in most countries of our Region, the surge in cases elsewhere in the world and confirmation of a new Variant of Concern, is a reminder of the persisting risk and the need for us to continue to do our best to protect against the virus and prevent its spread," Khetrapal Singh said in a statement."At no cost should we let our guards down," she said.Also read | Omicron variant: From flight bans to increasing testing, how states are preppingThe global health body has levelled omicron as a variant of concern because of its high number of mutations and some early evidence that it carries a higher degree of infection than other variants.Khetrapal Singh said countries must enhance surveillance and sequencing and continue comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures to prevent transmission.Also read | WHO avoids Greek alphabet Xi and names new Covid variant Omicron. Here's why"The more Covid-19 circulates, the more opportunities the virus will have to change and mutate, and the pandemic will last longer," she said.People must wear a mask covering their nose and mouth, keep a safe distance, avoid poorly ventilated or crowded spaces, keep hands clean, cover cough and sneeze and get vaccinated to reduce their risk of exposure to the coronavirus."As of today 31 per cent of the Region's population is fully vaccinated, 21% partially vaccinated while nearly 48% or about a billion people are yet to receive even a single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine," she said.Also read | Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scareEveryone must continue to take precautions even after getting vaccinated to prevent becoming infected and to infect someone else who may get severely affected by the coronavirus."We must not forget that the pandemic is far from over. As societies open up, we should not get complacent. Festivities and celebrations must include all precautionary measures. Crowds and large gatherings must be avoided. The current situation warrants further stepping up efforts on all fronts," the Regional Director said.Also read | Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, testsCases have been reported in travellers in Belgium, Israel and Hong Kong, and Germany also has said there could be a probable omicron infection. Dutch authorities are checking for omicron after 61 passengers on two flights from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19.Several countries, including the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada Iran, Japan and Thailand, the European Union and the United Kingdom have imposed restrictions on southern African countries in response to the discovery of omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-omicron-cases-spread-who-s-warning-to-southeast-asian-countries-101638012596682.html
27-11-2021||World||WHO avoids Greek alphabet Xi and names new Covid variant Omicron. Here's why||The new variant of Covid identified first in South Africa has been named omicron by the World Health Organization on Friday. The variants of SARS-CoV-2 are named after Greek alphabets, but for naming omicron, the experts skipped two letters Nu and Xi and chose omicron instead. In fact, Nu started trending on social media platforms after the news of a new Covid variant came out as Nu was the possible choice for the name of this new variant, which is believed to be more transmissible than the other variants.News of new Nu variant, but WHO is jumping the alphabet to call it Omicron, so they can avoid Xi. pic.twitter.com/UJ4xMwg52iOmicron comes next to Nu and Xi, the alphabets WHO experts have cautiously avoided. According to experts, Nu has been avoided as this alphabet is confusing with the English word new. And Xi has been avoided so that the name is not misconstrued as a reference to Chinese premier Xi Jinping.Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, testsIf the WHO is this scared of the Chinese Communist Party, how can they be trusted to call them out the next time they're trying to cover up a catastrophic global pandemic? https://t.co/wURdLcdqw2Paul Nuki, senior editor of the Telegraph shared a quote from a source in WHO who said the alphabets have been deliberately avoided. "Nu had been skipped to avoid confusion with the word new and Xi had been skipped to avoid stigmatising a region," the court read, without mentioning the region."If the WHO is this scared of the Chinese Communist Party, how can they be trusted to call them out the next time they're trying to cover up a catastrophic global pandemic?" Senator Ted Cruz tweeted.Omicron is the 15th letter of the Greek alphabet. The letter is derived from the Phoenician letter ayin."Based on the evidence presented indicative of a detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology, the TAG-VE has advised WHO that this variant should be designated as a VOC, and the WHO has designated B.1.1.529 as a VOC, named Omicron," the WHO said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-avoids-greek-alphabet-xi-and-names-new-covid-variant-omicron-here-s-why-101638005924029.html
27-11-2021||World||26/11 Mumbai attacks: Memorial event for victims held in Canada||Anirudh Bhattacharyya I Edited by Amit ChandaThe 13th anniversary of the 26/11 terror attacks was marked by India’s high commission in Ottawa, with a solemn memorial event for the victims.The event was attended by envoys from some of the nations that lost its citizens in the attacks, perpetrated by a 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists from Pakistan. The LeT remains a banned terrorist organisation in Canada.Floral tributes were paid to the two Canadian victims, Elizabeth Russell and Dr Michael Moss, who were both in the Oberoi Trident Hotel. The attacks continued from November 26, 2008 through November 29.The countries represented at the memorial event in Ottawa on Friday included France, Israel, Italy, Japan, Thailand and the Netherlands. In all, of the 165 total victims, 26 were foreign nationals.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria pointed out that the “perpetrators of this heinous terrorist attacks were yet to be brought to justice”.Canada was represented at the solemn service by David Hartman, director-general, South Asia, Global Affairs Canada, the country’s foreign ministry.A short film in memory of the victims of the terror attack, still awaiting justice, was also screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2611-mumbai-attacks-memorial-event-for-victims-held-in-canada-101638005516593.html
27-11-2021||World||In Brussels demonstration on 26/11 anniversary, Pakistan slammed||A demonstration was held in Brussels on Friday, the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 attacks in Mumbai. Around 25 people gathered in front of the European Parliament in the Belgian capital and condemned the attacks.The demonstrators also slammed Pakistan's terror acts and proxy war against India. They chanted slogans against Pakistan and condemned manifestation of terrorist acts in any form and for any purpose.One of the organisers said the group members' hearts go out to people who lost their loved ones in the terror attack that shook India's financial capital to its core.The attacks took place on November 26, 2008, when a group of 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists from Pakistan went on a rampage, killing over 160 people, including 26 nationals from 15 countries, and severely injuring more than 300 people.They carried out coordinated attacks on a railway station, a luxury hotel and a Jewish centre in Mumbai. The terrorists sneaked into India's financial capital using the sea route in the Arabian Sea.Two of those killed in the attacks were Canadian nationals. A remembrance day at in Toronto's Dundas Square on Friday to commemorate the victims. The organisers of the event urged the Canadian government to ask Pakistan to prosecute all the conspirators including the state actors so that the families can finally experience a sense of closure.In the United States, which lost six of its citizens in the attacks, the Indian embassy organised a solemn event within its premises in Washington to mark the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks.The event was marked by the lighting of candles by dignitaries. This was followed by observing one-minute silence in memory of the victims of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-brussels-demonstration-on-26-11-anniversary-pakistan-slammed-101638001006663.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, tests||Omicron, the recently-discovered variant of the coronavirus which was first detected in southern Africa, has been declared to be a variant of concern by the World Health Organization (WHO).The WHO said on Friday that omicron, named after a letter in the Greek alphabet, was first reported to it from South Africa on November 24 and the first known confirmed infection was from a specimen collected on November 9.“Based on the evidence presented indicative of a detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology, the TAG-VE has advised WHO that this variant should be designated as a VOC, and the WHO has designated B.1.1.529 as a VOC, named Omicron,” the global health body said in a statement.Several countries are scrambling to contain the spread of omicron and have banned flights from south African countries even as stock markets and oil prices plunged on fears surrounding the variant, potentially dealing a heavy blow to the global economic recovery.Also read | PM Modi chairs key Covid-19 meet, virtually meets top govt officialsThe UN health agency said it could take several weeks to complete studies of omicron to see if there are any changes in transmissibility, severity or implications for Covid vaccines, tests and treatments.What are the risks associated with omicron variant?Scientists have said the omicron variant appears to have a high number of mutations — about 30 — in the coronavirus’ spike protein, which could affect how easily it spreads to people.The WHO, which convened a meeting of a group of experts on Friday to assess the data, said that “preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection with this variant,” as compared to other variants. “The number of cases of this variant appears to be increasing in almost all provinces in South Africa,” the health body said.Also watch | Omicron: Why this Covid ‘variant of concern’ is deemed more dangerous than DeltaWhat are the symptoms of omicron variant?South Africa’s National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) has said that “currently no unusual symptoms have been reported following infection with the B.1.1.529 variant.”NICD also said that as with other infectious variants such as Delta, some of those infected with the omicron variant of the coronavirus are asymptomatic.Will the same tests detect omicron?According to the WHO, current SARS-CoV-2 PCR diagnostics continue to detect this variant. “Several labs have indicated that for one widely used PCR test, one of the three target genes is not detected (called S gene dropout or S gene target failure) and this test can therefore be used as marker for this variant, pending sequencing confirmation,” it said in the statement.Also read | Omicron: Why is the new coronavirus variant so scary? Experts explain“Using this approach, this variant has been detected at faster rates than previous surges in infection, suggesting that this variant may have a growth advantage.”What can countries and individuals do?The WHO said that countries can enhance surveillance and sequencing efforts to better understand circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants. They can submit complete genome sequences and associated metadata to a publicly available database, such as GISAID.They can also report initial cases or clusters associated with the Variant of Concern (VOC) infection to the WHO through the IHR mechanism.Also read | Omicron: Everything about new coronavirus variant, 'most concerning' since deltaCountries can also perform field investigations and laboratory assessments to improve understanding of the potential impacts of the VOC on Covid-19 “epidemiology, severity, the effectiveness of public health and social measures, diagnostic methods, immune responses, antibody neutralization, or other relevant characteristics.”People should continue to follow measures to reduce their risk of Covid-19, including wearing well-fitting masks, following hand hygiene and physical distancing, improving ventilation of indoor spaces, avoiding crowded spaces, and getting vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-covid-variant-what-do-we-know-about-risks-symptoms-tests-101637993949320.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron variant: Canada bans entry from 7 southern African nations||Reacting to the emergence of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the Canadian government has barred all non-Canadians who have been in seven southern African nations over the past 14 days from entering the country.This measure will be in place till January 31, 2022 as concerns over the new variant rise globally after the World Health Organization classified it as one of “concern”. No cases related to this variant have been detected in Canada as yet.These measures come as Canada experiences an increase in new infections, tracking the progress of the pandemic in Europe. The period between November 18 and 25 marked an increase of 9% in average daily cases, as 2,608. Canada recorded 3,055 new infections on Friday, taking the total to 1,782,171 including 29,618 deaths.The countries that will be impacted by the ban on travel are South Africa, Eswatini, Lesotho, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, and Namibia. “Foreign nationals who have travelled in any of these countries within the previous 14 days will not be permitted entry into Canada,” a statement from the country’s health ministry said.“These new measures are being put in place out of an abundance of caution,” minister of health Jean-Yves Duclos said.Canadian citizens and permanent residents will be allowed to return to the country but will face a stringent testing and quarantine regimen.All travellers arriving by air will be required to remain in a designated quarantine facility while they await results of a test conducted upon them on arrival at a Canadian airport. They will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine regardless of vaccination status and will retake the test on the eighth day after they reach Canada. As there are no direct flights between these southern African nations and Canada, travellers will have to have a negative result of a molecular test done within 72 hours at the last point of departure, the third country, before they are allowed to board an airplane bound for Canada.In a statement, Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam said that “due to the potential for increased transmissibility, and the possibility of increased resistance to vaccine-induced protection, we are concerned about this new variant and closely monitoring the evolving situation”.She added that nationally, “the daily case counts have been slowly creeping up so we need to maintain a high degree of caution to avoid a rapid acceleration”.These developments come as Canadian health authorities started administering doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech paediatric vaccine to children aged between five and 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-variant-canada-bans-entry-from-6-southern-african-nations-101637993874795.html
27-11-2021||World||Dutch authorities find dozens of Covid-19 cases on 2 flights from South Africa||Dutch health authorities said that dozens of people who arrived in Amsterdam on two flights from South Africa on Friday are likely infected with Covid-19, and they are conducting further testing to see if people are infected with the recently discovered Omicron coronavirus variant.Around 600 passengers arrived at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport on the two KLM flights on Friday and then faced hours of delays and testing due to concerns over the new virus variant. On the basis of initial testing, the Dutch health ministry estimated there may be around 85 positive cases among the passengers."Travelers with a positive test result will be placed in isolation at a hotel at or near Schiphol," health authorities said in a statement."Of the positive test results, we are researching as quickly as possible whether they are the new variant of concern, now named 'Omicron'."The Dutch government banned all air travel from southern Africa early on Friday. Health Minister Hugo de Jonge said that passengers already en route to the Netherlands would have to undergo testing and quarantine upon arrival.Passengers on the two KLM flights, from Cape Town and Johannesburg, said they were kept waiting on the tarmac for hours."Vigorous applause because there is a BUS that has come to take us ... somewhere," tweeted New York Times journalist Stephanie Nolen, a passenger on the flight from Johannesburg."Bus to a hall to a huge queue. I can see Covid testers in bright blue PPE far on the distance. Still no snacks for the sad babies," she added in a second tweet.A spokesperson for the health authorities in Kennemerland, the Dutch region that oversees Schiphol, said the positive cases were being analysed by a Dutch academic medical hospital to determine whether they are the new strain.The Dutch government separately on Friday announced the nighttime closure of bars, restaurants and most stores as it grapples with a record-breaking wave of Covid-19 cases that is swamping its healthcare system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-authorities-find-dozens-of-covid-19-cases-on-2-flights-from-south-africa-101637988535088.html
27-11-2021||World||List of countries which have imposed travel ban in wake of Omicron outbreak||Anxieties have risen and countries across the world have started imposing restrictions after the discovery of a new coronavirus variant in southern Africa which is said to be highly transmissible. The United States, Canada, Russia, and others joined the European Union restricting travel for visitors from the affected region where the B.1.1.529 variant -- now being called Omicron -- brought on a fresh surge of infections.The World Health Organization (WHO) has already categorised Omicron as a ‘variant of concern’ and warned that it could pose greater risks than Delta. The new variant has now spread to travellers in Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel.Here’s a list of restrictions around the world:United States, Canada, BrazilThe United States imposed travel prohibition from the region, with exceptions for US citizens and permanent residents and for a few other categories, including spouses and other close family.Canada and Brazil have also imposed similar travel restrictions for southern Africa, where a new Covid strain labelled a "variant of concern".Britain, European UnionBritain and EU countries introduced travel restrictions on Friday, some within hours of learning of the variant. EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen asserted that flights will have to “be suspended until we have a clear understanding about the danger posed by this new variant, and travelers returning from this region should respect strict quarantine rules.”Saudi ArabiaSaudi Arabia also suspended flights to and from South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Lesotho and Eswatini over concerns related to the new coronavirus variant, the state news agency (SPA) reported on Friday.Japan, RussiaThe Japanese government imposed quarantine rules for Japanese nationals arriving from Eswatini, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Botswana, South Africa and Lesotho. Such travellers will have to be isolated at government-dedicated accommodations for 10 days and take three COVID-19 tests during that time. Russia also announced travel restrictions effective Sunday.AustraliaAustralia is the latest to ban flights from nine southern African countries on Saturday, tightening its borders again to prevent the entry of the Omicron variant. Non-Australians who visited South Africa, Zimbabwe and several other nations in the past fortnight will also be barred from Australia, Health Minister Greg Hunt announced today. Meanwhile, Australian citizens will have to undergo a supervised 14-day quarantine.IndiaOn the other hand, India has not imposed any travel ban for flights from the affected region. The Union health ministry, however, directed states to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong – that have reported cases of the new variant so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/list-of-countries-which-have-imposed-travel-ban-in-wake-of-omicron-outbreak-101637988466896.html
27-11-2021||World||19 dead, 32 injured as bus carrying pilgrims in Central Mexico crashes||Nineteen people died and 32 more were injured after a bus apparently carrying pilgrims to a religious site in central Mexico crashed on Friday.State officials said the bus apparently lost its brakes and slammed into a building in the State of Mexico.Six of the victims suffered injuries so severe they were flown to hospital in Toluca, the state capital.Ricardo de la Cruz, the assistant state interior secretary, said the accident occurred in the township of Joquicingo, southwest of Mexico City.The bus was heading from the western state of Michoacan to Chalma, a town that has been visited by Roman Catholic pilgrims for centuries.There was no immediate information on the condition of the injured passengers. Many Mexicans go on religious pilgrimages as Dec. 12, the day of the Virgin of Guadalupe, approaches.Because they often walk or bike on narrow roads or travel in aging buses, accidents are not uncommon.Mexico State borders Mexico City on three sides, and includes both remote rural villages and crowded suburbs of the capital.Chalma was a site sacred in pre-Hispanic times before the 1521 conquest. After the Spanish came, believers say, a cross miraculously appeared in a cave that had been dedicated to an Aztec god, making Chalma a Christian pilgrimage site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/19-dead-32-injured-as-bus-carrying-pilgrims-in-central-mexico-crashes-101637988040824.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron: New York declares state of emergency amid threat of new coronavirus variant||New York governor Kathy Hochul declared a state of emergency on Friday due to a rise in Covid-19 cases in the state and the threat of the omicron variant.She said the variant hasn’t yet been detected in the state but that she decided to sign an executive order to allow the health department to limit non-essential, non-urgent procedures at hospitals and acquire critical supplies more quickly. The order takes effect on December 3 and will be re-assessed based on the latest data on January 15.“We continue to see warning signs of spikes this upcoming winter, and while the new omicron variant has yet to be detected in New York state, it’s coming,” Hochul said. Earlier in the month, Hochul blamed vaccine holdouts for a rise in hospitalizations, saying that a worsening situation was avoidable if people would get the shots. She also discouraged large indoor gatherings for Thanksgiving, saying then that “we are heading into a vulnerable time.”President Joe Biden on Friday imposed fresh travel restrictions on nations in southern Africa, where the omicron variant was first detected, joining efforts by other countries to try and slow the spread of a potentially potent new Covid-19 variant.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said late Friday that no omicron cases have been identified so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-new-york-declares-state-of-emergency-amid-threat-of-new-coronavirus-variant-101637986871209.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron: Why the new coronavirus variant is so scary? Experts explain||The omicron variant of the coronavirus has an already stressed world more worried. The variant, first discovered in Botswana in southern Africa, is believed to be spreading faster than the delta variant - the world-dominant strain.Also Read | All you need to know about the omicron variantHowever, the scientists are saying that more studies are needed to understand if the omicron (or B.1.1.529) - categorised as 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO) - is indeed leading to more hospitalisations and fatalities.Dubbed as 'super strain' by healthcare experts, omicron has more than 30 mutations - more than any other variants and twice as many as delta.What are the concerns around the omicron variant?According to preliminary studies conducted on the new variant, it makes vaccines 40 per cent less effective. This is due to 32 mutations in the spike protein.According to health experts based in the UK, cited by Daily Mail, two of these mutations - R203K and G204R - help the virus replicate faster. Three of these mutations - H655Y, N679K and P681H - help it to sneak into the into the body's cells more easily, they said. The presence of last two mutations together, a rare occurrence, also indicate omicron is more resistant to vaccines.The experts also said that omicron is missing a membrane protein (NSP6) - seen in earlier iterations of the virus - which could make it more infectious.However, scientists has said that more studies are needed before concrete results are established about the omicron variant and its behaviour.Where did omicron originate?The variant originated in southern part of Africa earlier this month, according to WHO, and brought on a fresh surge of infections.Omicron has now been seen in travellers to Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel as well as in southern Africa.The global responseA number of countries, including the United States, have imposed a travel ban on African countries due to emergence of omicron, which has led to 320% surge in infection in the continent.These countries are: South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi and Mozambique.Where has the omicron variant spread?Two confirmed cases have been reported in Hong Kong, and one each in Israel and Belgium. Three others are suspected be carrying the strain in Israel.In case of Hong Kong, a man contracted the strain in South Africa and another one who was staying in another room also got it from him. Israel's confirmed case is a man, who recently travelled to Malawi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-why-is-the-new-coronavirus-variant-is-so-deadly-experts-explain-101637984320174.html
27-11-2021||World||'Better to err on side of caution': WTO postpones in-person ministerial conference over Omicron outbreak||The World Trade Organization postponed its in-person ministerial conference in Geneva as Switzerland tightened travel restrictions following the discovery of a new strain of the coronavirus.WTO members took the decision at an emergency meeting held on Friday night to discuss possible alternative arrangements for their ministerial conference. The conference will be convened as soon as conditions allow, General Council Chair Dacio Castillo said in a statement.“My priority is the health and safety of all MC12 participants -- ministers, delegates and civil society,” Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said. “It is better to err on the side of caution.”The Swiss government announced a ban on all direct flights from southern Africa after the World Health Organization said new, potentially riskier strain named omicron is a variant of concern. Beginning Friday all people entering Switzerland from southern Africa, Hong Kong, Israel and Belgium must present a negative Covid-19 test and go into quarantine for 10 days, according to a statement from the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health. Countries across Europe halted air travel from southern Africa amid growing concern about the variant. European Union members agreed to rapidly impose restrictions on seven African countries -- Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe -- as scientists scrambled to determine whether the new strain is more dangerous.The sudden change may prevent trade ministers from reaching agreements on critical issues relating to a waiver of the WTO’s intellectual-property rules for vaccines and therapeutics. Approximately 4,000 trade officials were planning to travel to Geneva for the WTO’s 12th ministerial conference, a gathering of the organization’s highest decision-making body.The meeting, which was scheduled to take place from Nov. 30 to Dec. 3, presented a rare opportunity for governments to deliver real outcomes that impact the lives of everyday people.WTO ministerial meetings typically take place every two years but there has not been a ministerial conference since 2017 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/better-to-err-on-side-of-caution-wto-postpones-in-person-ministerial-conference-over-omicron-outbreak-101637979425416.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron: Everything about new coronavirus variant, 'most concerning' since delta||A new variant of the coronavirus that causes the deadly Covid-19 infection is now wreaking havoc across the world, concerning health experts. Some have already dubbed omicron as the "most concerning" since the delta variant, which fuelled relentless waves of infection on every continent some months ago.The B.1.1.529 variant is considered dangerous due to its increased transmissibility.Also Read | Will develop booster shot for new Covid variant: ModernaCountries raced to halt air travel, markets fell sharply and scientists held emergency meetings to weigh the exact risks, which were largely unknown.The World Health Organization (WHO) has already categorised omicron as variant of concern. The global health body suggested omicron could pose greater risks than delta.The Technical Advisory Group on SARS-CoV-2 Virus Evolution met today to review what is known about the #COVID19 variant B.1.1.529.They advised WHO that it should be designated a Variant of Concern.WHO has named it Omicron, in line with naming protocols https://t.co/bSbVas9yds pic.twitter.com/Gev1zIt1EkHere is everything you need to know about the new omicron variant of coronavirus:Where did omicron originate?The variant is believed to have originated in southern part of Africa (officially declared by WHO on November 24) and brought on a fresh surge of infections. The WHO said that the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9.Omicron has now been seen in travellers to Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel as well as in southern Africa.What makes it dangerous?Early evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection compared with other highly transmissible variants, according to the WHO. That means people who contracted Covid-19 and recovered could be subject to catching it again.Also Read | Omicron variant poses 'high to very high' risk to Europe: EU health agency"We must move quickly and at the earliest possible moment," British Health Secretary Sajid Javid told lawmakers on Friday.What is known about the variant?The researchers spotted the B.1.1.529 in a sample taken from Botswana in Africa. They were surprised to find that it contained more than 30 changes (mutations) to the spike protein.However, the scientists are still studying the variant and its effects further to identify if it causes more severe disease. As with other variants, some infected people display no symptoms, the doctors in South Africa said.Medical experts, including the WHO, warned against any overreaction before the variant was better understood.Dr Anthony Fauci, the US government's top infectious disease expert, said though the omicron variant is thought to be more transmissible and resistant to vaccines than other variants, "we don't know that for sure right now".The global panicThe 27-nation European Union suspended air travel from southern Africa. The United States and Canada too have instituted travel ban on those coming from South Africa.Also Read | Don’t panic, wait and watch: WHO on ‘Omicron’ variant“The last thing we need is to bring in a new variant that will cause even more problems,” German Health Minister Jens Spahn said on Friday.US Presient Joe Biden said the new variant “should make clearer than ever why this pandemic will not end until we have global vaccinations".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-all-you-need-to-know-about-latest-variant-of-coronavirus-101637972625163.html
27-11-2021||World||Will develop booster shot for new Covid variant: Moderna||The US pharmaceutical company Moderna said Friday it will develop a booster shot against the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus.It is one of three strategies the company is working to address the new threat, including a higher dose of its existing vaccine, Moderna said."The mutations in the Omicron variant are concerning and for several days, we have been moving as fast as possible to execute our strategy to address this variant," said Moderna CEO Stephane Bancel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-develop-booster-shot-for-new-covid-variant-moderna-101637967163829.html
27-11-2021||World||Countries restrict travel from southern Africa as ‘Omicron' sparks concern||The United States, Canada, Saudi Arabia and Cyprus became the latest countries Friday to restrict travel from southern Africa, where a new Covid strain labelled a "variant of concern" was discovered.The World Health Organization said the new variant is more infectious than the dominant, highly transmissible Delta strain, and renamed this B.1.1.529 strain of Covid-19 as Omicron.It has reached Europe with one confirmed case in Belgium after being found in South Africa, Botswana and then in Hong Kong.Anxious tourists in Johannesburg rushed to the airport to catch a last flight out as nations across the globe started shutting their doors, while many worried the new variant could be more resistant to vaccines.Markets plunged as news sank in that the new variant could potentially deal a heavy blow to the global recovery.US President Joe Biden said countries should donate more Covid-19 vaccines and give up intellectual property protections to manufacture more doses worldwide to stem the spread of the virus."The news about this new variant should make clearer than ever why this pandemic will not end until we have global vaccinations," he said.Scientists are now racing to determine the threat posed by the heavily mutated strain, and whether the current coronavirus vaccines should be adjusted.The WHO said earlier it could take several weeks to understand the variant and cautioned against imposing travel curbs while scientific evidence was still scant.EU officials holding an emergency meeting agreed to urge all 27 nations in the bloc to restrict travel from southern Africa, even though many members had already announced flight suspensions.'Draconian' travel bans Europe is already struggling with a coronavirus surge, and the Netherlands on Friday became the latest country to ramp up anti-Covid restrictions with the early closure of bars, restaurants and shops."From Sunday, the whole of the Netherlands is effectively closed between 5pm and 5am," Prime Minister Mark Rutte said.Belgium announced the first publicly known case of B.1.1.529 in Europe: an unvaccinated person who returned on November 11 from Egypt via Turkey. The health ministry did not give the individual's nationality, age or gender."It must be repeated that this is a suspect variant -- we don't know if it is a very dangerous variant," Belgian Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke said.Israel said it has quarantined three people, one having just returned from Malawi.Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Cyprus and the Netherlands joined Britain Friday in suspending flights from southern Africa.The United States and Canada also restricted travel from the region. The US measures go into force on Monday.Japan said it will require a 10-day quarantine period for travelers from the area.The shock measures included South Africa, as well as many of the following: Botswana, Eswatini (Swaziland), Lesotho, Namibia, Zambia, Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe.South Africa's health ministry called the global rush to impose travel bans "draconian."Germany on Friday used a military plane to transfer intensive-care patients to less afflicted regions, in an unprecedented move as it battles a vicious fourth wave of the pandemic."The last thing we need now is an introduced new variant," Germany's acting health minister Jens Spahn said.The Philippines also suspended flights from southern Africa, while Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Jordan and Morocco announced bans, as well.'Ridiculous'The rush to close off southern Africa comes a day after scientists in Johannesburg said they had detected the new strain with at least 10 mutations, compared with two for the Delta.The variant is of "serious concern" and had been blamed for a surge in infection numbers, authorities in South Africa said.Spooked European markets fell at close by three percent, with airline shares especially hit. Tokyo closed down 2.53 percent.The new variant caused Wall Street to plunge in Friday's holiday shortened session, with the Dow Jones index suffering its worst loss of the year as it plunged 2.5 percent.And next week's World Trade Organization ministerial conference, the global trade body's biggest gathering in four years, was called off at the last minute Friday due to the new variant, a source told AFP.The European Medicines Agency said it was "premature" to talk about modifying current vaccines to target the new variant.Germany's BioNTech and US drugmaker Pfizer said they were studying the variant, with impact data expected "in two weeks at the latest" to say whether their jointly developed vaccine should be adjusted if Omicron spreads globally.Moderna said it will develop a booster specific to the new variant as part of a three-pronged strategy to fight it."It's ridiculous, we will always be having new variants," one disappointed traveler in South Africa said.Tour operators deplored the quick end to the tourist season with safaris and beach holidays canceled by the thousands."This is a knee-jerk reaction but with such a strong snowball effect," said tour organizer Richard de la Rey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/countries-restrict-travel-from-southern-africa-as-omicron-sparks-concern-101637966762009.html
27-11-2021||World||Omicron variant poses 'high to very high' risk to Europe: EU health agency||The new Covid variant, dubbed Omicron and originally detected in South Africa, poses a "high to very high" risk to Europe, the EU health agency warned on Friday.The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) noted in a threat assessment report that there was still "considerable uncertainty related to the transmissibility, vaccine effectiveness, risk for reinfections and other properties of the Omicron variant."However, the overall risk that Omicron posed to the European Union and European Economic Area (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) was "high to very high."Given the possibility that current vaccines may not protect against the variant, and the fact that it may be more transmissible, "we assess the probability of further introduction and community spread in the EU/EEA as high," the Stockholm-based agency said."In a situation where the Delta variant is resurgent in the EU/EEA, the impact of the introduction and possible further spread of Omicron could be very high," it added.Apart from South Africa, Omicron has been detected in Israel in a person coming from Malawi as well as in Botswana, Hong Kong and EU member Belgium.The agency urged countries to conduct genomic sequencing and contact tracing of confirmed cases, and called for people to not travel to affected areas.The World Health Organization on Friday declared the recently-discovered strain to be a variant of concern.The classification puts Omicron into the most-troubling category of Covid-19 variants, along with the globally-dominant Delta, plus its weaker rivals Alpha, Beta and Gamma.Nations rushed to ban flights to slow the spread of Omicron on Friday, while stock markets and oil prices plunged on fears surrounding the variant, potentially dealing a heavy blow to the global economic recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/omicron-variant-poses-high-to-very-high-risk-to-europe-eu-health-agency-101637966536511.html
27-11-2021||World||Don’t panic, wait and watch: WHO on ‘Omicron’ variant||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday classified the new coronavirus variant detected in South Africa as a “variant of concern”, naming it Omicron. The announcement came late on Friday after a closed-door meeting of experts from WHO gathered to assess the variant.Also Read | Omicron: Everything about new coronavirus variant, 'most concerning' since deltaEarlier in the day, WHO had urged countries not to panic and cautioned against “hasty measures”, even as a slew of nations across the world reacted with alarm to the news.Several nations, particularly those in Europe, started banning flights from South Africa and neighbouring nations.A day earlier in India, the Union health ministry had directed states to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong – the countries that had till then reported cases of the new variant. As of late Friday night, infections outside of Africa were confirmed in at least three nations – Hong Kong, Israel and Belgium.Global scientists are still trying to determine whether the new variant — also known as the B.1.1.529 — is more transmissible or more lethal than previous ones, but it does have the most mutations of any strain yet identified.Susan Hopkins, chief medical adviser to the UK Health Security Agency, told BBC radio the variant has about 30 mutations “that seem relevant” – double the number seen in the highly-transmissible Delta variant.This has raised concerns across the world, with authorities fearing a wave of infections much worse than what was witnessed during the dreaded Delta wave outbreaks.New cases in South Africa, where it was first discovered, have grown more than 320% in the past week.Of particular concern is the situation in Guateng province, where test positivity in a particular region jumped from 1% to over 30% in just three weeks. Sequencing there showed almost all recent samples are of B.1.1.529, out-competing Delta in a way never seen before anywhere in the world.German biotech company BioNTech, which has developed one of the most widely used Covid-19 vaccines with Pfizer, has begun studying the new variant and expects the first data from laboratory tests about how it interacts with its vaccine within two weeks.The WHO said it would take weeks to determine how effective vaccines were against the new variant, but the news nevertheless pummelled global stocks amid fears what new bans would do to the global travel industry and already shaky economies. Markets slid heavily across Asia, Europe and then finally in the US where early trading led to a post-Thanksgiving selloff.In Geneva, the WHO – whose experts gathered on Friday to discuss the variant – cautioned countries not to jump to conclusions and warned against “knee-jerk” travel curbs.“At this point, implementing travel measures is being cautioned against,” WHO spokesperson Christian Lindmeier said. “The WHO recommends that countries continue to apply a risk-based and scientific approach when implementing (curbs).”The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention agreed and it “strongly discourages the imposition of travel ban for people originating from countries that have reported this variant,” it said in a statement. It added that “over the duration of this pandemic, we have observed that imposing bans on travellers from countries where a new variant is reported has not yielded a meaningful outcome.”All those urgings, however, fell on deaf ears.Early in the day, European Commission president Ursula Von der Leyen proposed to activate an emergency ban for air travel from southern Africa until there’s a clearer understanding of the potential dangers.Minutes later, the UK became the first European country to ban flights from South Africa and five other southern African countries effective noon on Friday.Soon enough, travel bans being enacted by countries across Europe and beyond.Germany said its flight ban could be enacted on Friday night. Spain said airlines coming back from South Africa will only be able to transport citizens home, and travellers will need to go into quarantine for 14 days whether or not they are vaccinated.France suspended all flights arriving from the southern African region for 48 hours. Italy also banned entry of anyone who has been in these southern nations in the past 14 days. The Netherlands and the Czech Republic are planning similar measures.Belgium’s government announced the first publicly known case of B.1.1.529 in Europe: an unvaccinated person who returned on November 11 from Egypt via Turkey.By late Friday night, travel bans of varying degrees had been announced by countries like Saudi Arabia, Brazil, Greece, Morocco, among others.In Washington, top US infectious disease official Anthony Fauci said no decision had been made on a possible travel ban to the United States. There was no indication that the variant was in the US, and it was unclear whether it was resistant to current vaccines, he told CNN.Israel imposed a travel ban covering most of Africa as Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said a few cases of the new strain had been reported there.Local news reported that, according to the health ministry, one of those individuals had received a third shot, or booster, of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine two months ago.“We are currently on the verge of a state of emergency,” Bennett said.The latest threat in a nearly two-year-long battle against Sars-CoV-2 comes just as the latest wave of infections spirals out of control in countries from Germany to Belgium to Austria. Some parts of Europe are already back in lockdown due to a massive spike in cases in recent weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dont-panic-wait-and-watch-who-on-omicron-variant-101637966201335.html
27-11-2021||World||19 dead, 32 injured in Mexico pilgrimage bus crash||Nineteen people died and 32 more were injured after a bus apparently carrying pilgrims to a religious site in central Mexico crashed.State officials said the bus apparently lost its brakes and slammed into a building in the State of Mexico Friday.Six of the victims suffered injuries so severe they were flown to hospital in Toluca, the state capital.Ricardo de la Cruz, the assistant state interior secretary, said the accident occurred in the township of Joquicingo, southwest of Mexico City.The bus was heading from the western state of Michoacan to Chalma, a town that has been visited by Roman Catholic pilgrims for centuries.There was no immediate information on the condition of the injured passengers. Many Mexicans go on religious pilgrimages as December 12, the day of the Virgin of Guadalupe, approaches.Because they often walk or bike on narrow roads or travel in aging buses, accidents are not uncommon.Mexico State borders Mexico City on three sides, and includes both remote rural villages and crowded suburbs of the capital.Chalma was a site sacred in pre-Hispanic times before the 1521 conquest. After the Spanish came, believers say, a cross miraculously appeared in a cave that had been dedicated to an Aztec god, making Chalma a Christian pilgrimage site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/19-dead-32-injured-in-mexico-pilgrimage-bus-crash-101637965393731.html
27-11-2021||World||New Covid variant: US to curb travel from 8 southern African countries||The United States will bar entry to most travelers from eight southern African countries beginning next week over concerns about a new coronavirus variant found in South Africa, President Joe Biden said on Friday.The restrictions, which go into effect Monday, do not ban flights or apply to US citizens and lawful US permanent residents, a Biden administration official said.The US is among countries around the world that rushed to suspend travel from southern Africa on news over the new variant, named omicron, which the World Health Organization said was "of concern."The restrictions apply to South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi. Most non-US citizens who have been in those countries within the prior 14 days will not be allowed into the United States."As a precautionary measure until we have more information, I am ordering additional air travel restrictions from South Africa and seven other countries," Biden said in a statement. "These new restrictions will take effect on November 29. As we move forward, we will continue to be guided by what the science and my medical team advises."Another administration official warned that the United States could add countries to the restriction list if the variant spreads.Delta Air Lines and United Airlines both fly to South Africa and United is set to resume nonstop flights from Newark to Cape Town on Dec. 1. Shares of both airlines closed down more than 8% Friday.Biden on Friday called on nations meeting at the World Trade Organization next week to agree to waive intellectual property protections for COVID-19 vaccines in the wake of the discovery of the new variant."The news about this new variant should make clearer than ever why this pandemic will not end until we have global vaccinations," Biden said in a statement.Some public health experts have said the United States has not done enough to provide vaccines overseas, particularly as it pushed forward with booster shots for its own citizens.Earlier, top US infectious disease official Dr. Anthony Fauci said the United States was rushing to gather data on the new Covid-19 variant.It could take weeks for scientists to fully understand the variant's mutations. Health authorities are seeking to determine if omicron is more transmissible or infectious than other variants and if vaccines are effective against it.The United States only lifted travel restrictions on South Africa on Nov. 8.One administration official said the restrictions are expected to take effect at 12:01 a.m. EST Monday and came after a high-level administration meeting Friday afternoon to discuss the issue.The Biden administration was holding a briefing with US airlines to discuss the restrictions on Friday.In January, Biden imposed a ban on most non-US citizens entering the country who had recently been in South Africa.The United States only lifted the travel curbs on 33 countries including South Africa, China, much of Europe, India, Brazil, Ireland, Britain and Iran on Nov. 8 after blocking the entry of most foreign nationals who had recently been in those countries since beginning in early 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-covid-variant-us-to-curb-travel-from-8-southern-african-countries-101637958589933.html
27-11-2021||World||Zero-Covid policy: Curbs in Shanghai over 3 cases||Hundreds of flights were cancelled, some schools shut and tour groups suspended on Friday after three coronavirus cases were reported in Shanghai, as China continues its strict zero-Covid policy.Beijing has largely succeeded in controlling the spread of the coronavirus within its borders through travel restrictions and snap lockdowns, but frequent domestic flare-ups have tested its no-tolerance strategy in recent months.The three positive cases are friends who travelled to the nearby city of Suzhou together last week, Shanghai health authorities said at a press conference on Thursday evening - adding that all had been fully vaccinated.Over 500 flights from Shanghai’s two major airports were cancelled on Friday, data from flight tracker VariFlight showed.Czech President Milos Zeman returned to hospital hours after being released on Thursday as he tested positive for Covid-19.The 77-year-old leftwinger was hospitalised on October 10 and treated for liver problems that doctors have suggested could be cirrhosis.Merck’s pill shows lower efficacy in updated dataMerck said on Friday updated data from its study on its experimental Covid pill showed the drug was significantly less effective in cutting hospitalisations and deaths than previously reported.The drugmaker said its pill showed a 30% reduction in hospitalisations and deaths, based on data from over 1,400 patients. In October, its data showed a roughly 50% efficacy, based on data from 775 patients.Merck released the data before the US Food and Drug Administration published a set of documents on Friday intended to brief a panel of outside experts who will meet on Tuesday to discuss whether to recommend authorising the pill.England’s R number rises, likely above 1England’s Covid weekly reproduction “R” number has risen and is likely to be above one, with latest estimates showing it between 1.0 and 1.1, the UK Health Security Agency said on Friday. An R number between 1.0 and 1.1 means that for every 10 people infected, they will on average infect between 10 and 11 other people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zerocovid-policy-curbs-in-shanghai-over-3-cases-101637958070323.html
27-11-2021||World||Get serious, angry Macron tells UK over migrant crisis||France cancelled talks with Boris Johnson’s government on how to stop people trying to reach the UK in small boats and Emmanuel Macron slammed the British premier for not being “serious,” in a dramatic deterioration of a relationship severely strained by Brexit.French interior minister Gerald Darmanin scrapped planned discussions on Sunday with his UK counterpart Priti Patel. He will instead focus on talks with European Union ministers, Macron told reporters during a visit to Rome. The French president also criticised Johnson for posting on Twitter a letter he wrote demanding France takes the migrants back.“I am surprised by methods when they are not serious; a leader doesn’t communicate with another by tweets or letter that is made public,” Macron said. France will see about working with the British “if they decide to be serious,” he added.The UK and France have been at loggerheads on issues from defence to trade since Britain’s divorce from the EU. There are personal tensions, too, between Johnson and Macron, evident in the fallout over Australia’s decision in September to ditch a French submarine contract in favour of an agreement with the US and the UK.In another dispute that also derives from the intensifying animosity between the two countries, French fishermen blocked access to ports in northern France to try to heap pressure on the UK over post-Brexit fishing licenses. They also jammed the ramp leading to the Eurotunnel freight terminal between Britain and France near Calais from 2pm - 4pm Police officers said there were no tensions, no violence. At the British end, traffic was flowing freely into the terminal with no reported delays.“This is a warning shot,” Gerard Romiti, head of France’s leading fishing union, said by phone. “I wish we weren’t forced to do this but we are. We need to stand by our fishermen.”Philippe Fait, the mayor of Etaples-sur-mer, a fishing town of 12,000 inhabitants, was among the protesters at the freight terminal. He said there’s been an impact on his community since some haven’t received licenses to fish.“We want the Brexit accord to be delivered” by the year’s end, Fait said, calling Brussels to flex its muscles.The broader rift between the UK and France has hampered efforts to agree a joint approach to tackling the small boats crisis in the Channel. After at least 27 died when their boat capsized on Wednesday, Johnson criticized France for not doing enough to prevent people from making the crossings.France has already repeatedly rejected the idea of joint patrols on sovereignty grounds. The idea of a returns agreement is also politically sensitive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/get-serious-angry-macron-tells-uk-over-migrant-crisis-101637957876076.html
27-11-2021||World||Justice long overdue in Mumbai attacks: US secy of state||US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Friday, the 13th anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks, said justice was long overdue, and without directly naming Pakistan, expressed frustration with the country for dragging its feet on punishing the perpetrators of the attacks.“Thirteen years have passed since the 26/11 terrorist attack in Mumbai,” Blinken wrote in a tweet. “On today’s anniversary, we remember the victims, including six Americans, and the resiliency of Mumbaikars.”“It is long overdue for the perpetrators to face justice,” he added.On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists.Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country’s elite commando force. Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.India and several other countries, including the US, the UK and France, have repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 attacks to justice, but no such firm initiative has been taken yet by Islamabad.The US tried and punished David Headley, a Pakistan-American, who had visited India to scout the targets hit by the attackers. He is currently serving a 35-year jail term.Tahawwur Rana, a Canadian-Pakistani, was also sentenced in the US to 14 years of imprisonment for providing support to LeT.Pakistan has dragged its feet prosecuting Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed and Zaki-ur-Rahman, the man who directly led the operations, even as India has shared detailed evidence with Islamabad on a number of occasions.The National Investigation Agency has already completed its probe against all the perpetrators and shared detailed evidence with Pakistani authorities several times, but there has been no response till date.Saeed was arrested and released several times by the Pakistan government, prompting the former Donald Trump-led US administration, on one occasion, to warn of “repercussions”.He was finally sentenced to 10 years in jail in 2020 in two terror cases.Rahman, likewise, was finally tried and convicted in January this year for of terror financing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justice-long-overdue-in-mumbai-attacks-us-secy-of-state-101637950607239.html
27-11-2021||World||New Russian module docks with International Space Station||A Russian cargo craft carrying a new docking module successfully hooked up with the International Space Station Friday after a two-day space journey.The new spherical module, named Prichal (Pier), docked with the orbiting outpost at 6:19 p.m. Moscow time (1519 GMT). It has six docking ports and will allow potential future expansion of the Russian segment of the station.The module has moored to the docking port of the new Russian Nauka (Science) laboratory module.On Wednesday, a Soyuz rocket took off from the Russian launch facility in Baikonur, Kazakhstan, carrying the Progress cargo ship with Prichal attached to it. After entering space, the cargo ship with the module went into orbit.Progress is also delivering 700 kilos of various cargoes to the space station and is expected to undock from the station on Dec. 22.The first Soyuz spacecraft is expected to dock at the new module on March 18, 2022, with a crew of three cosmonauts: Oleg Artemyev, Denis Matveev and Sergei Korsakov.Earlier this week, the Russian crew on the station started training for the module’s arrival, simulating the use of manual controls in case the automatic docking system failed.The space outpost is currently operated by NASA astronauts Raja Chari, Thomas Marshburn, Kayla Barron, and Mark Vande Hei; Russian cosmonauts Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov; and Matthias Maurer of the European Space Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-russian-module-docks-with-international-space-station-101637943256069.html
27-11-2021||World||‘Let’s listen to scientists and not panic’: WHO’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan on new coronavirus variant||While the emergence of a new Covid-19 variant B.1.1.529 has caused panic among countries, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Friday said that the WHO’s technical advisory group on SARS-CoV-2 virus evolution (TAG VE) would hold a meeting to review the situation and conduct further studies regarding the variant. She also urged nations to not panic and focus on the vaccination programmes and strengthen public health measures.“The @WHO technical advisory group on #SARSCoV2 virus evolution will meet today to review what's known and plan further studies,” Swaminathan tweeted. “Meanwhile, we need to focus on strengthening vaccination coverage and public health measures. Let's be cautious, listen to scientists & not panic,” she added.The @WHO technical advisory group on #SARSCoV2 virus evolution will meet today to review what's known and plan further studies. Meanwhile, we need to focus on strengthening vaccination coverage and public health measures. Let's be cautious, listen to scientists & not panic. https://t.co/Kvq6oxZWG3The emphasis on listening to scientists from the WHO’s chief scientist came after the UN health agency’s spokesperson Christian Lindmeier cautioned countries against implementing travel measures. “The WHO recommends that countries continue to apply a risk-based and scientific approach when implementing travel measures,” he said, as several countries imposed restrictions on flights arriving from South Africa, where the variant was first detected, and many more countries mulling such measures.Meanwhile, a virtual meeting of the TAG VE began at 1100 hrs GMT (4.30pm IST) to discuss the classification of the variant, according to a report by AFP. Earlier in the day, technical lead of the WHO’s health emergencies program Maria Van Kerkhove too said that the group would meet to discuss the variant.Also read | A word of caution from WHO as countries rush to impose travel ban on southern Africa“I thank researchers from South Africa and Botswana for sharing information with @WHO & the world about B.1.1.529 variant that has been recently detected. We will convene our TAG-VE again today to discuss. Everyone out there: do not discriminate against countries that share their findings openly,” Kerkhove tweeted.Further, on Thursday, she also said, “There are fewer than a 100 whole genome sequences available. We don’t know very much about this yet. What we do know is that this variant has a large number of mutations. And the concern is that when you have so many mutations it can have an impact on how the virus behaves.”Noting that it might take a few weeks for the global body to understand the impact of the new variant, she said “The TAG VE will discuss if it will become a variant of interest or a variant of concern and if that’s the case then we will give it a Greek name but it is something to watch.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lets-listen-to-scientists-and-not-panic-who-s-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-on-new-coronavirus-variant-101637934248911.html
27-11-2021||World||BioNTech expects more data on new Covid variant in 2 weeks for any vaccine 'adjustment'||BioNTech is expecting more laboratory data on the new coronavirus variant detected in South Africa within two weeks in order to determine the efficacy of its vaccine, the German biotechnology company has said. BioNTech, which developed the most widely used Covid-19 vaccine in the West and is in vaccine alliance with Pfizer, said it has started investigations on the new strain B.1.1.529, reported Reuters. The Mainz-based firm added that more data on the virus variant would help determine whether the current shot would have to be reworked."We understand the concern of experts and have immediately initiated investigations on variant B.1.1.529," the company said."We expect more data from the laboratory tests in two weeks at the latest. These data will provide more information about whether B.1.1.529 could be an escape variant that may require an adjustment of our vaccine if the variant spreads globally," it added.Several European and Asian countries on Friday reacted swiftly to announce travel restrictions on southern Africa to prevent the spread of the variant with a high number of spike mutations. The World Health Organization (WHO), however, cautioned against a hasty approach, saying countries should take a "risk-based and scientific approach" when implementing travel measures."At this point, implementing travel measures is being cautioned against," WHO spokesperson Christian Lindmeier told a UN briefing in Geneva. "The WHO recommends that countries continue to apply a risk-based and scientific approach when implementing travel measures."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biontech-expects-more-data-on-new-covid-variant-in-2-weeks-for-any-vaccine-adjustment-101637930934179.html
27-11-2021||World||Canada: Physicist Sajeev John develops process to boost solar energy generation||An award-winning Indo-Canadian theoretical physicist Sajeev John has developed a process wherein sunlight can be trapped and confined in ultrathin and flexible silicon sheets, offering a far higher efficiency in generating electricity than conventional solar power technology.Applications based on the research conducted by University of Toronto professor of physics Sajeev John are currently in progress.In an interview with the Hindustan Times, Prof John, who was born in Thiruvalla in Kerala, said his design is based on “the invention of photonic crystals”, the novel materials that can trap and guide light on a microscopic scale. Certain photonic crystal architectures can be very effective in capturing sunlight and making it bounce around for a prolonged time in a thin material. As a result, the light can be absorbed almost completely in a flexible film of silicon only one-tenth the thickness of a human hair, for highly efficient electrical power generation.Traditional silicon cells are not ideal at absorbing a broad range of sunlight. While efficient at absorbing shortwave light, they perform poorly with red or near infrared light. In traditional approaches, silicon is made very thick, at 300 microns, thrice the thickness of a human hair, so as to enhance the absorption of sunlight. The problem is that in such thick solar cells, electrons excited by the sunlight need to travel a long distance to metallic contacts and before that, energy dissipates in the form of heat and some of the sunlight doesn’t get converted to electricity.John’s photonic crystal design is aimed at minimising that wastage with a much thinner structure, only 10 microns thick. “When we can do that and absorb most of the sunlight or more than what they were getting with thick silicon, it means that the photo-generated charge carriers can reach their contacts before they get distracted and de-activated by something else.”He said the photonic crystal architecture allows for cells that are 50% more efficient than those currently in use. Photonic crystals are also known as the “semiconductors of light” because they control photons much like electronic semiconductors control electrons.One utility of the invention is that thin silicon solar cells can be encapsulated in flexible sheets to generate power on surfaces like walls, or even in clothing like a winter coat that can provide a charging facility for devices like cellphones.The invention and development of photonic crystals won John Canada’s highest science and engineering prize, the prestigious Gerhard Herzberg Canada Gold Medal, this month. The award citation said John and his team had “recently applied their light-trapping ideas into the design of flexible, lightweight, thin-film silicon solar cells that can be coated on a variety of surfaces, with unprecedented sunlight capture capabilities and power-conversion efficiencies well beyond that of standard solar panels”.Research groups in the USA, Germany, Australia, and India are collaborating with John on this potentially breakthrough technology and he is hopeful that real world results leading to applications may emerge in about a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-physicist-sajeev-john-develops-process-to-boost-solar-energy-generation-101637930564848.html
27-11-2021||World||Amita Kuttner: First transgender leader of national party in Canada||An astrophysicist has become the first transgender leader of a national party in Canada, after Amita Kuttner was named as the interim Green Party head. The 30-year-old Kuttner, who is trans and non-binary, will also be the youngest leader of a national party in Canada.Dr Kuttner is a trained astrophysicist, who has researched black holes, wormholes and the early universe.Dr Amita Kuttner also contested the 2019 elections from the riding (as constituencies as called in Canada) of Burnaby North-Seymour in the province of British Columbia but was unsuccessful.Dr Kuttner also contested for the Green Party’s leadership last year before it elected Annamie Paul, who led the party into the 2021 national elections held in September.Paul, the first black person to head a national party, resigned after the elections when it could only capture two seats (down one from 2019) and 2.33% of the vote (from 6.55% previously).Dr Kuttner, who was born in North Vancouver, has roots in Hong Kong, and has been a critic of Beijing’s actions in suppressing democracy there. Dr Kuttner is also the founder of the non-profit Moonlight Institute, which explores frameworks to adapt to the climate crisis.In a statement making the announcement of the appointment, Dr Kuttner said, “I am honoured to have been selected to lead our party during this time of transition and renewal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amita-kuttner-first-transgender-leader-of-national-party-in-canada-101637930444844.html
27-11-2021||India||Odisha hikes surveillance amid fears of new variant of Covid-19||With WHO designating the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus (B.1.1.529) as a ‘Variant of Concern’, the Odisha government on Saturday asked district collectors to intensify surveillance, especially for those coming from foreign countries as isolated clusters of infections were reported from schools and colleges in the state.Director, Public Health, Niranjan Mishra said that following the Centre’s advisory for screening of passengers coming from countries where the new Covid-19 variant Omicron was detected, the state government has asked all district collectors, Municipal Commissioners to begin surveillance and testing of all passengers arriving in the state.“Those who test positive will be isolated and their samples will be sent for genome sequencing as per the protocol,” said Mishra.Officials said of the 56 MBSS students of VIMSAR medical college in Sambalpur who were infected with Covid-19 this week, swab samples of 21 students would be sent to Bhubaneswar for genome sequencing to find out why they got infected. VIMSAR Superintendent Professor Lalmohan Nayak said most of the students had taken the second dose of vaccination for Covid-19. “We wonder how so many students got infected despite being fully vaccinated,” he said.On Friday, 26 girl students of Chamakpur residential school under Thakurmunda block in Mayurbhanj district had tested positive for Covid-19 after a majority of them showed symptoms of cold and cough. Swab samples of 15 other students have been sent to Baripada District Headquarters Hospital for testing. On November 23, at least 53 students of a girls’ high school in Sundargarh district had tested positive for Covid-19.Health department officials said authorities have been asked to ensure that those who show symptoms should not be allowed in schools as per the SOP issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hikes-surveillance-amid-fears-of-new-variant-of-covid19-101638037620280.html
27-11-2021||India||Two from South Africa test Covid positive in Bengaluru amid Omicron concerns||Two travellers from South Africa have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Bengaluru and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to determine the variant, officials familiar with the matter said. While an official report is awaited, a government official said that the lab has said that the two were infected with the Delta variant of the virus. Officials said the tested positive for Covid during the RT-PCR tests conducted at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). “The first passenger arrived in Bengaluru on November 11 and the second arrived on November 16. Both were kept in quarantine after the positive result,” Karnataka health secretary TK Anil Kumar said. The World Health Organization on Friday designated a new variant of concern, classifying it as Omicron. Authorities across states have stepped up testing of international arrivals as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’. “The two people who tested positive came from South Africa. The samples have been sent for sequencing,” deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Rural District, K Srinivas said, adding that the lab orally told them that the two tested positive for Delta variant.State health secretary said that they have revised testing guidelines amid concerns over the Omicron variant. “We have also changed the protocols from those coming from South Africa, other countries of interest. Earlier, they only required an RT-PCR test that is 72 hours old. But we have changed the norms to ensure that all passengers will take the test at the airport on arrival. In the case of a rapid RT-PCR test, results will be available in one hour, while for the normal RT-PCR test the time taken is around 4 hours. The passengers will have to remain at the airport, till the results are available,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-from-south-africa-test-covid-positive-in-bengaluru-amid-omicron-concerns-101638037383076.html
27-11-2021||India||Nitish Kumar calls for one India one power rate, seeks parity in consumer tariff||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar reiterated his demand for one nation one rate for purchasing power from Central sectors, as he dedicated a stage-II 500MW (2x250 MW) of NTPC Barauni Thermal Power Station and unit 1 (660 MW) of the NTPC Barh Super Thermal Power project, in the presence of RK Singh, Union minister for power and new & renewable energy on Saturday. Kumar said the consumer power tariff would reduce if India were to have one rate for purchasing power from Central sectors. Presently, Central utilities like the NTPC charge different rates for power supplied to states and union territories from its different plants. The rate depends on many factors, including the age of the plant. Bihar will get 402 MW power (60.91% share) from the 660 MW Barh unit 1. Two other units of 660 MW each will come up over the next two years. Kumar took a trip down memory lane as he recollected how the Barh thermal power plant had come up due to his initiative and the roadblocks that came in way. The 3x660 MW stage I of the Barh super thermal power project plant was conceptualised in 1999 and was initially expected to have come up in 2007-08. However, the deadline was stretched as an earlier firm of Russian origin failed to fulfil its commitment. Earlier, Singh said that the installed power capacity in Bihar would go up as its demand for power was increasing. The NTPC group had an installed capacity of 7970 MW in Bihar and another 1980 MW is under construction. Singh said the 1320 MW Buxar power plant of the SJVNL would be ready before its scheduled deadline of June 2022. He also assured that Bihar would get sufficient Central grant out of the ₹3 lakh crore planned to modernise the distribution management system in India. Singh said Bihar had been allotted ₹24,000 crore, second only to Uttar Pradesh, for strengthening of power projects, including setting up 326 new power sub-stations and adding capacity of existing power station. Singh said in keeping with increased capacity of thermal power, efforts were also on to improve availability of coal. Barh has total installed capacity of 3300 MW out of which 1320 MW is already under commercial operation since March 2016. To accelerate the development of the power sector and increase the availability of power and cost efficiencies for the people in Bihar, the state government had transferred the Barauni Thermal Power Station to NTPC Ltd on December 15, 2018. Rajiv Ranjan, MP from Munger, Alok Kumar, Union secretary power and Gurdeep Singh, chairman-cum-managing director, NTPC, directors of NTPC and other senior officials were also present at both the events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-calls-for-one-india-one-power-rate-seeks-parity-in-consumer-tariff-101638036540418.html
27-11-2021||India||Covid: 2 persons from South Africa test positive for delta variant in Bengaluru||Two persons who reached Bengaluru from South Africa tested positive for delta variant of the coronavirus on Saturday.Deputy commissioner of Bengaluru rural district K Srinivas said as many as 584 people arrived in Bengaluru on Saturday from 10 "high-risk countries"."Ninety-four of them came from countries in Africa. Among those, two who returned from South Africa and are Indian nationals have tested positive for Covid-19. The samples were sent for sequencing. We came to know they are positive with the 'delta variant'," he said.On Friday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) called the new strain of Covid-19 a "variant of concern".Also read | K'taka intensifies curbs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, omicron variant scareThe first cases of new strain were reported from South Africa. The WHO has named the new strain as Omicron.Bengaluru on Saturday made it mandatory for people arriving from affected countries to take the RT-PCR test upon landing in the city. Home quarantine has also been mandatory for these passengers.Health minister K Sudhakar said, “People coming from these affected countries will take the RT-PCR once they land in Bengaluru. If found positive, they will stay in and around the airport and undergo treatment when required. Home quarantine will be mandatory after their arrival.”Srinivas reviewed the precautionary measures taken at Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, after the two persons tested positive during screening.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-2-persons-from-south-africa-test-positive-for-delta-variant-in-bengaluru-101638035308710.html
27-11-2021||India||Govt to review easing of foreign travel curbs||India will review its plan to ease international travel restrictions after a new variant of Sars-CoV-2 triggered global alarm. Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed top officials at a meeting lasting over two hours on Saturday to be “proactive in light of the new threat”.The World Health Organization on Friday designated a new variant of concern, classifying it as Omicron after early analysis of case trends and labs tests in South Africa threw up strong signals that it could be a more serious threat than the Delta variant, which has triggered devastating waves in several countries.“The PM highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’. The PM also asked officials to review plans for easing of international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence,” the government said in a statement.Modi stressed on the need to be proactive to monitor the new threat and “intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases,” the statement said. “People need to more cautious and take proper precautions like masking and social distancing,” the statement quoted Modi as saying. Modi’s directive comes a day after the aviation ministry announced a conditional resumption of scheduled international flights to and from India from December 15, after 20 months of a coronavirus-induced suspension.Countries such as the UK, Germany, Singapore, Israel, France and Italy have restricted air travel from southern Africa, where the cases of new coronavirus variant of serious health implications have been reported.On Friday, as fears grew of the pandemic being fanned afresh, commodity and stock markets around the world took their worst dive this year.Multiple Indian states announced they were stepping up vigil on international arrivals on their own. Maharashtra announced penalties on people for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) and said its health ministry was collaborating with civic agencies to increase surveillance of international travellers who are meant to follow quarantine rules. The state also mandated RT-PCR tests for visitors, a step also taken by Kerala, while Karnataka said it has stepped up airport screening.The UK on Saturday became the latest country to confirm infections of the new variant among two people who had travelled to southern Africa. Countries elsewhere on the continent also are investigating suspected cases. Belgium confirmed one, a regional official in Germany said it’s “highly likely” the strain arrived there, the Netherlands is researching 61 new infections, and the Czech Republic is examining a suspected case.A day earlier, Hong Kong and Israel confirmed they had detected the new variant on their soil.During the meeting held on Saturday, officials told Modi they are following a facilitative approach to newer pharmaceutical products. Modi instructed officials to coordinate with states to ensure adequate buffer stocks of various medicines and asked them to work with the states to review the functioning of medical infrastructure, including paediatric facilities, the government statement added.He also called for genome sequencing of samples from international travellers and community as per norms.The meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul, home secretary AK Bhalla, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava, principal scientific adviser K. Vijay Raghavan and several other officials.“The new Omicron variant seems to be worse than Delta; at least from the preliminary data, we will get more details soon. There are two things that we need to do now – one, prevent importation of a case, and two, build better immune defence so that even if the virus does start circulating, deaths are minimised,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore. “Now, how do we do that? There is no need to ban travel to prevent importation. Rather, ask people to declare all the countries that they have touched in the last, say, 10 days. Those who have been to South Africa or other countries that already have Omicron cases must be mandatorily tested at the airport, put under strict 48-hour quarantine at a hotel, re-test and then be allowed to leave. 72 hours would be better. Anyhow, we may not be able to prevent importation even then, but we have to try,” he added. Dr John said the government must now allow booster doses. “The changes in the viral genome suggest that it might be able to evade immunity to a certain extent. And, even though a huge proportion of people did get infected during the second wave, we do not know who is protected and who is not. Why take chances? If the virus escapes immunity, we should hyper-immunise and build a higher wall,” he said. “There is still a huge population – those under the age of 18 years – who by criteria are not eligible to be vaccinated. We should now start immunising them or the virus will circulate among them. The new variant may very well not be as dangerous as it seem, but till we know we must plug all gaps,” he added. The Omicron variant, also known as B.1.1.529, was first spotted on November 12 and is being believed to have led to a surge in cases in multiple African regions, including South Africa’s Guateng province, where the test positivity rate rose from 1% to over 30% within three weeks. The genomic sequence of the variant shared by South African experts showed it has 32 mutations -- for the first time, two of these mutations are in what is known as the receptor-binding domain, the portion of the pathogen responsible for entry into human cells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-review-easing-of-foreign-travel-curbs-101638035159037.html
27-11-2021||India||CJI Ramana backs new hierarchy in judiciary||The central government should consider restructuring the judiciary by establishing courts of appeal to hear cases against high court orders, while leaving the Supreme Court to examine only issues of constitutional importance, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Saturday.This is the first time a chief justice has advocated altering the hierarchy of the courts in India, which will require a constitutional amendment.Speaking at the valedictory ceremony of Constitution Day celebrations in the national capital, chief justice Ramana referred to the suggestion mooted by attorney general KK Venugopal a day ago in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the chief justice and law minister Kiran Rijiju during his address at a public event.The Supreme Court of India’s current role should be revamped, making it a purely constitutional court to examine only cases involving constitutional interpretation, Venugopal had said. Four regional courts of appeals should be set up to hear cases arising out high court orders, he said, lamenting that the Supreme Court cannot today call itself a constitutional court when it has to deal with even rent control and matrimonial disputes.“The attorney general’s suggestions yesterday were also enlightening. While highlighting the issue of judicial pendency, he proposed the restructuring of the judicial system and altering the hierarchy of the courts,” the chief justice said on Saturday. “This is something that merits consideration by the government.”Justice Ramana regretted lack of study in the past 75 years to review the existing system of courts. “Since independence, I do not think there has been a serious study to consider what exactly should be the structural hierarchy of judiciary in India,” he said.“It is good that a chief justice is thinking about the issue,” Venugopal told HT. “I have been advocating this point since 2010, highlighting how the Supreme Court has drowned itself in cases that should may have nothing to do with settling points of law or constitutional issues.”It is possible to establish four regional courts of appeals with 15 judges each through a constitutional amendment, Venugopal said. “This will bring down the pendency in the Supreme Court while ensuring speedy disposal of cases of the litigants aggrieved of the high court orders by the courts of appeals,” the government’s chief legal advisor said. “At the same time, the Supreme Court could then sit in larger benches to decide issues of constitutional importance.”Article 124 of the Constitution prescribes the establishment of the Supreme Court of India with the number of judges specified by Parliament. The Supreme Court currently has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges. Similarly, there are provisions in the Constitution mandating that appeals arising out of high courts shall be examined by the Supreme Court. Article 214 lays down that every state would have a high court.Another issue flagged by the chief justice in his address pertained to absence of legislative impact study by the Union government before a new law is brought into force. “Another issue is that the legislature does not conduct studies or assess the impact of the laws that it passes. This sometimes leads to big issues,” he said. “The introduction of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act (criminal prosecution in cheque bounce cases) is an example of this. Now, the already burdened magistrates are further burdened by thousands of these cases.”The judge added that rebranding the existing courts as commercial courts, without creating a special infrastructure, will not have any impact on the pendency.Recently, a Supreme Court bench, led by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, had underscored the spate of issues emanating due to absence of a legislative impact study before the new consumer protection law was notified in July 2020. Justice Kaul prodded the government into conducting a study even as the law was being enforced. This study threw up several problems with the new law. It recommended that the monetary jurisdiction of district and state consumer commissions should be reviewed.Justice Ramana also said that if people are unaware about their rights and entitlements, they cannot claim benefit from them. “People also need to know the scope and limitations of the roles ascribed to the different organs of the State. We need to clear the prevailing misconceptions. For example, many people in this country believe that it is the courts which make the laws,” he added.“We must remember that whatever criticism or obstacle that we may encounter, our mission to render justice cannot stop,” he said. “We have to march on in pursuing our duty to strengthen the judiciary and protect the rights of the citizenry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-backs-new-hierarchy-in-judiciary-101638035158174.html
27-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Nod on booster dose from Centre may come soon, says Karnataka minister||Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said on Saturday the state government has sought the Centre’s approval regarding administering of booster dose against Covid-19. He said once approval comes, booster doses would be given to frontline workers on a priority basis, adding the nod may come in a week."We have made a request to the central government for the administering of booster doses. It will be administered to frontline workers on priority on getting approval. We may get approval in a week," Ashoka was quoted as saying by news agency PTI following a meeting with chief minister Basavarao Bommai over the pandemic situation in the state.The state government announced a number of precautionary measures, including mandatory testing for Covid-19 of international arrivals and heightened border checks in the wake of the detection of a number of clusters and the threat of a new Covid-19 variant, named omicron, looming large.Also read | Omicron scare: Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nationsAshoka further said another round of meetings will be held under the CM's leadership and separate guidelines will be issued for Christmas and New Year celebrations.Stating that no new variant cases have been reported in the state so far, he said, experts have told the state government that the new Omicron variant spreads five times faster than the existing ones.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nod-on-booster-dose-from-centre-may-come-soon-says-karnataka-minister-101638033340360.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron: Why easing of international travel curbs has come under review | 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday directed government officials to review the plans for relaxing international travel restrictions amid worldwide apprehension over the new Omicron variant of Covid-19. Several countries have isolated South Africa, where the new variant has been identified first. This happens a day after India decided to resume regular international flight services from December 15.Here are 10 points to know regarding international travel after Omicron has been identified:1. South Africa, Botswana, Israel, Hong Kong reported cases of this new variant. On Saturday, the United Kingdom too confirmed two cases of this new variant.2. India has already put all these countries under "at-risk" list, which means people arriving from these countries or transiting through these countries will have to undergo rigorous screening upon arrival in India.Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scare3. As far as India's international flight resumption plan is concerned, the civil aviation ministry so far decided that 100% resumption will not take place in these "at-risk" countries. India will resume 75% of services in countries that have air bubble agreements with New Delhi and 50% in those which do not have the agreement.4. But this was decided before countries across the world started restricting flights from South Africa. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged PM Modi to stop flights from the affected countries, the number of which is only increasing.5. Unless the flights are absolutely restricted from the affected countries, the pressure of testing each and every passenger coming from these countries will mount on states. For example, Karnataka said more than 1,000 people have come from South Africa and all of them have been tested. Around 584 passengers came to Bengaluru from 10 high-risk nations. Two of them have tested Covid positive, but of Delta, not the new variant.6. Imposing a blanket ban again on international flights at a time when the pandemic-hit industry is trying to recover is a tough choice for countries.7. With the increasing threats of Omicron, inter-state travel restrictions are also making a comeback as Karnataka has again made negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for people travelling to the state from Kerala and Maharashtra.8. The World Health Organization has appealed to countries in the South-East Asia region to scale up surveillance.9. Top US immunologist Dr Anthony Fauci observed that a lot of travel is involved in the spread of Omicron. Though there is no indication that the variant is present in the United States, anything is possible, Fauci said.10. A survey in India has revealed that the majority of people want the government to reconsider the resumption of international flights from December 15 amid the Omicron scare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-why-easing-of-international-travel-curbs-has-come-under-review-10-points-101638032303463.html
27-11-2021||India||Central team tours flood-hit areas of Andhra as heavy rain lashes few districts||Moderate to heavy rain lashed several parts of Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh since Friday evening, as a seven-member inter-ministerial team of the Central government began touring the rain-ravaged areas of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra on Saturday.According to the official bulletin from the AP State Development and Planning Society, Irugulam of Satyavedu block in Chittoor district bordering Tamil Nadu received rainfall of 7.2 cm in the last 24 hours. Since Saturday morning till 5 pm, it witnessed rainfall of 4 cm.There was rainfall of 2.3 cm in Chittoor town, 2.2 cm in Yadamarri block, 2.1 cm in Nagari and 2.0 cm in Puttur. Many other parts of the district received 1 cm to 1.9 cm in the last 24 hours.A weather bulletin from the India Meteorological Department, Amaravati said that south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions are going to witness light to moderate rain or thundershowers at a few places, while heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places. Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning are likely to occur at isolated places in Rayalaseema.Another bulletin from the Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam, said squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-60 km per hour is very likely over southwest Bay of Bengal. “Fishermen are advised not to venture into the above sea areas till December 1,” the bulletin said.On Saturday, the Central team headed by Kunal Satyarthi from the Ministry of Home Affairs, began its tour of the flood-affected areas, starting from Chittoor. The team also includes Abhey Kumar from the finance ministry, Dr K Manoharan from the department of agriculture, Srinivasu Bairy from the water resources department, Shivani Sharma from the ministry of power, Shravan Kumar Singh from the ministry of roadways and Anil Kumar Singh from the ministry of rural development.The Central team inspected the flooded farmlands, damaged check dams and national highways at various places in Chandragiri assembly and other constituencies in Chittoor district.Earlier, the team had an interaction with state government officials at a private hotel in Chittoor to get the version of the government. State revenue and disaster management principal secretary Usha Rani gave a power point presentation of the flood-hit areas and the damages incurred due to heavy rainfall between November 13 and 20.She explained how unprecedented rainfall ranging from 15 cm to 20 cm in Rayalaseema had destroyed road network in the region, besides causing breaches to several tanks constructed during the reign of Vijayanagara emperors.“The breach caused to Annamayya project in Kadapa district, led to inundation of several villages and the loss of over 20 lives, she said, adding that in all, 44 people had died and another 15 were still missing in Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor and Anantapur districts,” Usha Rani said, and asked for liberal assistance from the Centre towards relief and restoration work.The Central team asked the state government to submit a detailed sector-wise report of loss of properties, besides crop loss. “We shall tour the affected areas to get first-hand information about the losses and submit a report to the Centre for necessary action,” Satyarthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-team-tours-flood-hit-areas-of-andhra-as-heavy-rain-lashes-few-districts-101638030778386.html
27-11-2021||India||Odisha ASHA worker is among Forbes 21 powerful women of India||Had it not been for the efforts of Matilda Kullu, people in her village would still be resorting to black magic for health ailments rather than visiting the local hospital. The 45-year-old tribal ASHA worker from Odisha’s Sundargarh district has been featured in the Forbes India W-Power 2021 list along with names like banker Arundhati Bhattacharya and actress Rasika DuggalMatilda, who was appointed an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) for Gargadbahal village in Baragaon tehsil of Odisha’s Sundargarh district 15 years ago did not have it easy when she started her work.“People did not think of going to the hospital when they fell sick. When I used to advise people to go to the hospital, they used to ridicule me. I also had to bear the brunt of casteism,” she said. “It took years of work before I could make people understand the need to visit doctors instead of rushing to the local witch doctor.”As one of the 47000-odd ASHA workers in Odisha, Matilda’s hands have always been full with her daily workload comprising door-to-door to check immunization of new-borns as well as adolescent girls, ante-natal check-up, post-natal check-up, counselling of women on birth preparedness, breastfeeding and complementary feeding, and prevention of common infections including reproductive tract infection and sexually transmitted infection.Her day begins at 5 in the morning, as she rushes to finish her household chores - prepare lunch for the family of four, feeding the cattle - before hopping onto her cycle for door-to-door visits. When the pandemic began last year, Matilda’s schedule became more hectic as she got busy visiting 50-60 households every day to check on people suspected of having Covid symptoms.“Every day I would get out of home and visit families looking for Covid suspects and then inform the local primary health centre. People were scared of being taken for tests as there was a lot of stigma attached to a Covid patient last year,” said Matilda.Though her job entailed meeting people at their homes, a majority of ASHAs were not provided with personal protective equipment (PPE), or masks, gloves and sanitisers. After the first wave ebbed and vaccination started, Matilda said she had a tough time convincing villagers to get vaccinated.“As I have been working with people in my village for a long time, they listened to me and got vaccinated,” said Matilda, who rues that despite all the hard work she puts in, the remuneration is a measly ₹4500. “During the pandemic, the state government had given a one-time incentive of ₹2000 but now that has been withdrawn and we just get ₹4500.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-asha-worker-is-among-forbes-21-powerful-women-of-india-101638027358149.html
27-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: What Dr Anthony Fauci says about omicron Covid-19 variant and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron: 5 things Dr Fauci says about this new variant of Covid-19Scientists of the United States are actively communicating with their colleagues in South Africa to get more details about Omicron, the new variant of Covid-19, America's top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci said. Read more.'A group of farmers…': Govt note on farm law repeal; 'Why rub it in,' asks CongIn the note on farm law repeal, sent to Parliament members, ahead of the winter session of Parliament starting from November 29, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has defended the three contentious farm laws and wrote "...only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws...", without making any departure from the earlier stance of the government. Read more.Judges to use utmost discretion in making courtroom comments: President KovindIndiscreet remarks by judges in the courtrooms can give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary, said President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday as he expressed pain at how disparaging remarks have been made against the most trusted institution of the judiciary of late on social media platforms. Read more.'What is the penalty? Is it written?': Furious Gavaskar lashes out at umpires for warning R Ashwin for his follow throughVeteran Indian spinner Ravichandran Ashwin was relentless with his efforts to get India the much-needed breakthrough on day 3 of the Kanpur Test. Read more.Aishwarya Rai once served food to 30 people herself, recalls Vishal Dadlani: 'There were no cameras for publicity'Musician Vishal Dadlani has revealed that Aishwarya Rai Bachchan once served food to 30 people who were on a tour with her, and Amitabh Bachchan. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-what-dr-anthony-fauci-says-about-omicron-covid-19-variant-101638025872374.html
27-11-2021||India||Tiger census in Sunderbans, due to begin from Dec 5 will turn paperless||The tiger census in the Sunderbans, scheduled to take off from December 5, will be completely paperless this year, forest officials in West Bengal said.The Sunderbans, formed by the River Ganges and River Brahmaputra, is the world’s largest and only mangrove delta inhabited by tigers. There are around 100 tigers each in India and Bangladesh over which the forest spreads.“For the first time, the tiger estimation in the Sunderbans will be held in a completely paperless manner. The tiger estimation will take off on December 5 this year and continue over the next two months till February 15, 2022,” said S Jones Justin, deputy field director of the STR.Till the last census, officials used to take down data in the field with pen and paper, this time it will be uploaded digitally through two apps – Polygon search and patrol app and MSTrIPES, a GIS-based patrolling module, will also be used.“MSTrIPES was used in tiger estimation in some national parks and tiger reserves in the last census too. In the Sunderbans, it will be done for the first time. We are trying to be do this exercise in a paperless manner as much as possible,” said a senior official of the National Tiger Conservation Authority.The census will take off next week with the installation of trap cameras in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Thereafter officials will undertake the sign survey and transect survey to study the habitat and prey abundance.“Later the cameras will be installed in the South 24 Parganas forest division. The entire exercise will continue till February next year,” said an official.This time officials plan to install 788 pairs of camera traps, compared to 600 pairs used during the last exercise.The Indian part of the Sunderbans comprises 102 islands out of which 54 are inhabited by humans. Tigers live in the remaining islands. Every year thousands of people enter the forest to collect honey and catch fish, crabs and prawns legally and illegally and get attacked by tigers and crocodiles. Many cases go unreported.The Sunderbans account for the highest number of tiger attacks in the country with around 30 people being killed between 2017 and 2019. Every year more than 100 people are mauled. But these are just official figures and the total numbers could be much more, both villagers and forest officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-census-in-sunderbans-due-to-begin-from-dec-5-will-turn-paperless-101638025617921.html
27-11-2021||India||K'taka intensifies curbs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, omicron variant scare||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday held a meeting with experts of the health and disaster department in view of the emergence of the omicron variant of the coronavirus and rising Covid-19 cases in the state, including some clusters in a few colleges. As part of the latest measures, it was decided that strict monitoring would be in place in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra, besides tight recce on national highways and negative RT-PCR report for anybody coming from these two states.Inspection would be intensified at the international airport. Also, permission would be required to enter the city for those who test negative for the virus.Also read | Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nationsBesides, students staying in hostels will be tested again on the seventh day after a negative report. Recently, a number of students testing positive for Covid-19 in some of the schools of the state.Decisions taken at the meeting chaired by Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai | Those working in government offices and malls must receive both doses of vaccine. Arrangements to be made for vaccination in government offices and malls. #COVID19It was further decided hotels, restaurants, cinema halls, swimming pools, public libraries and zoo workers would have to receive both their doses against the virus. Tests against the virus would be increased for students of medical colleges and nursing colleges.Those working in government offices and malls must also receive both doses of vaccine. Arrangements will be made for vaccination in government offices and malls.Earlier, Bommai had said, "I have called a meeting of experts of health and disaster departments today in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala and clusters in a few colleges in Dharwad and Bengaluru."Karnataka reported 402 new cases and six deaths on Saturday. According to the state's health department, the state has 6,611 active cases of infection. Karnataka has recorded 29,94,963 infections since the onset of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-intensifies-curbs-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-omicron-variant-scare-101638023805421.html
27-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 28, 1974 — Jayaprakash Narayan launches movement in Haryana||Kurukshetra- Sarvodaya leader Jayaprakash Narayan declared at a large meeting here today (November 27) that the struggle for the defence of democracy in Haryana had begun now from the historic town of Kurukshetra. Mr. Narayan said democracy was in peril in Haryana and Chief Minister Bansi Lal was the symbol of this danger. Accepting the Chief Minister’s challenge to him for a longer visit to Haryana, Mr. Narayan said he would return soon to the State at the invitation of the people and tour Haryana for a longer while. Mr. Narayan said democracy was under the severest attack by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and those who had shown him black flags today were hired men. The Prime Minister, he said, was giving a “good lesson in democracy,” by preventing people from holding public meetings. Speaking for nearly 100 minutes to explain his fight in Bihar and elsewhere, Mr. Narayan said the people had seen Jawaharlal Nehru not fulfilling their dreams even after his 17-year rule, but the thought of his sacrifices and personality had prevented a revolt by the masses. The people were also under the Indira wave for some time and they gave her a massive mandate in the last Lok Sabba and the Assembly elections. She had by then also freed herself of the senior leaders in the Cabinet who, she had been complaining, were retarding the progressive measures. What was it that was now coming in the way of the Prime Minister to solve the peoples’ problems and remove unemployment and corruption. While half the colossal amount said to have been spent on developmental activities had gone into the pockets of corrupt politicians, officers and contractors all over the country, in Bihar only a quarter of the money had been actually spent for the people. Looking at a Sikh who, with a sword in his hand, was interrupting him continuously, Mr Narayan said the swords must remain in their sheaths as “ours would be a peaceful struggle.” If the present battle in India was won with the help of arms, the ultimate power would remain with those with the rifles. It would never percolate to the people as was evident in China. A violent revolution, he warned, would only bring the rule of a clique.Mr Narayan referred to the malpractices in elections and the Prime Minister’s ability in winning them with the help of “crores of rupees received from unscrupulous people after promising them licences, permits and other gains”. The Government was not prepared even to implement the recommendations of the joint committee of Parliament which had a majority of Congressmen and which had studied the subject. He said the gherao of Parliament by a million people in December was aimed at bringing to an end the electoral malpractices and focus attention on the peoples’ misery caused by widespread unemployment, the sky-high cost of living and the ever increasing corruption. A meeting of the co-ordination committee of the opposition parties has been called in New Delhi tomorrow to finalise the date of the gherao of Parliament. PTI adds: In his 120-minute speech heard in perfect silence. Mr Narayan made repeated references to the Haryana Chief Minister saying ‘’there is no difference between the Prime Minister and the Haryana Chief Minister, both of whom are bent upon strangulating democracy in the country. “They are repeatedly giving us sermons on democracy and accusing me of attacking democratic principles. But I want to ask both of them from which book on democracy they have learnt to obstruct people even from exchanging views.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-november-28-1974-jayaprakash-narayan-launches-movement-in-haryana-101638024298838.html
27-11-2021||India||Farm minister says crop-burning to be decriminalised, farmers suspend Parliament march||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said criminal charges would not be pressed against farmers burning their crop leftovers, a source of air pollution, while farm unions postponed a planned march to Parliament and asked the government to re-start a stalled dialogue process, fuelling hopes of a rapprochement between the two sides. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella platform for farm unions, on Saturday said it was suspending, until December 4, its plans to hold a large demonstration in the national capital during the oncoming winter session of Parliament following the government’s decision to repeal the three contentious agricultural laws. During a nationally televised address on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said his government would withdraw the three laws, following year-long protests by farmers who say the legislation would have jeopardised their livelihoods. Farm minister Tomar appealed to farmers on Saturday morning to end their agitation since the government was withdrawing the laws. Key farm leaders responded by saying they would wait till December 4 for a response on a letter written by them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, enlisting their demands that are yet to be met. “There is no point in farmers continuing their protests since the government has decided to repeal the farm laws. I request all farmers to return home,” Tomar told ANI, a wire agency. The government is set to move and pass a fresh law in Parliament to repeal its three farm legislations, enacted in September 2020, but farm unions are pressing ahead with a slew of other demands, including a legislation to guarantee minimum support prices (MSPs) for agricultural produce. “We will wait for the government’s response to our letter to the PM, in which we have listed all our rightful demands. The government must hold talks to sort out all remaining issues,” said Darshan Pal, a farm leader. Besides a statutory guarantee for MSP, the farmers want a parcel of land for a memorial to peasants who died during the year-long protests and all criminal cases slapped against farmers during the course of their agitation to be withdrawn. They have also sought changes to a proposed electricity bill to keep energy prices cheap for farmers and modifications to an anti-pollution law in force in the national capital region that includes provisions to penalise farmers burning paddy straw, the cause of deadly winter smog in north India. “The government has decided to decriminalise stubble-burning. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced to constitute a committee to hold discussions on the issue of crop diversification, zero-budget farming and making the MSP system more transparent and effective.” The agriculture minister said the committee would have representations from farmers and with this, farmers’ demand on MSP “stands fulfilled.” The three laws the government is set to revoke were aimed at easing restrictions on trade in farm produce, allowing food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. Farm unions say the legislation would have left them at the mercy of large corporations, eroding their bargaining power. The decision to scrap the laws came ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous, bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc. The SKM also demanded sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni. The minister’s son had been arrested after his vehicle ploughed through farmers returning from a protest in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Eight people were killed in the incident. Farmers and the government have held 11 rounds of talks so far over their demands. The talks were called off after a deadlock during the last round held on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-minister-says-crop-burning-to-be-decriminalised-farmers-suspend-parliament-march-101638021837628.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron variant: Now, Gujarat imposes curbs on passengers from ‘at risk’ nations||As fears over the new variant of Coronavirus ‘omicron’ sweeps the nation, the Gujarat government on Saturday made Covid-19 tests mandatory upon arrival for passengers arriving from countries categorised as 'at risk' by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The test has been made mandatory for passengers who are not fully vaccinated, a senior government official said."As per the letter issued to us on Friday by the Union Health Ministry, RT-PCR test is mandatory for all incoming travelers who do not have vaccination certificate," said additional chief secretary (health) Manoj Aggarwal.A PTI report said those who are fully vaccinated will also be screened at the airport and allowed to proceed if they do not show any symptoms of the infection.Also read | As omicron cases spread, WHO’s warning to southeast Asian countriesThe Union ministry has classified a total of nine countries as ‘at risk' following concerns being raised about the new variant of the virus, designated as Omicron.The countries designated 'at risk' include the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe.The Centre has asked states to follow the November 11 guidelines issued in this regard. According to the latest rules, if travelers from countries categorised as 'at risk' (and with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO-approved Covid-19 vaccines) are fully vaccinated, they will have to quarantine themselves for 14 days post-arrival.If they are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated, they will have to submit samples for Covid-19 test. Such passengers will have to remain in home quarantine for seven days, and will have to take another test on the eighth day of arrival in India.Also read | Omicron variant: From urging flight ban to increasing testing. Here’s how states are preparingEarlier in the day, Karnataka and Maharashtra issued similar precautions to tackle the spread of the new variant that is said to be highly transmissible.The Maharashtra government has made it mandatory for domestic travellers to either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT-PCR certificate valid for 72 hours, while all international passengers coming to the state would be governed according to the Union government’s directions.The Karnataka government said people arriving from affected countries will be subjected to an RT-PCR test on arrival in Bengaluru.‘Omicron’, first detected in Botswana in southern Africa on November 9, has since been reported in Belgium, Hong Kong and Israel. The variant is known to be highly contagious and has a number of mutations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-now-gujarat-imposes-curbs-on-passengers-from-at-risk-nations-101638020679736.html
27-11-2021||India||'A group of farmers protesting': Govt note on farm law repeal; 'Why rub it in,' asks Congress||In the note on farm law repeal, sent to Parliament members, ahead of the winter session of Parliament starting from November 29, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has defended the three contentious farm laws and wrote "...only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws...", without making any departure from the earlier stance of the government."As we celebrate the 75th year of Independence -- Azadu ka Amrit Mahotsav, the need of the hour is to take everyone together on the path of inclusive growth and development," the note written by the agriculture minister read.Farmers defer tractor rally to Parliament over farm laws but protest will go onWhy rub it in especially when @PMOIndia has apologised to farmers. In the statement of Objects & Reasons of The Farm Laws Repeal Bill -2021 why write”Even though a Small Group of Farmers are Protesting against these Laws” demeans sacrifice of 700 odd Farmers who died struggling pic.twitter.com/CK86vcfokhCongress MP Manish Tewari reacted to the note and said that this demeans the sacrifice of the 700 farmers who died during the year-long protest against the farm laws. "Why rub it in especially when @PMOIndia has apologised to farmers. In the statement of Objects and Reasons of The Farm Laws Repeal Bill -2021 why write ‘Even though a Small Group of Farmers are Protesting against these Laws’ (sic) demeans sacrifice of 700 odd Farmers who died struggling," the MP wrote."The government has tried hard to sensitise the farmers on the importance of the Farm Laws and explain the merits through several meetings and other forums. Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to farmers, new avenues were provided for trade of their produce. Besides, farmers were free to select the avenues of their choice where they can get more prices for their produce without any compulsion," the note reads.The note also mentions that various governments during the last three decades have tried to initiate such reforms, but not in a comprehensive way.Repeal of the farm laws will be taken up by Parliament on the very first day of its winter session as Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised the protesting farmers in a speech on November 19. Farmers, however, are continuing with their protests and will not give up even if the laws are repealed, unless the government fulfils their demands on MSP, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said on Saturday. The proposed Parliament March of November 29 has been put on hold in a meeting of the farmers' organisation on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-group-of-farmers-protesting-govt-note-on-farm-law-repeal-why-rub-it-in-asks-congress-101638019303813.html
27-11-2021||India||Judges to use utmost discretion in making courtroom comments: President Kovind||Indiscreet remarks by judges in the courtrooms can give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary, said President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday as he expressed pain at how disparaging remarks have been made against the most trusted institution of the judiciary of late on social media platforms.President Kovind was addressing the judges of the Supreme Court and high courts who had gathered for the 72nd Constitution Day celebrations in the Capital.Having once been a lawyer practicing at the bar, the President said, “There is no doubt that you have set for yourself a high bar. Hence, it is also incumbent upon the judges to exercise utmost discretion in their utterances in the courtrooms. Indiscreet remarks, even if made with good intention, give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary.” He referred to a remark by Justice Frankfurter of the U.S Supreme Court who emphasized that the essential quality of judges is detachment, founded on independence. Quoting Frankfurter, the President said, “History teaches us that the independence of the judiciary is jeopardized when courts become embroiled in the passions of the day, and assume primary responsibility in choosing between competing political, economic and social pressure.” The judiciary, according to him, has conformed to the highest standards of conduct while discharging its responsibility and for this reason it remains in people’s view, the most trusted institution. President Kovind said, “It pains me no end, therefore, to note that of late there have been cases of some disparaging remarks against the judiciary made on social media platforms.” The President hoped this was an aberration and it would be short-lived. However, he wondered what could be behind this phenomenon, stating, “These platforms have worked wonderfully to democratize information, yet they have a dark side too. The anonymity granted by them is exploited by some miscreants.” He also emphasized about curbing pendency of cases and reducing cost of litigation adding, “The issue of pendency has ramifications for economic growth and development too. It is high time all stakeholders find a way out by keeping national interest above all. Technology can be a great ally in this process.”Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and Supreme Court judges AM Khanwilkar and L Nageswar Rao also spoke on the occasion. Justice Khanwilkar said, “We need to rationalize and even prioritize case management apparatus” as courts are unable to deliver justice within reasonable time due to “clogging of dockets” and “tattered legal system”. He said that presently a common approach is adopted to deal with claims involving ₹one lakh or a high stakes matter involving ₹1 lakh crore, which is affecting the development of the country. Law minister Rijiju said that judiciary has a crucial role in development as many infrastructure disputes are pending adjudication in courts. “The role of judiciary in the adjudication of infrastructure disputes and keeping the larger national interests in mind is crucial for the flow of developmental trajectory and overall project costs,” he said. Realizing the need to augment judicial infrastructure, he further stated, “The present Government is sensitive to the needs of providing well equipped judicial infrastructure to subordinate judiciary to facilitate administration of justice in a manner that allows easy and timely delivery of justice to all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-to-use-utmost-discretion-in-making-courtroom-comments-president-kovind-101638017637087.html
27-11-2021||India||Will Covaxin, Covishield be effective against Omicron? ICMR expert explains||The emergence of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron in South Africa, reported from some other countries too, has triggered apprehension in India with Prime Minister Narendra Modi instructing officials to be proactive and review the guideline of international travel. Based on the information available so far, Dr Samiran Panda, the head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said mRNA vaccines against Covid might not be effective against Omicron. "mRNA vaccines are directed towards spike protein and receptor interaction. So mRNA vaccines need to be tweaked around this change already observed. But not all vaccines are similar. Covishield and Covaxin produce immunity through a different antigen presentation to our system," Dr Panda said to news agency ANI. Omicron variant: From urging flight ban to increasing testing. Here’s how states are preparingThe World Health Organization has classified Omicron as a variant of concern though not much is known yet about this variant. It is believed to be more transmissible and immune-evasive, reports said.What scientists have so far observed in Omicron is structural changes, Dr Panda said. But more studies are required to confirm that the variant is deadlier than the other variants of Covid. "Structural changes have been observed in a newly reported emerging variant which is indicative of a possibility for adherence to cell, cellular receptors with an increased affinity, with the possibility of transmission," Dr Panda said. But whether the variant is getting transmitted really fast or is causing clusters of infection that require a little more time to come up needs to be examined. By examination, he meant laboratory-based observations, population-based studies, he said."WHO examined all this and we need to wait for some more time to figure out whether there is an increased clustering of infections happening or severe form of disease or excessive deaths. Taking all these into consideration, WHO has announced called it Variant of Concern," Dr Panda said.Scientists have already found that this variant has 10 mutations. The more a variant mutates, it might become more transmissible, but that does not make a variant deadlier, the expert said.No cases of the variant have been found in India so far and the Centre has already urged all states and Union territories to be on the guard. States are also bringing back some restrictions for international travellers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-covaxin-covishield-be-effective-against-omicron-icmr-expert-explains-101638016753778.html
27-11-2021||India||Set your house in order first: Trinamool's rebuttal to Congress ahead of Parliament session||The Trinamool Congress may skip the meeting of the opposition parties on November 29, news agency PTI reported, quoting Trinamool leaders aware of the development. The Congress should first coordinate among themselves and set their own house in order and then think of coordinating with other camps, a senior TMC leader privy to the party's decision told PTI on condition of anonymity. This comes as the Congress and the Trinamool are caught in a situation where political pundits are raising questions about whether TMC will lead to a 'Congress Mukt' India, following the recent Meghalaya coup.Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said the Congress will try to bring all opposition parties together in Parliament.While the Trinamool expresses its disinterest in coordinating with the Congress, the news report says that the party has no problem in coordination with other opposition parties. "We will raise several issues concerning the people's interest and will coordinate with them. We most probably will not attend the opposition parties' meeting convened by the Congress," the TMC leader, quoted by PTI, said.Trinamool will hold its national coordination committee meeting on November 29 at Mamata Banerjee's residence in Kolkata. Congress leaders lack the determination to take on the saffron camp, the TMC leader reportedly said.During her recent visit to New Delhi, Mamata did not meet Sonia Gandhi and when she was asked about this, she said it is not mandatory to meet Sonia Gandhi every time she is in Delhi. "They are busy with Punjab polls. Why should we meet Sonia every time? It is not constitutionally mandated," Mamata said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-your-house-in-order-first-trinamool-s-rebuttal-to-congress-ahead-of-parliament-session-101638012386563.html
27-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: How are states preparing to tackle omicron variant, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In the light of the discovery of omicron, several states in India have moved to implement precautionary measures against the latest variant of the coronavirus initially detected in South Africa. Read moreChildren can take part in the ongoing pilgrimage to the Sabarimala temple in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district without the mandatory RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state government has said. Read moreIndian spinner Axar Patel on Saturday pipped two legends of the game to script a massive record for the country with his fifth five-wicket haul in Test cricket. He achieved the feat during the third evening of the opening Test against New Zealand at Kanpur's Green Park stadium. Read moreActor Abhishek Bachchan will soon be seen as the middle class Bengali assassin in Bob Biswas. The film is a spin-off of 2012 movie Kahaani, directed by Sujoy Ghosh and starring Vidya Balan in the lead. Read moreExperiencing moderate rainfall this Saturday, the area around the Kodaikanal lake in Tamil Nadu looks too dreamy to not visit and Ankita Konwar's ‘parikrama' of it is perfect Saturday fitness inspo. Read moreVice President of India Venkaiah Naidu hit out at the western media for belittling the Indian govt on issues of secularism and free speech. The nation’s Vice President said that India is the most secular country in the world. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-how-are-states-preparing-to-tackle-omicron-variant-and-all-the-latest-news-101638010941838.html
27-11-2021||India||Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at Centre amid omicron Covid variant||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre over the new Covid-19 variant omicron from Botswana in southern Africa. Calling the variant a “serious threat”, Rahul said that bad figures of Covid-19 vaccination “can’t be hidden for long.”“New variant is a serious threat. High time GOI (Government of India) gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen. Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo,” Rahul tweeted.With the tweet, the former Congress party president attached an image that showed 31.19 per cent of eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated against coronavirus in India, with 6.8 million per day being the average rate of vaccination last week. According to the post, which credited a prominent media site and CoWIN portal as the sources, the required vaccination rate for 60 per cent of India’s population to be fully jabbed is 23.3 million per day.New variant is a serious threat. High time GOI gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen.Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo. #Omicron pic.twitter.com/3J7E8TEwXTAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW), more than 121 crore vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the country, of which, as many as 73,58,017 shots were jabbed in the last 24 hours. Furthermore, more than 134 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories (UTs) so far, and over 22.16 crore balance and unutilised ones are still available with them.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level review meeting to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic in India and the nationwide vaccination campaign. As per a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the meeting was attended by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul and PM Modi’s principal secretary PK Mishra, among others.At the meeting, PM Modi stressed on the need to monitor all international arrivals, their testing based on guidelines, with a “specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’,” the PMO statement revealed.Also Read | Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, testsFirst detected in Botswana in southern Africa, the omicron Covid-19 variant has been termed a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Scientists have said that the variant appears to undergo multiple mutations – about 30 – in the coronavirus spike protein, which determines the virus’s transmissibility rate among people.Also Read | Omicron scare: Bengaluru makes RT-PCR, quarantine must for arrivals from affected nationsSeveral countries, including the US, UK and the 27-nation European Union (EU) have imposed travel bans on individuals arriving from the affected region of the Covid-19 variant. India too has released a list of many countries, including Israel and Hong Kong, from where travellers need to adhere to additional measures, including post-arrival testing for infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-vaccination-figures-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-at-centre-amid-omicron-covid-threat-101638011045968.html
27-11-2021||India||Two merchant vessels collide in Gulf of Kutch, no oil spill; Coast Guard on standby||Two merchant vessels collided in the Gulf of Kutch on the night of November 26. However, there was no report of any casualty or oil spill even as the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has been kept on standby in the vicinity and officials are monitoring the situation.The vessels -- MV Aviator and MV Ancient Grace -- are likely to have collided due to a navigational error, an ICG official said. “The ICG is monitoring the situation to prevent any possible oil spill,” the official added.Two merchant vessels, MV Aviator&MV Ancient Grace, have collided with each other in Gulf of Kutch. Prima facie, it appears the collision took place due to navigational error. Indian Coast Guard (ICG) is monitoring the situation for preventing any possible oil spill: ICG officials https://t.co/98sLHjhCCv"Collision betwn MVs Aviator and Atlantic Grace in GoK on 26 November night. No casualties, oil slick reported. @IndianCoastGuard Ships in the area incl. Pollution Control stand-by in vicinity & monitoring the situation," a Gujarat defence public relations officer said in a tweet.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-merchant-vessels-collide-in-gulf-of-kutch-no-report-of-oil-spill-101638010964563.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron variant: From urging flight ban to increasing testing. Here’s how states are preparing||In the light of the discovery of omicron, several states in India have moved to implement precautionary measures against the latest variant of the coronavirus initially detected in South Africa.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a two-hour-long meeting to discuss the Covid-19 situation, especially omicron, and the vaccination drive in the country. He was briefed by top officials regarding the situation due to the variant.“PM said that in light of the new threat, people need to [be] more cautious and the need to take proper precautions like masking & social distancing. PM highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’,” his office said in a statement following the meeting.Also read | Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scareUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has already written to states and Union territories warning them of the evolving situation and said that all international travellers from and transiting through countries affected by the variant and their contacts should be tested rigorously.The World Health Organization (WHO) has also asked countries to adopt a risk-based and scientific approach even as several countries have already barred flights from some southern African countries.From demanding a travel ban to measures for scrutinising testing for the disease and emphasising on public health measures such as distancing, here is a look at how some states have responded to the situation.DelhiChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, ahead of the PM’s meeting, urged Modi to stop flights from countries that had reported cases of the Omicron variant.“With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India,” he tweeted.The Delhi government is also scheduled to meet on Monday to discuss action to be taken and Kejriwal had also called upon experts to share their opinions to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), according to news reports.MaharashtraMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that every passenger coming to Mumbai would be quarantined on arrival and their samples would be sent for genome sequencing.The state government also said that while it is mandatory for domestic travellers to either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT-PCR certificate valid for 72 hours, all international passengers coming to the state would be governed according to the Union government’s directions, news agency ANI reported.KarnatakaState health minister K Sudhakar said they are in touch with the central health ministry regarding the new variant. He also said omicron is more contagious and said people arriving from affected countries will be subjected to an RT-PCR test on arrival in Bengaluru.If found positive, they will be asked to stay “in and around” the airport, he said and also said that home quarantine was also being made compulsory for people from those countries.UttarakhandThe Uttarakhand government has emphasised intensifying testing and containment measures to stop the spread of the disease, CM Pushkar Singh Dhami said. The state has also directed local administrations to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour in public places and pushed for arrangements in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-from-urging-flight-ban-to-increasing-testing-here-s-how-states-are-preparing-101638009009498.html
27-11-2021||India||RT-PCR test not mandatory for children on Sabarimala pilgrimage: Kerala||Children can take part in the ongoing pilgrimage to the Sabarimala temple in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district without the mandatory RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state government has said.The Kerala government said in an order dated November 26 that parents and adults, accompanying the children on the Sabarimala pilgrimage will have to ensure that they carry soaps, sanitisers and mask and adhere to social distancing norms."The government is pleased to clarify that children are allowed to go on Sabarimala pilgrimage without RT-PCR test. Parents or adults accompanying the children shall ensure S.M.S. (soap/sanitizer, mask and social distancing) and they are accountable for the children's health issues," the order, which was tweeted by news agency ANI, said.Also read | Devotees allowed to visit Sabarimala in batches after temporary ban liftedHowever, the order signed by additional secretary B Surendran Pillai said adult pilgrims and staff deployed to Sabarimala will have to show either a two-dose vaccination certificate or RT-PCR negative certificate within 72 hours.Hundreds of devotees have been trekking to the hill shrine to offer prayers to Lord Ayyappa since the temple opened on November 16 for the two-month-long annual mandalam and makaravilakku pilgrimage season.Devotees are being allowed to visit the Sabarimala temple through a virtual queue system as part of efforts to regulate the flow of pilgrims in view of the coronavirus pandemic and heavy rains. This system was in place last year as well.On Friday, Kerala reported 4,677 Covid-19 cases and 33 related deaths, taking the state’s tally to 51,12,789 and the death toll to 39,125, the health department said in a release.Active cases of Covid-19 stand at 49,459, out of which only 7.2 per cent are in hospitals, it also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-test-not-mandatory-for-children-on-sabarimala-pilgrimage-kerala-101638006133470.html
27-11-2021||India||Farmers defer tractor rally to Parliament over farm laws but protest will go on||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to put their proposed Parliament march on November 29 on hold as of now, but the ongoing protest will continue until the government holds talks with the farmers over minimum support price, the death of farmers during the protest and the Lakhimpur incident in which protesting farmers were mowed down by a minister's car.The announcement comes two days ahead Parliament sits for the winter session on November 29 and the farm laws will be taken up on the very first day of the session. The tractor march to Parliament was also scheduled on that day as the farmers asserted soon after PM Modi's announcement on November 19 that the protest is not being withdrawn.‘Farmer unions to be represented in MSP panel, urge farmers to leave’: TomarThe meeting of the farmers' union Samyukt Kisan Morcha which has been spearheading the year-long protest comes as agriculture minister Narendra Sing Tomar on Saturday appealed to farmers to return home as their demands have been met. On farmers' demands that all cases against the protesters have to be withdrawn and that the government has to compensate for the lives lost during the protest, Tomar said this falls under the jurisdiction of the respective state governments. "As far as cases registered during the protest are concerned, it comes under the jurisdiction of state governments and they will take a decision. State governments will decide on the issue of compensation too, as per their state policy," Tomar told news agency ANI.A leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha said PM Modu should direct the state governments and the railways to withdraw cases registered against farmers.The agriculture minister on Saturday said the Centre has decriminalised stubble burning which was one of the demands of the farmers. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said these are just words and demanded that the government should give in writing that stubble burning has been decriminalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-defer-tractor-rally-to-parliament-over-farm-laws-but-protest-will-go-on-101638006314236.html
27-11-2021||India||HT legal team bags 2 awards at 7th edition of INBA Annual Awards||HT Media Limited’s legal team, headed by Dinesh Mittal, has been awarded the “Legal Team of the Year 2021” by the Indian National Bar Association (INBA) on Constitution Day.Govind Vijay, the vice president and deputy general counsel of HT Media Group, was also given the “General Counsel of the year (Media) 2021” during the seventh edition of the INBA Annual Awards at Delhi’s Constitution Club of India on Friday.“During the Covid-19 pandemic, we moved from physically signing the agreement to virtual execution, where we used digital signatures, so we evolved as a legal function after putting technology into it to keep up with the changing times,” Vijay, who was awarded at the event, said.The event was attended by Union minister of state in the ministry of law and justice SP Singh Baghel, senior lawyers and judges from across the world, senior government officials, legal departments of Fortune 500 companies and international law firms.“We are Indians and on this day we should not forget our national language is Hindi and our Indian culture. The Constitution is all about rights and duties we need to abide by in our day to day life,” Baghel said.As many as 35 speakers shared their views at the round table conference and talked about their experiences on legal issues during the coronavirus pandemic.INBA also felicitated the legal fraternity leads in various sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-legal-team-bags-2-awards-at-7th-edition-of-inba-annual-awards-101638005063474.html
27-11-2021||India||Aircel Maxis case: P Chidambaram, his son Karti summoned by Delhi court||A Delhi court on Saturday issued summons on Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram and others after taking cognizance of a chargesheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Aircel Maxis case.Special judge MK Nagpal of Rouse Avenue Court had reserved his order on Monday in the case.All the accused mentioned in the chargesheet would have to appear before the court on December 20. The agencies have charged several individuals and firms accused in the case.Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, appearing for the probe agencies had earlier informed the court that agencies had sent LRs (letter rogatory) to different countries and there were some developments in that regard. The CBI had also submitted that it was working on a new lead.The court, while asking for reports from the agencies, had said the allegations mentioned in the chargesheet appeared to be "quite serious in nature".The case, which is being probed by the CBI and ED, relates to alleged irregularities in grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval in the Aircel-Maxis deal.The FIPB approval was allegedly granted in 2006 when Chidambaram was the Union finance minister.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircel-maxis-case-p-chidambaram-his-son-karti-summoned-by-delhi-court-101638004799418.html
27-11-2021||India||Be proactive, review ease on international travel: PM Modi amid omicron scare||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked officials to review plans to ease restrictions on international travel in light of global concern over omicron, the recently-discovered variant of the coronavirus.The Prime Minister’s comments came after he chaired a high-level meeting, which lasted almost two hours, to review the public health preparedness and vaccination-related situation for Covid-19 in the country.As officials briefed PM Modi about omicron, its characteristics and the impact seen in various countries, its implications for India were also discussed, Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. “PM spoke about the need to be proactive in light of the new variant.”Also read | Omicron Covid variant: What do we know about risks, symptoms, tests“The PM said that in light of the new threat, people need to be more cautious and the need to take proper precautions like masking and social distancing. PM highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals, their testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’,” the PMO said in the statement.“The PM also asked officials to review plans for easing international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence,” the statement said.Also watch | Covid Omicron variant: PM Modi issues instructions in 2-hour meeting amid alarm over new strain 
27-11-2021||India||‘Farmer unions to be represented in govt MSP panel, urge farmers to go home’: Narendra Tomar||Farmer unions will be represented in the committee announced by the Union government to discuss several related issues, including the minimum support price (MSP) system, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced to constitute a committee to deliberate on the issues of crop diversification, zero-budget farming, and making the MSP system more transparent and effective. This committee will have representatives from the farmers' organisations,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying.“With the constitution of this committee, farmers' demand on MSP stands fulfilled,” he added.Also read | Govt to table farm repeal bill on Day 1 of winter session; Congress issues whipsTomar also confirmed that the bill to repeal the three farm laws would be tabled in Parliament on the first day of the Winter Session, scheduled to begin on Monday (November 29).On Wednesday, the Union Cabinet approved the proposal to take back the three contentious laws, against which the farmers union have been protesting for a year.While the farmers have said that the repeal of three laws is only a part of their many demands, Tomar said there was “no point” in continuing the protests after the announcement and urged them to leave.“After the announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, there is no point in continuing farmers' agitation. I urge farmers to end their agitation and go home,” he said.The Union agriculture minister noted that the Centre has also accepted the unions’ demand for decriminalising stubble burning by farmers.State governments will decide on the issue of cases registered on farmers during the protests and also regarding the compensation to be provided to them, Tomar noted.“As far as cases registered during the protest are concerned, it comes under the jurisdiction of state governments and they will take a decision. State governments will decide on the issue of compensation too, as per their state policy,” he said.The remarks from Tomar came as the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions that has spearheaded the demonstrations in Delhi’s borders, is set to meet on Saturday to discuss the future course of actions regarding the protests.“We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday,” news agency PTI quoted Saurabh Upadhyay, spokesperson for the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) as saying.The farmers’ agitation against the three laws completed one year on Friday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-to-be-represented-in-govt-msp-panel-urge-farmers-to-go-home-narendra-tomar-101638002589422.html
27-11-2021||India||'IT cell Farziwada': Nawab Malik asks if this fake photo is behind Narayan Rane's 'March prediction'||Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday said the BJP will form the government in Maharashtra by coming March. Sharing a photoshopped picture of Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis meeting Union home minister Amit Shah together, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik asked whether this fake image is the base of Narayan Rane's prediction that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will collapse by March, next year. यह है #BJP IT cell का फर्जीवाड़ा,क्या इसी फर्जीवाड़ा के आधार पर केंद्रीय मंत्री मार्च महीने में सरकार बनाने का दावा कर रहे हैं ? pic.twitter.com/t0sHzIbryFAs the minister shared the photo and the original one from where Sharad Pawar's photo has been lifted and pasted on the photo of Fadnavis meeting Amit Shah, many social media users pointed out that the shoddy editing is visible in the photoshopped image. Amid on-and-off speculation of cracks appearing among the partners of Maha Vikas Aghadi government which completed two years on Saturday, BJP leader Narayan Rane's claim created a stir. Without revealing more details, the Union minister said the alliance government in Maharashtra will not survive long. On being asked a timeline, the minister said the government could be toppled as early as March. " "Uddhav Thackeray is unwell, so I don't want to talk about him... But the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi govt will not be surviving for long in Maharashtra," Rane said. Toppling and forming a government is done in secrecy and it can not be discussed in public, the minister said, with all certainty.Though this is not the first time that the BJP predicted the MVA government's possible collapse, the Union minister's claim was enough to create a ripple as both the BJP and the NCP leadership were in New Delhi at the same time. Party officials, however, confirmed that there was no meeting in Delhi and they went to Delhi to attend different meetings.Calling these predictions baseless, Nawab Malik on Friday said, Narayan Rane's followers might have raised thousands of hens and goats in the last 23 years for sacrifice once their prayer of Rane becoming the CM once again comes true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-cell-farziwada-nawab-malik-asks-if-this-fake-photo-is-behind-narayan-rane-s-march-prediction-101638003081326.html
27-11-2021||India||Patna-bound GoAir flight makes emergency landing in Nagpur after engine glitch||A Patna-bound GoAir flight from Bengaluru with 139 passengers on board landed safely landing at Nagpur airport on Saturday after suffering a glitch in one of its engines, airport and airline officials said.Nagpur airport director Abid Ruhi told news agency PTI that flight G8 873 of GoAir, which has been rebranded as GoFlight, made a safe landing at 11.15am."The pilot of the GoAir flight contacted Nagpur ATC to inform that one of the engines of the plane is facing a problem, and made a request for an emergency landing at Nagpur airport," Ruhi told PTI.Also read | Domestic flights of GoAir, 3 other airlines to operate from T1 of Mumbai Airport"We made all requisite arrangements by declaring it as a full-scale emergency, which includes making available runways, fire tenders, doctors, ambulances and requires coordination with the police. Fortunately, the flight made a safe landing," Ruhi said.A spokesperson of Go First said that the flight from Bengaluru to Patna was diverted to Nagpur due to a faulty engine warning in the cockpit, which “necessitated the captain to shut down the engine as a precautionary measure”.“Thereafter, the captain landed safely at Nagpur airport,” the Go First Spokesperson said in a statement.Also read | 'It was crazy': Engine failure forces emergency landing of US-bound flightThe spokesperson added that all passengers have been deplaned and served refreshments. Another aircraft has been arranged for the passengers, which will leave for Patna at 4:45pm. “The aircraft is being inspected by the engineering team.”“At GO FIRST, safety of its passengers and crew is of paramount importance and the airline sincerely regrets any inconvenience caused to the passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patnabound-goair-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-nagpur-after-engine-glitch-101638000367110.html
27-11-2021||India||Kejriwal urges PM to ban flights from nations affected by new Omicron variant||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Central government to suspend incoming flights from the countries affected by the new coronavirus variant, the B.1.1.529, named Omicron by the World Health Organization. “I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by [the] new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We should do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India,” the chief minister tweeted.Delhi government has also called a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday to discuss how to deal with the threat presented by the new coronavirus variant, first detected in South Africa.“In view of the threat from the new Covid variant from African countries, we have requested experts to make a presentation to DDMA on Monday and suggest what steps we should take. We will take all steps necessary to protect you and your family,” the chief minister tweeted on Friday. Scientists are still in the process to determine whether the new variant, also known as the B.1.1.529, is more transmissible or lethal than the previous ones, but it is found to have the most mutations of any strain yet identified. The WHO on Friday classified it as a “variant of concern”, and renamed it Omicron. The WHO said early evidence suggested an increased reinfection risk from the variant which was first reported to the organisation from South Africa on November 24 and was from a specimen collected on November 9.Also Read | Air pollution: CNG, e-vehicles allowed to enter Delhi from today. Details hereThe health ministry on Thursday directed all states and union territories to strictly screen and test international travellers from Botswana, South Africa, and Hong Kong which are among the countries where the new variant was detected. States were asked to send samples of international travellers found positive for genome sequencing. WHO has urged countries not to panic and cautioned against “hasty measures”, even as a slew of nations across the world reacted with alarm to the news. Several nations, particularly those in Europe, started banning flights from South Africa and neighbouring nations. Travellers from South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho and Eswatini will not be able to enter the UK unless they are UK or Irish nationals, or UK residents, BBC news reported. The US too has decided to block flights from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Lesotho, Eswatini, Mozambique and Malawi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-urges-pm-to-ban-flights-from-nations-affected-by-new-omicron-variant-101637999875305.html
27-11-2021||India||Which states and UTs are among India's poorest? List here||NITI Aayog has published the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) report which measured “three equally weighted dimensions” of health, education and standard of living.India's MPI has three equally weighted dimensions, health, education and standard of living - which are represented by 12 indicators of nutrition, child and adolescent mortality, antenatal care, years of schooling, school attendance, cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, housing, assets and bank accounts.The national MPI measure uses the globally accepted and robust methodology developed by the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the report said. It also captures multiple and simultaneous deprivations faced by households.Also read | Niti Aayog report: Sparks fly over poor ranking; NDA calls it bundle of lies, oppn rubs it in"The development of the National Multidimensional Poverty Index of India is an important contribution towards instituting a public policy tool which monitors multidimensional poverty, informs evidence-based and focused interventions, thereby ensuring that no one is left behind,” Rajiv Kumar, NITI Aayog’s vice chairperson, has said in his foreword to the report.Here is the list of the poorest and best performing states and UTs:Poorest statesBihar: 51.91 per centJharkhand: 42.16 per centUttar Pradesh: 37.79 per centMadhya Pradesh: 36.65 per centMeghalaya: 32.67 per centStates with the lowest poverty rateKerala: 0.71 per centGoa: 3.76 per centSikkim: 3.82 per centTamil Nadu: 4.89 per centPunjab: 5.59 per centPoorest Union territoriesDadra and Nagar Haveli: 27.36 per centJammu & Kashmir and Ladakh: 12.58 per centDaman & Diu: 6.82 per centChandigarh: 5.97 per centUnion territories with the lowest poverty ratePuducherry: 1.72 per centLakshadweep: 1.82 per centAndaman & Nicobar Islands: 4.30 per centDelhi: 4.79 per cent||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/which-states-and-uts-are-among-india-s-poorest-list-here-101637998029269.html
27-11-2021||India||Rampath Yatra Express: IRCTC flags off special train for pilgrimage to Ayodhya||The Rampath Yatra Express, connecting Maharashtra’s Pune to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, was flagged off on Saturday with an aim to promote pilgrimage tourism after the success of the Ramayana Express.The new special train will tour six pilgrim destinations associated with Lord Ram. These include Nandigram, Shringverpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Chitrakoot and Ayodhya, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) group general manager (West) Rahul Himalian told news agency ANI.“The full-circuit Ramayana Yatra adds Hampi, Nashik and Rameshwaram,” he added.The train will have AC class as well as sleeper coaches, IRCTC has said. The full package costs ₹14,490, including breakfast, lunch, dinner, stay, transport, and a guide. Interested passengers can book their train tickets on www.irctctourism.com."The launch of this train is aimed at promoting pilgrimage tourism, covering pilgrim sites in a tour of seven days and eight nights. It'll run with sleeper class and AC-3 tier," the divisional railway manager (DRM) of Pune division Renu Sharma said while speaking to ANI.The Indian Railways has also announced a new segment of special trains dedicated to the tourism sector and a set of around 190 theme-based trains called Bharat Gaurav trains. The fare of these trains would be decided by tour operators but the railways will ensure that there is no abnormality in the prices.The Indian Railways also recently resumed its catering service, serving hot cooked meals on train journeys as Covid-19 cases dropped significantly in the country. The announcement came just a few days after the Union civil aviation ministry announced the resumption of meals on domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rampath-yatra-express-irctc-flags-off-special-train-for-pilgrimage-to-ayodhya-101637992956827.html
27-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi meets top govt officials on Covid-19 situation and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi chairs key Covid-19 meet, virtually meets top govt officialsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a key meeting with top government officials to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India and the nationwide vaccination process to stem the course of the pandemic. Read morePaytm Q2 results: Net loss widens, company says maintained growth momentumOne97 Communications, the parent firm of digital payments company Paytm, announced the financial results of its second quarter (ending September 30) on Saturday, in which it said that its net loss widened by 8.4 per cent to ₹474 crore, from ₹437 crore a year ago. Read moreJal Jeevan Mission: Ladakh village at 13,000 feet gets clean drinking waterThe Jal Jeevan Mission reached a major milestone recently, when it provided clean drinking water to a remote village in Ladakh. The residents of Skampuk village in Leh's Nubra block now get potable water even in sub-zero temperature. Read moreWatch: R Ashwin's heated exchange with Nitin Menon after umpire warns spinner for running across him in follow throughSpinner R Ashwin was back at his animated best during Day 3 of the first Test between India and New Zealand. He was involved in a rather heated exchanged with umpire Nitin Menon for what is believed to be for running across him in follow through and obstructing his and non-striker's view. Read moreAntim The Final Truth box office day 1 collection: Salman Khan-Aayush Sharma's film opens at around ₹4.5 crAntim: The Final Truth, starring Salman Khan and his real-life brother-in-law Aayush Sharma as arch rivals, released in theatres on Friday. The film received positive reviews and collected around ₹4.25-4.5 crore on its opening day, as per early estimates. Read moreRahul Khanna's post-workout selfie serves weekend fitness motivation, Lara Dutta reactsIndian film actor and model Rahul Khanna's post-workout selfie is creating quite the havoc online, and making us want to get on the fitness bandwagon. With the arrival of the weekend, we all favour a bit of laziness over workouts. Maybe the star's photo will serve as the perfect weekend motivation for you too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-meets-top-govt-officials-on-covid-19-situation-and-all-the-latest-news-101637996440930.html
27-11-2021||India||Explained: How NITI Aayog calculates the National Multidimensional Poverty Index||NITI Aayog, the government think tank, on Friday released the National Multidimensional Poverty Index (NMPI) baseline report that defines poverty as the deprivation in crucial and basic parameters of health, education and living standards.The report was based on the National Family Health Survey 4 (NFHS-4), which was conducted between 2015 and 2016, and developed by the NITI Aayog in consultation with 12 ministries and in partnership with state governments and the index publishing agencies, namely, Oxford University’s Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).Here is how the think tank developed the report.Also read | Bihar poorest state, followed by Jharkhand and UP: Niti Aayog reportWhy NFHS-4 ?Data collected during the NFHS-4 (2015-2016) corresponds to the period before the full roll out of government schemes on housing, drinking water, sanitation, electricity, cooking fuel, financial inclusion, and other major efforts towards improving school attendance, nutrition, mother and child health, etc.“Hence it serves as a useful source for measuring the situation at baseline i.e. before large-scale rollout of nationally important schemes,” the government said in a statement on Saturday.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya), Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), POSHAN Abhiyaan and Samagra Shiksha were some of such welfare schemes that were listed by the Union government.Also read | Niti Aayog report: Sparks fly over poor ranking; NDA calls it bundle of lies, oppn rubs it inHow is the data used ?The national MPI 2021 is calculated using the household microdata collected at the unit-level for the NFHS-4 that is used to derive the baseline multidimensional poverty. This baselines denote the country’s standings before the full roll out of the aforementioned government schemes.Further, the country’s progress would be measured using this baseline in the NFHS-5, for which the data was collected between 2019 and 2020.The progress of the country with respect to this baseline will be measured using the NFHS-5 data collected in 2019-20.“The NFHS 5 2019-20 summary fact sheets for all States and Union Territories was released by IIPS and MoHFW on 24 November 2021. National MPI based on NFHS 5 of the data period 2019-20 will be computed when the unit level micro data for the same is released by IIPS and MoHFW next year,” the government said.Calculating MPIThe multidimensional poverty index is calculated using 12 indicators -- nutrition, child and adolescent mortality, antenatal care, years of schooling, school attendance, cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, housing, assets and bank account -- that have been grouped under three dimensions namely, health, education and standard of living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-niti-aayog-calculates-the-national-multidimensional-poverty-index-101637995102276.html
27-11-2021||India||2 Warkaris killed, 24 injured in Pune after hit by mini-truck||Two devotees of lord Vitthal, also known as Warkaris, were killed and 24 others sustained injuries when a mini truck rammed into a tractor, crushing several devotees who were walking alongside the tractor at Kanhe village near Kamshet in Maharashtra’s Pune district, early on Saturday, police said. “Two people have died and 24 are injured in the accident. Two deceased are women and the entire group was walking from Khalapur towards Alandi,” said Vilas Bhosale, police inspector of Vadgaon Maval police station. The deceased were identified as Savita Valku Yeram (58), a resident of Umbre village in Khalapur and Jayashree Atmaram Pawar (58 ), a resident of Bhutivali in Karjat, both situated in Raigad district, according to the police. The injured have been rushed to multiple private and government hospitals in the surrounding areas. The incident happened around 6 am in Maval tehsil as the pilgrims were on their way to Alandi, a temple town located approximately 40 kms from Pune city, when the mini pick up truck rammed into the tractor carrying belongings of the Warkaris who were on walking along. Also Read: 3 held, 2 minors detained for petrol bomb attack in Pimple SaudagarAccording to Bhosale, Warkaris were coming on foot from Raigad district. “When they reached Sate Phata on old Mumbai-Pune highway, a mini-truck hit them, injuring 15 people,” he said. The police have detained the driver of the vehicle and started a probe, Bhosale added. Warkaris take annual ‘wari’ (pilgrimage) to Pandharpur town in Solapur district in the state, famous for its Lord Vitthal temple. The annual pilgrimage, which generally begins in June, culminates on the day of Ashadhi Ekadashi, which usually falls in the month of July||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-warkaris-killed-24-injured-after-hit-by-minitruck-101637995915079.html
27-11-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission: Ladakh village at 13,000 feet gets clean drinking water||The Jal Jeevan Mission reached a major milestone recently, when it provided clean drinking water to a remote village in Ladakh. The residents of Skampuk village in Leh's Nubra block now get potable water even in sub-zero temperature.The village is located at a height of 13,000 feet. What makes this achievement significant is that the people living all 105 households here are getting water which is not frozen. This has been made possible by an insulation jacket around the pipe."Earlier, we faced so many problems related to water supply during the winters. But now, it's so easy as under Jal Jeevan Mission, every household has a tap connection. Our problem has been solved," said Smarka Lamo, a young woman living in the village."We are very thankful to the central government," she added.The day temperature in Skampuk is recorded minus 3 degrees Celsius, and it plunges to minus 11 degrees Celsius during the night. Still, the people living here are facing no issues with water supply."We had to go to the river bank with donkeys to fetch drinking water. There was a handpump we used, but the water was not clean. But now it's all well and good since we have a tap near our doorsteps," said another woman.The Jal Jeevan Mission was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019. And in these 27 months, over 50 million families have been provided new tap water connections.Under the Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal scheme, every rural household is to be provided with a functional tap water connection by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-ladakh-village-at-13-000-feet-gets-clean-drinking-water-101637995426485.html
27-11-2021||India||PM Modi chairs key Covid-19 meet, virtually meets top govt officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a key meeting with top government officials to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in India and the nationwide vaccination process to stem the course of the pandemic. The development comes at a time when concerns are rising over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, first detected in South Africa and widely deemed by global infectious disease experts as carrying frequent mutations and a faster transmission rate.
27-11-2021||India||Seminar on infrastructure building in Uttarakhand, HP border areas held||Amid the ongoing border issues with China, the Golden Key Division under the central command of Indian army, held a two-day seminar to discuss a roadmap for sustainable infrastructure development in the border areas of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, which share boundary with China .Speakers at the two day seminar included former defence secretary and governor of Chhattisgarh Shekhar Dutt, scientist from Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS)- Rajat Chatterjee, head of department, civil engineering in Indian Institute of Technology- Roorkee (IIT-R) Kamal Jain, Uttarakhand tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar, experts from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Forest Research Institute (FRI), University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES) and officials from Border Roads Organisation (BRO), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and the India Army. “The discussions during the seminar included various aspects of infrastructure development... Emphasis was also laid on the need for increased coordination between military, academia and the civic administration on the issue with best possible implementation of latest technologies while ensuring a holistic infrastructural development with focus on the border areas of the two states,” an army statement on the seminar said.On the first day of the seminar, the experts from WIHG, BRO, IIT-R and IIRS spoke on the technical and geological aspects of infrastructure development in the border areas of the two Himalayan states near the Line of Actual Control. Former defence secretary Dutt also “provided an insight on the Chinese infrastructure model in its Tibet Autonomous Region near the LAC.” Also Read: Uttarakhand village has begun sliding downhill due to construction, seepage, warn geologistsOn Friday, speakers from the army presented a “model infrastructure development plan” by the Golden Key division and stressed on the need for “coordinated efforts by all parties concerned for holistic development of the border areas while considering the aspirations of the local population and curbing their migration”. Lt Gen Gambhir Singh Negi (retd), commended Army for discussing a “vital subject”, and said, “Proper infrastructure has to be developed in border areas to enable quick response in case of a Chinese aggression at LAC.”“China in Tibet has an advantage due to the topography and better infrastructure. It can mobilise its troops from one point to another in a reasonable time while India can’t due to more difficult topography and less developed infrastructure. Hence, it becomes very important to develop not only roads but infrastructure for keeping the troops, arms, ration and other essential items at border areas so that our army can be better prepared and deliver a counter in case China attacks us in Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh,” Lt Gen Negi (retd), added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seminar-on-infrastructure-building-in-uttarakhand-hp-border-areas-held-101637991654778.html
27-11-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh flood death toll mounts to 44; Tirupati gets heavy rain||The Andhra Pradesh government has said as many as 44 people have lost their lives and 16 are still missing due to floods after the unprecedented rain in the state even as officials said the situation was grim on Saturday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) office in Amaravati has said heavy to very heavy rainfall in parts of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra, particularly Chittoor and Nellore in the next three to four days. The state government has put district authorities on a high alert due to possible breach of tanks that are already filled to the brim due to recent heavy rains, leading to the inundation of villages downstream.The statement issued by the state government on Friday said 1,990 villages in 119 mandals of the Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur, and Nellore districts were affected by the floods, of which 211 villages were completely inundated."The rains, which started after the first week of this month, continue to fall today. The rain began on the 16-17th. As never seen before in history, heavy rains inundated Rayalaseema," the statement said, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Heavy rain expected in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh today; IMD issues red alert"The streets of Tirumala and in the town of Tirupati, we have experienced heavy rain and vehicles being washed away. Four buses were stuck in the flood, where an RTC bus had fallen from the Nadaluru bridge, causing 10 people to succumb to death and the rest were rescued by SDRF teams. Ten others had died at Sivalayam, which is on the banks of the river," it added.The government also said the power supply in the four districts has been restored and is providing necessities to 95,949 flood-affected families. It has also announced the expediting the payment of compensation in respect of fully damaged and partially damaged houses by the floods."For those whose house was completely damaged, the government is sanctioning ₹1.8 lakh for a new house, along with compensation at the rate of ₹95,000," it said.Also read | More rain predicted for southern Andhra Pradesh"Compensation for dead cattle to be paid to the owners immediately. Also, orders to ensure Cattle are vaccinated. Cattle feed was also ordered to be distributed without shortage anywhere. An enumeration has been directed to be completed expeditiously in respect of crop compensation," it said, according to ANI.The state government has also directed district collectors to give immediate reports regarding the rehabilitation of roads and assess immediately upon receipt of these reports and prioritise and fund these tasks.Also read | Karnataka may get light rain for 5 days: IMDEarlier, the government decided to provide 25kg of rice, 1kg of red gram dal, palm oil 1litre per family, 1kg each of onions and potatoes for families in these affected districts.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted an aerial survey of affected areas and reviewed the flood situation with the district collectors Saturday.On Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to the CM over the phone and assured him of all help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-flood-death-toll-mounts-to-44-tirupati-gets-heavy-rain-101637990678031.html
27-11-2021||India||Omicron: Arvind Kejriwal urges PM Modi to ban flights from affected countries||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop flights from those countries which are affected by a new variant of coronavirus, omicron. The tweet comes just before PM Modi holds meeting to review the overall Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive.Also Read | All you need to know about the omicron variant"I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief said on Twitter.I urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India https://t.co/5LpFULIHKbA number of countries, including the 27-nation bloc European Union, have suspended travel to south African countries, where the omicron variant believed to have emerged. The first case was detected in Botswana on November 9, and it has since spread to Hong Kong, Belgium and Israel.Australian became the latest country on Saturday to announce travel ban to nine African countries: South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, Eswatini, the Seychelles, Malawi and Mozambique.India, for now, has not imposed any travel ban for flights from the affected region. The Union health ministry, however, directed states to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong - that have reported cases of the new variant so far.Experts say the omicron variant spreads faster than all the other known strains of the coronavirus and has more mutations that any of them. In fact, its 32 mutations are twice the number seen in delta, the world-dominant variant.PM Modi has held such review meetings in the past too. In the last such meeting on November 3, he met with the officials of districts where the vaccination coverage was low and the respective chief ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-kejriwal-urges-pm-modi-to-ban-flights-to-affected-countries-101637990013287.html
27-11-2021||India||India reports 8,318 new Covid-19 cases; death toll up by 465||India on Saturday recorded 8,318 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 21.14 per cent less than the previous day, taking the total number of infections to 3,45,63,749. At the same time, the death toll increased by 465 to 4,67,933, the data shared by the Union health ministry at 8am showed.The country's active cases stand at 1,07,019. Meanwhile, as many as 10,967 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, pushing the total recoveries to 3,39,88,797. India has a recovery rate of 98.34 per cent now, the highest since March 2020, showed the government data.Although the new cases have dropped to a containable level in India, the Union health ministry on Friday directed states and union territories to start rigorous screening and testing of all international travellers in view of the omicron outbreak.Directions were issued for travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong - that have reported cases of the new variant so far.India's cumulative vaccination coverage against the viral disease has exceeded 1.21 billion, with more than 73.58 lakh administered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry stated.Going by the weekly data, the country's positivity rate remained under one per cent (0.88%) for the past 13 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-318-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-up-by-465-101637987031497.html
27-11-2021||India||Haryana CM says law guaranteeing MSP ‘not possible’ as farmers press for key demand||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that it is not possible to draft a law guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) to farmers as it would put pressure on the government to buy their produce in case nobody else does. Notably, the statement from the veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader came on the day thousands of protesting farmers marked one year of the movement against three contentious pieces of agriculture legislation, also vowing to keep the movement alive to ensure the demand for MSP for a range of crops is guaranteed.Also Read | Rakesh Tikait: MSP our key demand, govt has time to think till winter sessionSpeaking to reporters who asked him about the demands of the farmers to regularise MSP, Khattar said, “Till now, no discussions have been held on this (on regularising MSP). Agricultural economists also have varied opinions.”“It does not seem possible to draft a law on this,” the ANI news agency quoted the Haryana chief minister as saying. “A law on MSP is not possible because if a law is made on this, then the onus will come on the government, in the sense that if their produce is not bought, then the government will have to buy it.”“The government does not require so much and to make a system on this is also not possible. We will buy as per the requirement,” he added.The Haryana chief minister on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence in New Delhi, following which he made the aforementioned remarks.Several farmer unions, under the umbrella of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), have been spearheading nationwide protests against the three central farm laws since November last year. Although the Narendra Modi-led government recently announced that the contentious laws will be repealed, the farmers maintained that there are several demands pending, including those related to MSP for crops.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said a day ago that the “main demand” is the MSP and now that the government has time to think about the demands, the procedures undertaken in the forthcoming winter session of Parliament will influence the future of the farmers' protests. “The rollback of the three laws was beneficial for the common man,” Tikait said while addressing the farmers at the UP Gate. “Our demand is for a law guaranteeing MSP for a range of crops. The government has time to think and understand our demands till the winter session goes on in Parliament. The winter session will decide the future course of our agitation.”Meanwhile, the SKM will on Saturday take a call on the future course of action of the entire movement, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-says-law-guaranteeing-msp-not-possible-as-farmers-press-for-key-demand-101637983431370.html
27-11-2021||India||3 killed, 7 injured as truck hits bus from behind in Odisha||Three picnickers returning home were killed and seven others sustained critical injuries after a speeding truck hit their stationary bus from behind on the national highway in Odisha’s Khurda district early Saturday morning.Officials said the accident took place when some of the 18 picnickers from Gopalpur area of Ganjam district, returning from Maa Tarini shrine at Ghatagaon in Keonjhar district, got down from the bus to relieve themselves at Belapada chhaka under Banapur police station at about 3 am.“Some of the picnickers stayed in the bus while others went out to relieve themselves. A few moments later, a truck slammed the stationary bus from behind, which resulted in the death of two passengers on the spot and another one at the hospital. Those who had left the bus to relieve themselves were unhurt. The truck driver fled with the truck after the mishap,” said Balugaon sub divisional police officer Manas Barik.Also Read: Odisha constable tracks liquor dens by day. At night, he teaches poor childrenThe deceased were identified as S Loyidas (55), Gangadhar Maharana (45) and Asit Behera (28), all from Gopalpur area of Ganjam district.A team of fire services personnel rescued the injured and recovered the bodies. The seven who were critically injured have been rushed to MKCG Hospital in Berhampur town. Officials said they were trying to track the truck that hit the bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-7-injured-as-truck-hits-bus-from-behind-101637988714145.html
27-11-2021||India||Talks of new alliance, Cong not enthused but open to Chirag||While the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan consider an alliance for the election to 24 Member of Legislative Council (MLC) seats in Bihar, other Grand Alliance partners such as the Congress are weighing their options with a section in the party advocating going solo despite the debacle in recently concluded by-polls. The party has also denied it was involved in talks with the LJP, suggesting a disconnect with RJD national president Lalu Prasad’s unilateral announcement of talks with Chirag Paswan-led party. The RJD has even floated a seat distribution formula for the proposed alignment with the RJD contesting on 15 seats, Congress on 5, LJP (Ram Vilas) on 3 and Left on one seat. A few days back, LJP (Ram Vilas) state parliamentary party backed forming an alliance for the impending MLC elections and the decision was seconded by the national parliamentary party, which left it to party’s national president Chirag Paswan to take a final call. “It has been left to Chirag Paswan to decide the alliance with whichever party. We cannot say whether it will be with the RJD or the National Democratic Alliance (NDA),” said LJP (RV) spokesperson Ashraf Ansari. “A call is likely to be taken in this regard on November 28,” he added. The LJP failed to impress in the recently held by-polls for two assembly seats in a continuation of its dismal performance in 2020 assembly elections, when a single party candidate managed to win, only to later defect to the Janata Dal (United), leaving the party with no representation in either house. The Congress appears to be a divided house over the Grand Alliance opening its doors to the Chirag Paswan faction of the LJP. “I am not aware of any talks going on in this regard. Such major decisions are taken by party high command,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha. “First and foremost, no offer has come. Secondly, Lalu Prasad will not decide who Congress should align with. Our Bihar in-charge Bhakt Charan Das has not been approached,” said Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra. Mishra added that Chirag should “hold direct talks with the Congress” to discuss an alliance . Some other party leaders favoured re-establishing an independent identity in the state. “It is still three years to Lok Sabha polls and it is enough time to rebuild the party and go to polls on its own,” opined Anand Madhab, Congress spokesperson. Another Congress leader, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Those advocating ties with the RJD are doing so for their selfish interest as they want to push their near and dear ones to the legislative council with the help of the RJD,” . All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar, who recently held a press conference in Patna was also for organisational strengthening. “The by-elections taught us the lesson that we need to work on our organisation in Bihar. We are going to do that in the two and a half years that remain before the country goes to polls,” the former Union minister said. Also Read | Lalu Prasad Yadav admitted to AIIMS emergency dept, stable: Report “It is, however, for our top leadership to take a call on any future realignment with the RJD. A decision will be taken at an appropriate time, keeping in view the political scenario across the country,” said Anwar. The Left parties, which performed very well in the 2020 assembly elections to win 16 seats, are open to exploring this new alignment. “Any alliance against the BJP ... is always a welcome step. More the [number of] parties, the greater the strength. However, Chirag Paswan will first have to clear his stand with regard to the NDA. We will wait for his decision. Let things crystallise then we will comment on seats [sharing]. The recent development in the Mahagathbandhan (Grand alliance) with the Congress and the RJD fighting each other was not good,” said Kunal (known by single name), state secretary of the CPI (ML).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-of-new-alliance-cong-not-enthused-but-open-to-chirag-101637986194120.html
27-11-2021||India||PM Modi to chair meeting with top officials today to discuss Covid-19 situation, vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday will hold a meeting with top officials regarding the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country and to review the ongoing vaccination programme. The meeting is scheduled to commence at 10.30am.It comes amid concerns caused over the emergence of a new variant of coronavirus - the Omicron. The strain has already been categorised as 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO).PM @narendramodi will chair an important meeting on Covid-19 situation & Vaccination with top officials at 10:30 AM today.This would be the second such meeting by Modi in the month. Earlier on November 3, he met with the officials of districts where the vaccination coverage was low and the respective chief ministers.Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, principal secretary to PM PK Mishra, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul are scheduled to attend the meeting, according to news agency ANI.The meeting comes as India crossed the 1.21 billion doses mark on Saturday, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 1,210,658,262 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries, as of 8am on the day.On Saturday, 8,318 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 465 related fatalities were reported across the country. With this, the total confirmed infections so far reached 34,563,749 and the death toll climbed to 467,933, the ministry’s dashboard showed. Active caseload fell by 3,114 cases and stood at 107,019. Meanwhile, 969,354 samples were tested for the disease in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said and so far, 638,247,889 samples have been tested.As far as restriction measures regarding the new omicron variant is concerned, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to states and Union territories on November 25 warning of the new variant and asked for passengers from or transiting through the countries where the cases are detected be tested rigorously.“It is imperative that all international travellers travelling from and transiting through these countries and also including all other 'at risk' countries are subjected to rigorous screening and testing. The contacts of these international travellers must also be closely tracked and tested,” Bhushan said in his letter.“This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations and thus has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel,” he further warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-meeting-with-top-officials-today-to-discuss-covid-19-situation-vaccination-101637985326550.html
27-11-2021||India||As Elon Musk's Starlink offers internet services in India, govt issues warning||Starlink, the broadband internet system of the Elon Musk-founded SpaceX, is not licensed to offer satellite-based internet services in India, the Union government said on Friday and also advised the public to not subscribe to the services offered by the company, which are available for pre-booking.The Department of Telecommunications (DoT), under the Union ministry of communications, said that Starlink does not have the required licenses for a company to provide satellite based services in the country. “Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Government of India. has pointed out that 'Starlink Internet Services' is not licensed to offer satellite-based internet services in India being advertised to the public,” the ministry said in a statement.The government said that the company has started pre-selling or booking of their satellite based Starlink Internet Services in India and it was evident from the company’s website that users in the Indian territory could book internet services offered by Starlink.Also read | Elon Musk’s SpaceX ‘looking for two rockstars’ for Starlink India. Details here“For rendering satellite based services in India, requisite license(s) from Department of Telecommunications, Government of India are required. It is hereby informed to the public at large that the said company has not obtained any license/authorization for rendering satellite based internet services that are being booked on their website,” the ministry further said.Further, Starlink has also been asked by the government to immediately refrain from making their services available for booking in the country, until the required licenses are obtained.“Accordingly, the Government has asked the company to comply with the Indian regulatory framework for rendering the satellite based communication services and refrain from booking/rendering the satellite internet services in India with immediate effect,” the ministry said. “Given the fact that Starlink is not a licensee, the public is advised not to subscribe to Starlink services being advertised,” it added.Starlink was reportedly planning to explore collaboration with telecom companies in the country to expand their broadband services in the country, according to a report by news agency PTI earlier this month.The company intends to discuss with service providers after the NITI Aayog identified 12 Phase-1 aspiration districts, Sanjay Bhargava, Starlink Country Director India at SpaceX, told news agency ANI.Currently, the company is offering its services in select areas within the country for an amount of $99 that is fully refundable. The website also shows that the company is targeting coverage by 2022 and that availability is subject to regulatory approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-elon-musk-s-starink-offers-internet-services-in-india-govt-issues-warning-101637983184977.html
27-11-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar most polluted city in UP as AQI plunges in winter||With winter securing its grip in Uttar Pradesh, the cold air and dry weather have intensified the air pollution situation from Meerut to Muzaffarnagar as citizens continue to inhale the stagnant air laden with a high concentration of pollutants. The latest air quality index (AQI) rankings, issued on Saturday, showed that Muzaffarnagar is the second-most polluted (based on the concentration of pollutants in the air) city in the country. The situation in Meerut, too, has progressively gotten worse, the AQI rankings showed.Also Read | Air pollution: CNG, e-vehicles allowed to enter Delhi from today. Details hereThe average AQI in Meerut, during the past 24 hours, turned out to be 373 – which is in the ‘very poor’ category, making the city the tenth-most polluted in the country. In Uttar Pradesh, Meerut stood sixth in the air pollution ranking, while Muzaffarnagar, with an AQI of 423, came up first. According to experts cited by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, the sharp decline in temperatures due to approaching winter is likely to further worsen the air quality index in the coming days. As per the data, PM10 and PM2.5 particles are running high across all cities, around six to eight times higher than what is normal.AQI ranking in Uttar PradeshMuzaffarnagar: 423Noida: 394Hapur: 388Greater Noida: 386Ghaziabad: 378Meerut: 373Bulandshahr: 363Baghpat: 356Meanwhile, the overall AQI in the national capital, Delhi, slipped to 386 on Saturday, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), which categorised the air as ‘very poor’. The PM10 was recorded at 360 and PM2.5 was recorded at 386 at 7:50am.Also Read | Amid ‘very poor’ Delhi air quality, expert lists suggestions to avoid pollutionSAFAR advised that everyone may experience health effects and a significant increase in respiratory problems. “The share of stubble burning (Count 274) related pollutants is 8 per cent in Delhi's PM2.5. Mixing layer height and wind are the dominant factors controlling air quality. From 29th significant improvement in AQI is expected due to high wind speed,” said SAFAR.As per SAFAR, the air quality will further deteriorate to AQI 428 in the “severe” category. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has once again decided to reimpose a ban on construction and demolition activities following the Supreme Court's directions. In view of an improvement in the air quality, the ban on construction and demolition activities was lifted last Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muzaffarnagar-most-polluted-city-in-up-as-aqi-plunges-in-winter-101637981226225.html
27-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh minister apologises for remarks about 'upper caste women'||A minister in Madhya Pradesh stoked controversy over comments made about women earlier this week. The remarks were on the caste lines, and did no go down well with the locals.The minister, Bisahulal Singh, later apologised for the remarks.Singh, who holds the portfolio of food and civil supplies in Madhya Pradesh government, said at an even on Wednesday that upper caste and influential people restrict their womenfolk to the household, so if we want social equality, then these women should be pulled out of their homes. The comments were reported by several news agencies and widely criticised on various social media platforms.Watch the video:#WATCH | Thakur-thakar (upper castes) keep their women confined to their homes & don't allow them to work in society. Women of Thakurs&other big people should be dragged out of their homes & made to work in society to ensure equality: MP Minister Bisahulal Singh in Anuppur(24.11) pic.twitter.com/46962n0Puj“This is what happens when you give Right message in Wrong Way/Language. People get Triggered and your message stays aside and you're rolled up in new controversy. So think before you speak,” said a Twitter user Jr Dixit."Words matter. Women participation in work is low in India and overall it just causes problems to society. Although, using harsh words should be avoided in things related to personal choice," another person posted on Twitter.Singh, however, said his remarks were misconstrued and that it was not his intention to hurt the sentiments of any particular community."I apologise if anyone's sentiments got hurt, but I didn't say it to degrade any community. My motive was to say that women of all backgrounds should do social service with equality. People twisted my words," said Singh.The minister explained that the family members of his party - ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) - were absent, which is why he said that all of them should be brought out and come forward to work for the society and the party."I didn't talk about Thakur women or women of MP. I pointed to the people from our board and Brahmins from the district. I don't think I said anything wrong. If people are still hurt, I apologise," he added.Earlier too the minister had made controversial remarks about the wife of Congress candidate Vishwanath Singh Anjum, on which the Election Commission sought an answer from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-minister-apologises-for-remarks-about-upper-caste-women-101637980468984.html
27-11-2021||India||What FB got right and what it didn’t in the 2019 elections||Coming off a bruising scandal in the US involving political consultant Cambridge Analytica using its data to manipulate voter behaviour, Facebook pulled out all stops to get it right in India’s 2019 general elections. It managed to sail through the biggest elections in the world involving 900 million voters without a scratch, but information that has recently come to light shows that despite its eagerness to remain blameless, its efforts were sometimes lacking.As the polls scheduled to begin in April 2019 drew close, Facebook (now Meta Platforms) added resources to monitor and manage information flow through its platform, putting together 40 cross-functional teams with 300 members based in Delhi, Singapore, Dublin, and at its headquarters in Menlo Park, California. It wanted to avoid another scandal at any cost. Although India was the big one, the teams were also looking at elections in Indonesia and to the European Parliament.Over two years beginning January 2017, Facebook closely studied India and drew up a list of priorities for its Civic Integrity, Business Integrity, Misinformation, and Community Integrity teams. The efforts were not in vain. The company, according to internal documents reviewed by The Intersection and Hindustan Times, was thrilled that it stayed out of the headlines and even managed some good press. In a post-election internal review, one Facebook official wrote, “In spite of this being coined a WhatsApp election, the team’s proactive efforts over the course of a year paid off, leading to a surprisingly quiet, uneventful election period.”In reality, former Facebook officials told The Intersection and HT, Facebook’s priority was to avoid flak should anything go wrong in the elections. Not known until now was also that Facebook’s carefully erected systems could not capture many violations, as revealed by the Wall Street Journal and The Economic Times.Nevertheless, Facebook did take down large volumes of “bad” content around election misinformation, and acted against attempts at voter suppression, internal documents show.These excerpts are from disclosures made to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and provided to the US Congress in redacted form by whistleblower Frances Haugen’s counsel. The redacted versions received by Congress were reviewed by a consortium of news organisations, including The Intersection. The Intersection is publishing these stories in partnership with HT. This is the second in a series of stories.What Facebook enforcedWith the first day of polling 10 days out, Facebook made public what it called “coordinated inauthentic behaviour” (CIB) and civic spam on the platform. It shut down accounts and took down pages and groups run by the Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) targeting the Indian electorate. It shut down 687 pages, accounts that engaged in CIB and were allegedly “linked to individuals associated with an IT Cell of the Indian National Congress” and also removed 15 pages, groups and accounts that, it said, were “linked to a technology firm, Silver Touch, which managed several pages supporting the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party”.“Initial press coverage drew parallels between the INC and Pakistan, though later reports were more balanced,” the Facebook official wrote assessing the impact of Facebook releasing the takedown data.The platform viewed the CIB takedown as proactively shielding election integrity. A former Facebook official said on condition of anonymity that it had an element of playing to the gallery. There was an expectation that Facebook would do something about elections in general. By going public with the CIB, the company was showing that it was transparent.It prepared for a second CIB in the midst of the elections. “As we prepared for a second round of CIB in the midst of the elections, the focus was on protocols and what constituted action under CIB. Also the question over whether there was a need to distinguish between foreign and domestic interference in these cases,” the Facebook official wrote in the memo titled India Elections: Case Study (Part 2).At the time, the company also paused civic spam takedowns globally because it could not clearly define violations of civic spam rules. Civic spam in Facebook-speak is usage of fake accounts, multiple accounts with same names, impersonation, posting malware links and using a content deluge to drive traffic to affiliated websites to make money.The second CIB takedown was never publicly disclosed or reported, lending more credence to the former Facebook official’s observation that it was a show for the public. CIB round two “was all exclusively domestic financially motivated (FMO) and politically motivated (PMO)” and was blocked for India. This meant no enforcement on any domestic-only (no foreign nexus) CIB case. It was “lifted a few weeks later”.Facebook proactively took down over 65,000 pieces of content since the start of polling that were aimed at voter suppression. As polls progressed, the company took down posts claiming that the indelible ink used to mark fingers was made out of “pig blood and so Muslims should skip voting to avoid its use”. It also took down posts that included “incorrect polling dates and times and polling locations” according to the Facebook official’s memo.A Meta spokesperson, in response to The Intersection and Hindustan Times’ questionnaire, said, “Voter suppression policy prohibits election-related and voter fraud – things that are objectively verifiable like misrepresentation of dates and methods for voting (e.g., text to vote). The content that requires additional review to determine if it violates our policy may be sent to our third-party fact-checkers for verification.”A “constant theme throughout the election” was misinformation regarding the failure of electronic voting machines (EVM), the official wrote in the memo. “While there were legitimate EVM failures that required re-polling in a few constituencies, there was also misinformation in the form of out-of-context videos claiming vote rigging... In total, Market Ops removed over 10,000 pieces of EVM malfunctioning misinformation.”The mess that was verificationTo strengthen the verification process, Facebook originally put in place a mechanism to mark political advertisers. This would typically include a mandatory disclosure for advertisers with a “paid for” or “published by” label. In February 2019, it also announced an offline verification process with boots on the ground and an OTP sent to the postal address. Facebook was to hire a third-party vendor for this. “These were clearly not scalable solutions, even if the intent was right,” said a Facebook official aware of the matter.Facebook later relied on phone-based verification, a person familiar with the matter said. But it reduced oversight. Some advertisers would get verified using burner phones. There would be no follow-up verifications despite it being part of the company’s transparency plans. Internally, questions were raised about the frequency to keep a check on these hacks, as once verified, the phones would get unanswered.Multiple former Facebook officials confirmed that the verification process was a “mess”, while also highlighting the struggles Facebook has in “executing things well globally”. One of them said, “People wanted ad transparency, but Facebook couldn’t get it out in time for the election and have all the things worked out.”The BJP benefited from this loophole, according to a Wall Street Journal report of August 2020. “Facebook declined to act after discovering that the BJP was circumventing its political ad transparency requirements,” it said, quoting sources. “In addition to buying Facebook ads in its own name, the BJP was also found to have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars through newly created organisations that didn’t disclose the party’s role. Facebook neither took down the ads nor the pages.”One of the officials The Intersection and HT spoke to said the company has since taken some steps, including mandatory verification using government-issued identification documents. “The biggest problem in India is that there are no standardised address formats,” the official said. According to another former official, the Election Commission of India should ideally be looking at a digitised database of “who is allowed to run political ads that a platform like Facebook can use to verify people, and anyone not in the database, can’t run the ads”.The Meta spokesperson added, “In India, based on learnings from the US and other countries, we tightened the disclaimer options available to advertisers and require additional credentials to increase their accountability. E.g. in case of an escalation, if we discover that the phone, email or website are no longer active or valid, we will inform the advertiser to update them. If they do not, they will no longer be able to use that disclaimer to run ads...”To disable or not to disable: That is the questionTo prevent India creating fresh legal obligations for social media companies, Facebook led the conversation around the need for a voluntary code of ethics during the silent period, the 48 hours before the polling date when canvassing is prohibited. This would have meant that Facebook would have had to disable all ads for two days in every phase.Instead, it shifted the onus of reporting ads violating the code to the Election Commission of India (ECI), and did not proactively disable ads as it did in the US. It took down only those ads flagged to it by ECI. Others slipped through and remained live on the platform.It on-boarded ECI “on to the Government Casework channel for escalating content which violated election laws”, noted the Facebook official in the memo. This channel, people familiar with the matter said, was primarily for flagging illegal content, although it did include some advertising. A Huffington Post investigation in May 2019, revealed that “a total of 2,235 advertisements worth approximately ₹1.59 crore ran in violation of the silent period” in the first four phases.Product and other teams (presumably in charge of revenues) at Facebook clashed over whether to block ads during the silent period or not. Facebook erred on the side of free speech, and contended that ads were another way for people to express opinion. Parties too wanted them running, and Facebook believed it was only fair to smaller parties. Internally, the firm considers political ads as “high risk, low reward”, because they bring in little money (in comparison to other types of ads people run on its platforms).Blocking would have required carving out the right geographical regions as per polling dates which were spread over a month and building digital fences around them to dynamically change the visibility of the ads. “Facebook hates being told how to build products,” said one of the former company officials The Intersection and Hindustan Times spoke to.Nayantara Ranganathan, an independent researcher and co-founder of Persuasion Lab, a project interrogating new forms of propaganda told The Intersection and Hindustan Times, “In choosing to serve an advertisement between two potential viewers, Facebook optimises for goals of the advertiser, engagement of users and growth of the platform. It is not such a stretch to expect Facebook to optimise for compliance with laws.” She added, “Ultimately, ads delivery is something that Facebook algorithms control, and it is very much possible to exclude by geolocation and dates.”Venkat Ananth is a co-founder at The Intersection published by The Signal, www.thesignal.co||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-fb-got-right-and-what-it-didn-t-in-the-2019-elections-101637975395829.html
27-11-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal heads to poll-bound Punjab again today, this time to support protesting teachers||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Partty (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal will visit poll-bound Punjab again on Saturday, for the second time this week. According to AAP, Kejriwal will express support to protesting teachers in Mohali who have been pushing for regularisation of services of contractual teachers and other demands.Kejriwal will reach Chandigarh later in the day and begin his engagements, according to AAP.Kejriwal has been visiting Punjab frequently ahead of the assembly elections due next year. In the 2017 polls, AAP emerged as the second-largest party in Punjab winning 20 out of the total 117 seats.This time, the party hopes to capture power in the northern state, and AAP's senior leaders are concentrating on Punjab with this aim.Kejriwal earlier visited the Congress-ruled state for two days - on November 22 and 23 - during which he launched AAP's 'Mission Punjab'. The AAP chief had said that he will return to Punjab and focus on working for teachers.He had also announced eight guarantees for the teachers in Punjab. Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, Kejriwal said that the first guarantee will be that all teachers will be given a suitable working environment.The other guarantees include: All contractual teachers to be regularised, changing the transfer policy to make it more transparent, stopping teachers from performing any non-teaching jobs, filling teaching vacancies, time-bound promotion to them and cashless medical facility for teachers and their family members.In the run-up to 2022 assembly elections, the AAP is facing competition from the ruling Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The AAP has already released its first list of 10 candidates for the elections, just days after sitting MLA from Bathinda Rural (reserved), Rupinder Kaur Ruby joined the Congress on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-heads-to-punjab-again-this-time-to-support-protesting-teachers-101637979254934.html
27-11-2021||India||What next of farmers' protests? SKM to decide future course of action today||A day after marking the first anniversary of the year-long farmers' protests at the border areas of the national capital, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – an umbrella body of protesting unions – will on Saturday take a call on the future course of action of the entire movement, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav.The BKU, an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year under the SKM umbrella. The union's spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay told the PTI news agency on Friday, “We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday.”Also Read | With end of farmers’ protest in sight after a year, gloom gives way to reliefThousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh had gathered in large numbers yesterday at the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri – with protesting unions saying that the day, which marks one year of their agitation against the three farm laws, will be remembered forever in history as one of the greatest moments of people's struggle.Taking to his Twitter handle, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait acknowledged that this one year of farmers' protest also marks one entire year of dedication, fight, and commitment. “It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness,” the senior leader tweeted in Hindi. “We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right.” He also posted photos of the one-year protest on the micro-blogging website, Koo.The BKU, an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year under the SKM umbrella. The union's spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay told the PTI news agency on Friday, “We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that. We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but SKM will take a call about it on Saturday.”Also Read | With end of farmers’ protest in sight after a year, gloom gives way to reliefThousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh had gathered in large numbers yesterday at the three Delhi border points of Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri – with protesting unions saying that the day, which marks one year of their agitation against the three farm laws, will be remembered forever in history as one of the greatest moments of people's struggle.Taking to his Twitter handle, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait acknowledged that this one year of farmers' protest also marks one entire year of dedication, fight, and commitment. “It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness,” the senior leader tweeted in Hindi. “We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right.”|#+|Prime Minister Narendra Modi had, in a surprise address last week, announced that the three controversial farm laws would be withdrawn. Although farmer unions had welcomed the government's move, they said their protests would continue until the laws are totally withdrawn and other demands are met.Also Read | SKM to organise farmers’ Mahapanchayat in Lucknow on MondayThe Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021 – the all-important draft legislation to withdraw the three contentious laws – has already been approved by the Union cabinet, and, according to an official bulletin, it will be introduced in Parliament on the opening day of the winter session on Monday.Meanwhile, the Opposition, too, is adamant to discuss the bill in the House to corner the government over the farm issues. The Congress has issued three-line whips in both the Houses, asking party MPs to be present on Monday; the party also plans to hold a meeting hours before the session begins with other opposing parties for “working unitedly in raising critical matters of peoples’ concerns”, people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-next-of-farmers-protests-skm-to-decide-future-course-of-action-today-101637977513499.html
27-11-2021||India||Heavy rain expected in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh today; IMD issues red alert||Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are expected to receive heavy rainfall on Saturday under the influence of a cyclonic circulation. A fresh low pressure area is expected to be formed by Monday, said the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) regional office in Chennai. It has issued a red alert for all the coastal districts till Saturday and an orange alert for adjacent districts.According to IMD forecast, a fresh spell of heavy rain will lash Thoothukudi, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Theni, Madurai and Pudukkottai in Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry from November 25-29.In view of this, the Union Territory of Puducherry has declared a holiday in all schools and colleges for two days.The IMD said that a cyclonic circulation lies over Comorin Area and adjoining Sri Lanka coasts and strong northeasterly winds are prevailing over Tamil Nadu coast and south Coastal Andhra Pradesh at lower levels.It further said that a fresh low pressure area is likely to form over south Andaman Sea around November 29. "It is likely to become more marked and move west-northwestwards in during subsequent 48 hours," the IMD said in its forecast on Friday."Squally wind (speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph) very likely over Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar, along & off south Tamilnadu coast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal on 26th & 27th November. Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas," it further said on Twitter.About Andhra Pradesh, the weather department said that the state's coastal areas, and Yanam and Rayalaseeman are likely to experience isolated heavy rainfall on Saturday. The intensity of the rainfall is likely to increase on Sunday and Monday."Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas," the IMD said in a tweet.During this northeast monsoon season, Tamil Nadu has received 61 per cent excess rainfall from October 1 till November 25. The excessive rainfall has caused havoc across the state including in Chennai since the first week of November.A six-member central team concluded a four-day visit to Tamil Nadu earlier this week to assess rain-related damages as the state has sought central aid to the tune of ₹4,000 crore for restoration work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-expected-in-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-today-imd-issues-red-alert-101637976398042.html
27-11-2021||India||Resident doctors call for nationwide protest over delay in NEET-PG counselling, to suspend OPD services from Nov 27||The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) have called for a nationwide suspension of out-patient department (OPD) services at hospitals starting Saturday, November 27, as a mark of protest against the alleged delay in conducting NEET-PG 2021 counselling.Resident doctors at hospitals like Ram Manohar Lohia, Lady Hardinge and some other hospitals in Delhi have joined the protest and announced to withdraw OPD services from November 27.In a letter to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, the resident doctors' group said that they have been "already over-burdened and exhausted" fighting at the frontline since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, and waited patiently till November 25 for some positive outcome on the Supreme Court proceedings over NEET-PG 2021 counselling.“However, there seems to be no respite to their physical and mental distress,” FORDA stated. The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that the counselling for NEET post-graduate medical courses will be further postponed by four weeks while it revisits ₹8 lakh annual income criteria for determining the EWS category for reservation in the admissions..The resident doctors have urged the Centre and the apex court to take note of their grievances and take necessary measures to fast-track the court proceedings on an urgent basis, expedite the NEET-PG 2021 counselling as well as the admission process for medical courses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resident-doctors-call-for-nationwide-protest-over-delay-in-neet-pg-counselling-to-suspend-opd-services-from-nov-27-101637971641658.html
27-11-2021||India||Battle for UP: Priyanka Gandhi in Mahoba today, to address Congress rally||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress intends to leave no stone unturned in its preparations, with the party now shifting its attention to the Bundelkhand region of the state. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the general secretary of the grand old party, will on Saturday address a rally in Mahoba, where other prominent Congress leaders will also be present, according to reports citing a spokesperson of the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee.Also Read | No justice for dalits, women, farmers and minorities in UP: Priyanka“After eastern Uttar Pradesh, Congress will now demonstrate its strength in western Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand,” the Congress man was quoted as saying, adding that a massive rally – led by Priyanka Gandhi – has been planned in Mahoba, “the land of heroes”.Notably, the Congress leader was earlier scheduled to arrive in Bundelkhand on November 23, but her visit was suddenly postponed and the rally was rescheduled to November 27 instead. In addition to other prominent leaders, the party also intends to ensure the presence of its workers and supporters from the Nyaya panchayat level at the rallies today.Mahoba itself remains the hotbed of political future in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly polls. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had both addressed people from Mahoba earlier this month, galvanising the BJP supporters and workers and getting the saffron party's morale up and running for the elections. Now, Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders are looking to do the same for the opposing faction, and this will be followed up by a visit by Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on December 1.Also Read | Rebel Cong MLA says Priyanka Gandhi ‘politicised’ issues in Uttar PradeshAccording to reports, the chief of Congress' UP unit, Ajay Kumar Lallu, and other state leaders have been making personal visits to village units to ensure the attendance of ground-level workers and supporters at Priyanka Gandhi's rally on Saturday. While a considerable crowd is expected, it remains to be seen how Congress attempts to turn its fate around in poll prospects for the region.Congress hopes to recover its lost ground in Bundelkhand. The region had long ago been a stronghold of the grand old party, but later it gradually began losing grip on the consensus – as is evident from the election results of the past three decades. Now, the party has ramped up its efforts to win back the popular vote in Bundelkhand, with Priyanka Gandhi attempting to lead the efforts there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-for-up-priyanka-gandhi-in-mahoba-today-to-address-congress-rally-101637973213138.html
27-11-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, Rajnath Singh to galvanise BJP booth presidents in Jaunpur||Rajnath Singh, defence minister and veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, will on Saturday address the booth unit presidents of as many as 16 districts of the party's Kashi regional unit at the TD College ground in the Jaunpur city area of Uttar Pradesh. According to reports, the Kashi unit of the BJP has made preparations to host around 29,500 booth unit presidents of the aforementioned 16 districts – a massive arrangement second only to the extensive meet conducted by Union home minister Amit Shah in Varanasi earlier this month in which he addressed the party in-charges of 403 legislative assembly segments ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls.The BJP has recently ramped up its efforts to galvanise the booth presidents of its regional units in UP, especially in the wake of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav inking a pact with the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and also joining hands with its old partner, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).Rajnath Singh will be conducting the meeting with the booth unit presidents to get the party's organisational chassis up and ready ahead of the forthcoming assembly polls in the state. At the November 12 meeting conducted by Amit Shah, it was said that all such sessions with booth unit presidents of regional units, to address the issues related to planning, arrangement, and coordination of the party's strategy for the 2022 polls, shall be completed by November end. Moreover, conventions of booth-level committees, divisional units, and in-charges of Shakti Kendras and Panna Pramukh shall also be conducted parallelly and completed by the end of the month.The party is also set to launch rath yatras which would traverse through important assembly segments in rural areas and connect with farmers, party leaders said. The rath yatras were also discussed at the BJP’s core committee meeting at the UP BJP headquarters in Lucknow. The meeting was attended by party chief JP Nadda who has now wound up his meetings with booth presidents in Gorakhpur and Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-rajnath-singh-to-galvanise-bjp-booth-presidents-in-jaunpur-101637970604552.html
27-11-2021||NA||Breaking: EU will not recognise Taliban regime, says report||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:EU will not recognise Taliban regime, says reportThe European Union will not recognise the Taliban regime, news agency ANI quoted European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen as saying on Saturday.In a statement, EU's President said, "European Union does not recognise the new regime, imposed through violence, but we need to prevent the imminent economic and social collapse that the country faces. We need to stand by the people of Afghanistan."Travellers arriving from other nations in Kerala undergoing testing, 7-day quarantine, says Veena GeorgeThe Kerala government on Saturday said travellers arriving from other countries in the state are undergoing a RT-PCR testing and 7-day quarantine as required. “As far as Kerala is concerned, we are constantly examining the presence of mutant virus in samples,” news agency ANI quoted Kerala health minister Veena George as saying.All 1,000 people who came from South Africa were tested for Covid-19, says Karnataka minister Karnataka minister R Ashoka on Saturday said that over 1,000 people, who came from South Africa, have been tested for Coronavirus, reported news agency ANI. “One more test will be done after 10 days for those who have already come to Bengaluru or somewhere,” he added.Delhi sees 27 fresh Covid-19 cases, one deathDelhi on Saturday recorded one more death due to Covid-19 and 27 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 0.05 per cent, according to health department data. With this, the death toll has climbed to 25,096 and the caseload stands at 14,40,834. Over 14.15 lakh patients have recovered from the viral disease, the health department bulletin said.Two cases of coronavirus omicron variant detected in BritainBritain on Saturday confirmed its first two cases of the new Omicron strain of Covid-19, both linked to travel from southern Africa, reported news agency AFP. "We have moved rapidly and the individuals are self-isolating while contact tracing is ongoing," Health Secretary Sajid Javid said in a statement. Read moreNepal makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for passengers arriving from South AfricaNepal on Saturday made a 7-day quarantine mandatory for air-bound passengers travelling from/via South Africa, news agency ANI quoted Nepal's ministry of health and population as saying.Karnataka CM holds emergency meet over 'omicron' variant of Covid-19Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai held an emergency meeting on Friday over the new variant of Coronavirus ‘omicron’. Many officials, including state health minister Dr K Sudhakar, attended the meeting, reported news agency ANI.Heavy rains cause waterlogging in many areas in ChennaiTamil Nadu | Several areas in Chennai partially submerged in floodwater after torrential rains over the past few days Visuals from the Ashok Nagar area pic.twitter.com/IaerqUV80uSeveral areas in Chennai partially submerged in floodwater due to torrential rains over the past few days.Germany announces first suspected case of new Covid-19 variant, reports AFPA German regional official said Saturday that health authorities have identified the first suspected case in the country of the new Covid-19 variant, in a person who returned from South Africa, reports news agency AFP.2 dead during first winter storm in UK, reported APAt least two people have died in the UK after the year's first winter storm battered parts of the countries with gusts of nearly 100 mph (160 kph), reported news agency AP. The storm, which was named Arwen by the country's Met Office, hit parts of the north of England, Scotland and Northern Ireland particularly hard, causing road causing road closures, train delays, power cuts and high waves, the report further said.Maharashtra mandates full Covid vaccination for using public transport. Here are the new normsDelhi LG directs officials to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour, preparedness in hospitals amid Omicron scareDelhi LG Anil Baijal has instructed the chief secretary, police commissioner & officials concerned to ensure strict adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour in public places & functions and full preparedness in hospitals to handle any emergent situation: Govt sources pic.twitter.com/WVg2pZJf7tDelhi LG Anil Baijal has directed officials to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour and preparedness in hospitals to handle emergent situation due to new variant. On Monday, experts and representatives of civil aviation ministry to attend meeting with the DDMA and may decide on testing of passengers from international flights and quarantining those from South Africa, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Hong Kong etc., reports ANI citing government sources.International passengers coming to Maharashtra to be governed according to Centre's directionsIf default found inside taxi/pvt transport 4-wheeler or inside any bus, along with individual defaulting Covid appropriate behaviour being fined ₹500; driver/helper/conductor shall be fined ₹500; owner transport agency in cases of buses shall be fined ₹1000:Maharashtra Govt pic.twitter.com/QX3q4YpT3VThe international passengers arriving at Maharashtra would be governed according to the directions issued by the Union government while domestic passengers are required to either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT PCR certificate valid for 72 hours, reports ANI. SKM demands Modi direct states, Railways to withdraw cases against protesting farmers"PM Narendra Modi should direct state governments and Railways to withdraw the cases registered against farmers during the protest," says a leader of Samyukt Kisan Morcha pic.twitter.com/Bx1yLGfUp2SKM said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should direct state governments and the Railways to withdraw cases registered against farmers during the protest, reports ANI citing a farmer leader.Farmers protest: SKM decides to postpone tractor rally to Parliament on first day of Winter SessionFarmers' body Samyukt Kisan Morcha, following a meeting today, decided to postpone the proposed tractor rally to Parliament initially planned for November 29, reports ANI citing farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh.Delhi court summons P Chidambaram, Karti Chidambaram in Aircel Maxis caseFormer Union minister P Chidambaram, his son Karti Chidambaram and others have been issued summons by a Delhi court in the Aircel Maxis case, reports ANI. The court took cognizance of the charge-sheets filed by the ED and the CBI in the matter.Delhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joins AAP Delhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joins Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of Deputy CM Manish Sisodia. pic.twitter.com/7OOiNHaZrZDelhi Congress leader Mukesh Goel joined the Aam Aadmi Party in the presence of party leader and Delhi's deputy CM Manish Sisodia, reports ANI.Click here to read more‘Need to be proactive’: Modi as Omicron variant threat loomsPM Narendra Modi said that all international arrivals should be monitored, tested as per guidelines and with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’ because of the new variant following a meeting today. He also asked officials to review plans for easing international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new evidence.“PM said that in light of the new threat, people need to more cautious and the need to take proper precautions like masking & social distancing,” the PMO said in a statement.Click here to read moreKarnataka mandates home quarantine for passengers from countries infected by Omicron variantKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar said that people coming to the state from South Africa, Hong Kong, Israel, Botswana will be tested for Covid-19 upon arrival. If positive, they will be asked to stay in and around the airport and will also receive treatment if needed. Also, home quarantine has been mandated for such passengers, reports ANI.Children allowed to enter Sabarimala temple without RT-PCR test: Kerala govtChildren are allowed to go to Sabarimala pilgrimage without RT-PCR test report. However, all adults will require either full vaccination certificate or RTPCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours to enter the temple, said Kerala government.3 Kashmiris beaten up in Ranchi, 3 persons detained“Three Kashmiri persons were beaten up by a group of people following an altercation over removing a rickshaw parked on a street in Doranda area of Ranchi today. Both sides have given complaints. Police have detained three persons in the matter,” says Ranchi Police.Passengers deplaned safely, served refreshments: Go FirstGo First flight G8 873 from Bengaluru to Patna was diverted to Nagpur due to a faulty engine warning in the cockpit which necessitated the captain to shut down the engine as a precautionary measure. Thereafter, the captain followed the standard operating procedures and landed safely at Nagpur airport, Go First spokesperson said.“All passengers have been deplaned and served refreshments. Alternate aircraft has been arranged to accommodate the passengers which will depart for Patna at 4:45 pm. The aircraft is being inspected by the engineering team,” the spokesperson stated.Rahul Gandhi calls new variant ‘serious threat’, takes dig at CentreNew variant is a serious threat. High time GOI gets serious about providing vaccine security to our countrymen.Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo. #Omicron pic.twitter.com/3J7E8TEwXTCongress leader Rahul Gandhi raises concern over the new variant of coronavirus, demanding vaccine security from the government. He takes a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's picture on the vaccination certificate, says “Bad vaccination figures can’t be hidden for long behind one man’s photo.”Those entering Mumbai from South Africa to be quarantined on arrival, says Mumbai MayorEach person entering Mumbai from South Africa to be quarantined on arrival, samples to be sent for genome sequencing, says Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar.Bengaluru-Patna GoAir flight makes emergency landing in Nagpur due to technical glitchBengaluru-Patna GoAir flight with 139 passengers & crew members on board makes an emergency land at Nagpur airport due to technical glitch, as per Abhid Ruhi, an official of Nagpur airport.Major fire breaks out at factory in SuratMajor fire breaks out at Rani Sati Dyeing Mill of Pandesara GIDC in Surat, Gujarat. 15 fire tenders have been rushed to the site for firefighting.Bill to repeal farm laws to be tabled on Day 1 of Parliament winter session: Agri ministerThe bill to repeal the three farm laws will be tabled in the Parliament on the first day of the winter session (on Nov 29), says Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Resident doctors at Safdarjung hospital stage protest over delay in NEET-PG counsellingResident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital stage protest as part of a nationwide strike called by Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) over the delay in NEET-PG counselling 2021. Read moreDelhi CM urges PM Modi to stop flights from countries where 'Omicron' variant detectedI urge Hon’ble PM to stop flights from those countries which are affected by new variant. With great difficulty, our country has recovered from Corona. We shud do everything possible to prevent this new variant from entering India https://t.co/5LpFULIHKbDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urged PM Modi to stop flights from countries where cases of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron has been detected.11 Covid-19 cases at Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy in DehradunDehradun-based Forest Research Institute bars entry of tourists & local workers for a week following detection of 11 COVID cases at Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy located on its campus, says Institute Director Arun Singh Rawat.India reports 8,318 new Covid-19 cases, 21.14% less than yesterday; death toll up by 465India reported 8,318 new Covid-19 cases, 10,967 recoveries, and 465 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases stand at 1,07,019, while 10,967 people were discharged since yesterday.PM Modi to chair key meet on Covid-19 situation and vaccination with top officials todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a key meeting on the Covid-19 situation and vaccination status with top officials at 10:30am today. The meeting comes in the backdrop of an outbreak of the new coronavirus variant found in southern Africa.99 more students test positive for Covid-19 in KarnatakaNumber of Covid-19 cases in Dharwad's SDM College of Medical Sciences reached 281, with 99 people testing positive yesterday. Out of the 281 cases, only 6 patients are symptomatic, announced District Collector Nitish Patil.Earthquake of 4.3 magnitude hits AfghanistanEarthquake of 4.3 magnitude on the Richter Scale hits Hindu Kush region of Afghanistan, according to the National Center for Seismology.Delhi AQI remains ‘very poor’ at 386Delhi's air quality continues to be 'very poor' category, with AQI standing at 386. Meanwhile, transport vehicles running on CNG and powered by electricity have been allowed to enter Delhi form Saturday, when the lifting of ban announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) comes into effect. Read moreLalu Prasad Yadav hospitalised on complaint of fever   RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav was admitted to AIIMS, Delhi on Friday after he complained of fever. His health condition is stable, ANI reported.WTO postpones in-person ministerial meeting over Omicron outbreakWorld Trade Organization (WTO) says it has postponed its in-person ministerial conference in Geneva over concerns regarding "an outbreak of a particularly transmissible strain of the COVID-19 virus".Speeding car overturns on RTR flyover in Delhi, driver hospitalisedA car overturned due to an overspeeding at the RTR flyover in Delhi early this morning. The driver has been hospitalised.Omicron is ‘most concerning’ variant of Covid-19 since DeltaThe B.1.1.529 variant is considered dangerous due to its increased transmissibility. Some have already dubbed omicron as the "most concerning" since the delta variant, which fuelled relentless waves of infection on every continent some months ago. Read moreNaxal killed by security forces during encounter in Chhattisgarh's SukmaA Naxal, identified as Madvi Bheema, Militia Commander, was killed in an encounter in a joint op of security forces in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district around 5.30 pm on Friday (November 26). One rifle, 1 IED weighing about 5 kg, 2 BGL shell and 20 electric detonators recovered, the CRPF informed.Law on MSP unlikely, says Haryana CM KhattarIt is not possible to draft a law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) to farmers as it would put pressure on the government to buy their produce if no one else does, said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, as quoted by news agency ANI.Puducherry receives light showers; heavy rainfall likely todayPuducherry received light showers last night.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the union territory, along with Tamil Nadu and Karaikal area between November 25 and 29.Puducherry has already declared a holiday in all schools and colleges for two days in the region for the same reason.US imposes travel ban on 8 African nations over Omicron outbreakThe United States will bar entry to most travelers from eight southern African countries from Monday onwards, due to the rise of a potentially more-contagious new coronavirus variant identified in South Africa, President Joe Biden said on Friday.The travel restrictions, however, do not apply on flights carrying US citizens and lawful US permanent residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-27-2021-101637970304488.html
27-11-2021||India||Search for new world order prompted by global clutter||The idea of the New World Order has had more avatars than some of our Gods are blessed with.The idea of a world governed on the strength of predetermined order goes back to antiquity. What Cicero dubbed civis Romanus sum (I am a Roman citizen) carried a special meaning, and with it, certain privileges that transcended ethnicity. In a similar vein, China regarded itself as the Middle Kingdom that spanned what it regarded as the civilised world and was governed by a “mandate of heaven”.In the modern age, the idea of universal values had roots in Christianity as an organised religion and, again, in the notion of fraternity of true believers in Islam. Although the potency of the former has waned and even been submerged by secular ideals, the notion of pan-Islamism still enjoys wide sectional appeal, with extremists dedicated to the revival of an Islamic Caliphate.As a political doctrine, the idea of a global order found expression in the republicanism of the French Revolution. From Robespierre to Napoleon and those who manned the barricades in 1848 and 1871, there was a commitment to overthrow the ancient regime and replace it with the noble ideals that had found expression in the aftermath of the storming of the Bastille. The British Empire, which in sheer size was larger than the empire of the Caesars, was different. Despite the casual use of Civis Britannicus Sum and attempts to portray it as the epitome of decency, the sprawling empire, in the words of Nirad Chaudhury, merely “conferred subjecthood… but withheld citizenship.” In the ultimate analysis, its was a universalism based on territory and, consequently, proved unable to withstand the democratic impulses that mushroomed from the 1930s.The mantle of aspiring universalism found expression in the 20th century in two rival global powers — the United States and the Soviet Union. For more than four decades after the conclusion of World War II, Washington and Moscow waged an unrelenting Cold War that involved proxy wars, economic manoeuvring, and political one-upmanship in different parts of the globe. Both superpowers had illusions of universalism and sought to reforge the world in their own image. The Soviet Union projected its own version of socialism that removed deprivation, while the US was equally aggressive in selling democracy, free markets and, of course, the “American way of life”. The Americans won and with the collapse of the Berlin Wall, the Soviet bloc wilted.The collapse of the Soviet experiment was a momentous development and, for some of the more exuberant victors, it signalled the “end of history” and the emphatic success of the liberal democratic order.Predictably, it didn’t quite happen that way. The quests for a new world order defined by alternative notions of the good life, persisted. Even as President Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher were celebrating the end of the “evil empire”, there were warnings of an emerging war of civilisations. More important, there were spectacular technological advances that often served to nullify national boundaries and even the powers of the national state. And there was the spectacular rise and rise of China, the proverbial sleeping giant.The Communist regime in Beijing may have emerged from the ideological womb of Marxism-Leninism. However, first under Deng Xiaoping’s guidance and subsequently under Xi Jinping’s leadership it has sought to turn the balance of world power upside down. Today, China combines fierce nationalism with spectacular economic clout, technological and scientific expertise and, above all, a doctrine of world domination. China is seeking to recreate a 21st century version of the Middle Kingdom through a combination of money, subterfuge, and charm-and-snarl diplomacy. It is also doing so without getting directly involved in wars.The onward march of China — witness the growing literature on the subject “Will China rule the world?” — is also matched by the growing disorientation of the West. The belief in the inevitable decline of the West and the shift of the global centre of gravity to the East may, as of now, be work in progress. But it is proceeding at a rapid pace and inspiring a million mutinies. The Islamic world is in turmoil over the appeal of an ideology that is based on doctrinal certitudes and intolerance; the global upsurge of Green impulses seeks to save the planet from ecological self-destruction and an economic system centred on waste, pollution and overconsumption; and a Woke epidemic originating in the West but spreading globally seeks to repudiate historical inheritance and even conventional notions of gender.The global clutter inevitably prompts the search for a new world order, perhaps held together by cryptocurrencies and blockchain technologies.Swapan Dasgupta is Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-for-new-world-order-prompted-by-global-clutter-101637966021639.html
27-11-2021||India||Karnataka: 91 candidates in the fray for MLC polls after 20 withdraw names||With 20 candidates, including JD(S)’ H U Isaq from Kodagu withdrawing their candidature for the legislative council election in Karnataka scheduled next month, there are now a total of 91 candidates in the fray, poll officials said on Friday.The biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies for 25 seats, due to retirement of sitting members, will be held on December 10.Today was the last day for withdrawal of candidature.Among the 20 candidates who withdrew their candidature, other than JD(S)’ Isaq from Kodagu, rest all were independents.While four candidates each withdrew in Dakshina Kannada and Bijapur, there were three in Belgaum, two in Shimoga and one each in Dharwad, Tumkur, Bangalore, Raichur, Uttara Kannada, Mysore and Kodagu.With Isaq withdrawing his candidature from Kodagu, the JD(S), that had fielded only seven candidates, now has only six in the fray. They are- N Appajigowda (Mandya), Anil Kumar R (Tumakuru), C N Manjegowda (Mysuru), Vakkaleri Ramu (Kolar), H M Ramesh Gowda (Bengaluru Rural), Suraj Revanna (Hassan).The election has been necessitated as the term of office of the 25 MLCs will end on January 5, 2022.The counting of votes will take place on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka91-candidates-in-the-fray-for-mlc-polls-after-20-withdraw-names-101637954869443.html
27-11-2021||India||Five illegal Bangladeshi immigrants held in Bengaluru: Karnataka minister||BengaluruFive illegal Bangladeshi immigrants were nabbed in the city on Friday, Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said, terming such entrants as a threat to national security and assuring that the state government was taking efforts to identify those bringing them in. Official sources said the City Crime Branch,with the assistance of other agencies,traced and arrested the Bangladeshis from Kadugodi area here, following which a case was registered against them under the Foreigners Act.“Today our CCB have taken five illegal Bangladeshi immigrants into custody.... further investigations are on regarding how they came or were brought in. They were arrested in Bengaluru,” Jnanendra said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, illegal immigrants are a danger to national security and hence they are being nabbed.“Our government has taken special caution regarding illegal immigrants. Police have been directed to make a list of illegal immigrants in their police station limits and bring them to our detention centre,” he added.Responding to a question, the Minister, while conceding that there are reports of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants working as labourers in coffee estates and building construction workers, said “our aim is to finish the forces that are bringing them in. So our police are investigating to identify the source.” “Very soon they too will be nabbed and we will try to extract information on how many illegal immigrants they have brought in and where all they are placed. Then they will be brought to the detention centre, from where they will be deported,” he said.The danger is many of these illegal immigrants have Aadhar and ration cards, Jnanendra said, adding that, there is a network that is working on making these documents available to them, especially in Assam and other border states. “We have brought this to the notice of the Centre and the respective states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-illegal-bangladeshi-immigrants-held-in-bengaluru-karnataka-minister-101637954748097.html
27-11-2021||India||More rain predicted for southern Andhra Pradesh||Even as south coastal and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh are limping back to normal following last week’s torrential rains, the India meteorological department on Friday predicted more rains in the region till December 2.Scattered rainfall was reported in parts of Chittoor, including the temple town of Tirupati for a couple of hours on Friday morning with Nagari town bordering Tamil Nadu recording a maximum of 2 mm rainfall. The Tirupati international airport at Renigunta also recorded scanty rainfall of 0.5 mm rainfall till Friday evening.However, a weather forecast bulletin from the MeT office in Amaravati said heavy to very heavy rainfall may be witnessed in parts of Rayalaseema and south coastal Andhra, particularly Chittoor and Nellore in the next three to four days. The state government has put district authorities on a high alert due to possible breach of tanks which are already filled to the brim due to recent heavy rains, leading to inundation of villages downstream.Meanwhile, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy told the state assembly on Friday that his government was taking up all the relief and rescue measures without delay in the flood-affected areas.Making a statement on the last week’s floods in the state, he said Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur and Nellore districts were badly affected by heavy rains and floods like never before. He said that all the district authorities were involved in relief works and were being supervised by ministers and elected representatives of the respective areas.Reddy said the flash floods were caused due to unprecedented heavy rains in a short span of time, which led to the flooding of villages downstream of Pincha and Annamayya reservoirs on Cheyyeru following a breach to its bund. In a span of a few hours, almost 51 mandals of Kadapa district received an average rainfall of 10.7 cm. Heavy rains lashed Seshachalam Hills in Tirupati and other parts of Chittoor district.“By the wee hours of November 19, the inflows to Annamayya reservoir crossed 3.2 lakh cusecs, while its discharge capacity was only 2.17 lakh cusecs, which resulted in a breach to the project, causing unfortunate damage. He said that the officials have alerted the villages and immediately taken over the rescue operations by shifting 400 families to safe places and providing shelter to 900 people in relief camps, saving hundreds of people with their efforts,” he said.A total of 1,990 villages in 119 mandals of four districts were affected by the floods, of which 211 villages were completely inundated causing a death toll of 44 people and while 16 are still missing. He said 1,169 houses were completely damaged and 5,434 houses were partially damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-rain-predicted-for-southern-andhra-pradesh-101637954629200.html
27-11-2021||India||Direct flight to Morocco will boost bilateral trade: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Friday said that direct flight connectivity between the state and Morocco will boost trade relations.“Direct flight connectivity between the state of Karnataka and Morocco will boost trade relations and transactions will be benefitting both,” Narayan said on Friday.Participating in the roadshow organized by the AMDIE (a Moroccan Investment and Export Development Agency) in partnership with the Embassy of Morocco to promote “Morocco Now” aiming to attract investments from Karnataka in Morocco, he said: “The state of Karnataka is keen on strengthening bilateral trade relations.”Appreciating the initiative taken up by the AMDIE, Narayan said, “Both Karnataka and Morocco, should get mutual benefit from the massive human resources that exists in the global city of Bengaluru.”“Morocco has huge potential in the tourism sector and Karnataka has been a pioneer in emerging technologies. Morocco should consider providing tax rebates to companies from the state which are keen on investing in Morocco,” he said. Morocco is working on opening a consulate in BengaluruMorocco’s Ambassador to India, Mohamed Maliki on Friday said his country is working on opening a consulate in Bengaluru, as part of a plan to increase its presence in India.A high-level trade delegation from the Kingdom of Morocco, led by Maliki, is on a six-day visit to India, beginning with Bengaluru, to increase bilateral trade between two countries, through ‘Morocco Now’ – the national brand that promotes investments and exports, a release said.In Bengaluru, the delegation will engage in a series of meetings with the Government of Karnataka officials, industrialists and other professionals, it said, adding that ‘Morocco Now’ roadshows will also be held in Mumbai and New Delhi with a series of similar meetings in these cities as well.“We have a national plan to increase our presence in India. We currently have consulates in Mumbai and Kolkata and are working on opening one in Bengaluru. Our aim is to grow together and have India as one of our top 10 partners by 2025. We have outsourced visa services whereby potential investors can apply in cities wherever they are and multiple visas for a period of one year will be processed within 3 to 5 days,” Maliki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/direct-flight-to-morocco-will-boost-bilateral-trade-karnataka-minister-101637954569962.html
27-11-2021||India||Army kills Pakistani terrorist, foils infiltration bid in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir||The Army killed a Pakistani terrorist and foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesperson said on Friday. The terrorist was identified as Mohammad Arif of Matrian village in Khuiratta area of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Late Thursday night, Pakistani terrorists attempted an infiltration bid along the LoC in Bhimber Gali sector. However, alert Indian Army troops successfully foiled the infiltration attempt and killed a terrorist.” The body of the terrorist, along with weapons and ammunition, was recovered, he added. Intelligence officials said the slain terrorist would help terrorists from Pakistan cross the border and enter Kashmir. “He used to guide Pakistani terrorists in small groups into this side of the LOC. Late on Thursday night, he was again guiding a group of three to four terrorists into Poonch when alert soldiers noticed the movement and opened fire killing him on the spot. The group immediately fled back,” said an intelligence official on condition of anonymity.The official informed that Arif was responsible for successful of small groups of terrorists into J&K for nearly two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-kills-pakistani-terrorist-foils-infiltration-bid-in-poonch-district-of-jammu-and-kashmir-101637954509398.html
27-11-2021||India||Police are protectors, not persecutors, observes Kerala high court||In the wake of a law student’s suicide in Kochi over allege dowry harassment and indifferent attitude of a police officer, the Kerala High Court orally observed that if there is a prompt action against the erring official the entire force will fall in line.Justice Devan Ramachandran made this observation while hearing another petition filed by a youth in Kollam alleging police harassment and handcuffing at the station for seeking the receipt of a complaint he filed. The court expressed serious concern over growing number of complaints regarding police harassment and observed “God, help our state”.“Unless police officials feel that they are accountable for their actions, nothing will change in this state. They all know it will take years for any action is initiated against them, that is why they are behaving like this,” the court observed. The court directed the state to clarify why criminal proceedings were not initiated against the officer who handcuffed and kept the youth at the gate of the police station.“A police station is a public office, not a terror field. They are protectors, not persecutors. Any man, woman or child should feel free and confident to walk into a police station at any time,” it observed. The court also wondered how and why police believed they could do whatever they want and get away with it.“If the state takes swift and strict action against a police officer, just one is enough, the entire force will change its attitude. Till then this will continue; people will be chained, killed and even forced to commit suicide,” it observed. The petition will be taken up again on December 10 and the government has been asked to produce details of action taken against the official.The case relates to a Dalit youth, KV Rajeev, who complained that he was allegedly handcuffed to a hand rail at Thenamala police station in Kollam two months back and slapped another case for obstructing police after he sought a receipt of the complaint he lodged. After the case triggered protests two officers were suspended.On Friday, the station house officer of Aluva in Ernakulam district was suspended in connection with the suicide of a law student after her parents and opposition parties alleged that his inept handling led to the death of the 22-year-old on Monday. The student had left behind a suicide note in which he blamed her husband, in-laws and police officer CL Sudheer for her death. Her husband and in-laws were arrested on Wednesday but no action was taken against the officer which led to a big protest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-are-protectors-not-persecutors-observes-kerala-high-court-101637954508042.html
27-11-2021||India||Farm laws’ repeal raises hopes of steel plant workers in Vizag||The recent announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi repealing the three controversial laws on agriculture succumbing to pressure from the year-long agitation by farmers has given a ray of hope the workers of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam.Thousands of workers of the RINL, a corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, have been agitating for the past 10 months against the Modi government’s decision to privatise the steel plant as part of its policy of disinvestment in public sector undertakings across country to raise ₹2.5 lakh crore.On Friday, the steel plant workers under the banner of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Samithi (Struggle committee for protection of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant), took up a novel programme, “Vanta-Vaarpu” – cooking on the roads, in protest against the steel plant privatisation move.The workers erected makeshift kitchens on the roads at several places Ukku Nagaram (Steel City), Kurmannapalem junction, Pedagantyada and Telugu Talli statue etc and took up cooking of food as part of the agitation.“The Centre has taken a wise decision to repeal the controversial farm laws under pressure from the farmers who have been agitating for the last one year. On the same lines, the Modi government should withdraw the proposal to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant also,” struggle committee convenor J Ayodhya Ramu said.Stating that the workers of the steel plant have been agitating for the last 288 days, Ramu said their struggle would continue till the Modi government withdraw its move to privatise the steel plant. He said all sections of people and all the political parties, barring the Bharatiya Janata Party, extended support to the agitation.The committee also wrote a letter to Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday requesting him to take up the issue with the Centre once again and prevail upon it to withdraw the privatisation move.“We are thankful to the government for adopting a resolution in the state assembly in the past, requesting the Centre to drop the proposal for the 100 per cent strategic disinvestment in the steel plant in the form of privatisation. We are also thankful to you for writing twice to the Prime Minister in this regard. It is time to bring pressure on the Centre again to withdraw its privatisation plan,” the committee said in its letter to the chief minister.It reminded that the Centre had decided to repeal the farm laws under pressure from the agitating farmers all over the country. The struggle against steel plant privatisation, too, has the support from all sections of people and the political parties. Yet, the Centre is going ahead with the privatisation move by appointing legal and transaction advisors, the committee said.“Under these circumstances, we request you to write yet another letter to the Prime Minister again, explaining him our commitment to continue the agitation and requesting him to drop the privatisation move so that the only major steel plant in the state is protected,” the committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-repeal-raises-hopes-of-steel-plant-workers-in-vizag-101637954329044.html
27-11-2021||India||Karnataka may get light rain for 5 days: IMD||Bengaluru: While Bengaluru city didn’t record any rainfall in the past 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department has predicted light rainfall in the city and several areas in the south interior and coastal regions of Karnataka from Friday to Wednesday. .According to a communication from the IMD, a cyclonic circulation prevails over southwest Bay of Bengal off south Sri Lanka coast and there are strong north-easterly winds over Tamil Nadu coast and south coastal Andhra Pradesh. “Under their combined influence, light to moderate scattered/fairly widespread rainfall is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal during the next five days,” read the communication.The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has stated that rain will be recorded over Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Mysuru, and Mandya districts, and dry weather is likely to prevail over the remaining districts of the state. “However, we have not predicted any heavy rainfall in the state in the coming days. According to us, only scattered light rainfall will occur,” said a KSNDMC official.No seismic activity in the state: KSNDMCMeanwhile, KSNDMC issued a statement clarifying no seismic activity was reported in the state after a loud mysterious sound was heard in the vicinity of Bengaluru on Friday between 11.50 am and 12.15 pm. KSNDMC said that it had received reports of the sound associated with mild vibrations by the local residents were received from Hemmigepura, Kengeri, Gnanabharathi, Rajarajeswari Nagar, and Kaggalipura, Bengaluru.“The data was analysed from our seismic observatories for any seismic signatures /possible earthquake signals during the said time period. The seismographs show no signatures of local tremor/earthquake,” read the statement.The clarification led to speculations that it could have been another sonic boom created by a fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force. Indian Air Force of Hindustan Aeronautical Limited, however, didn’t respond to queries regarding the sound.In July this year, residents of several areas of Bengaluru, including Sarjapur, JP Nagar, Benson Town, Ulsoor, ISRO layout, and HSR layout, claimed they heard a loud boom sound, which was later thought to be sonic boom which is the sound generated by an object moving faster than sound. Such a phenomenon created a shock wave that turns into a loud sound. While it was thought that the ‘sonic boom’ might have been created by any of their flights. HAL, however, said none of its flights made the sound. In May last year, a similar sound was heard and was thought to be produced by a Sukhoi 30 which was on a sortie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-may-get-light-rain-for-5-daysimd-101637954327920.html
27-11-2021||India||Odisha constable tracks liquor dens by day. At night, he teaches poor children||Bhubaneswar: An Odisha excise department constable during the day, Debendra Samarath routinely checks cannabis plantations and raids illicit liquor dens in the Kodinga area of Nabarangpur district as part of his job.But once he is done with his day job, 25-year-old Samarath heads to an under-construction house in the village. This is where he gives free lessons to nearly 70 children from the village. As children crowd around the makeshift classroom, he teaches them mathematics, science, literature and English. There are almost no holidays in this school. And no one seems to mind.It is his effort to ensure that the poor children in the district’s Karchamala village have a fair chance at a good life. As good as it can be in this remote village of a district that reported the state’s lowest literacy rate in the last decadal census.“I always wanted to be a teacher. But I had to join the excise department as I did not want to remain unemployed. But after work, I am back to what I love doing most - teaching. My goal is no children should be deprived of education due to lack of money,” said Samarth, who started taking classes in an under-construction structure. The owner, Sitaram Pujari, let him use it for holding classes three years ago.Samarath had to abandon his education because his family could not afford it. He dropped out of college and initially started selling fruits, like his father and would teach children in the evening.Last year, he landed himself a job with the excise department as a contractual employee on a monthly salary of ₹12,000. He took the job. But Samarath’s heart was somewhere else, he said and continued teaching the village children after work.“I want to give more time to the students but I am unable to do so because of the job responsibilities. Whatever free time I get, I devote it for teaching these students,” he said.But time isn’t all that the excise constable spares for the children. Samarath indicated he ends up spending 10% of his salary on buying the notebooks and books of the children he teaches.Odisha’s excise commissioner Ashish Singh, a 2004 IPS officer, said young people such as Samarath should be role models for everyone. “No work can be as noble as that of a teacher. I am proud that one of our employees is teaching poor kids of his village after office,” said Singh.Teacher shortage is considered the bane of Odisha’s education system. According to the UNESCO 2021 State of the Education Report for India, Odisha has 68,717 government schools which require 28,816 more teachers. It said 67% of teaching posts in rural areas are lying vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-constable-tracks-liquor-dens-by-day-at-night-he-teaches-poor-children-101637954209232.html
27-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh heritage building Minto hall renamed after BJP icon||Madhya Pradesh chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday announced that popular heritage building Minto Hall in Bhopal will be named after BJP’s founder member late Kushabhau Thakre. Addressing BJP leaders in a state executive committee meeting, Chouhan said: “It’s our land, our soil, our stone, our building and hard work of our labourer but name is of Minto. Many MLAs reached this assembly with the contribution of Thakre ji. Thakre ji empowered the party [BJP] in MP so now it will be named after Thakre.” Minto Hall was constructed in 1909 by Nawab Sultan Jahan Begum. The fourth and the last begum of Bhopal named the heritage building as ‘Minto Hall’ to felicitate Lord Minto, the then Viceroy of India. Minto Hall was used as the state legislative assembly hall after India gained independence. The hall was renovated in 2018 as a convention centre and has a restaurant and bar. BJP state president VD Sharma said the Hall would be developed as per ideology of Thakre, including the closure of the bar.A historian from Bhopal, Rizwan Uddin Ansari said, “BJP leaders can’t change the history so they are changing the name. The building has a heritage importance and very popular for unique architecture which is fusion of Nawabi culture and British colonial era. Will they change the architecture too because that will also remind us about British and Nawabs? ” he asked.(With agency inputs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-heritage-building-minto-hall-renamed-after-bjp-icon-101637954150306.html
27-11-2021||India||New Covid variant: Karnataka tightens screening of international flyers||Bengaluru: In view of the discovery of the new variant of Covid-19, the Karnataka government has mandated rigorous screening and testing of international arrivals from South Africa, Botswana and Hong Kong, officials said.The National Centre for Disease Control has reported that multiple cases of Covid-19 variant 8.1.1529 have been reported in these countries.“This variant is reported to have a significantly high number of mutations, and thus, has serious public health implications for the country, in view of recently relaxed visa restrictions and opening up of international travel,” said Union secretary for health and family welfare Rajesh Bhushan in a letter written to the states on Thursday.Taking note of the development, in a circular issued in Bengaluru on Friday, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Anil Kumar has asked all officials concerned to conduct meticulous implementation and rigorous monitoring of the three-pronged surveillance strategy.The implementation plan consists of screening and testing of international travellers and their contacts, routine sentinel surveillance and surge surveillance, and timely sending of RT-PCR positive samples to designated INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories (lGSLs).“It is imperative that all international travellers coming from and transiting through Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong, and also including all other at-risk countries identified by the Centre, are subjected to rigorous screening and testing as per guidelines,” the circular stated.“The contacts of these international travellers should also be closely tracked and tested as per the guidelines. It should also be ensured that the samples of such international travellers testing positive for Covid-I9 should be sent to designated IGSLs for genome sequencing, and these samples should be sequenced on priority at IGSLs,” it added.Karnataka achieving 90% coverage of the first dose of the vaccine in the state was viewed as a sign of relief by officials of the health department and health experts. Even though the second dose coverage is only 57% , the first dose coverage was perceived as a reasonable shield against a potential third wave. But with the new variant of the virus recovered in South Africa, experts in Karnataka say it is time to rethink the strategy.Dr Vishal Rao, member of the state Genomic Surveillance Committee and chief of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology and Robotic Surgery at HCG Cancer Centre, said that the government should consider providing a booster shot to people. “We will know more about the virus in the coming days, but what we can do now is the focus on vaccination. We should ramp up the existing vaccination process, while starting a process of giving a booster shot,” he said.Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday instructed the deputy commissioners of all districts to intensify the Covid-19 vaccination drive to improve state’s coverage of second dose. The chief minister said this while holding a video conference with deputy commissioners of the districts to review the progress of Covid vaccination drive.“The state has achieved 90 per cent coverage of the first dose and the extent of coverage of the second dose stands at 57 per cent. The second dose coverage should touch 70 per cent by the end of December,” Bommai said.On Thursday, two hostels in the SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad, Karnataka, were closed after 66 students had initially tested positive for the disease. With 116 more people, mostly students, testing positive for Covid-19, total caseload reached 182 cases on Friday, according to official data.“ 300 students have been tested so far and the remaining 100 are also undergoing tests. By evening their results are also likely. Also, there are about 3,000 staff members, who will be tested. Those testing positive will be quarantined and given treatment,” said deputy commissioner of Dharwad, Nitish Patil.“Those who have tested positive will not be allowed to come out and those who are awaiting test results are also quarantined, so precautionary measures have been taken to avoid any further spread,” Patil had also said.All students and staff, who fall under the health workers category, of the college have been fully vaccinated against the disease, however, their records are being verified, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-variant-karnataka-tightens-screening-of-international-flyers-101637954149084.html
27-11-2021||India||After reuniting with child, Anupama says will start fresh stir||Days after reuniting with her child, former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI) Anupama Chandran on Friday announced a fresh agitation from December 10 seeking action against officials who allegedly teamed up with her parents in the much-highlighted Kerala adoption case. The day also serves as World Human Rights Day.Talking to newsmen in the state capital, Anupama said the government is scared to take action against “guilty officials” and sought the release of the inquiry committee report conducted by the state women and child welfare director T V Anupama. “Health minister Veena George said she is yet to go through the report. CPI (M) district secretary A Nagappan reiterated there was no lapse on the part of child welfare council secretary Shiju Khan and others. It seems the government has no plan to take action against erring officials,” she said. She further lamented that there is no end to the vilification and hate campaign against her and her husband K Ajith on social media. “The attack against my husband and I continue unabated. New theories have been floated to defame us. I think cyber warriors won’t indulge in hate campaigns without the knowledge of the party,” she said. She reiterated that her father C S Jayachandran, a senior leader of party trade union wing CITU, child welfare committee chairperson N Sunanda, Shiju Khan and other officials were part of a conspiracy to give away her child while she was making frequent rounds to get her baby back. “My struggle will only be complete after officials who were part of this conspiracy are punished,” she said, adding that she will approach the Union government if the state failed to ensure justice to her. She also questioned the continued silence of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The government didn’t comment on the issue. Anupama’s and Ajith’s one-year-old child was given up for adoption to a couple from Andhra Pradesh in August this year, and was brought back and handed over to her on Nov 24. In the second week of October, Anupama claimed that the newborn baby was forcibly taken away by her father Jayachandran on the third day of her delivery and handed it over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (SCCW)-run orphanage last year. The child was later given up for adoption in a hurry, in violation of several rules, she alleged. With her father holding an influential position in the ruling-Communist Party of India (Marxist), Anupama alleged that she approached the local police station, DGP, child welfare committee and party leaders, but justice failed to get justice. Jayachandran, however, main tained that the baby was born out of wedlock and hence, shifted to a government-run children’s home with Anupama’s consent. While he claimed his daughter had signed on stamp paper, Anupama said she signed under duress. The police filed a complaint on October 20 against six people, including Anupama’s parents, based on her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-reuniting-with-child-anupama-says-will-start-fresh-stir-101637954147875.html
27-11-2021||India||Allegations on tender nexus stir political slugfest in Karnataka||In 2012, SR Jindal, one of India’s well-known industrialists, was among the key speakers at Karnataka’s flagship Global Investors Meet (GIM). His speech was critical of the administration, then led by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) DV Sadananda Gowda, at an event that was meant to showcase the conducive atmosphere in the state to attract investments.“The single window system in the state had many backdoors and ventilators,” he said at the event, packed with renowned industrialists and business personalities from around the world. Such has been the reputation of Karnataka among investors that nothing moves without “commission”. The Karnataka State Contractors Association’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging contractors being harassed to pay 25-30% of the total tender cost even before the work begins has brought to light a close nexus between elected representatives and their stooges in the state while stirring up a political slugfest between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress. The letter, dated July this year, was released on Thursday, in which one section of contractors levelled allegations against the government (present and past) and officials in Karnataka who end up getting most of the tenders in public works. Relatives and kin are known to benefit from some of these tenders, which range from smallest contracts to big-ticket projects that are often referred to as “kickbacks”. The Congress on Thursday night had met Karnataka governor Thawarchand Gehlot and asked for immediate removal of the BJP government over corruption allegations. “Government departments, that too in irrigation, works approved have been increased by two-fold. I will shortly release documents on this soon. Why was a suo moto case not filed based on the allegations of a government-approved orgnaisation?” state Congress president , DK Shivakumar said in a post after meeting the Governor.Terming the allegations of corruption by the Congress as “laughable”, chief minister Basvaraj Bommai said that works allotted during the former’s regime too will be investigated. “Considering Congress party’s special interest about the percentage in tenders of civil works, tenders approved during their regime too would be subjected to probe,” Bommai said on Friday. His statements come even as raids by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continue across several parts of the state, unearthing crores in assets from mid-level officials, including those hidden in their drain pipes. “The letter to (the) Governor reflects the percentage culture that prevailed during the previous Congress regime towards the Contractors. It is the Congress leaders who are the creators of percentage culture. It is Congressmen who have been increasing it(percentage) periodically,” Bommai said. Allegations of corruption against the BJP government in the past have come from within the own party as well. KS Eshwarappa, a senior BJP leader and minister for rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR), had shot off a letter to the governor in April, alleging that tenders from within his department were being allotted by circumventing due process and the minister himself. AH Vishwanath, the BJP MLC in June, had alleged that tenders worth nearly ₹21,500 crores in the irrigation department were being allotted without even calling for one. Income Tax department officials conducted raids after this complaint, in which they questioned a personal secretary of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, forced to step down in July over similar allegations. A contractor, requesting anonymity, shared that money has to be paid for every single tender to several stakeholders that include elected representatives, senior and junior officials, and many others in proportion to the quantum of work or value. A 2017 survey by the Centre For Media Studies had concluded that Karnataka was the most corrupt state in the country – a survey that then Siddaramaiah dismissed as “not credible” even though he conveniently stuck to other reports that hailed the state’s progress in several other sectors. The piling allegations of corruption against Bommai, who replaced Yediyurappa, are not going down well for the BJP in a state which it calls the ‘gateway’ to southern India. “These are not allegations made by the Congress but by their (BJP) own leaders who have held important positions,” Priyank Kharge, a former minister said on Firday. He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said “na khaoonga, na khaane doonga” and even alleged that Congress was a 10% (commission) government. However, the contractors association allege nearly 40% goes off in payments to elected representatives and officials in the BJP government. “This government is not working for public welfare but for individual interests,” Kharge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allegations-on-tender-nexus-stir-political-slugfest-in-karnataka-101637954029245.html
27-11-2021||India||Naidu’s wife seeks a ‘value-based’ society||A week after Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu broke down before the media over alleged humiliation from YSR Congress Party members in the state assembly, his wife Nara Bhuvaneshwari on Friday appealed to the people not to indulge in character assassination of others. In a statement, Bhuvaneshwari, daughter of legendary actor, TDP founder and former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, NT Rama Rao, expressed her gratitude to all those who protested against the unsavoury comments made against her in the assembly. “I cannot forget how every one of you stood by me and responded to the incident, as if the humiliation was meted out to your own mother, sister and daughter. I am thankful to everybody,” Bhuvaneshwari, also a managing trustee of NTR Memorial Trust, said. Stating that her parents had brought their children up with values, Naidu’s wife said she and all her siblings were still following those values. “Everybody should strive for creating a value-based society and stand by those who are in distress and troubles,” she said. Bhuvaneshwari said she hoped nobody else should face the kind of humiliation meted out to her. “Nobody else should behave disrespectfully towards others and indulge in their character assassination,” she asserted. On November 19, Naidu broke down at a press conference after walking out of the state assembly in protest against the alleged abusive comments against his wife by the ruling YSRCP members during a debate on the women empowerment. He announced that he was boycotting the House for the rest of the present term and vowed to return to the assembly only after becoming the chief minister again. He wept in front of the media stating that the YSRCP members had resorted to assassination of his wife’s character. Since Naidu’s announcement, the state has been witnessing a political slugfest between the TDP and the YSRCP members. While the TDP leaders and cadre staged demonstrations and dharnas across the state, Naidu, who toured flood-affected areas of Kadapa, Chittoor and Nellore districts, raised the issue of the YSRCP humiliating his wife at every public interaction. He alleged the YSRCP was deriving “sadistic pleasure” from the incident. A day after the incident, Naidu’s brother-in-law and TDP lawmaker from Hindupur assembly constituency, Nandamuri Balakrishna, along with his siblings, held a press conference and condemned the alleged abusive comments made by YSRCP members in the assembly. The NTR family members also warned the YSRCP of dire consequences, if such incidents are repeated. The YSRCP, however, shot back against the TDP cadre and NTR family. YSRCP general secretary and MP V Vijay Sai Reddy on Thursday said that Naidu was trying to gain political mileage by raising a non-issue. “Nobody made any comments against Naidu’s wife. In fact, the TDP chief himself is taking his wife’s name in public for his petty political gains,” he had said. He wondered whether Naidu was touring the flood-affected areas to console the affected people or gain sympathy for himself from the people in the name of humiliation to his wife. “There is no need to damage his character. He is damaging his own image. His mind is polluted with venomous thoughts,” Reddy added. State civil supplies minister Kodali Venkateshwara Rao, one of the YSRCP members who allegedly made the abusive comments against Bhuvaneshwari, on Thursday said that family members of NTR were innocent and blindly believing whatever Naidu was saying. “They are like a sheep that believes its own butcher. They backed him even when Naidu had dethroned their own father from the chief minister post,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidus-wife-seeks-a-value-based-society-101637954028137.html
27-11-2021||India||Chennai on red alert, braces for heavy rains||Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for coastal Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, after heavy rains lashed Chennai since the night of November 26. The IMD predicted that situation will remain same for the next two days. In the next 24 hours, thunderstorms with heavy rain are likely to occur in Chennai and adjoining districts and heavy to very heavy rain is likely in the next 48 hours, said S Balachandran, head, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), at a press conference in Chennai, and added a red alert was issued for two days for all the coastal regions. IMD said heavy rainfall is due to a persisting cyclonic circulation over Comorin and adjoining Sri Lanka, extending up to 1.5km above sea level, and another low pressure is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal on November 29. On November 25, Chennai on an average received 55 mm rainfall and on November 26, up to 4.30pm, the city received 32.5 mm of rainfall, IMD data showed. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is operating more than 750 heavy duty pumps across the city to drain rain water. “Since Chennai is facing frequent rains, we have not dismantled our existing pumping network infrastructure,” commissioner of GCC, Gagandeep Singh Bedi said, and added we are expecting a significant amount of rainfall of 100mm. Bedi said GCC have directed all the pump operators to remain on duty near the motors to remove instant inundation, adding that all the four-wheeler subways are operational except for the two-wheeler subway in Rangarajapuram which is being used for letting out water from West Mambalam. Chief minister M K Stalin inspected flood-affected areas in Chennai, including Pulianthope, along with Bedi. Two heavy spells in the earlier weeks of November had already caused havoc for residents in the city. During the Northeast Monsoon spell from October 1 till November 25, Chennai and adjoining districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Chengalpattu received excess to large excess of rainfall—more than 56% and 67% respectively, as per IMD. GCC identified localities that were heavily flooded and made temporary measures in the last 10 days to divert stagnant water to the nearest canals, said Bedi. However, people continued to suffer with water stagnation. “We just cleaned our entire apartment and it’s flooded again,” said S Balu, a West Mambalam resident in Chennai, and added that this is not just rain water, it’s [flooded water is] also mixed with sewage and we are worried of getting waterborne infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-on-red-alert-braces-for-heavy-rains-101637953727785.html
27-11-2021||India||TMC eases one-person-one-post rule for Kolkata civic polls; fields 45% women nominees||With the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party gearing up for their second battle since the March-April assembly polls in which the saffron camp could win only 77 of Bengal’s 294 seats, the ruling party on Friday evening sprang a surprise by nominating 45% women and 23 minority community members in its list of 144 candidates for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls. The significant aspect of the TMC’s battle plan for the Kolkata civic polls was Mamata Banerjee’s decision to relax the one-person-one-post policy and nominate six members of the legislative assembly (MLA) of whom four were councillors in the outgoing board. The most prominent among them is transport minister and former Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim, an old and trusted aide of the chief minister. The polls for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation are scheduled to be held on December 19.The TMC controls most of the civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended during the last two years but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a stop-gap measure, the government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators. For example, Hakim continues as head of the KMC’s administrative board. The list was announced after a three-hour long meeting at the chief minister’s south Kolkata residence. It was attended by all senior leaders, including TMC national secretary Abhishek Banerjee, and the party’s election strategist Prashant Kishor who made some crucial recommendations, party leaders said. The TMC now controls 126 of the KMC’s 144 seats and is expected to repeat its performance because of being in power, according to political observers. TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha Sudip Bandopadhyay said: “We had 126 councillors in the last KMC board. Of them, 87 are being re-nominated. Six will however not contest from their old wards this year. Thirty-nine of the old councillors have been dropped but they will be used for orgnisational work.”“Among the nominees, 80, or around 55%, are men and 64, or roughly 45%, are women. Nineteen nominees are from the scheduled caste communities while 23 are minority community members. Two are Christians. All sections of the society are being represented,” Bandopadhyay added. “I will follow the instructions of the party. I grew up working for the people,” said Hakim, refusing to comment on the decision to go against the one-person-one post policy that Mamata Banerjee announced earlier this year. Alongside the MLAs, the TMC also fielded new Lok Sabha member Mala Roy who earlier proved to be an efficient councillor from the Kalighat area where the chief minister lives. However, Shantanu Sen, a Rajya Sabha MP, was not fielded again. “There is nothing to feel bad about this. The party is projecting new faces. It is our policy,” said Sen who represented a ward in north Kolkata. “Mamata Banerjee heard all the leaders and cleared the list,” said TMC secretary general and minister Partha Chatterjee. “The party took the decision to re-nominate some MLAs because it wants to utilize them. After the polls, the winners will decide who will be the next mayor,” he added. Three TMC MLAs who got re-nomination are Atin Ghosh, Debasish Kumar and Debabrata Majumdar. Kumar became an MLA for the first time this year. Two other MLAs were also included in the list but their names were not announced till 8 pm. Though engaged in a similar exercise, the BJP could not release its list with party leaders indicating that the names might be announced during the weekend. The Left Front, however, released its list, leaving 17 of Kolkata’s 144 seats for Congress and other non-Left parties whom it called “friendly allies” without specifying names. “In these 17 seats, we will support parties or alliances that are against the TMC and BJP,” Kallol Majumdar, secretary of the CPI(M)’s Kolkata district committee, said while releasing the list and the Left Front’s election manifesto that promised better civic amenities, empowerment of women and environment-friendly projects. The CPI(M) is contesting around 90 seats. Since their formal alliance ended with the assembly polls, Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Left Front chairman Biman Bose earlier said there will be no state-level talks on alliance anymore but local leaders from the Congress and the Left parties were free to have electoral understanding in their respective areas if they felt it was necessary to stop the BJP and TMC. “We have told the state Congress that they can have an understanding with the Left parties at the local level,” said Chowdhury who is in Delhi to attend the winter session of the Lok Sabha. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday cautioned state election commissioner Saurabh Das and said he should not play any partisan role during the coming elections in the state’s 120-odd municipalities and corporations. Das was summoned to Raj Bhawan on Tuesday afternoon when the governor also wanted to know why simultaneous polls in all civic bodies were not being planned by the state election commission (SEC). The BJP has already moved the Calcutta high court with the same demand and the case will be heard next week. “It may pertinently be recalled that the SEC itself had mooted the idea of simultaneous elections to all the municipalities earlier. The overwhelming political inputs are for the same. There does not appear to be any rationale for any deviation thereof. It is imperative at your end to ensure that the Constitutional mandate is regarded both in letter and spirit, and I am sure you will bear this in mind,” Dhankhar wrote in a letter to Das on Tuesday. The state government wanted to hold the polls in phases, starting with Kolkata and Howrah on December 19. The government also recently announced that the Howrah Corporation Zone will be split so that a new civic body can be formed at Bally. However, till Friday the governor did not sign the bill that the state assembly passed to give effect to this decision. The state election commission has already announced the schedule for the Kolkata civic polls. A decision regarding Howrah can be taken only after the court hears the BJP’s petition and the governor signs the bill, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-eases-one-person-one-post-rule-for-kolkata-civic-polls-fields-45-women-nominees-101637953489128.html
27-11-2021||India||Four of Dalit family in Prayagraj killed, teen allegedly gang-raped; 8 held||The brutal murder of four members of a Dalit family in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district over a land dispute sparked protests in the region on Friday with politicians making a beeline to the victims’ village and local residents alleging police negligence. Police said the four members – a 50-year-old man, his 47-year-old wife, 17-year-old daughter and 10-year-old son – were found dead on their beds inside their home in Prayagraj district on Thursday morning by relatives. Eight of the 11 accused named in the FIR were arrested, police added. “The deceased family had filed an SC/ST case against some people of the village itself,” said Sarvashresth Tripathi, deputy inspector general of police, Prayagraj. He said autopsy report suggested that the victims were assaulted with an axe.A written complaint to the police by one of the relatives of the victim mentioned a land dispute and alleged that members of an upper-caste family had issued physical and verbal threats to the Dalit family in the past. But local residents alleged that the family had approached the local police station to lodge an FIR but were rebuffed.“The allegation of not taking any action in earlier cases is also alleged by the family of the deceased. Keeping all these in mind, action is being taken, some people have also been taken into custody. An axe was found near their bodies, it looks like they were hit by that axe only,” Tripathi added.The bodies of the four members were handed over to their kin after post-mortem examination on Friday. When the bodies arrived at the village, local residents staged a protest demanding compensation, immediate arrest of the accused, a gun licence and lease of land to the family. Senior officials declared immediate financial assistance of ₹16.50 lakh, police security and a gun licence to the next of kin of the deceased’s family. Police said viscera and vaginal swabs were preserved for detailed examination. Based on a complaint by a kin, police registered an FIR against 11 persons for murder and rape under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Police also suspended three policemen, including the station house officer of the local station, for laxity in connection with the incident. Late in the evening, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the kin of the victims. “The women in the family are living in terror and are scared that they may face harassment again,” she said.Questioning the administration’s silence over the matter, she added that the women in the family were mocked by the police when they went searching for help.“What happened to Arun Valmiki in Agra, what happened in Hathras and what is happening here? If Dalits are continually being tortured, what is the point of celebrating Constitution Day? Why isn’t the administration doing anything?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-of-dalit-family-in-prayagraj-killed-teen-allegedly-gang-raped-8-heldpolice-101637952827681.html
27-11-2021||India||Govt to table farm repeal bill on Day 1 of winter session; Congress issues whips||The government is set to introduce the all-important repeal bill to withdraw the three farm laws on the opening day of the winter session on Monday. The Congress plans to hold a meeting hours before the session begins with other Opposition parties for “working unitedly in raising critical matters of peoples’ concerns”, people familiar with the matter said.An official bulletin on Friday said the repeal legislation will come to the Lok Sabha on the opening day of the winter session. The Opposition is adamant to discuss the bill in the House to corner the government over the farm issues. The Congress has issued three-line whips in both the Houses, asking party MPs to be present on Monday.Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, has written to many Opposition leaders, reminding them of the unity in the last session that was largely washed out. “I express my sincere thanks for your support and cooperation in meetings of floor leaders of all Opposition parties convened by me during monsoon session which facilitated Opposition unity in raising topical issues.”“Winter session commencing from 29 November is very crucial for all of us,” he wrote, adding, “I am convening a meeting of floor leaders of all Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha on Monday for once again working unitedly in raising critical matters of peoples’ concerns....”LS Speaker Om Birla said topics for discussion would be decided in the Business Advisory Committee meets. A Parliamentary functionary said the Centre has not “communicated so far whether they want a debate on the repeal bill.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-table-farm-repeal-bill-on-day-1-of-winter-session-congress-issues-whips-101637952527700.html
27-11-2021||India||Centre to consider nodal officers to regulate social media content||The ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) is considering designating nodal officers for issuing directions for the takedown of “unlawful” content as prescribed by the new social media and intermediary guidelines, officials familiar with the matter said. “One of the proposals under consideration is having a nodal officer who will be the authority to issue directions for takedown of content,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. “The standard operating procedures will help clarify the confusion around who issues the direction from a particular ministry.” The government has been working on the standard operating procedure (SOP), which it is supposed to outline as part of the new social media guidelines which came into effect in February. The procedures are being vetted by a committee of officials from Meity, and ministries including information and broadcasting and law and justice. The procedure has been a key demand made by the platforms as they seek clarity on who can issue takedown orders for content hosted on their sites. The official added that even as the government works on the SOP, the rules for removal of unlawful content are clear. “An intermediary, on whose computer resource the information is stored, hosted or published, upon receiving actual knowledge in the form of an order by a court of competent jurisdiction or on being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or publish any unlawful information, which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force in relation to the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India; security of the State; friendly relations with foreign States; public order; decency or morality; in relation to contempt of court; defamation; incitement to an offence relating to the above, or any information which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force,” states the relevant section in the new social media and intermediary guidelines, which came into effect on February 25.A second official said that the procedures will help clarify, especially in central ministries, who can ultimately issue orders for content removal. “Take for instance the ministry of women and child development, the procedures will help outline who is the designated authority, whether it is NCPCR (National Commission for Protection of Child Rights) or WCD (Women and Child Development) or some other department under the ministry that ask a social media platform to take action against content,” this person added on condition of anonymity.The first official said that since the expertise of what constitutes unlawful content lies with the particular ministry, the proposal to have a designated official was being considered. So far, content removal on platforms is done by a designated officer appointed by the central government, who can issue orders for blocking content under section 69(A) of the information technology Act. A bifurcation in the new guidelines has also created a parallel mechanism to enable the ministry of information and broadcasting to issue orders under the same section.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-consider-nodal-officers-to-regulate-social-media-content-under-new-guidelines-101637952468006.html
27-11-2021||India||Zero rejection of vaccines during quality testing since Jan: Experts||There has been zero rejection of Covid-19 vaccine out of over 1,000 batches that underwent quality testing before their market release since January this year, said experts involved in the exercise at the country’s only government vaccine testing laboratory at the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Himachal Pradesh’s Kasauli, adding that the results should help instil confidence in people regarding the quality of indigenously manufactured jabs against the coronavirus disease. The lab, which tests 22 vaccines in all, has noted a 0.2% general rejection rate for vaccines during quality testing. “We haven’t rejected any samples of Covid-19 vaccines on account of not meeting quality standards so far. We do batch-wise testing for potency, sterility, biochemical or abnormal toxicity etc before approval is given for release in market for commercial use. The samples for testing from ready batches are provided by the manufacturer,” said Dr Arun Bhardwaj, director, CDL in Kasauli. Data shared by CDL Kasauli show that till November 23, a total of 1,049 batches of Covid-19 vaccine have been released comprising approximately 1,521 million vaccine doses. “Zero rejection rate during quality testing speaks volumes about the quality of Covid vaccines being manufactured in the country; and that also should take care of any vaccine related hesitancy in the minds of people,” said Dr S Eswara Reddy, joint drugs controller, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation. The latest batch that the laboratory cleared was of Zydus Healthcare’s anti Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. According to Bhardwaj, seven batches of ZyCoV-D with total of 237,530 doses have been cleared for market release so far. “We are mandated to establish safety, efficacy, and quality of vaccines. Rejection of vaccine samples for pre-release quality testing is a rare occurrence anyway; in terms of percentage the rate of rejection would be around 0.2%, which is minuscule. However, if a sample fails quality tests for whatever reasons, then the entire batch from which the sample was taken has to be discarded or recalled if the testing was done based on a complaint regarding the quality of the product,” said Bhardwaj. Testing currently takes place of six manufacturers of Covid vaccines: Serum Institute of India for Covishield, Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, Zydus Healthcare for ZyCoV-D, Panacea Biotec and Gamaleya Research Institute for Sputnik V, and Biological E for Janssen. The number of doses in a batch may vary based on the manufacturing capacity of the vaccine manufacturer; for example, a batch of SII’s Covishield vaccine would have around four million doses, and a batch of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine would have anywhere around 400,000-800,000 doses. Since testing is a destructive process and vials that are tested for quality cannot be reused; therefore, testing of all vials in a batch is not possible. “Vials are picked up randomly from each batch for testing, and only after each of the batches clear quality test, the company is provided a certificate that allows the product to be released in market for commercial use,” said Bhardwaj. In case a sample fails the quality test, the manufacturer is intimated and invited over to CDL for another round of testing. “The manufacturer personally witnesses another round of quality testing that is conducted to substantiate the results of round one. If the sample fails again then the manufacture is made to sign a document and asked to investigate the root cause,” he added. The central lab usually tests at least 7,000 batches in a year of different vaccines, including those that are imported into the country, for quality. “This year we will most likely be touching 8,000 batches. This year has been busy,” said Sushil Kumar Sahoo, deputy assistant director, CDL, Kasauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-rejection-of-vaccines-during-quality-testing-since-jan-experts-101637952407712.html
27-11-2021||India||172 dead this month, IMD warns of more rain in south till December 2||Torrential showers marooned towns, cut off villages, and killed five people in Tamil Nadu on Friday, pushing the death toll in the state to 68, as officials warned of more rainfall likely to lash southern India till December 2.Since November 1, 172 people have died in the five southern peninsular states with Tamil Nadu accounting for the maximum, followed by Kerala at 48, Andhra Pradesh at 44, and Karnataka at 12. Telangana, which has also been hit by heavy rainfall, has not reported any rain-related deaths in November.The deluge is due to a cyclone circulation in the Comorin area extending up to 1.5km above sea level, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, adding that another low pressure area was likely to form in the south Bay of Bengal on November 29. This will be the fourth such weather event in the region since November 1.IMD’s rainfall data released on Friday said that between November 1 and November 25, south Peninsular India recorded 143.4% excess rains, with Karnataka and Kerala receiving more than 110% of the normal. Tamil Nadu, which normally receives less rainfall this season than states on the western coast, recorded 70% excess rainfall during the north-east monsoon season, which started on October 1.Friday’s rain disrupted life in southern Tamil Nadu districts such as Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam. Thoothukudi recorded extremely heavy rainfall of 250mm in the past 24 hours.“Water is up to the hip level on Attur road which has now been blocked,” said S Gunaseelan, a resident of Udangudi in Thoothukudi.Heavy rainfall was also reported from temple town of Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh. Bengaluru and southern Karnataka received moderate to heavy rainfall.Tami NaduOn Friday, IMD issued a red alert to the entire coastal belt of Tamil Nadu comprising 18 districts and an orange alert for districts adjoining the coastal regions. Rainfall lashed 37 of the state’s 38 districts with schools and colleges shut in most places.The five deaths were reported from Ariyalur, Dindigul, Sivganga and Thiruvanammali, said state minister for revenue and disasters, KKSSR Ramachandran. He added that 10,503 people were evacuated to state-run relief camps.Across the state, people stocked up on food but sheets of stagnant water threw normal life out of gear. “We just cleaned our entire apartment and it’s flooded again,” said S Balu, a West Mambalam resident in Chennai.“And this is not just rain water, it’s also mixed with sewage. Our motor sump is submerged so our tanks don’t have a drop of drinking water. We are worried of getting water borne infections,” he said.Arterial roads were inundated even as Great Chennai Municipal Corporation officials said they were getting ready for heavy rainfall during the weekend. “We have asked all the pump operators to remain on duty near the motors to remove instant inundation,” said commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi.On Thursday, after Thoothukudi (11.8 cm), the highest rainfall was recorded in the districts of Tirunelveli (8 cm), Nagapattinam (7.6cm).However, the rainfall reduced on Friday in Thoothukudi to 0.2 mm. Chennai received about 3 cm rainfall.“The rains have reduced today in Thoothukudi during the day but we have still issued a red alert because it’s already flooded and more rains are expected overnight and tomorrow,” deputy director of RMC, V Puviarasan, said.Thoothukudi remained marooned for the second day in a row and roughly 1,000 homes were damaged. Due to heavy rain in Thamirabarani catchment area, water release from the Servalaru-Papanasam dam was increased to 20,000 cusecs, said Thoothukudi district collector K Senthil Raj.Andhra PradeshThe south coastal and Rayalaseema districts of Andhra Pradesh limped back to normal on Friday following days of torrential rainfall. But moderate showers was reported from several areas and the IMD predicted more rainfall in the region till December 2.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told the state assembly that his government was taking up all the relief and rescue measures without delay in the flood-affected areas and camps were being set up for people. He also said that 1,990 villages in four districts were affected by the floods on November 18 and 19, of which 211 villages were completely inundated. AT least 44 people had died and 16 were still missing. He said 1,169 houses were completely damaged and 5,434 houses were partially damaged.KeralaSeveral any parts of Kerala, especially southern districts, received scattered to heavy rainfall on Friday. The state received the highest rainfall in six decades this year -- surpassing even the deluge in 2018 that caused the worst floods in a century and killed 482 people.IMD said the state received 3593.3mm rainfall till November 25, surpassing the 2018 tally of 3518. 9mm.KarnatakaBengaluru didn’t record much rainfall in the past 24 hours but the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said there will be rain in Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Mysuru, and Mandya districts.“However, we have not predicted any heavy rainfall in the state in the coming days. According to us only, scattered, light rainfall will occur,” said a KSNDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/172-dead-this-month-imd-warns-of-more-rain-in-south-till-december-2-101637952349324.html
27-11-2021||India||Justice long overdue in 26/11 attacks: US||As India observed the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Friday remembered the “resiliency of Mumbaikars” and said it is long overdue for the perpetrators to face justice.Also remembering the six Americans who were killed in the terror attacks, Blinken tweeted: “Thirteen years have passed since the 26/11 terrorist attacks in Mumbai. On today’s anniversary, we remember the victims, including six Americans, and the resiliency of Mumbaikars. It is long overdue for the perpetrators to face justice.” On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.The then Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai’s Additional Police Commissioner Ashok Kamte, Senior Police Inspector Vijay Salaskar and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble were among those killed in the attack.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists.Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country’s elite commando force. Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.India and several other countries, including the US, the UK and France, have repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 attacks to justice, but no such firm initiative has been taken yet by Islamabad. The United States tried and punished David Headley, a Pakistan-American, who had visited India to scout the targets hit by the attackers. He is currently serving a 35-year jail term. Tahawwur Rana, a Canadian-Pakistani, was also sentenced in the US to 14 years of imprisonment for providing support to LeT. Pakistan has dragged its feet prosecuting Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed and Zaki-ur-Rahman, the man who directly led the operations, even as India has shared detailed evidence with Islamabad on a number of occasions. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has already completed its probe against all the perpetrators and shared detailed evidence with Pakistani authorities several times, but there has been no response till date. Saeed was arrested and released several times by the Pakistan government, prompting the former Donald Trump-led US administration, on one occasion, to warn of “repercussions”. He was finally sentenced to 10 years in jail in 2020 in two terror cases. Saeed, who carried a US bounty of $10 million for his arrest, had openly challenged the US to arrest him.Rahman, likewise, was finally tried and convicted in January this year for of terror financing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-long-overdue-in-26-11-attacks-us-101637952229488.html
27-11-2021||India||Maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue on December 6||India and Russia announced on Friday that they will hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin in New Delhi on December 6.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak began. His decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.This will be 21st annual summit between the two sides, though the meeting could not be held last year because of the pandemic. It comes at a time when the Russian leadership is wary about India’s increasingly stronger ties with the US, while the Indian side has been upset by a perceived uptick in Pakistan-Russia relations.“The leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries. The summit will afford an opportunity to exchange views on regional, multilateral and international issues of mutual interest,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The Russian foreign ministry said in a statement that Putin plans to discuss further development of bilateral ties. The leaders will exchange views on topical global issues, including working jointly within G20, Brics and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), it said.The last annual summit was held during Modi’s visit to Vladivostok in September 2019. This will also be the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders since their discussions on the margins of the Brics Summit in Brasilia in November 2019.Modi and Putin had agreed during a telephone conversation on April 28 to launch a 2+2 dialogue. India currently has 2+2 ministerial dialogues only with Australia, Japan and the US. The agenda for the inaugural India-Russia 2+2 dialogue on December 6 will cover political and defence issues, the external affairs ministry said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will represent the Indian side. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and defence minister Sergey Shoigu will visit New Delhi during December 5-6 for the dialogue.“The establishment of a new mechanism of 2+2 dialogue is expected to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries,” the external affairs ministry said.The Russian side said the 2+2 dialogue is expected to focus on key regional and international topics, including the “situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments on Afghanistan and Syria”. The ministers will also exchange views on interaction within SCO and the Russia-India-China (RIC) mechanism.Putin’s visit and the 2+2 dialogue are under considerable scrutiny as they are coinciding with the delivery by Russia of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems. Russian officials said in mid-November that deliveries of the S-400 systems have begun and are proceeding on schedule.The two countries signed a $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 systems during Putin’s last visit to India in October 2018. India has signalled its determination to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).India and Russia are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two sides to access logistics at each other’s bases.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing that defence cooperation is an important part of the India-Russia relationship but declined to comment on specific deals.“Regarding the CAATSA waiver, India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership, and India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia. We also pursue an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies, which are guided by our national security interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maiden-india-russia-2-2-dialogue-on-december-6-101637952227607.html
27-11-2021||India||10 arrested for attacking Dalit man’s wedding procession in Rajasthan||Jaipur At least 10 people were arrested after they allegedly pelted stones at a Dalit man’s wedding procession because he rode a mare in the Pawta area of rural Jaipur on late Thursday night, Rajasthan Police said on Friday. Soon after the incident, in which 12 people received injuries, a local Congress MLA demanded suspension of the entire staff of the Pragpura police station for failure to provide protection to the wedding procession, which was under police protection. “Some mischievous people of a community had objected to a Dalit man riding a mare in marriage. The victim family members had given a complaint prior to the marriage. A police team was deployed but some people still pelted stones at the procession,” said Shiv Shankar Sharma, station house officer, Pragpura police station.In the complaint, the groom’s family named 20 people, of which 10 have been arrested, Sharma said, adding that a case under sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. A hunt is on to arrest 10 others named in the complaint, he said. An official said the alleged perpetrators belonged to the Rajput community.Police had provided protection to the marriage procession at Kairodi ki Dhani gram panchayat as the bride’s family had apprehended trouble, police said. However, when the procession was moving through an upper caste neighbourhood, some people pelted stones at it, police said. Sharma said the local administration, including the subdivisional magistrate and police, had held meetings with people from various community and asked them to maintain law and order. “Everyone had assured of cooperation, but still the incident happened,” the SHO added. A relative of the bride, Nitendra Manav, claimed it was the failure of police as the incident took place despite prior intimation and in the presence of the police. Manav said the groom, who is a government teacher, had expressed his wish to ride a mare. The bride’s father had written letters to the Rajasthan chief minister, the director general of police (DGP) and also to the local administration, seeking security suspecting untoward incident. Congress MLA Khiladi Lal Bairwa, meanwhile, demanded suspension of the entire staff of the police station. In a letter to the CM, he said that despite informing police 15 days prior to the marriage, the incident happened, and the staff of the station should be suspended. He also urged to set up a special court for speedy action atrocities against Dalits. Upper-caste anger against Dalits riding horses in wedding processions is decades-old and stems from caste prejudice. In 2018, a Dalit man in Uttar Pradesh wrote to ministers and started a statewide stir to ride a horse for the first time in his village’s history after upper-caste members objected to it. Reportedly, In a similar incident occurred in Bundi few days back on November 22, three grooms riding a mare were objected by upper caste people. They performed a toran (ritual) by sitting in a car and even police was deployed to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-arrested-for-attacking-dalit-man-s-wedding-procession-in-rajasthan-101637952171332.html
27-11-2021||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks compensation scheme for hate crime victims||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court, seeking a fair investigation and trial on a complaint by a senior citizen who claimed that he was abused and tortured in an alleged hate crime in Noida in July this year.The plea, filed by the victim, Kazeem Ahmed Sherwani of Delhi’s Zakir Nagar area, has also sought a victim compensation scheme for persons affected by hate crimes, and demanded action against police personnel who refuse to register such cases. The plea came up for hearing on Friday before a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar.The 62-year-old, in his petition, alleged that on July 4, he was waiting for an Aligarh-bound bus at Noida’s Sector 37 when he was offered a ride by a group of men. The men, however, abused, harassed and tortured him on account of his Muslim identity, he claimed. He added that police refused to register and also dissuaded him from pursuing the case when he visited a nearby police station.Sherwani claimed that it was only after he approached the National Human Rights Commission that police asked him to submit his complaint. While the cops at Noida sector 37 registered his complaint, on July 31, they claimed that the petitioner was “politicising” the issue, he said.“The petitioner was attacked because of his beard, and ostensible Muslim identity. The incident of that day has left the petitioner and his family completely traumatised, because it attacked their very identity as equal citizens of this country,” the petition, filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rehman, said. “The attack, according to him, besides harming the fundamental right to equality (Article 14) and liberty (Article 21), also violated the constitutional guarantee of freedom of religion under Article 25,” it added.The petitioner, who was represented by senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, urged the court for a fair and impartial investigation, and demanded security by Delhi Police, alleging harassment by Uttar Pradesh Police over the matter in the past. “If hate crimes are permitted to occur with impunity, and without prompt legal action, the promise of the Constitution makers will be broken,” the petition, filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rehman, said. “This is not a lone case, but one of several cases where similar hate crimes, including public beatings and lynching, have taken place across several states, but where victims have been discouraged, without even a preliminary investigation, to frame the offence as a ‘hate crime, and the police have discouraged them from filing FIRs,” it added. The petition also cited a 2018 judgment of the top court in the Tehseen Poonawala case, where it had laid down guidelines for dealing with instances of mob lynching and hate crimes. The petitioner sought an action taken by Uttar Pradesh Police on his complaint in compliance with the 2018 decision.Taking note of his complaint, the bench allowed a copy of the plea to be served to the counsel for state of Uttar Pradesh and directed the matter to be heard along with petitions raising similar issues of hate speech, that are listed before Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana, on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-compensation-scheme-for-hate-crime-victims-101637952170209.html
27-11-2021||India||More women take part in polls than men: CEC Chandra||Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra on Friday said that women’s participation in Indian elections “exceeded that of men and stood at more than 67% in the 2019 General Election”, and that the Gender gap, which was -16.71% in 1962, has not only closed but reversed to +0.17% in 2019. “India has witnessed a 235.72% increase in female electors since the 1971 elections,” Chandra added, while addressing an international webinar on Enhancing Electoral Participation of Women, Persons with Disabilities and Senior Citizen Voters: Sharing Best Practices and New Initiatives, organised by Election Commission of India (ECI). The CEC briefed participants about the various initiatives undertaken by the Commission to enhance women’s participation in elections and make electoral practice more accessible and inclusive. “(This) is an excellent opportunity to learn from the best practices and experiences of other election management bodies to identify and work towards removing barriers to ensure truly accessible, inclusive and participative elections,” Chandra said, according to a press statement by the ECI.He also spoke about steps undertaken by ECI, such as using postal ballots, providing voting facilities at the doorstep to senior citizens, wheelchair facilities at polling booths, volunteer assistance, Braille EPIC cards, and braille signage in EVMs etc. “In the last five state assembly elections, 4.5 times higher electors participated in the electoral process through postal ballots and there is scope for widening the outreach and facilitation efforts,” Chandra said.Election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, along with more than 100 delegates from 24 countries, four international organisations and 20 diplomats, participated in the webinar.Pandey said that “technology has been a game changer in election management and has had a significant impact upon the electoral landscape vis-a-vis accessibility”, said the ECI statementThe webinar was organised to mark the completion of two years of the EC helming the Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-women-take-part-in-polls-than-men-cec-chandra-101637951987597.html
27-11-2021||India||India to resume regular international flights from December 15||India will allow the full schedule of regular international flights to resume with all countries that are considered “not at risk” from December 15, according to an official order issued by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Friday. Flights to and from countries that are considered “at risk” can operate at 75% of the schedule if there is an air-bubble agreement in place with India, and at 50% if there isn’t. Scheduled international passenger flights to and from India were suspended in March 2020 due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The matter has been reviewed and the competent authority has decided to resume the scheduled commercial international passenger services to/from India with effect from 15 December 2021,” the order by office of MoCA said. Flights to nations not classified as “at-risk” can resume to full capacity entitlement according to bilateral air service agreements.Countries under the “at-risk” category will need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. Countries “at risk” include the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. India has air-bubble pacts with 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE and France.This arrangement will, however, come to an end from December 14. “Resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services with effect from 15 December, 2021 would imply reversion to bilaterally agreed capacity entitlements and termination of air-bubble arrangements. However, due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the capacity entitlements shall be as per the category of countries based on enlistment of countries as “at-risk” from time to time by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoHFW),” the document said.Flights to these “at-risk” countries can resume at 75% of the full capacity entitlements under bilateral air-service agreements if there is an air-bubble agreement with that country. At least seven flights a week would be allowed. In case of “at-risk” countries with whom India did not have an air bubble agreement, only 50% of pre-Covid operations of Indian or foreign carriers, or 50% of bilateral capacity entitlements will be allowed. Special passenger flights have been operating since July last year under air bubble arrangements with 31 countries. Under an air bubble agreement, airlines of both countries can operate special flights with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-resume-regular-international-flights-from-december-15-101637951928915.html
27-11-2021||India||Tripura civic elections: TMC urges SC to defer counting of votes||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday moved the Supreme Court, seeking a probe by a court-monitored panel into alleged large-scale violence during the municipal polls in Tripura.Alleging “absolute mayhem” during the elections on Thursday, senior counsel Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the party, sought an urgent hearing into the matter and also urged the court to postpone the counting of votes. “Horrendous scenes have been recorded by us on video. This court had directed unhindered access to media at polling booths. But what we saw was absolute mayhem. Our candidates were not allowed to enter polling booths to cast votes, no central armed paramilitary forces (CAPF) were available and the ‘two constables to each candidate’ rule was flouted. This is not done. It is a complete violation of this court’s order. It is a very serious situation and we require an urgent hearing,” Sibal, who appeared before a bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, said.On Thursday, a three-judge bench comprising justice Chandrachud and justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath, had directed the Union ministry of home affairs to provide two additional companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) to secure the polling booths during the Tripura municipal polls after the TMC and CPI (M) alleged that their candidates and supporters have not been allegedly allowed to cast their votes and that there is a serious breach of law and order.Taking note of Sibal’s request for an urgent hearing, justice Chandrachud said it may not be possible as the court is sitting in a different combination of judges on FridayAs Sibal requested for a special sitting on Saturday, the judge said he would consult the other two judges and seek their availability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-civic-elections-tmc-urges-sc-to-defer-counting-of-votes-101637951927683.html
27-11-2021||India||Constitution Day: PM Modi, CJI Ramana stress need for judiciary and government to complement each other||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana struck a common chord on Friday when they stressed on the need for the judiciary and the government to complement each other in the realisation of constitutional goals.Speaking at the 72nd Constitution Day event in the presence of justices and jurists, Modi said: “The government and judiciary are twins as they are born out of the same Constitution. As the nation looks towards the 100 years of Independence in the next 25 years, the government and judiciary must strive with common goals and common mind to meet the aspirations of the people through collective responsibility while keeping with separation of powers.”He noted that while colonialism that once ruled India no more exists, the colonial mindset still prevails by which developed countries try to block development of progressive countries like India in the name of freedom of expression and other forms and lately, citing environment and carbon emissions. “No country exists today as a manifest colony of another country, but this does not mean the colonial mindset has ended…An attempt is being made today by the developed world to block the progress of developing countries and environment is being hijacked for this purpose,” sadi Modi. CJI Ramana, whose speech preceded the PM’s, also emphasised that all three organs of the state – executive, legislature and judiciary – are repositories of constitutional trust and it is wrong to assume that securing justice is the job of judiciary alone. “The executive and the legislature must work in conjunction with the judiciary to ensure complete justice as envisaged under the Constitution,” justice Ramana said.At the same time, he added: “The Laxman Rekha drawn by the Constitution is sacrosanct. There are times when courts are compelled to pay attention to unresolved grievances, in the interest of justice. The intention behind such limited judicial interventions is to nudge the executive, and not to usurp its role…. Attempts to project such interventions as the targeting of one institution by another are totally misplaced.” He maintained that motivated public interest litigation (PILs) should be discouraged, but there is enormous good done under this jurisdiction as even a letter by a common man yields to effective orders from the top court.The CJI also spoke about the existence of colonialism in the prevailing laws and called for “Indianization of the judiciary”. With the Prime Minister and Union law minister Kiren Rijiju in attendance, justice Ramana termed the issue of attack on judges as a matter of “grave concern”, stressing on central agencies and government to not only ensure protection of judicial officers from physical attacks but in the media as well, particularly social media. Other judges of the Supreme Court – justices UU Lalit and Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud -- spoke underlining the significance of awareness among people about the Constitution and their rights enshrined under it, and the issue of pendency of cases was brought to the fore by attorney general KK Venugopal. Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju appreciated the role of judiciary during the pandemic in keeping the courts functional through virtual platform thus enabling hearing of over 15 million cases by high courts and district courts and over 150,000 cases by Supreme Court alone. Vikas Singh, the president of Supreme Court Bar Association, the body of lawyers practising in the Supreme Court, also spoke on the occasion, highlighting the need for a law to bring transparency and regulate collegium-mandated appointments of high court and Supreme Court judges, and called for a law to ensure lawmakers convicted for heinous offences are debarred for life from contesting polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-day-pm-modi-cji-ramana-stress-need-for-judiciary-and-government-to-complement-each-other-101637951868728.html
27-11-2021||India||Param Bir appears before Thane police, court cancels NBW||A day after he appeared before the Mumbai police crime branch for inquiries, former police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Friday appeared in the Thane Nagar police station for inquiries in connection with an extortion case registered against him. Singh also appeared before the Thane sessions court, which cancelled a non-bailable warrant issued against him. Singh’s lawyer Rajendra Mokashi said he remained present before the court in between his questioning by police, and also provided a surety of ₹15,000.A senior officer with the Thane Police confirmed that Singh reached the police station at around 10.30 a.m. on Friday for inquiries in a case registered against him by businessman Ketan Tanna in July this year. Singh was questioned from morning till late evening, the officer said.The other accused in the case include deputy commissioner of police Deepak Devraj, assistant commissioner of Police NT Kadam, retired cop Pradeep Sharma, senior police inspector Rajkumar Kothmire and gangster Ravi Pujari. Tanna alleged that the accused cops extorted crores of rupees from him and his friend, businessman Sonu Jalan, in 2018. Jalan had been arrested in connection with a betting racket by the Thane crime branch’s anti-extortion cell in the same year.Officials in the known said that Singh was questioned in connection with the allegations made against him, as well as the original case filed by the AEC against Jalan, in which the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) had been invoked. In the presence of senior officers, including deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Avinash Ambure, Singh was asked about the invoking of the MCOCA as well as other evidence against Jalan.“He also appeared before the Thane Sessions Court, which had issued a non-bailable warrant against him last month, at around 3.30 p.m., and the court cancelled the warrant. Subsequently, he came back to the police station, and the questioning resumed,” an officer said.After several hours of questioning, Singh finally left the police station at around 7 p.m. The Supreme Court has granted him blanket protection from arrest in the cases registered against him. Officials said that he might have to be called again for inquiries.Singh is facing a total of five extortion cases in Maharashtra, two of them in Thane. The Thane police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe these two extortion cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/param-bir-appears-before-thane-police-court-cancels-nbw-101637951747347.html
27-11-2021||India||Dynastic politics a threat to healthy democracy: PM Modi on Constitution Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi hit out at political dynasts on Friday during Constitution Day celebrations, and said parties controlled by the same family for generations posed a threat to a healthy democracy.In his speech in Parliament’s Central Hall, the PM also warned against the tendency of “forgetting and glorifying convicted corrupt people”, invoked Dr BR Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi, and tore into opposition parties without naming anyone.“In the form of family-based parties, India is heading towards a kind of a crisis, How can the parties which have lost their democratic character protect democracy?” he asked.“A party run by one family generation after generation and the family controlling the entire system of the party is the biggest threat to a healthy democracy,” he added.At the event, which 13 opposition parties boycotted, President Ram Nath Kovind called opposition forces as “the most important element of democracy”.“Without an effective Opposition, democracy becomes ineffective. It is expected that the government and the Opposition, despite their differences, continue to work together in the best interests of the citizens,” he said.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, said legislatures should be guided by dialogue and debate and not be rendered dysfunctional through disruptions.Constitution Day celebrates November 26, 1949 when the Indian Constitution was formally adopted by the Constituent Assembly. The Constitution came into effect on January 26, 1950, marking Republic Day.PM Modi reminded people about their sense of duty, and maintained that Gandhi had tried to prepare the nation for the duties while he fought for the rights in the freedom movement. “It would have been better if the duty had been emphasised after the country’s independence. In the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, it is necessary for us to move forward on the path of duty so that our rights are protected”, the PM said. Modi also remembered the Mumbai terror attacks and described 26/11 as “such a sad day for us”.While several political outfits in India are tightly controlled by families, the PM made it clear that he targeted the Congress. “More than one person from a family joining the party on the basis of merit does not make the party dynastic. Problems arise when a party is run by the same family, generation after generation,” he said.PM dubbed political dynasts as “a matter of concern for people devoted to the Constitution and for those who believe in democracy.” He argued that spirit and every section of the Constitution is hurt” when political parties shed their democratic character.Modi’s sharp attack came after the Congress-led Opposition boycotted the official celebrations of the Constitution Day in Parliament. Congress leaders don’t rule out a wider context of the comment in the backdrop of the upcoming series of electoral battles in five states.The Congress defended its decision. “We protested to remind our country that the Constitution is not being respected. The Constitution is being undermined and parliamentary democracy is being undermined, insulted with the enactment of the laws bypassing any parliamentary scrutiny, which is creating enormous problems,” said Anand Sharma, Congress’s deputy leader in Rajya Sabha.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla expressed distress over the boycott. He said, “If the Opposition had any issues, they could have spoken to me. A function which is chaired by President of India, should be kept above politics.” He added that “dialogue and discuss is the only way forward. All agenda are discussed in Business advisory committee that has leaders from various parties.”Last week, addressing the legislative presiding officer’s conference in Shimla, the PM had spoke of duty and had said that for the next 25 years — till 100 years of Independence — legislators must work to fulfil their national duties.On Friday, the PM maintained that “today is the day to pay homage” to the “far-sighted great personalities” like Gandhi, Ambedkar, Rajendra Prasad and all those who made sacrifices during the freedom struggle. He added that “today is the day to salute this house”.President Kovind said that lawmakers as “defenders of the dignity of the Parliament” must have only one priority: “working for the welfare of all the people of their constituencies and for the interest of the nation.”He also said that it’s natural for ruling and Opposition sides to compete, but the competition must be for doing “better things for the public good.”Naidu voiced concern over disruptions in Parliament proceedings and said the people’s mandate to the government should be respected.“We need to have more meaningful, productive use of our time in Parliament. We need to recognise the exalted place that Parliament occupies in public perception,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dynastic-politics-a-threat-to-healthy-democracy-pm-modi-on-constitution-day-101637951629015.html
27-11-2021||India||26/11 attacks anniversary: Politicians pay tributes to martyrs||New Delhi Political leaders from across the country on Friday paid tributes to the victims and security personnel who lost their lives in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.President Ram Nath Kovind led the country in paying homage to the bravehearts who made supreme sacrifice to protect the country. “The nation will always be grateful for the bravery and sacrifice of the security forces who laid down their lives in the line of duty,” he posted on Twitter. Remembering all those who lost their lives in the attacks, defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted: “On the 13th anniversary of the November 26th terror attack on Mumbai, we remember the innocent lives we lost. My tributes to everyone who lost their lives in those attacks. Our security forces displayed exemplary courage during the 26/11 attacks. I salute their bravery and sacrifice.” External affairs minister S Jaishankar said he will “never forget” the terror attacks.Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal paid tribute to jawans, policemen and citizens who lost their lives. “Considering the nation as paramount, this country will always be indebted to all the brave soldiers who sacrificed their lives in this attack,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a two-minute video of the photographs of all the security forces who lost their lives in the attacks. “They protect the country by staying away from the family in difficult weather at the border. Save the lives of the innocent by risking his life in terrorist attacks. They don’t care about their life; they only care for their country. It is the pride of the family, of the village, of the country - such as the soldiers of my country,” the former Congress chief tweeted.“Salute to the heroes of 26/11 #MumbaiTerrorAttack. Jai Hind!” he added. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said “this country will always be indebted to its brave martyrs”. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is recuperating in a Mumbai hospital after spine surgery, also remembered the 26/11 martyrs. In a tweet, he said the terror attack was a clear example of the “cowardly mindset” of terrorists.Former Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal tweeted: “26/11 #MumbaiTerrorAttack - the horrific incident which we will never forget. Our solidarity with families who lost their loved ones in that gruesome attack. Salute to the bravehearts who made supreme sacrifice to protect the nation. The entire country will remain indebted to them.” On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during the 60-hour siege in Mumbai.The then Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) chief Hemant Karkare, Army Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan, Mumbai’s Additional Police Commissioner Ashok Kamte, Senior Police Inspector Vijay Salaskar and Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Tukaram Omble were among those killed in the attack.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, the Oberoi Trident, the Taj Mahal Hotel, Leopold Cafe, Cama Hospital and the Nariman House Jewish community centre, now renamed Nariman Light House, were some of the places targeted by terrorists.Nine terrorists were later killed by the security forces, including the NSG, the country’s elite commando force. Ajmal Kasab was the only terrorist who was captured alive. He was hanged four years later on November 21, 2012.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2611-attacks-anniversary-politicians-pay-tributes-to-martyrs-101637951627718.html
27-11-2021||India||Cannot cast doubt on Covid vaccination, its efficacy: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the country cannot afford any laxity in vaccinating its population against Covid-19, and that the top court would be extremely circumspect in casting any doubt on efficacy of the inoculation programme by correlating or linking deaths with vaccines.“This (vaccination) is a matter of highest national importance. We cannot afford the price of laxity at such a crucial juncture. You have to vaccinate people to protect them, protect their lives right now,” said a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud. The bench, which also comprised justice AS Bopanna, was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought an investigation into deaths and other adverse events reported soon after certain people were administered the vaccine. The plea, filed by Ajay Kumar Gupta, a doctor, and four others, also demanded compensation for those dying or experiencing serious adverse events within 30 days of vaccination. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the petitioners, complained that India has abandoned active surveillance, and there is no mechanism for reporting adverse events occurring soon after vaccination. He said there were at least 900 separate newspaper reports about death of people immediately after inoculation.The bench, however, retorted: “After a person has taken Covid vaccine, every death cannot be attributed to vaccine. You cannot correlate these deaths to vaccination. Death can occur due to several other reasons, including pre-existing diseases. Vaccination doesn’t control other diseases.”It added: “Look at the enormous benefit of vaccination. WHO has been advocating it. People worldwide are getting benefitted. We should not be casting doubt on vaccination.”Gonsalves, on his part, tried to convince the bench that he was not trying to create doubts about vaccination but was concerned about lack of a monitoring mechanism wherein people were not getting checked after adverse events occur. To this, the bench again responded: “The world has seen a pandemic of an unseen nature. Every country is vaccinating its people. We cannot cast any doubt on our vaccination programme.”Gonsalves, however, stressed the contention that other countries across the globe were doing active surveillance while India jettisoned it. “We cannot make a policy on this. We have to look at all this as a nation... When there are guidelines in place why should the court intervene at this crucial stage,” responded the bench.The health ministry has a set surveillance protocol to deal with Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI), that is followed across Covid vaccination centres. There are AEFI committees formed at the district, state and central level to monitor such cases. District committees document the cases and report to state committees, which in turn, send the case file to the national AEFI committee to examine cases.The committees consist of senior doctors from various disciplines such as cardiology, neurology, paediatrics, medicine etc.Protocols are also in place for systemic investigation and causality assessment of serious AEFIs, which doesn’t end at hospitalizing the recipient, rather it needs to be established whether the reaction was caused by vaccination or something else. The court finally decided to the seek assistance of solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta before taking a final call on the fate of the PIL. The bench asked Gonsalves to serve a copy of the petition on the office of the SG, who has been appearing in all the cases relating to vaccination policy before the top court, and fixed the matter after two weeks. “There is something in our mind. We will take a call,” remarked the bench while adjourning the case. India has reported 0.004% overall adverse events so far, according to data on the CoWIN dashboard. The national AEFI committee experts have linked three deaths to Covid-19 vaccines. A majority of AEFIs are minor in nature: pain, mild swelling at injection site, mild fever, body ache, nausea, giddiness and mild allergic reactions such as rashes etc.The PIL, filed through advocate Satya Mitra, has also demanded disclosure of all information related to the phase 1, 2 and 3 trials of the vaccines in use and to further direct the public authorities and all private establishments to make the vaccine purely voluntary as per the instruction of the Union of India.It also asked for obtaining the consent of those getting vaccinated. “Informed consent is a fundamental principal both for clinical trials as well as for the administration of the vaccine. Nowhere in the country are people being informed both orally and in written form regarding the serious adverse events that could happen after the administration of the vaccine,” said the plea. “Checking the effect on the person vaccinated for a few minutes after the vaccination (maximum 30 minutes) is tantamount to criminal negligence since the adverse events can happen at varying period of time including extended periods of time and even lifelong. The criminal conspiracy lies in the manufacturer and the government entering into an arrangement whereby the adverse events are hidden,” the plea alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-cast-doubt-on-covid-vaccination-its-efficacy-supreme-court-101637951507226.html
27-11-2021||India||Isro’s Gaganyaan missions set to resume next year||The two unmanned flights under the Gaganyaan mission will happen next year with the first as soon as January, said Union minister of state for the department of space Dr Jitendra Singh. The third, carrying an Indian crew will happen in 2023, the minister added.India’s first manned flight was originally scheduled to happen before India completed 75 years of Independence on August 15, 2022 as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018, but the mission was delayed by the coronavirus pandemic which affected the manufacturing and testing of systems and subsystems as well as the training of the crew (in Russia).Singh is hoping that the manned flight coincides with the country’s deep-sea mission. “The timing should be such that we send a man to space just as we send a man 5,000 metres down in the ocean. The deep ocean exploration mission was running a little behind, but now it has caught up and we have already tested a module,” said Singh.A module developed under the Samudrayaan mission of the Ministry of Earth Sciences was submerged to 600 metres depth off the Chennai coast in October end. An unmanned module will first be tested at the depth of over 5,000 metres before humans are sent in it.“Our unmanned vehicle is now ready to go. Around a year or year-and-a-half after the unmanned mission we will be ready to send humans,” the minister said.This declaration comes even as the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has been lagging behind on its routine launches such as that of earth observation satellites on account of the pandemic. India has conducted only four launch missions in the last two years. In comparison, China has conducted at least 40 missions this year itself, setting a global record.All of Isro’s big ticket missions such as the launch of the first solar mission Aditya L-1, space observatory XPoSat, and the third lunar mission Chandrayaan-3 have been deferred. As HT reported earlier, the space agency is unlikely to finish the three missions – two Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) and one Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) mission carrying earth observation satellites – that were planned for this year after the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isros-gaganyaan-missions-set-to-resume-next-year-101637951386637.html
27-11-2021||India||SII resumes Covid vaccine export under Covax||Serum Institute of India (SII) has resumed exports of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to the international vaccine sharing programme COVAX, the company announced on Friday. “The first batches of Covishield vaccine left the SII manufacturing facility in Pune earlier today, for distribution to low- and middle-income countries via the COVAX mechanism. SII’s supply of doses via COVAX is expected to increase substantially into Quarter 1, 2022,” SII said in a statement. To bolster its Covid-19 vaccine output further, SII said it will bring into production other vaccines under licence. These include Covovax, from the US-based company Novavax, which received its first emergency use authorisations from regulators in Indonesia and the Philippines this month. Further regulatory reviews are pending for Covovax in India and with the World Health Organization (WHO), and Novavax has also submitted several additional regulatory filings for its vaccine around the world. “I want to thank our workforce for their superhuman efforts in achieving this major milestone, with 1billion doses of Covishield now produced by SII. We started to invest at-risk in COVID-19 vaccine production back in March 2020 and Serum Institute colleagues have worked tirelessly ever since to get these life-saving doses to people. It’s a huge moment to begin exports again, for us, our partners at COVAX and the low- and middle-income countries we support. The world has largely depended on the low-cost, high-quality pharmaceuticals and vaccines that India has traditionally exported, so we are delighted to support the global vaccination effort once more,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, in a statement. “I also want to thank our global partners including AstraZeneca, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Gavi, UNICEF and the WHO for their unwavering patience and confidence in our ability to keep on track. With these global collaborations and new COVID-19 vaccines such as Covovax entering our production lines, we can be more hopeful that WHO’s target to vaccinate 70% of the world’s population by the middle of next year can be met. Beyond this, we will continue to work hand in hand with our global partners on our promising programmes in HPV and malaria and we will continue to fight health inequality globally by making vaccines more accessible and affordable,” he added. CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance that leads the COVAX facility, created for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines globally, called it an important development. “The resumption of supplies from Serum Institute of India is an important development for COVAX as it enters its busiest period yet for shipping vaccines to participating economies. While COVAX’s portfolio is now much more diversified than it was earlier this year when we received our first SII deliveries, COVISHIELD remains an important product which has the potential to help us protect hundreds of millions of people in the months ahead,” said Seth Berkeley, CEO, Gavi. For supplying to low-and middle-income countries, Indian vaccines are preferred as these are cost-effective, easy to transport in terms of cold chain maintenance, and easy to administer. “…It is a much-needed critical support that can help countries of the world to be protected and to recover from the pandemic. As long as the pandemic lingers, its adverse effects will continue on essential services such as health, education and protection for children and young people. The vaccines sharing through COVAX can help tackle the crisis,” said Yasumasa Kimura, Unicef India Representative. “The global society and countries are dependent on each other to emerge from the pandemic, together. India’s recent move to share doses is an encouraging one. We are keen to see the plan in action and other countries benefiting from it. We commend the scientists, health workers, the government and people of India for their support to vaccine equity,” Kimura added. India halted Covid vaccine exports in April this year after it faced severe second wave, and opened up vaccination for all adults. In September, the government announced it would begin exports in the last quarter as country’s substantial eligible population would be vaccinated against the viral disease by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-resumes-covid-vaccine-export-under-covax-101637951268480.html
27-11-2021||India||‘Proud of your bravery’: Shah honours forces on 26/11 anniv||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday paid tributes to those who lost their lives in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks and lauded the efforts of security forces who bravely fought the terrorists.Shah said a grateful nation will always be indebted to the sacrifices of those who died and called the 2008 terror attacks a “cowardly” act.“Heartfelt tributes to those who lost their lives in the Mumbai 26/11 terror attacks,” the home minister tweeted.Hailing the courage of the security personnel, he said, “The whole nation will be proud of your bravery. A grateful nation will always be indebted to your sacrifice.”Friday marked the 13th anniversary of the terrorist attacks carried out in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, in which 166 people were killed and another 238 were injured. Considered among the deadliest terror strikes in India, the attack was carried out by 10 terrorists who were sent to India by Pakistan-based outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba’s (LeT) top leadership that worked with Pakistan’s spy agency, ISI, and other outfits.India and several other countries, including the US, the UK and France, have repeatedly asked Pakistan to bring the perpetrators of the 26/11 attacks to justice, but no such firm initiative has been taken yet by Islamabad.Jamaat-Ud-Dawa and Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed continues to run his organisation and carry out anti-India activities. India shared detailed evidence with Pakistan on a number of occasions, but Islamabad refused to cooperate.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has already completed its probe against all the perpetrators and shared detailed evidence with Pakistani authorities several times, but there has been no response till date.It is now hopeful of getting Tahawwur Hussain Rana, a Pakistani-Canadian citizen currently held in the United States. The US authorities have already expressed their willingness to extradite Rana, a former Pakistan army physician, to India once his 14-year jail term ends there.The agency teams visited the US twice since 2018 to pursue his extradition. During these visits, the US department of justice (DoJ) said that they are convinced with India’s charges against 59-year-old Rana, who helped co-conspirator David Coleman Headley in reconnaissance of targets in Mumbai and allegedly planned attacks at National Defence College (NDC) and Chabad House.Headley, a US citizen and a resident of Chicago who carried out reconnaissance of the targets in Mumbai, entered into plea bargain with the US, due to which he cannot be extradited to India. However, India’s request for extradition of Rana on the charges forgery and criminal breach of trust as he used his firm for making documents of Headley in Mumbai, has already been accepted by the US prosecutors and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).Officials who didn’t want to be named said that the process slowed down in last one year due to Covid-19 but it is likely to be finalised in 2022.FBI arrested Rana in Chicago on October 18, 2009 for providing material support to the conspiracy to commit terrorist acts involving murder, kidnapping and maiming outside the US, including Mumbai and Copenhagen.He was convicted in 2013 by the Chicago court of conspiracy to provide material support to a plot from October 2008 to October 2009 to commit murder in Denmark, including a plan to behead employees of Danish newspaper Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten and throw their heads on to the street in Copenhagen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-of-your-bravery-amit-shah-honours-forces-on-26-11-mumbai-attacks-anniversary-101637950970845.html
27-11-2021||India||CBI gets nod to prosecute retired Allahabad HC judge in corruption case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has received permission to prosecute justice Shri Narayan Shukla, now retired, of the Allahabad high court in the corruption scandal involving Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.The sanction enables the agency to submit its charge sheet in court detailing the charges and evidence against Shukla in the case where bribes were allegedly paid to secure a favourable court order by the institute.Shukla, who retired from the service in July 2020, is accused of taking a bribe for passing an order that favoured the Lucknow-based medical college, which was disbarred in May 2017 from admitting students by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the country’s medical education regulator.HT was first to report on November 12 that the federal anti-corruption agency’s request for prosecution sanction against Shukla was pending. A senior CBI officer, without divulging the exact date, confirmed that the Centre’s sanction was recently communicated to the agency.Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act bars the trial court from taking judicial note of a charge sheet filed against a public servant unless the government has granted its sanction for prosecution.Shukla was investigated for criminal conspiracy, sections of the prevention of corruption act which deal with accepting bribes, and criminal misconduct along with retired Odisha high court judge IM Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, and Palash Yadav of Prasad Education Trust, an intermediary, Bhawana Pandey and another alleged middleman Sudhir Giri.A charge sheet was filed in July 2019 against Quddusi in a separate case pertaining to Prasad Institute. He is currently out on bail.A second officer, requesting anonymity, said the agency examined several people in the past two years to conclude its investigation and added that there is strong evidence against all the accused persons.According to CBI, the Lucknow-based medical college was debarred by MCI from admitting students for academic years 2017-18 and 2018-19 due to substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of required criteria along with 46 other medical colleges.The MCI decision was initially challenged by Prasad Institute before the Supreme Court. CBI’s FIR said a conspiracy was hatched and the petition was withdrawn from the top court, and a writ petition was filed before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on August 24, 2017.It added that Quddusi and BP Yadav of Prasad Trust met justice Shukla on the morning of August 25, 2017, at his residence in Lucknow, which is when the bribe is believed to have been exchanged. CBI alleged the petition was heard the same day by the division bench of the high court comprising justice SN Shukla and a favourable order was passed.Former Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra ordered an investigation against Shukla on a complaint by Uttar Pradesh advocate general Raghvendra Singh alleging judicial malpractice. A three-member committee comprising then Madras high court chief justice Indira Banerjee, then Sikkim high court chief justice SK Agnihotri and Madhya Pradesh high court judge PK Jaiswal, found Shukla guilty of judicial irregularities in January 2018 after which his impeachment was recommended to the President of India.Shukla, who was a sitting judge at the Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC at the time, was debarred from entering the court premises and all the judicial and administrative work was taken away from him.Later, in July 2019, former CJI Ranjan Gogoi gave permission to CBI to file a case in the matter. Gogoi also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommending Shukla’s removal. Shukla eventually retired in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-gets-nod-to-prosecute-retired-allahabad-hc-judge-in-corruption-case-101637950727233.html
27-11-2021||India||Mukul Sangma elected Trinamool Congress’ parliamentary party leader||Two days after he quit the Congress along with 11 other party MLAs, former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma was on Friday named the parliamentary party leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state.The unanimous decision was taken during the first parliamentary party meeting of the TMC held at Sangma’s residence. All the legislators led by the former CM are flying to Kolkata on Saturday to meet West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and other senior TMC leaders.Friday’s meeting, which was attended by all the 12 MLAs, also elected Umroi legislator George B Lyngdoh as the opposition chief whip and Mawsynram legislator Himalaya M Shangpliang as secretary.The move comes after the Trinamool Congress became the principal opposition party in the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly after the former Congress legislators joined it. Prior to switching sides, Sangma was the leader of the opposition in the Meghalaya assembly.Addressing party members, Sangma thanked everyone for reposing faith in him as a leader. He assured them that he would carry forward the aspirations of the people in fulfilling the mandate given to the MLAs.Following the meeting, Shangpliang told journalists that the 12 MLAs reiterated their commitment to work hard and would be reaching out to the people of the state. “In totality, we have decided that all of us will contribute to the development of the state,” he affirmed.Shangpliang also informed that the newly formed parliamentary party will meet the chairperson of the TMC, Mamata Banerjee on November 29. “Our leader (Sangma) is leading us as a delegation to Kolkata to meet the chairperson of TMC on Monday. We are going to have detailed discussions on the future of the party in our state,” he said.Earlier in the day, the former Congress legislators were formally welcomed into the TMC family by its national leaders and top emissaries of party supremo Mamata Banerjee - Manas Ranjan Bhuiya and Moloy Ghatak, both senior cabinet ministers in West Bengal.Welcoming them, Bhuiya said, “We have come to greet you and pay our respects to you for standing beside the leadership of the Trinamool Congress to fight forces that are trying to destabilise the country; Forces that are here to destroy the democratic fibre of the Indian democracy, and all democratic norms.”The West Bengal Minister for Water Resources, Investigation and Development said, “We are tremendously happy that the very tall leader Mukul Sangma, a former Chief Minister and equally tall leader Charles Pyngrope, the former Speaker and our esteemed MLA colleagues have come together to work for the people under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee in the TMC family, even as he underscored, “Their presence, leadership and experience will surely encourage the people of Meghalaya to come along with us and together work towards a truly brighter tomorrow.”Moloy Ghatak the Law Minister of West Bengal said, “In Meghalaya the TMC has become the main opposition party. Under instructions and guidance of our leader Abhishek Banerjee, we have come to Meghalaya to formally hand over the party flag to our legislators of Meghalaya who have joined us to strengthen the party further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-sangma-elected-trinamool-congress-parliamentary-party-leader-101637947306935.html
27-11-2021||India||Can’t forget wounds of 26/11 attack: Modi||India cannot forget the wounds of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday even as the external affairs ministry summoned a senior Pakistani diplomat to demand the expeditious trial of those responsible for the carnage in the country’s financial hub.The attacks on Mumbai by a 10-member squad of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists, which began on November 26, 2008, resulted in the deaths of 166 people, including 26 foreign nationals. Pakistani authorities arrested seven LeT operatives, including operations commander Zakiur Rahman Lakhvi, but there has been little headway in their trial. “India can’t forget the wounds of the Mumbai attacks. Now, today’s India is combating terrorism with a new policy and new ways,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi, in a brief video on the attacks posted on Twitter by the external affairs ministry. “I pay my homage to all those who died in the Mumbai attacks. Many brave police personnel were martyred in this attack. I also pay homage to them,” Modi added. A senior diplomat of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi was summoned by the external affairs ministry and handed a note verbale, or unsigned diplomatic correspondence, “reiterating India’s call for an expeditious trial in the Mumbai terror attacks case”. The note also called on the Pakistan government “to abide by its commitment to not allow territories under its control for terrorism against India”, according to a statement from the foreign ministry. “It is a matter of deep anguish that even after 13 years of this heinous terror attack, the families of 166 victims from 15 countries across the globe still await closure, with Pakistan showing little sincerity in bringing the perpetrators to justice,” the statement said.“The 26/11 terrorist attack was planned, executed and launched from Pakistani territory. The former Prime Minister of Pakistan had gone on record and admitted that the terrorists were sent from Pakistan’s soil,” the statement added, in a reference to former premier Nawaz Sharif. “We once again call on the government of Pakistan to give up double standards and to expeditiously bring the perpetrators of the horrific attack to justice. This is not just a matter of Pakistan’s accountability to the families of the innocent victims who fell to terrorists, but also an international obligation,” it said. “The government of India will continue to make every effort to seek justice for the families of the victims and the martyrs,” it added. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing that India and the world expect Pakistan to take firm steps on the demand for action. The video posted by the external affairs ministry said the victims of the terror attacks “from India and across the world await justice”. It included images of the assault on Mumbai’s iconic Taj Mahal Palace Hotel and tributes to security personnel killed in the attacks. Footage of world leaders such as former UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon condemning the attacks and paying tribute to victims during visits to Mumbai were included in the video. Among the leaders featured in the video were former US President Barack Obama, the duke and duchess of Cambridge, Belgium’s King Philippe, and UK foreign secretary Liz Truss. The foreign ministry’s statement said the government and people of India remembered victims of the “dastardly attack” on the 13th anniversary of the event. The President, the Prime Minister and the external affairs minister, in separate messages, expressed firm solidarity with the families of victims. A memorial event was organised by Maharashtra government at the Police Memorial in Mumbai. Fifteen policemen and two National Security Guard (NSG) commandos were killed in the operations against the terrorists.Indian missions in the 14 countries whose nationals were killed in the Mumbai attacks also organised memorial events for the victims and reminded the world of the continuing global threat of terrorism. Senior government representatives from the host governments, relatives of victims and survivors were expected to participate in these events. All but one of the 10 LeT attackers were killed, and Ajmal Kasab was captured alive. After initially refusing to accept his nationality, Pakistan acknowledged Kasab as a citizen. He confessed about his training by LeT and was subsequently convicted and hanged in 2012. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said India’s experience with Pakistan’s counter-terrorism investigations since 26/11 suggests that Islamabad has “only engaged in a cosmetic crackdown on anti-India terror groups”. He added, “While public activities of these groups may have declined, their networks and ties with the military establishment remain intact. Moreover, with the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan, it is likely these groups will now scale up their anti-India activities, while remaining invisible to avoid global scrutiny.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-says-india-can-t-forget-wounds-of-26-11-attacks-mea-summons-pak-diplomat-101637915203398.html
27-11-2021||India||Heavy rain forecast in Puducherry, schools to be closed till Nov 27: Minister||The Puducherry government announced on Friday that all schools and colleges in the Union Territory (UT) will be closed till Saturday because of heavy rainfall predicted by the weather bureau.“All schools and colleges in Puducherry will be closed today and tomorrow (26 and 27 November) due to heavy rains,” the UT's education minister A Namassivayam said in a statement.The directive comes a day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu till November 29 (next Monday).“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamilnadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during 25th to 29th November,” IMD said in a tweet on Thursday.The weather department also said that squally wind with speed reaching 40-50kmph gusting to 60kmph is likely over the southwest Bay of Bengal, Comorin area and the Gulf of Mannar along and off south Tamilnadu coast on Friday. Fishermen have been advised to not venture into these areas.In Tamil Nadu, a red alert has already been issued for five districts of Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam.Schools in the Thoothukudi district will remain closed on Friday as heavy rainfall inundated railway stations and the Arulmigu Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur municipality, Hindustan Times reported on Thursday. Train services to and from Thoothukudi have also been cancelled.In Madurai, the district collector also declared a holiday for all schools as heavy rainfall caused waterlogging in several parts of the city.Meanwhile, the IMD on Thursday sounded a light to moderate rainfall alert in 12 districts of Tamil Nadu including Sivaganga, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Tiruchirapalli and Thanjavur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-forecast-in-puducherry-schools-to-be-closed-till-nov-27-minister-101637896505727.html
27-11-2021||NA||Maharashtra govt to give ₹50,000 as ex gratia payment to kin of Covid victims||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:33 students test positive for Covid-19 at Bengaluru school, reports ANI citing officialAt least 33 students have tested positive for Covid-19 at The International School in Bengaluru, news agency ANI quoted Bengaluru district health officer as saying. “They're asymptomatic. 2 of them taken by their parents to Nagpur & Hyderabad, cross notification sent to the States. Campus sealed,” the official added.10 cops injured as violence spreads on French Caribbean islands, reports AFPAt least 10 police officers were injured and several journalists shot at on the French Caribbean island of Martinique overnight Thursday to Friday as protests sparked by Covid-19 vaccine measures spread, reports news agency AFP.Congress' Mukesh Goel to join AAP on Saturday, reports ANISenior Congress leader Mukesh Goel to join Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday, people familair with the matter told news agency ANI.Maharashtra to give ₹50,000 as ex gratia payment to kin of Covid victimsThe Maharashtra government on Friday announced that it will give ex gratia of ₹50,000 to the kin of people who died of Covid-19 in Maharashtra over the last 20 months. The state has reported as many as 1,40,891 deaths since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.Merck’s latest trial data show its Covid-19 pill is less effective: ReportMerck & Co. said updated results showed its Covid-19 pill reduced the risk of hospitalization or death among adults with mild to moderate disease by 30%, less than a previous estimate and well below a rival treatment from Pfizer Inc, reported Bloomberg.Booster doses will be required: AIIMS Delhi Covid-19 Task Force “Booster doses will be required & immediate studies are needed, based on age groups & different patients. In Israel, vaccine effectiveness after the booster dose rose from 40% to 93%,” news agency ANI quoted chairperson of the Covid Task Force in AIIMS Delhi, Dr Naveet Wig, as saying.Israel bans arrivals from most of Africa over new coronavirus variant, reports ReutersIsrael has imposed a travel ban on most African states, after reporting cases of a new coronavirus variant first detected in South Africa, reports Reuters.Serum Institute of India resumes Covid-19 vaccine exportsSerum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, on Friday said it has resumed exports of Covishield vaccine to low- and middle-income countries with the first batch of consignment leaving its Pune facility.Hundreds of years of dependence pushed India into several problems: PM Modi"Hundreds of years of dependence pushed India into several problems. The India that was once called a golden bird was suffering from poverty, starvation & diseases. In that background, the Constitution always helped us in taking forward the nation,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, while addressing Vigyan Bhavan on the occasion of the Constitution day.Fire breaks out in Durg Express near Jhansi, 3 coaches detached for firefighting operationsFire has broken out in Durg Express near Jhansi. At least three coaches have been detached for firefighting operations, people familiar with the matter said on Friday. Two fire tenders are currently at the spot, and medical vans have been rushed from Agra and Gwalior. Russian President Putin to visit India on December 6, reports ANI citing Russian embassyRussian President Vladimir Putin will visit India on December 6, 2021. During his visit, Putin and PM Modi will exchange views on topical issues on the international agenda, including joint work within the G20, BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, news agency ANI quoted the Russian embassy as saying.India to resume int'l flights from Dec 15, bars 14 countriesThe Centre will resume regular international flights from December 15, barring 14 countries, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Read moreWHO urges countries to apply 'risk-based' approach for travel measuresThe World Health Organisation has recommended countries to apply 'risk-based' approach when implementing travel measures amid fears over new Coronavirus variant detected in South Africa.Israeli PM meets health experts over new Covid-19 variant, warns of ‘state of emergency’Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett met health experts on Friday to discuss how best to respond to a new variant of coronavirus that has been detected in South Africa. "We are currently on the verge of a state of emergency," Reuters quoted Bennett as saying.CBI to prosecute former Allahabad HC judge in bribery caseThe Central Bureu of Investigation on Friday received sanctions to prosecute former Allahabad High Court judge Narayan Shukla in a bribery case.WHO to meet today to designate new variant B.1.1.529: ReportThe World Health Organisation is convening an experts' meeting from Geneva at midday (1100 GMT) on Friday to assess the new Covid-19 variant B.1.1.529 amid growing concern, Reuters quoted WHO spokesperson Christian Lindmeier as saying.Israel detects case of new Covid variant from South AfricaThe Israeli health ministry announced on Friday that the country has reported a case of the new Covid-19 variant from South Africa. Israel is the third country apart from Hong Kong and Botswana to report cases of this variantAfter UK, Germany to ban most travel from South Africa over new Covid variant#BREAKING Germany to ban most travel from https://t.co/Ub898AU3Jp over new Covid variant: minister pic.twitter.com/ptCekg4nHzNo cases of B.1.1.529 Covid variant cases in India so far: ReportNo cases of the B.1.1.529 variant of the coronavirus have been reported in India so far, reports ANI citing official sources. ‘Mark of disrespect’: Union minister slams oppn skipping Constitution Day eventUnion minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on Friday targeted the Congress and other opposition parties for boycotting the Constitution Day event at Parliament, which was attended by President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi among others. Read moreTMC urges SC to postpone counting of Nov 25 Tripura civic pollsTripura civic polls: TMC approaches Supreme Court urging to postpone the counting of votes of municipal elections held on Nov 25. TMC alleges violation of SC's orders for free & fair municipal elections. TMC says people weren't allowed to vote,seeks probe by court-monitored panelThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday urged the Supreme Court to postpone the counting of votes for the municipal elections held in Tripura on Thursday. The TMC alleged that people were not allowed to vote. Constitution Day a salute to our Parliament, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday Constitution Day is a salute to Parliament, where many of the country's political leaders brainstormed to give India its Constitution. Read moreSC issues notice on NGO's plea challenging appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissionerThe Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to an NGO that challenged the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner. Constitution a modern version of ‘The Gita’ for us, says Om BirlaThe Constitution of India is like a modern version of 'The Gita' for us that motivates us to work for the nation. If each one of us commits to working for the country then we can build 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat': Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla pic.twitter.com/ryADDHljBDLok Sabha speaker Om Birla said on Friday that the Indian constitution is a modern version of the Gita. Delhi chief secy appointed as election commissioner for municipal pollsDelhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev has been appointed as the election commissioner for municipal polls in the city, news agency ANI reported on Friday. Sensex plunges over 1,300 points, Nifty below 17,200Sensex plunges more than 1300 points, Nifty below 17,200Heavy rain forecast in Puducherry, schools to be closed till Nov 27: MinisterThe Puducherry government announced on Friday that all schools and colleges in the Union Territory (UT) will be closed till Saturday because of heavy rainfall predicted by the weather bureau. Read moreIndia's daily Covid-19 rises again with 10,549 new cases; active cases up by 193India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up again on Friday after 10,549 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,555,431, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. The active cases have increase by 193 and stand at 110,133. PM Modi greets citizens on Constitution Day, shares part of Ambedkar's speech at Constituent AssemblyBest wishes to our citizens on Constitution Day. On this special day, sharing a part of Dr. Ambedkar’s speech in the Constituent Assembly on 4th November 1948 in which he moved a motion for adoption of the Draft Constitution as settled by the Drafting Committee. pic.twitter.com/pviZNrKsGdPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday greeted citizens on the occasion of Constitution Day and shared a part of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar's speech at the Constituent Assembly. Chhattisgarh CM likely to meet PM Modi; farmers, mill workers issues on agendaChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inform him about the problems mill workers and farmers of the state are facing. Baghel will be accompanied by all members of his cabinet. Read moreDelhi's air quality in very poor categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 339 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per SAFAR-IndiaAccording to data shared by SAFAR-India, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) is at 339 in the ‘very poor’ category. Constitution Day today: History, celebrations, significanceNovember 26 is observed as Constitution Day or ‘Samvidhan Diwas’ every year, which commemorates the adoption of the Constitution of India. On November 26, 1949, the Constitution was adopted and it came into effect on January 26, 1950. Read moreK'taka CM tells officials to intensify vaccination drive to improve 2nd dose coverageKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed officials to intensify vaccination drive against Covid-19 to improve 2nd dose coverage. Read moreUK to increase global military presence, says defence ministryThe United Kingdom will step up its military presence in the world, according to a plan, released by the defence ministry on Thursday."More of the Army will be deployed across the globe, more of the time. Greater forward deployment will improve our ability to anticipate crises and be ready to compete beneath the threshold of open conflict," according to the Future Soldier modernisation plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-26-2021-101637885416298.html
27-11-2021||Today's||Rethink the functioning of India’s Parliament||There is a simple test to judge a parliamentary session. Former Lok Sabha Speaker GMC Balayogi came up with it. At 46, he was the youngest Speaker, and according to him, “All’s well if it doesn’t end in Well.” He was referring to the well of the House. It is the area before the Chair of the Speaker occupied by secretariat staff. In our parliamentary functioning, it is a sacred space. Here, Members of Parliament (MPs) take their oath of office before beginning their responsibilities as lawmakers. The well is also where MPs assemble to disrupt the proceedings of the House. An empty well during House proceedings is, therefore, a good sign. And the hope is that, on the Balayogi test, the upcoming 19-day winter session will pass.
27-11-2021||Today's||The plight of acid attack victims in India||The acid attack earlier this month on a young woman by a stalker who wanted to marry her and couldn’t take no for an answer shows how imperfectly the sale of acid is regulated in India.
27-11-2021||Today's||India needs a climate crisis curriculum||Two years ago, a friend who taught at a primary school in Himachal Pradesh told me an interesting story. While teaching a primary class one day, he noticed a new, shiny poster on the classroom wall. It had a photo of a massive building with a glass façade, and a tagline that linked the building with cities, progress and development.
27-11-2021||Today's||Pulp-it | Should you lose sleep over Omicron?||The answers to three questions should guide our response to Omicron, the name assigned to the variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus currently ravaging part of South Africa.
