02-04-2021||Bathinda||AAP to protest hike in electricity charges in Punjab||Taking an exception to the increased rates of electricity, the Aam Aadmi Party has decided to start a mass movement against the state government from April 7.Talwandi Sabo MLA Prof Baljinder Kaur said: “Instead of decreasing the electricity charges, the state government is continuing to increase its rates, thereby affecting the household budget of residents of the state. The government must provide electricity free of cost on the pattern of the Delhi Government.”She said the party would start a mass movement against the increased electricity prices in the state and people would be reached out in every nook and corner to be a part of it. Our workers would be going door to door in every district and block in the state to burn copies of the bills to express resentment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/aap-to-protest-hike-in-electricity-charges-in-punjab-233485
02-04-2021||---||Protesting farmers gherao BJP MLA in Hanumangarh||Our CorrespondentAbohar/Sriganganagar, April 1A group of farmers, who have been staging a dharna for the past few days at a toll barrier near Dabli Rathan village on the Hanumangarh-Suratgarh road, on Thursday gheraoed BJP legislator from Peelibanga Dharmendra Mochi.As the legislator was passing through the barrier in his car, some farmers noticed him. They gheraoed the vehicle, showed black flags to the MLA and started raising slogans against the central government.Besides, protesters slammed the Peelibanga MLA for criticising farmer leaders over the attack on Abohar BJP MLA Arun Narang at Malout without any evidence. They asked why he had not issued any statement in favour of thousands of farmers from Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh districts who had been camping at the Delhi border for more than three months against the central farm laws. They told him not to visit any village to seek votes in future.Videos of MLA Mochi facing a protest at the toll barrier went viral on social media. In these videos, Mochi is seen with his hands folded as farmers confront him and fire volleys of questions athim. The MLA remained silent throughout. After detaining him for 10 minutes, the agitating farmers allowed the MLA proceed to his destination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/protesting-farmers-gherao-bjp-mla-in-hanumangarh-233434
02-04-2021||Sameer Singh||Free bus travel to help poor sections, say women||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 1The free travel scheme for women in state government-run buses got an overwhelming response on day one of its launch today.Women travellers were upbeat at the prospect of travelling free of cost in government-run buses. As per conductors of PRTC buses, a surge was witnessed in the number of women travelling in the buses today. They, however, added there was a sizeable section that was not aware of the scheme and continued to travel in private buses.Most women at the city bus stand were seen waiting for government-run buses.Private operators cry foulPrivate bus operators say the move will hit their profit margins substantiallyNarpinder Jalal, president, Private Bus Operators’ Union, said with only male passengers, buses were plying near emptyIf reimbursement package had been given to the PRTC, same should be provided to private players so as to minimise losses, he addedA group of three women who had travelled from Patiala to Bathinda said: “The move will not only save money but also empower women. We can now board a government-run bus without thinking twice.”Gurpreet Kaur, a student from a village in Talwandi Sabo, said: “Bus fare is a major expense especially among poor and middle income group families. With free travel, many parents who send children for study to Bathinda city would be relieved. Women often stall travel plans, but now they will not have to do so. It is a good move by the government.”Ram Singh, a bus conductor, said: “There was a 60 per cent increase in the volume of women passengers in our buses. Some did not have Aadhaar card or ID to prove their Punjab domicile, but we did not issue them tickets as it was the first day.”Raman Sharma, GM, PRTC (Bathinda depot), said: “Besides benefitting women passengers, the scheme will bode well for the PRTC as it will increases the passenger base of government-run buses and thereby revenue. The PRTC will claim reimbursement for free travel from the government. Although, it will be challenging as passenger numbers will rise, but we will increase bus fleet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/free-bus-travel-to-help-poor-sections-say-women-233428
