03-04-2021||Bathinda||Won’t let Deep Sidhu join us: Gurnam Singh Charuni||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) senior leader and BKU Haryana (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni today said the “SKM can never join hands with Deep Sidhu because he has done a big mistake”.After paying obeisance at Takth Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo, Charuni said: “There is a difference between Lakha Sidhana and Deep Sidhu. Sidhana only broke discipline, whereas Sidhu’s actions not only hit the farmer agitation but could have caused communal riots... we have decided to bring back Sidhana into the SKM fold.” On direct bank transfer in Haryana, Charuni said the government was taking such decisions to destroy mandis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/wont-let-deep-sidhu-join-us-gurnam-singh-charuni-233876
03-04-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda farmer sows flower seeds, reaps profit||While the majority of farmers in Punjab are finding it tough to come out of the wheat-paddy cycle, a small farmer from a Sivian village near Bathinda has taken to marigold cultivation and scripted a success story.Avtar Singh, 50, has taken two acres on contract and set up a marigold farm, which is supplying flowers to vendors in Bathinda and nearby areas. Even during the lockdown, he supplied flowers and met whatever little demand was there, as the supply from other parts of the country totally dried up.“Marigold flowers are in great demand in Bathinda. Normally, I fetch around Rs 45-50 per kg, but due to the wedding season these days, I am getting around Rs 70-75 a kg. During Diwali or Gurpurb, the price soars to Rs 100 per kg as the demand is high,” says Avtar Singh.He says the marigold farming is a profitable proposition as 40 quintal of flowers are produced on two acres as compared to 60 quintal of paddy and 40 quintal of wheat in the same area. Avtar Singh says he, along with his brother, does all the work and saves on the labour cost. He earns around Rs 1 lakh from the marigold cultivation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-farmer-sows-flower-seeds-reaps-profit-233889
03-04-2021||Bathinda||22 teachers shifted against 2 vacancies in Punjab||Raising a question mark over the “transparent transfer policy” of the state Education Department, as many as 22 teachers have recently been transferred to a government school in Bathinda against two vacant posts.There are 30 sanctioned posts of teacher at Government Adarsh Primary School, Canal Colony, of which 28 are filled.In a letter issued by the department, the principal has been instructed to make the 22 teachers join the school, leaving the authorities baffled. This comes at a time when the teacher-student ratio in government schools across the state is quite poor.Resham Singh Khemuana, president, Democratic Tecahers’ Front, said: “On the one hand, the Education Minister and senior department officials make claims of a transparent online transfer policy, while on the other, shifting of 22 teachers to a single school when 28 are already serving there raises a serious question mark over its functioning.”Bhupinder Singh Maisarkhana, union’s block president, said: “The transfer orders do not make logical sense. It reflects how teachers use political influence to get choice postings. There are schools where single or two teachers take all classes. While in this school, the department is sending 22 teachers against two vacancies.”“The department must resolve the matter on a priority basis, else we will launch an agitation,” he said. A schoolteacher said: “We fear with surplus posting, the serving teachers may be made sacrificial lambs.”DEO (Elementary) Shiv Pal Goyal said: “We have been discussing this matter with senior officials of the department and a decision would be taken after due consultation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/22-teachers-shifted-against-2-vacancies-in-punjab-233895
