07-04-2021||Sameer Singh||Malwa belt farmers miffed as Centre hikes Bt cotton seed price||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 6The central government’s decision to increase the rate of Bt cotton seed from Rs 730 per packet (450 gm) to Rs 767 for the 2021-22 season has not gone down well among farmers in the state. Cotton growers in the Malwa belt (hub for cotton cultivation in the state) rued that an increase of Rs 37 per packet would add up to the already high input cost they have been grappling with for a long time now.The Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare has via notification confirmed the increase in the price of Bt cotton seed. On an average, the cotton cultivation on one acre requires minimum of three packets of Bt cotton seed.A sizable number of cotton farmers after not getting remunerative prices for the produce were coerced to resort to paddy cultivation in the past few years. But after concerted efforts of the Agriculture Department, the area under cotton was increased to 81,000 hectare in Bathinda district in 2019-20. Following a bumper crop this season, both private as well as government procurement agencies made a record purchase of cotton on remunerative prices.In the Malwa region, cotton is grown on a large scale in Bathinda, Mansa, Faridkot, Abohar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Muktsar and Fazilka districts.Balkaran Singh Balli, a leader of Punjab Kisan Sabha said, “Such moves are nothing but knee-jerk reactions of the Centre to pressure the farmers protesting the three agricultural laws. We won’t let such tactics succeed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/malwa-belt-farmers-miffed-as-centre-hikes-bt-cotton-seed-price-235588
07-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Month on, Bathinda MC sans mayor||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 6After the notification issued by the state government making the mayor post open for general category in Bathinda MC, senior Congress leader Jagroop Singh Gill has emerged as a frontrunner. There are high chances of the Congress relying on Gill, who has won for the seventh record time, as 2021 will be crucial for the ruling party keeping in view the Assembly elections next year.Party sources said since it was the election year, they were looking for a mayor who could undertake the development works in the city.Councilors are lobbying hard for the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. Names of Raman Goyal, Praveen Garg and Reena Gupta are making rounds for the post of deputy mayor under the women quota. Senior leader Ashok Pradhan, Master Harmander Singh, Sham Lal Jain and Santosh Mahant can also be considered for the senior deputy mayor’s post.The Congress has won the Bathinda MC poll by winning 43 of the 50 wards. The result of Bathinda MC was held on February 14 and the result was announced on February 17. More than one and half months have passed, but councillors have not taken oath and elections to mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor have not been held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/month-on-bathinda-mc-sans-mayor-235595
