11-04-2021||Bathinda||Government failed to ensure justice to victims: HSGMC||Haryana Gurdwara Sikh Management Committee (HSGMC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal today announced that they would go to the Supreme Court to get justice for the victims of the Kotkapura firing case.Daduwal termed the court verdict disappointing for every Sikh.He lashed out at the Congress-led Capt government for allegedly not challenging the High Court order in the Supreme Court as the Punjab Advocate General accepted in the court that they would constitute a new SIT without Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, Daduwal claimed.He said before the 2017 Assembly poll, Capt Amarinder Singh had come to Kotkapura and promised that he would punish the accused in the firing and sacrilege incidents. However, four years had gone but he had failed to provide any relief to the victims. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/government-failed-to-ensure-justice-to-victims-hsgmc-237385
11-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin & Neeraj Bagga||Can’t leave jobs again, will stay put, say migrant labourers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda/Amritsar, April 10Despite fears of a second lockdown, a large section of migrant workers is staying back to earn livelihood in Bathinda and Mansa districts.The workers said last year’s memories were still afresh and they would continue to work and earn for their survival.Mohan, who hails from Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand and presently works as a cook at a eating joint in Bathinda, said, “We fear that a lockdown might be imposed again as cases are on the rise, but this time, we will not go back. When I went back during the first lockdown, I struggled a lot to find a job.”Another labourer Hari Yadav from Gorakhpur said, “Harvesting season is starting in Punjab, so it is the time when we can earn some money. Moreover, nowadays, getting work is quite difficult, so we can’t leave the job midway. There is no question of going back.”No question of returning homeHarvesting season is starting in Punjab, so it is the time when we can earn some money. Moreover, nowadays, getting work is quite difficult, so we can’t leave the job midway. There is no question of going back. —Hari Yadav, Migrant labourerSidhant Gupta, a trader, said, “Business owners are ready to give all help to their workers on the condition that they should not go back. Last time, after the curbs were relaxed, finding labour was a difficult task.”A Railways official said, “There is no rush of migrants in trains. Routine passengers are boarding the trains.”In Amritsar too, there is no visible panic among migrants to return to their native places.Rajesh, who works at an embroidery unit, said despite the fear of restrictions, he would not return home in panic. He said for a person with family, the travel cost was too much for a long distance. Ram Prakash, a power loom worker, said he was getting work for five days a week. With such a meagre income, it was not possible to afford travel cost of the entire family unless the government pitches in. “I am not being paid a fixed salary and the wages are decided on a piece-rate basis. Earning Rs 12,000 per month has become a difficult task after the lockdown. With this amount, it is difficult to feed a five-member family and bear education and medical expenses, besides paying the room rent,” he said.Ram Jagat, 61, working as a private security guard, is heading back to his native village in Sultanpur district of UP to take part in the elections as his cousin is contesting but there is no fear of lockdown.Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad, Punjab, said, “There are 16 units in the district and each of them has at least 21 executive members, who have been instructed to tell migrants not to panic and adhere to Covid guidelines. So this time, there is no panic among them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cant-leave-jobs-again-will-stay-put-say-migrant-labourers-237390
11-04-2021||Bathinda||Cousin beaten up by Delhi Police: Sidhana||Republic Day violence case accused Lakha Sidhana, who is on the run, today alleged the Delhi Police abducted his cousin Gurdeep Singh from Patiala and beat him badly.While talking to The Tribune, Sidhana said the intelligence wing of the Delhi Police, which arrested Deep Sidhu, took away his cousin from Patiala who had gone there to give his law exam. He alleged the police repeatedly asked Gurdeep to tell his whereabouts. Lakha said he completely blamed Capt Amarinder Singh government as how to could Delhi Police officials come here and take away a youth without informing the police station concerned. Gurdeep was brought to the Civil Hospital by Lakha’s supporters, where his condition is stated to be serious. Dr Ravinder Singh at the emergency ward said Gurdeep suffered injuries on the back and legs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cousin-beaten-up-by-delhi-police-sidhana-237393
11-04-2021||---||AAP plans 16K meetings over power tariff hike||Bathinda, April 10As part of its campaign against the hike in electricity tariff, the AAP has announced public meetings and door-to-door activities in the coming days to raise awareness among people and exhort them to raise voice against the move.Stating this here today, Navdeep Jeeda, AAP’s Bathinda urban president, said: “We will hold 16,000 public meetings and stage protests by burning copies of electricity bills across the state. If voted to power, the AAP will provide relief from high tariff bills.”He said a large part of people’s income was going towards paying hiked power bills and the decision should be reversed by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/aap-plans-16k-meetings-over-power-tariff-hike-237394
