21-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Wheat procurement: Poor arrangements exposed, say Farmers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 20With rain in the past 24 hours in the region impeding the harvest and procurement operations, farmers and arhtiyas have complained about the poor arrangements at grain markets.As wheat brought in the mandis got wet, procurement agencies and arhtiyas were seen struggling to provide tarpaulin covers to farmers to protect their grain. Even the procured wheat lying in open at markets also got damped.Uncertain weather conditions coupled with tardy lifting have worried farmers. They say they are in no position to store the produce in fields because of showers and fire.Karnail Singh of Multania village, who brought wheat to the Bathinda grain market on Monday, said because of rain, farmers were facing difficulty in threshing the crop. Even combine harvesters could not be made operational in the fields because of the wet soil.Another farmer, Gurdarshan Singh of Bir Behman, said: “The wheat is lying in open and there is no arrangement by the district administration to provide any tarpaulins to cover the crop. We have to save our crop on our own.”Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said procurement and lifting of wheat in the mandis and procurement centres was being done on time. About 3,58,413 metric tonnes of wheat has arrived and 3,13,156 metric tonnes has been procured. Besides, 1,11,573 metric tonnes of wheat has been lifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/wheat-procurement-poor-arrangements-exposed-say-farmers-241804
21-04-2021||Bathinda||No bags, BKU activists gherao officials in Bathinda||Irked over the shortage of gunny bags, farmers under the banner of the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) gheraoed inspectors of procurement agencies at the Baho Yatri and Burj Sema centres here on Tuesday. They also raised slogans against the government.Farmers alleged for the past 10 days, they had been facing harassment in selling their produce, but the Punjab Government seemed to be in a deep slumber.Jagsir Singh Jhumba, member, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), said the claims of the government to buy the grains of the farmers had fallen flat.He said due to the shortage of gunny bags, the wheat lying in the open was getting spoiled due to rain and there was no provision to protect it from showers. The farmers warned that they would not end the siege till proper arrangements were made.Vikas Garg, District Manager, Punsup, said the procurement inspector had been informed about the “bardana” being sent to the Baho Yatri procurement centre. District Manager, DM Warehouse, Gagandeep Mittal said they had sent 19 bales to the Burj Sema mandi on Monday and more would be sent soon.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said 3,500 bales of “bardana” had been allotted to the procurement agencies through a tender. — TNSPUNSUP inspector faces farmers’ ire over gunny bag shortage the required gunny bagswas also reaching soon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/no-bags-bku-activists-gherao-officials-in-bathinda-241806
21-04-2021||Bathinda||Vancouver council backs farmers’ stir||The Vancouver city council has passed a motion in support of farmers protesting outside New Delhi since November last year. The motion was moved by COPE councillor Jean Swanson and was passed by the 11-member city council. While four councillors joined Swanson in voting in favour, three others abstained and three, including Mayor Kennedy Stewart, stayed away.The motion says the city stands in solidarity with Indian farmers and directs the mayor of Vancouver to write to the provincial and federal governments, asking them to speak out against laws introduced by the Indian Government. Thousands of farmers have been camping on the border of the national capital asking the BJP-led Centre to roll back three farm laws.Demonstrations have been held in the past across Canada. Earlier, a rally was held outside Vancouver City Hall on March 29. The organisers displayed more than 200 shoes on the steps leading to the building as a mark of respect to farmers who have lost their lives during the struggle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/vancouver-council-backs-farmers-stir-241811
