26-04-2021||---||Resort sealed after Congress bash in Bathinda||Bathinda, April 25Facing flak, the police today arrested the owner of a resort for allowing Congress leaders hold a party in violation of the Covid norms on Friday night. The owner of Three Palms Resort, Rajiv Kumar, was later released on bail.The police earlier sealed the resort and booked the owner and some unknown persons. However, this action has raised more questions as the name of the Congress leader who organised the party has not been included in the FIR.Several Congress leaders, including councillors, had confirmed they had attended the party organised by Mayor Raman Goyal’s husband Sandeep Goyal at the resort on Friday. Photos of the event had gone viral on the social media.Even photos of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal’s brother-in-law Jaijeet Singh Johal and son Arjun Badal attending the event were being circulated on the social media. The FM’s office refused to comment on the issue.SSP Bhupinder Jeet Singh Virk said: “Another function was going on at the resort on Friday night. We are probing the matter. We have sealed the palace and registered a case against the owner and unidentified persons.”A few days ago, the police had booked the parents of a bride and groom for holding a ring ceremony with more than 20 guests at Civil Lines Club here. Questions are now being raised on the police booking only the resort owner and not acting against the host, a Congress leader.A case had been registered against Rajiv Kumar at Thermal police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/resort-sealed-after-congress-bash-in-bathinda-244254
26-04-2021||Bathinda||Bathinda cops book panchayat for banish order||Acting on a complaint given by the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes, the Bathinda police have registered a case against Virk Kalan gram panchayat under the SC/ST Act for allegedly forcing a man out of the village. The Sadar police said Ram Singh of Virk Kalan was allegedly ousted by the gram panchyat after being accused of theft.It is learnt that Ram Singh shifted here from Jawarhewala village in Muktsar 10 years ago. Around one-and-a-half year ago, a theft was reported and Ram Singh was booked based on some CCTV footage on the complaint of villagers. He was jailed.The complainant mentions that the panchayat members gave him an ultimatum to vacate the village before March 6, 2020, and threatened to throw out his belongings if he didn’t move out.Ram Singh maintained that he didn’t steal anything, but had to land in jail and return to the village he lived in a decade ago. His daughter Navjot Kaur, who is pursuing graduation, rued that the incident left the family deeply broken.Gurcharan Singh, Sarpanch, Virk Kalan village, said, “It was not my personal decision. After organising a gram sabha, the decision to oust Ram Singh was taken by residents unanimously.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-cops-book-panchayat-for-banish-order-244263
