28-04-2021||---||NHM workers’ strike hits patients at Abohar||Raj SadoshAbohar, April 27A family was unable to follow the protocol and had to make own arrangements to carry a suspected Covid patient in an ambulance, after she was referred by the Sub-Divisional Civil Hospital to Faridkot. The workers recruited under the National Health Mission were on strike, the call for which was given by the state association. No work, including vaccination, was done at the PHCs located in Idgah Basti and Seed Farm area.The health centre at a government school, near the Civil Hospital, was closed after two hours. The situation at the two other centres was similar. Doctors said only 300 Covishield doses were available.Covid patients said only one “Fateh kit” was being supplied to each family, even when the number of infected persons was three. Pulse oximeter had not been added to the kits, they said.The staff was arranged from other centres to carry on Covid sampling work at the Civil Hospital here. Santosh Rani of Azeemgarh and Bal Krishan Chalana of Sadar Bazar, who were undergoing treatment at Sriganganagar, succumbed to the virus today. With this, the total number of fatalities here reached 42. As many as 265 positive cases were reported today in Fazilka, and 46 of them belonged to Abohar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/nhm-workers-strike-hits-patients-at-abohar-245235
28-04-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Fissures in farm unions over Parliament march||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 27Differences among farmer unions are out in open over the Parliament march after Punjab’s largest association, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president accused some organisations of doublespeak and acting as middleman.SKM won’t floata party: CharuniAddressing from the stage at the Tikri border on April 24, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said: “In a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, few members of Lakha Sidhana, Surjeet Singh Phool and student union SFS demanded that date for the Parliament march should be given today, after which the meeting was cancelled. We took a stand that we would not hold any march. If anyone wants to deviate, they can announce their separate programme”.Making serious allegations, Ugrahan said there were 32 farmer unions of Punjab and some of them indulge in doublespeak and act as middleman. This is unacceptable.Some indulging in doublespeakSome unions indulge in doublespeak and act as middleman. We will not hold any march. If anyone wants to deviate, they can announce their separate programme. — Joginder Singh Ugrahan, BKU chief“They claim to have the support of 35 lakh youth. Khalistani money and power is supporting them. They should go to Parliament and get the farm laws repealed. If they are able to do it, we will follow them else they fall in line,” said Ugrahan.Talking to The Tribune over phone, BKU (Sidhupur) president Jagjeet Singh Dallewal said: “Only Joginder Singh Ugrahan can answer to whom he is referring, but if you see his entire speech, it is clear it is based on his ideology, which he follows, whereas we are fighting against only farm laws.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/fissures-in-farm-unions-over-parliament-march-245223
28-04-2021||---||Bathinda Mayor’s husband, 11 others held over bash||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 27The police today arrested Bathinda Mayor Raman Goyal’s husband Sandeep Goyal along with 11 others, including two Congress municipal councillors, five husbands of Congress councillors and five other party leaders, who attended a councillors’ party at Three Palms Resorts here on Friday night in violation of the Covid norms.Apart from Goyal, those arrested are councillors Sukhraj Aulakh and Rattan Rahi; and Congress leaders Jagpal Singh Gora, Vipin Kumar, Sanjay Kumar, Nand Lal Singla, Charanjit Singh, alias Bhola, Gurpreet Singh, alias Bunty, Gurmeet Singh, Ram Singh Virk and Megh Raj.More arrests to followWe have identified and arrested 12 persons Tuesday. They were released on bail later. Further investigation is on. More will be arrested soon. — Amrit Kaur Gill, DCThe Congress leaders had organised a function at the resort, located on the Goniana road on city outskirts, in violation of the Covid-19 norms. It is learnt the party was thrown by the Mayor’s husband, a liquor contractor and aide of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal, to celebrate his wife’s installation as the Mayor.Efforts were made to hush up the matter, but for some photographs of the event that surfaced on the social media and media. In one such photograph, Senior Deputy Mayor Ashok Pradhan was seen dining with Congress councillors and other leaders.The Bathinda police registered an FIR and arrested resort owner Rajiv Kumar after sealing the resort on Sunday and more arrests were made in the case today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-mayors-husband-11-others-held-over-bash-245184
