02-08-2021||North East||Trinamul Congress will end BJP misrule in Tripura, form govt in 2023, says Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamul Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who was in Tripura on a day's visit, asserted on Monday that his party would end the misrule of the BJP and form government in the state in 2023. The TMC MP, who faced fierce protests by BJP workers on his way to Tripureswari temple earlier in the day, said if a parliamentarian is not safe in this state, people are definitely more vulnerable to attacks. “Democracy is withering in Tripura, there is no attempt to generate employment for the youth, law and order has completely collapsed... We would wil here to restore democracy and deliver good governance as we did in West Bengal,” Banerjee told a press meet here. The TMC, having registered a resounding victory in West Bengal polls, is trying to expand its base in other states, including Tripura, ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “If a convoy of an MP is attacked in this matter, one can clearly understand that common people have no security in the state. I would like to tell the people of Tripura that more they increase their attacks, stronger the TMC would become. We would not leave any stone unturned to topple this anti-people government,” he said. Assembly polls in Tripura are slated to be held in the first half of 2023. Banerjee, who is also the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, further said that he would return to Tripura after a fortnight and announce the formation of a state committee of his party His visit comes days after a controversy had erupted in the state over “detention” of poll strategist Prashant Kishor's I-PAC team in an Agartala hotel room by the police, citing Covid-19 restrictions. The incident prompted back-to-back visits by TMC leaders, including West Bengal ministers Bratya Basu and Malay Ghatak and TMC MP Derek O'Brien, who decried the “illegal detention of young boys and girls” of a professional firm. Criticising Deb over the deterioration in the law and order situation, the TMC MP said the central government “runs him with a remote control”. He claimed that many MLAs from Tripura have contacted the TMC and met the party's leadership in Kolkata, expressing their willingness to join the camp. The parliamentarian, nevertheless, clarified that his party does not want to break away legislators and disrupt the functioning of the present BJP government He appealed to all anti-BJP parties to join hands with the TMC and said, “Anyone outfit can come join hands with us and revive democracy in Tripura. We shall put up a united fight and form the next government here.” However, when asked if the TMC would consider forging an alliance with opposition CPI(M) here, Banerjee said there was no question of stitching a coalition with the Left party. “The spontaneous response that I have received from people on the way to Tripureswari temple indicates that they are looking for a platform against the BJP. Mark my words, the TMC will form the next government in Tripura for sure,” Banerjee asserted. Lashing out at the Biplab Deb dispensation over the “attack” on his convoy, he said, “I am overwhelmed by the reception that I was accorded on my arrival here,” he pointed out. Agitators, allegedly bearing allegiance to the saffron party, were seen trying to stop Banerjee in places when he was heading towards the temple in the morning. Many were also heard raising Go back Abhishek' slogans Banerjee, taking to Twitter, shared a video of the incident and said, “Democracy in Tripura under @BJP4India rule! Well done @BjpBiplab for taking the state to new heights.” Rebutting allegations that his party members attacked the convoy of the TMC MP, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said the saffron camp workers were simply staging a protest over the ongoing political violence in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-08-2021||India||Home minister trying to defuse inter-state tension, says Mizoram Governor K Hari Babu||Amid tensions between Assam and Mizoram over the recent border clash, Mizoram Governor K Hari Babu met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and said the Centre is trying to find a solution to the issue. Later, Babu also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament and discussed the prevailing situation in the state. He said the home minister will resolve the situation. Talking to reporters in Parliament after meeting the prime minister, Babu said the incident was "very unfortunate". "The home minister is trying to defuse the tension and he is trying to find a solution. Both chief ministers (of Assam and Mizoram) have committed that peace will be restored," he said. At least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured, including the police chief of Cachar district, in a firefight between the police of the two states on a disputed stretch of their boundary near Dholai in Cachar on July 25. Tensions along the border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam have been escalating since October 2020 with frequent incidents of burning of houses and encroachment of land. The two states share a 164.6-km border along Assam's Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an 'inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
02-08-2021||North East||Assam, Mizoram CMs talk about amicably resolving border standoff||Chief ministers of Mizoram and Assam on Sunday talked about amicably resolving the inter-state border standoff, six days after a flare-up left six Assam policemen dead. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted on Sunday morning: “As per telephonic discussion with Union Home Minister and Assam Chief Minister, we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue.” He also urged the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicial use of social media platforms. Hours later, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted: “Our main focus is on keeping the spirit of North-East alive. What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. Honble CM @ZoramthangaCM had promised to call me post his quarantine. Border disputes can only be resolved through discussion.” He also said in Guwahati that Assam was all for peace. “We should sit once with the Centre and decide how we will live in the future because we are all for peace and development.... Assam government is ready to talk to Mizoram government at any point of time... whether it is in Aizawl or Silchar or Guwahati or Delhi. We have absolutely no issue if Mizoram CM wants any discussion,” Sarma said. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah had asked both states to ensure peace and sort things out amicably. The clashes in which six Assam policemen died had erupted days after Shah discussed the inter-state border disputes in the Northeast with the chief ministers of the region. Saturday’s agreement between Assam and Nagaland to withdraw their police forces from their disputed inter-state border along Dessoi Valley Reserve Forest appears to have played a role in the two states adopting a conciliatory tone. The border dispute between Assam and Nagaland dates back to 1963 when Nagaland was carved out of Assam. Sarma, however, reiterated the Assam government’s plan to move the Supreme Court in connection with the border issue within the next 15 days. Sources said an agreement on the lines of the Assam-Nagaland pact, where the state forces would withdraw and their space would be taken up by neutral force to maintain order, might be reached. Both states will also maintain status quo on the border, not allowing any fresh encroachment or construction till a final decision is taken. Officials said things had started moving in the right direction. “After the public posturing by both sides, it is difficult to pull back unilaterally. It will have to be a simultaneous withdrawal just like what we are witnessing on the Assam-Nagaland front but it is a good sign that both sides are willing to talk things out. We can expect some kind of breakthrough very soon,” a source said. Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts of Assam share a border with Mizoram’s Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. The border dispute started after Mizoram was carved out of Assam in 1972. The length of the border is 164km. While Mizoram claims the inner-line reserve forest area as the actual boundary between the two states, Assam relies on the constitutional boundary drawn by the Survey of India in 1933. Mizoram says the 1933 boundary had been “imposed” on it. The inner-line reserve forest was notified in 1875 under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation of 1873. It was demarcated by the British to protect tribal land and not allow non-tribals to intrude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
