03-08-2021||North East||Abhishek Banerjee’s convoy  under attack in Tripura||The Trinamul Congress on Monday asserted that it would form the next government in Tripura, daring the ruling BJP to stop the challenger if it can. The announcement was made by Trinamul’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee  at a news conference in Agartala, hours after his convoy was attacked by suspected BJP workers at Parimal Chowmani in the Gomati district, about 54km away. Abhishek was on his way to offer prayers at the Tripurasundari Temple in Gomati, soon after his arrival at the Agartala airport, when the incident took place around 1pm. The Diamond Harbour MP tweeted a video of purported BJP workers protesting with party flags, raining blows on the car he was travelling in. His tweet added: “Democracy in Tripura under @BJP4India rule!… Well done @BjpBiplab for taking the state to new heights.” The reference was to Tripura chief minister and BJP leader Biplab Deb. Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O’Brien raised the issue on the floor of the House. Tripura Trinamul leader Ashish Lal Singh said BJP workers attacked supporters who were putting up banners and posters near the airport around 11am. He said banners and posters were found damaged in several parts of the state. The ruling BJP said there were protests but no attacks.  The BJP workers’ protest was against the “atrocities” against the party in Bengal since the third consecutive victory of Trinamul, Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said. At the news conference, Abhishek said his party’s intent was to go all out and win the next Assembly polls in the northeastern state in 2023. He repeatedly said his party was in Tripura to stay and to meet the “aspirations” of the people as well as revive democracy. Abhishek took several digs at chief minister Deb, accusing him of being “remote-controlled” by the national leadership of the BJP and daring him and his party to stop him and Trinamul, “if they can”. Abhishek said anyone who wanted to fight the BJP, even if they are from other parties, was welcome to join Trinamul, adding he would visit the state at least twice a month henceforth. A few senior leaders from other parties are expected to join the party in his presence, said sources in the party. Trinamul has been inducting various leaders from other parties in recent weeks. Most of the posters, banners and other publicity material put up for the Abhishek visit had the slogan “Ebar Tripura (This time, Tripura)” prominently displayed, conveying the party’s intent to win Tripura, which had voted overwhelmingly for the BJP-IPFT combine to unseat the Left Front government in 2018. Political observers said that Trinamul has been able to up the ante over the past week or so, first by drawing pan-India attention to the “house arrest” of Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac members and following it up with the visit by Mamata’s political heir-apparent. “But it will take more than noise on social and mainstream media, because there is hardly any Trinamul organisation on the ground. Moreover, the BJP may be faltering a bit, but people have not forgiven the follies of the Left Front during its 25-year rule in the state. Trinamul has to sustain this momentum and build on it,” said one of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
03-08-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram dispute: Economic blockade hurdle in peace bid||The “unofficial” economic blockade imposed in Assam has become a major hurdle in normalisation of ties with Mizoram following the inter-state border flare-up on July 26 despite goodwill gestures by both states, including two Assam ministers travelling to Aizawl on August 5 to hold talks to end the standoff. Senior Assam officials told The Telegraph that there is no official bar on the movement of vehicles but truckers and public are avoiding travel apprehending trouble. They also said that small groups of people and organisations were imposing blockades “here and there” to stop the supply of essential items. On Monday, the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti staged a protest in Hailakandi against the killing of the six Assam policemen in alleged firing by Mizoram police. However, a statement on “Looming medical crisis in Mizoram”, issued by the Aizawl-based Mizoram Chemists and Druggists Association on Monday, tried to convey the impact of the “unofficial” blockade since July 26 but also raised a lot of questions like whether they were citizens of this country and why the Centre was yet to intervene.The statement, issued by association president R. Thanglura and general secretary L.H. Sailo, claims that Mizoram is in crisis due to the blockade “created” by the Assam government, severely affecting the availability of medicines, especially for Covid-19 patients. The Union health minister had said last week that Mizoram was one of the 10 states which was either witnessing a surge in Covid cases or a rise in the positivity rate. Requesting the Prime Minister and the Union home minister to intervene at the earliest to prevent any health crisis, the association accused the Assam government of “summoning” all transporters operating on the Mizoram route in Guwahati on July 29 following the flare-up and asking them to “stop transporting” any goods to the neighbouring state “due to security concerns”. Since then, no goods, including basic, life-saving and Covid-19 medicines, have reached Mizoram, it said. Even oxygen cylinders, oxygen plant materials and Covid-19 test kits have “been blocked”, it added. Assam had later issued a travel advisory urging people not to travel to Mizoram because of the prevailing situation. “Never in the history of this country has anyone resorted to such a draconian and inhumane act to his fellow being. The basic fundamental right to life as guaranteed by the Indian Constitution which includes the right to basic health care and medicines have been denied... Despite having endured this problem for almost a week, there has been no response from the central government on this front,” the statement said. The border dispute dates back to 1972. Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts share a border with Mizoram’s Kolasib and Mamit districts. The flare-up took place along the disputed inter-state border at Vairengte ( Kolasib) and Lailapur (Cachar). According to sources in Mizoram House, a truck carrying oxygen plant machinery, a Mahindra pick-up with oxygen cylinders and one truck with 1,500 food packets for the Covid-affected are stranded in their compound at Silchar in Assam’s Cachar district. “We also have two lakh RAT (rapid antigen test) kits lying in the Silchar warehouse,” one of them said. Assam officials said that there was no blockade. Trucks are stranded in Silchar because of a lack of drivers, they said. “Or they (drivers) don’t want to go fearing trouble during the journey. Moreover, small groups and some organisations have been blocking roads in protest. There is no official bar on movement but truckers don’t want to take any risk,” one of them said. Sources said there is tension in Barak Valley over the deaths. They also said that efforts needed to be made to ensure smooth supply of essential items to Mizoram to substantiate the goodwill gestures. Mizoram has started tapping Tripura to get its supplies but it is going to be time-consuming and costly, they added. On Monday, local people in Karimganj bordering Tripura stopped Mizoram-bound trucks. FIRs withdrawn The statement by the chemists and druggists association came amid more goodwill gestures by chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram a day after both of them talked of resolving things amicably. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma first tweeted that he has directed the police to withdraw the FIR against Mizoram Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena for his provocative statement on the flare-up. A police team had last week visited Delhi and summoned Vanlalvena for questioning. Sarma, however, maintained that the cases against accused police officers will be pursued. He also appreciated his Mizoram counterpart’s desire to settle the border dispute amicably. “Assam always wants to keep the spirit of Northeast alive. We are also committed to ensuring peace along our borders,” Sarma said. On Monday evening, Zoramthanga took another confidence-building measure. “In order to build a conducive atmosphere for amicable solution to the #MizoramAssamBorder dispute & to reduce the plight of suffering citizens, I have directed @mizorampolice to withdraw FIR dated 26.07.2021 filed at Vairengte, Kolasib district, Mizoram, against all the accused persons.” he tweeted. Sarma then reciprocated by asking Assam police to withdraw cases against the Kolasib deputy commissioner and superintendent of police. He also tweeted that two of his cabinet colleagues — Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal — will travel to Aizawl on August 5 for a “meaningful” dialogue to end the standoff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-14
