04-08-2021||India||Guwahati: Man arrested for impersonating as Assam CM's political secretary||One person was arrested here for allegedly impersonating as the political secretary of Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and duping people on the pretext of providing government jobs, police said. The man was also accused of posing as MLA Jayanta Malla Baruah and extorting money from people, a senior officer said. A complaint was lodged by Sandeep Jalan at the Bhangagarh Police Station, alleging that a person impersonating as the legislator had demanded Rs 30 lakh from him. The police initiated a probe into the allegation and registered a case against the accused, identified as Navadeep Sharma. A preliminary investigation suggested that Sharma had saved his phone number as that of the MLA in a caller identification application to dupe people and extort money on the pretext of providing them jobs in various departments, the officer said. During the interrogation, the arrested person admitted that he has so far cheated five persons by alluring them with government jobs. The investigation is on, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
04-08-2021||North East||Ripun Bora’s attempt to raise Assam-Mizoram border flare-up in Parliament 'disallowed'||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora’s attempt to raise the Assam-Mizoram border flare-up in Parliament was “disallowed” for the fifth time on Tuesday, a ruling the parliamentarian said reflected the Centre’s “apathy” towards “such a serious problem”. Bora told The Telegraph from New Delhi that he had submitted a notice on Tuesday seeking suspension of business of the House under Rule 267 to discuss the inter-state border issue based on a statement by Union law minister Kiren Rijiju claiming “foreign forces” were “behind” the border clashes. “Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naiduji disallowed the motion for discussion on the border issue in his ruling. No reason was cited,” he said. “Today was the fifth time I had tried to raise the border issue. Today I had added the foreign hand point made by the minister (Rijiju). If this is so then it is a matter of national security and needs to be taken up with utmost priority. But my plea for discussion was disallowed.” Bora said the issue has not been discussed in either House of Parliament even though the July 26 border flare-up led to the death of six Assam policemen and “war-like situation” between two states, fanning tension and disrupting life on both sides. This requires the “intervention” of Union home minister Amit Shah to prevent the situation from deteriorating further with “adverse” impact for the rest of the Northeast, he added. The first-time MP said the development reflected the BJP-led central government’s “apathy” towards the sensitive border issue just like its “stand” on the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farmers’ protest. Seeking a judicial probe into the circumstances leading to the exchange of fire between the police of two states and another probe into Rijiju’s foreign hand claim, Bora urged a discussion at the Prime Minister-level on the border issue involving all political parties in the region besides stakeholders. After 16 BJP MPs from the Northeast met Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the “unfortunate” border developments, Rijiju had said: “Mizoram and Assam are trying to sort things out... But Congress and some political parties are trying to add fuel to fire... inciting people. It has also come to light that desh se bahar... videsh se bhi kai cheez social media main unka interference, unka influence saamne aaya hai (It has come to light that some foreign elements are influencing and interfering in the issue). We are keeping an eye on them... why outside forces are trying to vitiate the sisterly relationship between the northeastern states by using the Assam-Mizoram border issue. We condemn such activities…” Reacting to Rijiju’s statement, a Twitter user from Mizoram said: “This is a serious issue, if a group of BJP’s elected representatives made such an allegation, ‘foreign hand’ to smear Mizoram. I request the Centre @AmitShah @PIBHomeAffairs to initiate an inquiry to clear the issue or to nab the handler immediately...” Though the situation remains calm along the inter-state border, the “unofficial” economic blockade on the Assam side since July 26 has not gone down well with people of Mizoram. Assam has denied imposing any blockade. A day after Aizawl-based Mizoram Chemists and Druggists Association raised questions such as why the Centre wasn’t intervening to get the blockade lifted, the Mizoram Bar Association filed a PIL in the Aizawl bench of Gauhati High Court on Tuesday over the blockade on National Highway 306 that connects Mizoram with Assam through Lailapur in Cachar district. It said they filed the plea since they didn’t receive any response from the Centre and state governments over the blockade and also the hardship faced by the people of Mizoram. Though Mizoram was trying to get supply of essential items from Tripura, a protest in Assam’s Karimganj disrupted movement of Mizoram-bound trucks on National Highway 8 on Monday. Though the protest was withdrawn, many trucks are still stranded in all three Barak Valley districts of Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
04-08-2021||North East||NSCN-IM enforces twelve-hour shutdown over Centre’s ‘silence’ ||The NSCN (I-M) on Tuesday enforced a 12-hour shutdown of shops and commercial establishments in “Nagalim” (Naga-inhabited areas) in protest against the Centre’s “silence” on the Framework Agreement signed six years ago. Sources said the development is not “good” news for the Narendra Modi-led government which had claimed the agreement signed on August 3, 2015, a “major” breakthrough in resolving “the longest running insurgency movement in Southeast Asia”. The Framework Agreement would be the basis of the final peace deal. Sources claimed business and traffic were affected in Nagaland and other Naga-inhabited areas in the region, especially Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. “According to reports, the shutdown was  near total in most Naga-inhabited areas but had little impact in two of the 12 districts in Nagaland — Mon and Zunheboto — because of the call given by the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) to keep shops open. We are awaiting details,” a source said. The NNPGs comprise seven underground groups and are engaged in the ongoing peace process. The sources also said the NSCN (I-M) has been able to convey the “message” to the Centre that it has “retained” its influence over “Nagalim” and that it remains the “most important key stakeholder” in the peace process. The peace process, which started with the NSCN (I-M) declaring ceasefire in 1997, has of late, seemed to be floundering because of the outfit’s “firm stand” on a separate flag and constitution besides its “strained” ties with the Centre’s interlocutor and Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi. The NSCN (I-M) while calling the shutdown on August 1 had said that the “historic” Framework Agreement was yet to see the “light of fulfilment” as committed by the Centre and six years down the line, there is no “positive response” yet from the government. “The Nagas cannot be taken for a ride in this manner,” it said. The appeal also said while Naga people appreciate the Centre for “recognising” the historical and political rights of the Nagas by signing the agreement, the matter should “not” end there. “What had been committed should be taken to a logical conclusion. The NSCN/GPRN attached high political value to FA (Framework Agreement) as a fulfilment of Naga people’s historical and political rights. As a mark of our protest against the GoI (Government of India) for keeping silent on FA even after 6 years, there will be a total closure of shops and business establishments in Nagalim till noon on 3rd August, 2021,” the outfit had said while seeking the support of Naga people and business groups to make the shutdown successful. In a statement on Monday, the NSCN (I-M) said: “The very fact that the Nagas are not rigid had taken the Indo-Naga political talk this far. The pressing irony is that without the Naga national flag and Yehzabo (Constitution), everything discussed and agreed upon shall be nullified. “More than that, the Framework Agreement should not be twisted to project that it is under the purview of Indian Constitution.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
