05-08-2021||North East||Assam decides to revoke travel advisory on Mizoram as states talk to resolve issues||Representatives of Assam and Mizoram held talks in Aizawl on Thursday and agreed to resolve the inter-state border dispute amicably, officials said. The Assam government also decided to revoke an advisory issued earlier against travel to Mizoram, they said. "Both the state governments agreed to maintain peace in the inter-state border areas and welcomed the deployment of neutral force by Government of India in this regard. "For this purpose, both the states shall not send their respective forest and police forces for patrolling, domination, enforcement or for fresh deployment to any of the areas where confrontation had taken place between the police forces of the two states during recent times. This would include all such areas along the Assam-Mizoram border in the districts of Karimganj, Hailakandi, and Cachar in Assam, and Mizoram's Mamit and Kolasib districts," a joint statement issued by the two states said. The joint statement was signed by Assam's Minister for Border Protection and Development Atul Bora and the department's commissioner and secretary G D Tripathi, and Mizoram's Home Minister Lalchamliana and Home Secretary Vanlalngathsaka. "Representatives of Governments of Assam and Mizoram agree to take all necessary measures to promote, preserve and maintain peace and harmony amongst people living in Assam and Mizoram, particularly in border areas," the statement, shared on Twitter by Assam minister Ashok Singhal, said. Six Assam Police personnel were killed and over 50 people, including the Cachar SP, were injured in an inter-state border clash between the two northeastern neighbours on July 26. Both the states also condoled the deaths of those killed in the incident and prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured persons. "Govt. of Assam & Govt. of Mizoram successfully signed a Joint Statement today after deliberations at Aizawl. Both governments agree to take forward Ministry of Home Affairs' initiatives to remove prevailing tensions and to find lasting solutions through discussions," the Mizoram CMO tweeted. Assam minister Ashok Singhal said in a Twitter post, "With great optimism from both sides, we held our discussion with the Home Minister of Mizoram @Lalchamliana12 Ji & other officials on resolving the #AssamMizoramBorder issue. This is in continuation of the discussion initiated by HCM @himantabiswa Ji & HCM @ZoramthangaCM Ji." Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
05-08-2021||North East||In touch with Mamata on merger offer: Akhil Gogoi||Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul, emboldened by the 2021 mandate in Bengal, has set its sights on neighbouring Assam, besides Tripura, to enhance its political presence beyond the state of its origin. Trinamul is working on plans to carry out a  rebuilding exercise of its Assam unit, which has been a nominal presence for years. Leading anti-CAA activist and Raijor Dal’s lone MLA Akhil Gogoi on Wednesday said he has been offered by the Bengal chief minister to be her party’s Assam’s unit chief, and merge his party with hers in the Northeast state where the BJP  is in power. “On Mamata Banerjee’s request, I have met her twice in Calcutta, along with senior party colleagues. She has offered me to run the state unit as the state unit president... she also wants me to merge my party with Trinamul,” said the 45-year-old peasant leader, who rose to prominence as an RTI activist leading anti-corruption movements in Assam. Gogoi said he was yet to decide on Mamata’s offer. However, he also added that it has been his party’s stand that all the regional parties should close ranks for a joint offensive against the BJP. “As a regional party (Raijor Dal) we want to coordinate with other regional parties who are trying to come together,” said the Sibsagar MLA. “We also want to be part of the federation of (national) Opposition parties. The Opposition had come together after the 1975 Emergency. They are now trying to come together during the undeclared Emergency under the BJP-RSS regime. We want to be part of the joint Opposition, minus the AIUDF,” he added. Political observers from the region said the Gogoi negotiations suggest Trinamul is planning to rebuild its hitherto feeble state units in Tripura and Assam, before the 2023 Assembly polls in Tripura and the Lok Sabha election in 2024. A Trinamul vice-president, currently in Delhi, said the party “means business” this time in its plans for forays outside Bengal, and that its newly appointed national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee — Mamata’s nephew and political heir-apparent — has been spearheading hectic parleys behind the scenes to ensure this does not remain a pipe dream. “A thorough Swot (Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis has been done for states that are promising for us. Tripura and Assam are right up there. Back-channel talks have been taking place at several levels, in multiple states,” he said. “Abhishek is helming this. PK (poll consultant Prashant Kishor) and his team are also, obviously, involved. She (Mamata) has been kept in the loop, regularly updated… she often helps out with crucial, incisive pointers for breakthroughs,” he added. “Akhil Gogoi has, I believe, been spoken to extensively.” Trinamul has already publicly announced its plan to contest the Assembly polls and form the state government in Tripura. The past 10-odd days have seen several senior party leaders, including Abhishek, undertake tours of the state to make a statement of intent. Political observers in Assam said Gogoi is very unlikely to join another party given his “independent nature”, but will not be averse to a tactical tie-up with a regional party, especially an avowedly anti-BJP party such as Trinamul. More so, if Trinamul shows healthy signs of growth before the general election. They said it would be an uphill task for Trinamul in both states, but it is not wasting time at the moment. “They have already started tapping into known political faces in Tripura, and will do the same in Assam,” said an observer. Trinamul had fielded six candidates in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Assam, and 16 in this summer’s Assembly polls, but drew a blank in both. “The state unit in Assam was formed in 2010, but it has not really taken off. We have only won one MLA seat (Hajo) since. But things have been changing after Trinamul’s mammoth victory against the BJP in Bengal, which has national repercussions,” said a leader in Assam. Jnanendra Barman, who has been with the party since 2010 as the office secretary, said a number of Congress leaders are being spoken to. “Then there is a leader of a regional party, besides Akhil Gogoi. A major rebuilding exercise will be launched soon. Most believe that Mamata Banerjee is the leader who can take on the BJP nationally. We are in for some good times,” Barman told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
05-08-2021||North East||Tokyo Olympics: Assam celebrates Lovlina's bronze||The “collective” dream of Assam lay shattered as Lovlina Borgohain lost her welterweight (69kg) semi-final bout to reigning world champion Busenaz Surmeneli of Turkey at the Tokyo Games on Wednesday morning. But her backers and supporters picked up the pieces pretty quickly because it was a time to celebrate the achievement of a 23-year-old girl instead of drowning in sorrow of what could have been. “There is nothing to feel disappointed about. We are very happy and satisfied with her achievement even if it is a bronze. We all wanted her to qualify and then wanted her to win a medal. After she achieved both, we wanted her to win the gold, which she too wanted badly. It was our collective dream. We need to celebrate her journey. And hope she does the golden turn in Paris 2024,” said Devojit Phukan, a family friend of the Borgohains who, many say, shared Lovlina’s inspiring story with the world —14 articles on Facebook — before her Olympic debut. He is also the man who broke the news of Lovlina’s defeat to her parents like the earlier two bouts she had won because her parents do not watch her matches. “Her father is happy but a bit tired because of all the people who dropped in to extend their wishes and later commiseration. Her native village, her native town (Borpathar) ... our state was hoping and praying for a win but it was not to be. Everyone has come to terms with the loss and looking forward to her next Olympics,” Phukan said after visiting Lovlina’s residence. The build-up to the semi-final bout back home in Assam was much like what’s seen only during important cricket fixtures like the World Cups. On Tuesday, there were cycle and car rallies in several places extending morale support to Lovlina. There was lighting of diyas and offering prayers at the Nehru Stadium in Guwahati. In her native town Barpathar, locals danced to Bihu beats in expectations of a gold. Subhash Basumatary, a former SAI official who had played a huge part in unearthing the raw talent of Lovlina in 2012, told The Telegraph after the bout that he had messaged Lovlina, congratulating her — and to concentrate on Paris 2024. “She still has age on her side, at least two more Olympics,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
