06-08-2021||North East||Assam, Meghalaya to set up committees to resolve border issues ||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K Sangma on Friday said the two states will set up committees to resolve the inter-state border disputes. Two panels to be headed by cabinet ministers of each state will be set up, they said. The committees will aim at resolving the border disputes in a phased manner in six of the 12 disputed sites initially, the chief ministers said at a joint press conference here. Each panel will have five members, including a cabinet minister of each state besides bureaucrats, Sarma said, adding that local representatives may be part of a committee. Members of both the panels will visit the sites, interact with civil society members and complete discussions within 30 days. Five aspects, which are to be considered to resolve the disputes, are historical evidence, ethnicity, administrative convenience, mood and sentiments of the people concerned and contiguity of land, Sangma said. "In principle, we will try to find a solution within the framework of these five aspects", he said. The six disputed sites taken up in the first phase are Tarabari, Gijang, Phalia, Baklapara, Pilingkata and Khanapara. These areas fall in Cachar, Kamrup Metro and Kamrup Rural districts in Assam and West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills in Meghalaya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-08-2021||North East||Assam govt not to file new case in foreigners tribunals against Gorkha people||The Assam government has decided not to file any new case in the foreigners tribunals against Gorkha people and also withdraw cases filed earlier against them. Foreigners tribunals are quasi-judicial bodies that determine whether a resident is a foreigner or not. There are 100 such tribunals in Assam handling over 1.4 lakh doubtful citizenship cases. The state cabinet decision on Wednesday will benefit about 22,000 of the 25 lakh-strong Gorkha community in Assam. The Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh welcomed the government move but also wanted it to remove the doubtful voter or D-voter tag of around 22,000 community members. The D-voter tag has not only “disenfranchised” 22,000 Gorkhas but also led them and their family members being “left out” of the draft National Register of Citizens published in 2018. The updated NRC published in August 2019 had excluded 19.07 lakh applicants. Those left out of the NRC can appeal for inclusion in the foreigners tribunals with documents but this process has not yet started. D-voters are people whose citizenship is disputed or doubtful. This group was included in voter list when the Election Commission was revising the electoral rolls in 1997. There were over 1.08 lakh D-voters in Assam till March this year. They cannot vote in elections unless they get their names cleared in foreigners tribunals and removal of their names as D-voter on the voter list. Getting their names cleared will also pave the way for their inclusion in the NRC. Wednesday’s decision was the second taken by the BJP-led state government benefiting Gorkhas after it had accorded the community protected class status in the tribal belts and blocks of the Bodoland Territorial Region and Sadiya tribal block in July. The protected class status will make it easier for the Gorkhas to buy, sell and transfer land in the notified areas. There are 17 tribal belts and 30 blocks across Assam. Parisangh national secretary Nanda Kirati Dewan said the decision was a huge relief for Gorkha families who were prosecuted under the citizenship law but also wanted the government to take all possible steps to remove the D-voter tag from community members. “The Gorkha community wants that the D-voter tag should also be removed as part of this cabinet decision so that they can exercise their right to vote from the forthcoming by-elections,” Dewan, also president of the youth wing Bhartiya Gorkha Yuva Parisangh, said. “Even the Supreme Court in a ruling related to the NRC case had said on September 24, 2018, that Gorkhas should not be tried under the Foreigners Tribunal Act and Citizenship Act. We want this tag to go because we are also original inhabitants of Assam and bonafide Indian citizens,” Dewan said. The setting up of the Gorkha Development Council in 2003 was the first baby step towards recognising Nepali/Gorkha language speakers as indigenous Gorkhas in Assam. The Parisangh has already moved the poll panel regarding the D-voter and foreigners tribunal issues. It had suggested the formation of an empowered committee comprising representatives of the commission, ministry of home affairs, border police, state home department and district administration officials to sort out the D-voter issue locally by verifying documents before a case is referred to the tribunals. “We request the government to come up with some mechanism for the hearing and disposal of D-voter cases at the local level... may be in a couple of districts as a pilot project before launching it across the state,” Dewan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
06-08-2021||North East||Assam and Mizoram govts not to send forces to areas along border||The Assam and Mizoram governments on Thursday decided not to send their forest and police forces to any area along the inter-state border, which has witnessed “confrontation and conflict” recently, to ensure peace, according to a joint statement issued after a ministerial-level meeting in Aizawl. Within hours of the meeting, Assam withdrew a travel advisory issued last week asking people not to travel to Mizoram because of safety concerns. The advisory, the first-of-its-kind issued by one state against another, had further strained ties after the border flare-up on July 26 that claimed the lives of six Assam policemen, fuelling tension on both sides, filing of FIRs against each other and disrupting the flow of goods to Mizoram from Assam. The meeting in Aizawl was attended by Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana and revenue minister Lalruatkima and Assam border protection minister Atul Bora and urban development minister Ashok Singhal. Mizoram home secretary Vanlalngaihsaka and Assam commissioner for border protection and development G.D. Tripathi also attended. A joint statement issued after the meeting said both states welcome and agree to take forward the initiatives by the Union ministry of home affairs and both chief ministers to “remove” tension prevailing along the inter-state border and find lasting solutions to the disputes through talks. The clashes took place two days after Union home minister Amit Shah discussed border issues with chief ministers of the northeastern states in Shillong. As such the incident had also left the home ministry embarrassed, sources said. While welcoming the deployment of a neutral force by the Centre, the statement said both the states shall not send their respective forest and police forces for “patrolling, domination, enforcement or for fresh deployment to any of the areas where confrontation and conflict” has taken place between the police forces of the two states in recent times. This would include all such areas along the Assam-Mizoram border in Karimganj, Hailakandi and Cachar districts in Assam and Mamit and Kolasib districts in Mizoram. The Mizoram government representatives also conveyed their condolences in the statement for the loss of lives on July 26 and best wishes for the speedy recovery of those injured, a gesture which most feel will go a long way in calming tempers in Assam. Over 45 policemen were injured in the clashes between the police forces of both states. Mizoram has accused Assam police for entering their territory and firing first. “Representatives of governments of Assam and Mizoram agree to take all necessary measures to promote, preserve and maintain peace and harmony amongst the people living in Assam and Mizoram, particularly in the border areas,” the statement said. Most observers said that both sides will have to go the extra mile on the ground to normalise ties like Assam ensuring the smooth flow of traffic and goods to Mizoram and the latter ensuring the safety of the truckers. There has been no movement of traffic and goods trucks to Mizoram till 6.30pm on Thursday through the National Highway 306 that connects the affected Vairengte (Mizoram) with Lailapur (Assam). The unofficial blockade in Assam’s Barak Valley, many feel, is a huge hurdle in normalising ties. Moreover, the Kolasib district administration wrote to its Cachar counterpart soon after the meeting that a new camp site was “constructed” by the Assam police on Thursday at Bankang within Saipum Village Council area in Mizoram near Hadama, Assam. The site is around 10km from the Vairengte-Lailapur border. “In this regard, I am urging you to kindly honour the agreement of the senior ministers of both the governments and withdraw your troops from the newly constructed camp site at the earliest,” the Kolasib deputy commissioner said in a letter to his Cachar counterpart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-13
