08-08-2021||India||Assam milkmen donate part of income to help fund-starved school||In a noble gesture, nearly 2,000 milkmen of a cooperative society in Assam have decided to donate 15 paise per litre of milk sold to run the higher secondary section of a school, which has not received any government funding so far. With the funds collected through this initiative, the Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society, one of the oldest and largest dairy cooperatives of the state located in Morigaon district, two days ago handed over a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to Sitajakhala Higher Secondary School to run classes 11 and 12. "Children of our milkmen are students of this school. The lower level of the school was provincialised (taken over by the government) in 1986. "However, the higher secondary level is still operating in venture mode, facing acute financial hardship. The condition of the school moved the parents, who are engaged with us as milkmen, to donate a portion of their income," Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society chairman Ranjib Sarma told PTI. After some discussions, more than 2,000 milkmen agreed to donate 15 paise per litre of milk sold to the school to fund their children's education, he added. "With the support of the milkmen, the Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society has declared a financial aid of Rs 1 lakh every year to the higher secondary section of the school till it is pprovincialised by the government," Sarma said. He also said that guardians of the students are urging the government to open vocational courses on basic agriculture in the school. Headmaster of the educational institute Uttam Deka appealed to the government to come forward and support it in its endeavour to impart quality education to children of the Gobha tribal belt in Morigaon. "We are thankful to Sitajakhala Milk Cooperative Society for helping us with the financial aid. This initiative will go a long way in sustaining the school," he added. Talking about the dairy business, Sarma said the society faced tremendous hardship during the pandemic, but the situation is gradually improving now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Truck resumes movement over Assam-Mizoram’s disputed border||Trucks from the rest of the country rumbled into Mizoram across a disputed border with neighbouring Assam late Saturday night, some 12 days after a bloody clash between police forces of the two states. Truckers who had parked their trucks at Dholai near the tense border and refused to move even after an informal blockade enforced by locals had been lifted, started moving essential supplies including medicines, diesel and cooking gas after two Assam Ministers Ashok Singhal and Parimal Suklabaidya on Saturday convinced them it was safe to travel across the border to Mizoram. Kolasib Superintendent of Police (SP), Vanlalfaka Ralte said more than 50 vehicles have entered Mizoram since Saturday night till Sunday morning. Traffic movement between the two neighbouring states as of now is quite smooth. However, we are still on alert as untoward incident can happen at any time, Ralte, who is camping at Vairengte, told PTI over the phone. Cachar Superintendent of Police Ramandeep Kaur also confirmed to PTI that vehicles have been moving under heavy police escorts. Though initially there was some resistance from locals, after the two ministers held negotiations, the vehicles started moving." Silchar's Mizoram House Liaison Officer (LO) Kaptluanga said that before trucking began in earnest, some 9 Mizoram-bound vehicles were attacked and vandalised by miscreants at Lailapur on Saturday evening. The development happened after Assam and Mizoram ministers met last week to thrash out differences and agreed to maintain calm along the border and resolve their differences amicably. Some drivers however remained reluctant to move their vehicles across the border. Rahul Hussain, a stranded driver, said they "were willing to enter Mizoram" but demanded a written assurance for protection to be given. Despite an attempt by Home Minister Amit Shah to resolve a raft of long-standing border disuptes between Assam and its neighbours earlier last month, at least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured in a fire-fight between the police of the two states on July 26, which broke on Assam's Cachar border with Mizoram. The two states share a 164.6-km border between Assam's Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj districts, and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl districts. Both states have differing interpretations of their territorial border. While Mizoram believes that its border lies along an inner line' drawn up in 1875 to protect tribals from outside influence, Assam goes by a district demarcation done in the 1930s.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Alliance under leadership of Mamata Banerjee will oust the BJP, says Akhil Gogoi||Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi on Sunday said that an alliance of regional parties under the leadership of Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the making to oust the BJP from power at the Centre in 2024. The Independent MLA from Assam also claimed that Mamata has extended an invitation to him to merge Raijor Dal with the Trinamul Congress (TMC). "We aim to form a confederation of regional forces and project Mamata Banerjee as its leader to remove the Narendra Modi government from power in 2024," he told reporters. Gogoi claimed that Mamata has assured him of the TMC Assam unit president's post if Raijor Dal is merged with the ruling party in West Bengal. A decision in this regard is likely to be taken in our party's executive body meeting during the day, he said. Gogoi said that three rounds of talks between the TMC and Raijor Dal over the issue have already taken place. Earlier this week, Gogoi had said, “After I came out of the jail, Mamata Banerjee invited me to meet her. I visited Calcutta twice recently and met her too. Trinamul wants me to join their party and lead the party as state president in Assam. We have not yet told her anything but my party Raijor Dal is trying hard to unit the opposition parties against BJP.” Gogoi is opposed to both BJP and RSS, saying both are trying to divide people on religious lines to win elections. He has been vocal against the BJP-led government in Assam and its policies including the CAA. Gogoi, who was arrested during the anti-CAA agitation in December 2019, came out of jail on July 1 this year, after a special National Investigate Agency court's order. The Assam police had charged him for sedition, while the NIA had charged him of having links with Maoists but the court cleared him of all charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||12 Trinamul Congress activists arrested in Tripura for violating Covid norms||At least 12 leaders and workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers on the previous day, were arrested in Tripura's Khowai district on Sunday for "violating Covid norms", police said. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who is Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, reached Agartala and left for Khowai to meet the arrested party workers, who will be produced before a court amid tight security arrangements. Police said that the 12 TMC members were arrested for violating Covid restrictions by travelling after the imposition of night curfew at 7 pm. Tripura TMC spokesperson Ashish Lal Singh said that party leaders including himself, Debangshu Bhattacharya, Tania Poddar, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta have been arrested. Raha and Dutta had sustained injuries when their vehicle was allegedly attacked by BJP workers at Ambassa in Dhalai district on Saturday. "After the attack, we were returning to Agartala through National Highway 8 when the police stopped our vehicles at Khowai and took us into custody stating that there could be more attacks on us by 'miscreants'. Indeed, BJP activists had gathered at several places on NH 8 to attack us," Singh said. However, early in the morning, police said that the TMC members were arrested for violating Covid restrictions. Meanwhile, three senior TMC leaders, including Abhishek Banerjee, West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu and Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, reached Agartala and left for Khowai to meet the arrested members. Banerjee had earlier visited Tripura on August 2, when his convoy was also allegedly attacked by BJP workers. Strongly criticising Saturday's attack, TMC leaders alleged that the incident proved that there "goonda raj" (lawlessness) in Tripura, and the BJP has sensed its defeat in the 2023 assembly elections in the state. Denying the involvement of its activists in the attack, the BJP claimed that the TMC is a non-factor in Tripura, and Bengal's ruling party is spreading the "virus of political violence" in the northeastern state, where "outsiders" are fomenting trouble. Shortly after the incident, BJP and TMC supporters had faced off and staged road blockades 500 m apart on NH 8, forcing Chief Minister Biplab Deb to take a detour to return to Agartala after attending some programmes in Dharmanagar. TMC workers led by Subal Bhowmik, a former vice-president of Tripura BJP who recently switched sides, were protesting the alleged ransacking of a TMC party office by saffron party workers in Batarasi area of Dharmanagar on Friday night. The Bengal CPI(M) has also criticised the attack, but also took a dig at the TMC alleging that it had kept mum when Left workers were earlier attacked in BJP-ruled Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Two Assam ministers visit border area to pacify locals to allow movement of essentials to Mizoram||Two Assam ministers visited a border area on Saturday to “pacify and convince locals” to allow the movement of essentials to Mizoram, raising hopes of an end to the unofficial economic blockade imposed by residents on the neighbouring state at a time when the two states are looking to bury the hatchet. Assam and Mizoram have been on tenterhooks since the July 26 flare-up on their disputed border in which six Assam policemen died in firing from the Mizoram side. Although trucks laden with essentials and medicines reached the Lailapur inter-state border in Cachar district of Assam’s Barak Valley around 6.30pm, locals stopped them from proceeding to the Variengete check gate in Mizoram. “Assam ministers Ashok Singhal and Parimal Suklabaidya are trying to resolve the issue. We are hopeful of a breakthrough,” a source said. Supply of essentials to Mizoram was stopped at the Barak Valley soon after the border clashes on July 26. Mizoram police had accused Assam cops of forcibly entering the disputed area and firing first. Although the two governments signed a pact on August 5 to end the tension in the border area, the unofficial economic blockade continued, becoming a source of concern and resentment. While Mizoram is staring at a crisis of essential food items and Covid medicines, Assam’s Barak Valley too is feeling the heat because they are as dependent on Mizoram for jobs and business as Mizoram is on them for essentials. Mizoram information and publicity minister Lalruatkima said after his discussion with Assam minister Singhal that all vehicles stranded on NH-306 would cross the inter-state border by Saturday evening. A few hours earlier Lalruatkima had tweeted: “It is unfortunate that supply of testing kits, reagents and other life-saving drugs are still stranded at the Assam-Mizoram border due to continued blockade of NH-306.… ZMC RT-PCR lab is now facing acute shortage of essential testing reagents, and therefore, sample testing in Mizoram is getting capped based on the available stock.” A leading Guwahati-based citizens’ group, the Axom Nagarik Samaj, on Saturday accused the Centre of inefficiency. It said the situation taking such an “ugly turn is also a reflection on the government of India and its inefficiency and indifference”. “It is a failure on the part of the Centre that it couldn’t stop the escalation of violence at the border between the security forces of two neighbouring states,” it said. The Samaj also raised the economic blockade, pointing out that supplies of “life-saving drugs and even Covid vaccines to Mizoram are being stopped”. “The government of Assam and the government of India haven’t done anything to remove the blockade. This is a matter of grave concern for all of us,” it said. The Nagarik Samaj said the Assam-Mizoram border dispute must be resolved through a process of negotiations, taking all the stakeholders into confidence. “Economic blockade is no solution. We appeal to all concerned that the economic blockade should be withdrawn immediately and free flow of supplies ensured so that common people in Mizoram don’t suffer. Each state in the Northeast has its distinctive culture. We have differences, but we also have common cultural threads and a shared past,” the Samaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
08-08-2021||North East||Two Trinamul Congress leaders hurt in Tripura||Two Trinamul leaders from Bengal were injured in Tripura’s Dolubari, some 96km from Agartala, in an attack by suspected workers of the ruling BJP on Saturday. A Tripura Trinamul leader, Ashish Lal Singh, said BJP workers hurled brickbats at a vehicle, injuring his party colleagues Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta. Tripura BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya dismissed the charges. Trinamul leader Abhishek Banerjee tweeted he would visit Tripura on Sunday. Singh alleged the attack occurred around 3pm. Raha suffered injuries when a piece of brick landed on his head, while Jaya had cuts on her ear. “We have lodged a case with Dhalai police,” Singh said, and added that the incident proved that the BJP was scared of Trinamul in Tripura. Trinamul staged a two-hour roadblock at Dolubari to protest the attack. Singh accused the cops of being mute spectators. “The police could not even arrange an ambulance for those injured. Two of our vehicles had been damaged in the attack. About 20 metres from our roadblock, BJP workers were raising cries of Jai Shri Ram with the police looking on.” Police refuted allegations of inaction and added that two persons had been injured in the attack by two unidentified persons. The BJP spokesperson in Tripura also alleged that the Trinamul and CPM were “hand-in-glove” in Tripura, which the Trinamul leader denied.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
