10-08-2021||North East||Bomb blast in Shillong, Chief Minister condemns attack||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Tuesday condemned the improvised bomb attack by an outlawed organisation behind a busy market area in the state capital here injuring two persons including a woman. The 1kg remotely timed improvised explosive device (IED), triggered by the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), went off at around 1:30 pm behind a busy market area in Laitumkhrah injuring a shopkeeper and a passer-by. The Police have registered a case and investigation is currently on to nab those involved in carrying out the blast. "Strongly condemn the IED blast reported in Laitumkhrah earlier this afternoon that has injured two citizens. Home Minister, @LahkmenR & officials of @MeghalayaPolice have apprised me on the matter and further investigation is being carried out," Sangma posted on his social media handles including Twitter. Local MLA Ampareen Lyngdoh also condemned the incident. "I condemn this terrible act of violence which has injured two civilians in the heart of Shillong. The use of violence can never be justified and @MeghalayaPolice must investigate the incident & arrest those who are responsible for this," she said. Once a dreaded armed group in Meghalaya and active in the Khasi-Jaintia Hills region, the organisation which is reputed to have a base camp in Bangladesh, was banned as an 'unlawful organisation' by the Ministry of Home Affairs in 2019 on grounds that "the outfit is yet to abjure violence". The HNLC, a breakaway faction of the earlier Hynniewtrep Achik Liberation Council (1993) primarily operates in the Khasi-Jaintia Hills region, and has carried out a number of attacks in the past. It claims it wishes to free people from alleged domination by outsiders . Last month the rebel outfit carried out an attack at a police reserve barracks in East Jaintia Hills district headquarters injuring a policeman and damaging buildings. Three persons were later arrested. A year ago, the outfit had carried out a blast at a cement plant in the same district while in 2015, the rebel outfit had carried out an IED attack in the Jhalupara area of the city. No one was injured. Although tripartite peace negotiation is ongoing with the rebel outfit, the Meghalaya government has maintained that the outfit has to abstain from violence if it wants to negotiate peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
10-08-2021||North East||Akhil rules out merger, agrees to work with Mamata Banerjee||Assam MLA and Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi on Monday ruled out the merger of his party with the Trinamul Congress but said he was ready to work with Mamata Banerjee to strengthen federalism and oust the ruling BJP in the 2024 general election. Akhil said the decision not to merge with Trinamul was taken at the Raijor Dal’s executive meeting held here on Sunday because it was a “difficult proposition” as his party represented the hopes and aspirations of the people of Assam. “We discussed threadbare Trinamul’s proposal that I lead its Assam unit and merge our party Raijor Dal. We have decided to submit a proposal to the Trinamul that we will not merge but want to remain as a regional force. We want to join hands with other such forces, including Trinamul, to strengthen federalism because the BJP is trying to destroy our federal structure,” Akhil said. Gogoi, the lone Raijor Dal MLA, said he has met Trinamul chief and Bengal chief minister Mamata thrice in Calcutta, the last time on Saturday in presence of political strategist Prashant Kishor. Raijor Dal general secretary Hussain Mahammad Shahjahan was also present during the three meetings. Reaching out to Akhil is part of Trinamul’s efforts to extend its footprints beyond Bengal where it won a third consecutive term in May. The party has already intensified its activities in BJP-ruled Tripura in its bid to form the next government there in 2023. Assam, which also has a BJP-led coalition government, is another state where Trinamul fancies its chances because of a significant Bengali-speaking population and Mamata’s rising political stock after Trinamul’s resounding win in the Bengal Assembly polls despite heavy odds. The Telegraph had earlier reported that the “fiercely independent and fearless” Akhil will not agree to the merger offer but will work with regional forces. Praising Mamata, Akhil said she has been a strong supporter of federalism. “She always speaks for strong federalism... I admire her for that and am ready to work under her leadership to strengthen federalism in India,” he said. He also said that Raijor Dal would support Mamata if she is projected as the prime ministerial candidate by the regional parties in 2024. He said Raijor Dal would also “want to be part” of a government formed by regional parties so that it could “raise and resolve” the burning issues of Assam and the Northeast that include restoration of the special category status, constitutional safeguard for Assam and the National Register of Citizens. Akhil also said that he was ready to ally with the Congress-led grand alliance  in Assam for the bypolls provided it severed its ties with the AIUDF led by Badruddin Ajmal. “If we have to oust the BJP, the Congress-led mahajot has to end its ties with the AIUDF. As long as communal AIUDF is active, BJP will remain in power. Both the BJP and AIUDF are communal,” Akhil. The BJP-led mitrajot won a second straight term in May despite the mahajot putting up a spirited challenge. Akhil, who spent more than a year in jail because of his alleged role in the anti-CAA protest in Assam in 2019, has become one of the active Opposition faces against the ruling BJP in the Assam Assembly. Two PCC working presidents Rana Goswami and Jakir Hussain Sikdar had met Akhil on Sunday with a proposal to work together till the 2026 Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-12
