14-08-2021||North East||Bomb blast damages school near Assam-Mizoram border||After a brief lull, tension along the Assam-Mizoram border escalated again on Saturday after unidentified miscreants bombed a government educational institute in Hailakandi district, triggering fear among locals, a senior police officer said. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma stated that a probe will be carried out into the incident. The blast that took place at Sahebmarra around midnight damaged a major portion of a primary school, close to the interstate border, though no casualty has been reported so far, Hailakandi Superintendent of Police Gaurav Upadhyaya told reporters. Official sources here said that locals in the area suspect that miscreants from the other side of the border bombed the school. A police officer in Mizoram's Kolasib district, bordering Hailakandi, however, asserted that there was no reason for anyone to explode bomb in Sahebmarra, which isn't a disputed area . "Why should people from Mizoram go and explode bombs in a place that falls in Assam. It is not a disputed area," Kolasib Superintendent of Police (SP) Vanlalfaka Ralte pointed out. According to Upadhyaya, more details will be available after a thorough investigation. Sarma, on his part, asserted that he will write to his Mizoram counterpart and request for a probe into the blast. As the incident occurred within "our territory, the Assam police will conduct an inquiry into it," the CM maintained. He also said that intelligence reports had suggested sporadic incidents may occur along the border and "I had mentioned about it in the assembly on Friday". It will take time for complete peace to return to Assam's border with Mizoram, he added. Meanwhile, AIUDF MLA from Katlicherra, Suzam Uddin Laskar, alleged that people from Mizoram have initiated road construction work in Chuninullah area of Hailakandi, and demanded immediate action from the Assam government. He claimed that inaction on the part of the state government has made the boundary dispute critical. Responding to the allegation, the Kolasib SP said local village leaders on the two sides of the border have mutually agreed to construct roads for the convenience of people and ease of movement. Border dispute between Assam and Mizoram had reached a flashpoint with six Assam policemen and a civilian losing lives in a bloody conflict on July 26 in Cachar district. A series of complaints was filed in both the states against top officials, with the Mizoram Police even registering a case against the Assam chief minister. Assam followed it up by issuing a travel advisory cautioning people from travelling to Mizoram while several organisations resorted to a road blockade to prevent trucks from moving to the neighbouring state. It was after the Centre intervened and neutral forces were deployed along the interstate border, the situation eased considerably with the states withdrawing cases against each other. Two Assam ministers Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal visited Aizawl and the both the state governments subsequently issued a joint statement pledging to maintain status quo and peace along the border. The Assam government also persuaded the organisations staging a blockade to lift it and free movement of vehicles resumed from August 8. Tension along the border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam has been building up since October 2020 with frequent incidents of land encroachment, grenade blasts reported from these areas. The two states share a 164.6-km border spanning across Assam's districts of Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj, and Mizoram's Kolasib, Mamit and Aizawl. The long-standing dispute has its origin in two notifications -- one of 1875 that differentiated Lushai Hills from the plains of Cachar, and another of 1933 that demarcates a boundary between Lushai Hills and Manipur. Mizoram insists that the boundary demarcation made in the 1875 notification be followed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||North East||TMC’s Bratya Basu urges Tripura’s CPI(M) workers to join the party||Criticising the opposition CPI(M) in Tripura for allegedly not coming out on the streets to protest against the ‘state-sponsored terror tactic’ of the BJP and protect its supporters, senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Bratya Basu on Saturday appealed to the Left supporters to join the Mamata Banerjee-led party. The CPI(M), which ruled the state for 25 years before being ousted by a BJP-led coalition in 2018, however, denied the charge and said its workers and leaders were the first to face the attack of the saffron party. Senior TMC leaders from West Bengal are of late visiting the North-eastern state where the assembly election is due in 2023. When the BJP has let loose a reign of terror in Tripura, the leaders of the main opposition party CPI(M) are not coming out on the streets to protest. If the leaders do not stand by the supporters, they should join our party," Basu, also a minister in West Bengal, said. The CPI(M) should not help the saffron party by opposing the TMC, Basu told a press conference. The TMC dethroned the CPI(M)-led Left Front in West Bengal in 2011 after the grouping was in power for 34 years. The Mamata Banerjee-led party returned to power in the state for its third consecutive term earlier this year facing stiff opposition from the BJP. Basu alleged that people in the state are looking for shelter in the face of terror unleashed by the saffron party in both the states Tripura and West Bengal. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura on August 8 for "violating Covid norms". We were booked and attacked by the BJP sheltered goons, but not afraid. It is a state-sponsored terror tactic, but we know how to face it. Mamata-di (Banerjee) is with us. If your (CPI-M) workers) leaders are not giving you protection, join the TMC," Basu said. Asserting that the TMC will capture power in the next assembly elections in Tripura, Basu claimed that a large number of leaders of the Congress and the BJP are in touch with the TMC. The TMC started its organisation in Tripura in 1999 when former chief minister, the late Sudhir Ranjan Majumder, joined the party. Former Congress minister Prakash Das, ex-BJP office bearer Subal Bhowmik, state Youth Congress working president Santanu Saha and others joined the TMC recently. The allegations against the party were rejected by the CPI(M)'s Tripura secretary Gautam Das. "We are facing the saffron terror and our leaders are always standing by the supporters and workers of the party. Our party workers came under attack following a rally at Khowai district two days back. The house of our MLA was attacked, ransacked, even BJP sheltered goons hurled bombs in his house," he said. Basu is making baseless allegations to get some support, he claimed. He said that six TMC MLAs had joined the BJP before the 2018 assembly elections in Tripura, thus helping the saffron party come to power. Several other senior West Bengal TMC leaders including Parliamentarians Santanu Sen and Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, and Tripura leaders such as Subal Bhowmik and Ashish Lal Singh were present at the press conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||North East||BJP rallies in Tripura against 'CPM and Trinamul friendship'||The BJP on Friday brought out rallies in Tripura in protest against the “CPM and Trinamul friendship” and the alleged efforts by the two parties to create instability in the northeastern state. The day the BJP showed its strength, around 30 Congress and BJP members joined the Trinamul Congress at a hotel in Agartala in the presence of Bengal minister Bratya Basu and MP Santanu Sen. BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya told The Telegraph that the party had to stage the rallies to counter the “misleading and disrespectful narrative” being fanned by visiting Trinamul leaders against the state government and chief minister Biplab Deb. “CPM-backed Trinamul people have said Tripura people have chosen the wrong party to lead the state. How can they say that? Are people of Tripura ignorant? Do they mean to say that? This is grossly misleading by a party (Trinamul) which is backed by the CPM. We won the polls convincingly and in a democratic manner to lead the state with our ally,” Bhattacharya said. The BJP and the IPFT won the 2018 elections to end the 25-year reign of the Left Front. “They (Trinamul leaders) have been using unparliamentary words like chor and goonda.... The rally was to highlight their misleading and disrespectful narrative to create instability,” Bhattacharya said. Friday’s protest rallies followed a police crackdown on Trinamul leaders. Few days ago, the police registered a case against six leaders, including national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, education minister Bratya Basu, MP Dola Sen and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, for allegedly obstructing public servants from discharging their duty. A purported video from inside the Khowai police station showed scenes of heated exchange between Abhishek and some police officers. They were booked for their alleged misbehaviour with police officers inside the Khowai police station on Sunday, the day the police arrested 14 Trinamul activists for violating Covid restrictions. They have secured bail. Accusing the administration of partisan conduct, minister Basu told media persons that Trinamul did not get permission to hold the joining rally but the ruling BJP was allowed to take out a huge procession despite Covid restrictions. Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen said that the arrests of the Trinamul workers in Tripura were illegal. “Irrespective of what they (BJP) do, we will continue with our political activities,” Sen said after the joining programme held around 4.30 pm. Bengal-based Trinamul leaders have made several visits to Tripura since mid-July, assessing the party’s strength and the measures required to tone it up. A new state committee is expected by September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
14-08-2021||North East||Assam Assembly passes bill imposing ban on cow slaughter||The Assam Assembly on Friday passed a bill that imposes a complete ban on cow slaughter and regulates the sale of beef and transport of cattle within the state and from outside. Violation of the slaughter ban and the transport of cattle without valid permits will invite stiff penalties under the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021. The bill was passed in spite of the Opposition urging the BJP-led government to send it to the select committee for wider discussions. The Opposition had proposed 75 amendments, stressing the adverse economic impact of the bill on the farming community. The government accepted one: exempting buffaloes from the list of cattle. The list of cattle will now cover bulls, bullocks, cows, heifers and calves. When it became clear that the government would pass the bill, the Congress, AIUDF, CPM and Raijor Dal MLAs walked out. Muslims make up 34 per cent of Assam’s population while beef is widely consumed across the Northeast, which has a large Christian population. Beef products will no longer be permitted to be sold in areas predominantly inhabited by Hindus, Jains and Sikhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
