15-08-2021||North East||TMC alleges that its two MPs were attacked twice in Tripura||The Trinamul Congress alleged that its two MPs, Dola Sen and Aparupa Poddar, had come under attack twice by suspected BJP members in Tripura on Sunday. Tripura Trinamul leader Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph that the MPs from Bengal had gone to Nandigram in the Sabroom subdivision, about 120 km from Agartala, to hoist the national flag at the party office. Tripura is ruled by the BJP-IPFT coalition government. Sharing details of the alleged attack, Singh said: “From Nandigram, the MPs went to open a new party office, about 7km away. Our women MPs were attacked by BJP goons. This shows there is no security for even women in Tripura. The cars they were travelling in were damaged by the hoodlums who were armed with rods and sticks. An old party hand, Becharam Das, suffered serious injuries to the head.” Both the MPs returned to Calcutta in the evening after receiving treatment at GB Pant Hospital in Agartala. Over the past couple of weeks, Trinamul had alleged that leaders — including national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee — had been repeatedly attacked in Tripura as the ruling BJP was worried about Trinamul’s growing popularity in the state. Official sources said suspected BJP members had pelted the cars of the MPs with stones. “The driver of one of the cars was injured. The MPs were not hurt. An investigation is on and action will be taken against the attackers,” said a source. Trinamul sources said Poddar and Sen had faced attacks twice, first in the Sabroom subdivision and then in the Belonia subdivision. Both the subdivisions are in South district. Reacting to Sunday’s incident, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said: “We condemn any sort of attacks. But at the same time, we want a thorough police inquiry because we are getting conflicting reports from the ground. We want the inquiry to find where and why Trinamul MPs went to Sabroom in South District. If they went, did they inform the local police?” Before leaving for Calcutta, Sen spoke to media persons at the GB Pant Hospital. “There is no freedom in Tripura where a goonda raj exists. We have taken a pledge on Independence Day to restore Tripura’s freedom with the support of people. Everyone should join hands to restore democracy in Tripura. Ten persons were injured in the attack,” the MP said. Sen alleged that the police and BJP activists were working together. “We have informed the Tripura DGP (V.S. Yadav) about the attack over phone and through WhatsApp.” Our leaders and supporters are not safe in Tripura.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
15-08-2021||North East||Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigns amid violence over police encounter of former militant||Meghalaya Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigned on Sunday amid violence in Shillong over the police shooting of a former militant.  Rymbui also urged Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma to institute a judicial inquiry into the shooting of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the self-styled general secretary of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council who had surrendered.  "I hereby express shock to the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law," he stated in his letter to the chief minister.  "I would like to request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect. This will facilitate free and fair inquiry taken by the government to bring out the truth of the incident. I propose judicial inquiry be conducted," he added.  Rymbui told PTI that his United Democratic Party also backed the decision to step down.  "I have put forth my papers, after due consultation with my party leadership, to allow a free and fair probe into the killing of Thangkhiew," he said.  UDP, an ally of the Sangma's NPP in the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government, also urged for a judicial probe into the incident, which resulted in violent protests, Rymbui said.  A source close to the chief minister said the government accepted the resignation as the home minister was unaware of the incident.  The Meghalaya government has imposed a curfew in Shillong and banned mobile internet services in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the state capital and nearby areas on Independence Day.  Thangkhiew, who had surrendered in 2018, was shot dead on August 13 when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during a raid at his house in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state.  Police said they have evidence that Thangkhiew masterminded the blasts after his surrender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
15-08-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma invites ULFA (I) chief for peace talks||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday appealed to ULFA (I) chief Paresh Barua to come to the negotiating table. Sarma also expressed his gratitude to COVID warriors for their unrelenting fight against the pandemic, and reaffirmed his government's commitment to the war against drugs and human trafficking. He made 10 'requests' to the people of Assam, including taking care of aging parents and marrying off daughters not before the age of 21, to mark the 75th Independence Day. Speaking at the state function organised on the occasion, the chief minister said that Assam is celebrating Independence Day without any bandh called by militant groups, including ULFA, for the first time in decades. “On behalf of the people of Assam, I appeal to Paresh Barua to come forward for dialogue. Let no youth of our state be killed anymore,” he said. The ULFA (I), which had been calling for Assam Bandh on Independence Day and Republic Day for several decades, refrained from the practice for the first time for Independence Day this year. The outfit has also declared a unilateral ceasefire since May this year in view of the pandemic situation. The chief minister had earlier urged Barua to come for peace talks after assuming power in May this year. Sarma thanked all COVID warriors, including doctors, nurses, laboratory technicians and ambulance drivers, for working tirelessly in the pandemic. Noting that COVID-19 vaccination for all eligible people was progressing well in the state, he said that 1.5 crore doses will be administered in the next one week. He congratulated boxer Lovlina Borgohain for her Olympic bronze medal and said that her success is an inspiration for all. Sarma paid tributes to the six Assam Police personnel killed in violence along the inter-state border with Mizoram on July 26, and conferred them the 'Chief Minister's Special Service Medal in a Crisis Situation' posthumously. He said that the Assam government is committed to resolving the border disputes without compromising with the state's constitutional boundary. "I urge the northeastern states to resolve the disputes through talks to keep the 'soul' of our region alive," he said. The chief minister said that the Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, which was passed by the assembly on Friday, shows the state government's resolve to protect the cultural ethos of the state. He said that the government is committed to eradicating poverty through population control and will carry on its war against drugs, human trafficking and other social menaces. Sarma said his government will fulfil its pre-poll promises including providing one lakh government jobs and waiving loans taken by women from micro-finance institutions. "We want to do away with red-tapism in bureaucracy," he said. The chief minister announced that freedom fighters' pension issued by the state government will be increased to Rs 36,000 at par with the central remuneration and state honours will be accorded to all these former revolutionaries during their last rites. He made 10 'requests' to the people of the state and urged them to comply with these to build a better Assam. Sarma urged people to observe birth and death anniversaries of Vaishanvite preachers Srimanta Sankardeva and Madhabdeva as opportunities to emulate their teachings. He called on people to make it a tradition to begin all programmes with a rendition of the state song and conclude those with the National Anthem. Urging people to take care of their aging parents, the chief minister said that his government will sanction seven days leave per year to its employees to visit their parents and requested other employers and businessmen to follow suit. To improve the work culture, he requested government employees to spend an extra hour at the office and leave no work pending. He appealed to people to stop using single-use plastics and do at least one 'good deed' this year like giving free tuition to needy students or organising health camps. Sarma urged people not to marry off their daughters till they attain the age of 21, and cooperate with police to fight drugs and human trafficking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
15-08-2021||North East||Ulfa-I extends unilateral ceasefire announced on May 15 by another three months||The proscribed Ulfa (Independent) on Saturday extended its unilateral ceasefire announced on May 15 by another three months because the pandemic situation in Assam was yet to stabilise. The declaration comes close on the heels of its August 12 declaration not to call its customary Independence Day bandh, the first time since 1996. The twin Ulfa (I) announcements and Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s positive response has fuelled speculations of a bilateral ceasefire being round the corner to pave the way for a formal peace process between the Centre and the outfit. In a statement emailed to a section of journalists, Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief Paresh Barua said the decision to extend the ceasefire was taken because the Covid situation was yet to stabilise and that they will shun hostilities as part of their social responsibility. Till Friday, there were 8,654 active cases in the state, of which 763 cases were detected during the day. Altogether 20 deaths because of Covid were also reported. Though curfew hours have been reduced, the ban on inter-district travel imposed in May continues to check the spread of Covid-19. The ongoing ceasefire, announced on May 15 because of difficulties faced by the masses owing to Covid-19, is only the second time since 2006 that the outfit has announced cessation of hostilities. The outfit had in 2006 responded to the Centre’s decision to temporarily suspend all counter-insurgency operations to pave the way for talks. Sarma, who had appealed to Ulfa (I) to join the mainstream the day he assumed charge on May 10, described the extension of ceasefire as a very “positive and encouraging” sign. “Before this the Ulfa had also not called its customary bandh on Independence Day... I hope this ceasefire becomes permanent and pray that the Ulfa (I) under the leadership of Paresh Barua returns to the mainstream with full honour,” Sarma said. The Ulfa, formed in 1979, has led an armed insurgency with the objective of securing a sovereign Assam. It was banned in 1990. Over the years its top-ranking members have joined the mainstream. It also suffered a major split in 2011 when the then Ulfa chairman Arabinda Rajkhowa decided to join the peace process. Barua has since renamed his faction Ulfa (Independent). Time and again Barua has made it clear he was not against talks but negotiations have to include the issue of sovereignty. Since the Centre wants the talks to be held within the framework of the Constitution, past efforts at peace have not made much headway. Sources said moves are now on to find a middle path so that the peace process can take off. “Not calling a bandh on Independence Day and extension of ceasefire are welcome as these fuel hopes of a breakthrough,” a source said. Though the Ulfa (I) has not called any bandh on Sunday, it has, however, urged the masses to stage their protest democratically by hoisting the outfit’s flag, waving black flags and wearing black badges by adhering to Covid protocol. Barua is said to be controlling the reins of his outfit from the Myanmar-China border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-11
