16-08-2021||North East||HNLC leader encounter death: Meghalaya orders judicial probe||The Meghalaya government announced a judicial investigation into the encounter killing of a former militant leader whose supporters committed vandalism and arson on Independence Day, forcing the administration to clamp curfew in state capital Shillong where the situation is peaceful on Monday. The government will set up a peace committee headed by Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong comprising representatives of civil society organisations and others as members, Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma said after an emergent cabinet meeting. The government also decided to extend curfew in Shillong by another 24 hours till 5 am of August 18. Mobile internet services will also remain withdrawn for the next 24 hours, he said. “Based on the suggestion of the members, the cabinet has decided to institute a judicial inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act to look into the events that took place on August 13,” Sangma said. The chief minister, however, did not name the judge who will probe the August 13 encounter death of 54-year-old Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the former self-styled general secretary of the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC). The Ministry of Home Affairs has approved deployment of additional central armed paramilitary forces (CAPFs) to assist the state in containing the law and order situation in the state capital. “I have spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah twice yesterday on the law and order situation. Five additional companies of CAPFs have been requisitioned and four have already arrived,” Sangma said in a video statement. Two companies of Border Security Force and Central Reserve Police Force each have reached the state. The deputy CM headed peace committee will also have cabinet ministers H Dohling and R Tongkhar. "The committee will co-opt members from civil societies, religious organisations, community heads, etc," Sangma said. "There will also be a Sub-Committee for Security & Law & Order headed by the Chief Minister, Sh. @SangmaConrad with Deputy CM & Home Minister as members to look into aspects of law & order, possible future threats & overall functioning of @MeghalayaPolice," he tweeted later. Although Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui has resigned on Sunday amid violence in Shillong “to allow a free and fair probe into the killing”, the chief minister is learnt to have not accepted his resignation. Rymbui belongs to the United Democratic Party, an ally of the National People’s Party headed Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government. Rymbui and his party had urged the chief minister to announce a judicial probe into the killing of Thangkhiew who had surrendered in 2018. The state BJP has condoled the death of Thangkhiew. "I on behalf of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Meghalaya Pradesh. I understand the family lost a father, which is irreplaceable and has left a vacuum to the family," BJP state president Ernest Mawrie said in a condolence message on Sunday. Thangkhiew was shot dead on August 13 when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during a raid at his house in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state. Arson and vandalism were reported from Jaiaw and Mawalai areas of Shillong on Independence Day when the former militant leader’s funeral took place. Unidentified miscreants hurled petrol bombs at the private residence of the chief minister at Third Mile area of Upper Shillong on Sunday night but no one was injured. He was at his official Polo Hills residence at that time. A few hours later, a CRPF vehicle proceeding to control the situation came under attack by a mob who were burning tyres on a road at Mawlai. Two police vehicles were also torched at the two affected areas on Sunday night. However, no untoward incident was reported from anywhere of the state capital till the evening on Monday. “The situation in the state capital remained peaceful today. It is under control,” a senior home department official told PTI. The Meghalaya Human Rights Commission had on Sunday directed Chief Secretary MS Rao to furnish a detailed report on Thangkhiew’s death within 15 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||North East||Meghalaya home minister resigns amid violence over police shooting of former militant||Meghalaya Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigned on Sunday amid violence in Shillong over the police shooting of a former militant. Rymbui also urged Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma to institute a judicial inquiry into the shooting of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the self-styled general secretary of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council who had surrendered. "I hereby express shock to the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law," he stated in his letter to the chief minister. "I would like to request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect. This will facilitate free and fair inquiry taken by the government to bring out the truth of the incident. I propose judicial inquiry be conducted," he added. Rymbui’s plea came after the several pressure groups demanded his resignation after the killing of  Thangkhiew, which various groups claimed was a “cold-blood murder”. Rymbui told PTI that his United Democratic Party also backed the decision to step down. "I have put forth my papers, after due consultation with my party leadership, to allow a free and fair probe into the killing of Thangkhiew," he said. UDP, an ally of the Sangma's NPP in the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance government, also urged for a judicial probe into the incident, which resulted in violent protests, Rymbui said. A source close to the chief minister said the government accepted the resignation as the home minister was unaware of the incident. On Sunday Black flags were spotted at several locations in Shillong in protest against the “killing” of Thangkhiew, reported Nagaland Post. The flags were put up by a group under the banner “Voice of Mawlai people”. In wake of the series of incidents in Shillong and its outskirts, the Independence Day celebration was held in a very low-key manner. Meghalaya DGP, R Chandranathan said that a SUV vehicle requisition by the State police was hijacked by miscreants near Umshing-Mawkynroh police outpost before it was set ablaze at Jaiaw area. Chandranathan said the miscreants also decamped with three INSAS rifles and one magazine of the SF-10 personnel from the vehicle, according to Nagaland Post. Hijackers drove the  SUV vehicle through Mawlai, brandishing the police looted weapon, as witnessed by people along  streets in Mawlai. “The investigation is on to find out the identity of these miscreants,” the police official said. The Meghalaya government has imposed a curfew in Shillong and banned mobile internet services in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the state capital and nearby areas on Independence Day. Thangkhiew, who had surrendered in 2018, was shot dead on August 13 when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during a raid at his house in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state. Police said they have evidence that Thangkhiew masterminded the blasts after his surrender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||North East||Khadi to boost Arunachal Pradesh's 1,000-year-old paper craft||The efforts to revive a 1,000-year-old handmade paper-making craft of Arunachal Pradesh’s Monpa community has received further boost with the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) making the paper available for sale through its online portal. The efforts for revival, which had featured in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat, has been attributed to the personal initiative of Tawang-based lawyer and social worker Maling Gombu, KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena and the state government. The revival work started last year and culminated with the inauguration of the Monpa handmade paper-making unit in Tawang, bordering China, on December 25 last year to save the traditional craft driven to extinction. Modi had referred to this revival in his radio programme, through which he reaches out to the masses on important developments and success stories. “Friends, an example of how protection of environment can open avenues of income was seen in Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh too. For centuries a type of paper called ‘Mon Shugu’ is made in this hilly region of Arunachal Pradesh. The locals here make this paper from the bark of a plant named Shugu Sheng, hence trees do not have to be cut to make this paper. Besides, no chemical is used in making this paper, thus, this paper is safe for the environment and for health too,” Modi had said. The Prime Minister also said in his broadcast: “There was a time when this paper was exported but with modern techniques, large amount of paper started getting made and this local art was pushed to the brink of closure. Now, a local social worker Gombu has made an effort to rejuvenate this art, this is also giving employment to tribal brothers and sisters there.” An elated 47-year-old Gombu told the Telegraph that it was a matter of great pride to feature in Mann Ki Baat and be part of a historic effort. “What has happened is that our revival efforts has received a huge boost with the Prime Minister mentioning it in his programme. More people will know about this unique hand-made paper. Its demand will rise. For us preserving the ancient art form is of paramount importance. We are grateful to the KVIC for its support. The KVIC chairman also launched the sale of the paper through its portal www.khadiindia.gov.in. We are selling over 500 sheets a month on an average. It is a double delight for us,” Gombu said. An official KVIC note — Revival of 1000 years old Heritage Art of Monpa Handmade Paper in Tawang (Arunachal Pradesh) —said the heritage art of making Monpa handmade paper originated over 1,000 years ago. Once produced in every household in Tawang, this handmade paper was a source of livelihood for the locals. However, the industry almost disappeared in the last 100 years; prompting KVIC to plan a revival of this ancient art. The fine-textured handmade paper, which is called Mon Shugu in the local dialect, has great historic and religious significance, as it is the paper used for writing Buddhist scriptures and hymns in monasteries. “Setting up of the paper unit is a historic event for the locals. Monpa handmade paper is produced from the bark of Shugu Sheng tree which is a native to Tawang region. In ancient times, Monpa handmade paper made in Tawang was exported to many countries such as Tibet, Bhutan, Thailand and Japan. However, this art gradually declined and was replaced by Chinese paper,” the note said. An attempt at revival of this handmade paper industry was also made in 1994 but failed because of various geographical challenges in Tawang. This time, too, it took almost three months of rigorous efforts to commission the unit owing to Tawang’s difficult mountainous terrains and inclement weather conditions. KVIC chairman Saxena, who was equally upbeat after Modi’s appreciation of the revival efforts, told over the phone from Delhi that the ongoing revival initiative was aligned with the Prime Minister’s call for preserving India’s dying heritage crafts. “At the same time, the Monpa handmade paper is an apt example of ‘Local to Global’ owing to its huge export potential. The paper unit has engaged 12 female and two male artisans who can produce 500 to 600 sheets per day and earn Rs 400 per day as wages. The paper is being sold through our portal. A 24 by 16 inch size sheet is sold for Rs 50. The Monpa hand-made paper is unique because of its durability, lasting about 500 years, and nothing written on it can be erased,” Saxena said. Monasteries and artists are potential buyers. “I am also in touch with monasteries in Leh and Ladakh,” Saxena said. “Our experts from Jaipur handmade paper unit visited Tawang thrice and we have spent around Rs 25 lakh to set up the unit. By increasing production of Monpa handmade paper, it can again be exported to other countries and regain the space occupied by China in the last few decades. This is a local product with great global potential. We are sure as business grows, number of people engaged by the plant will also grow. I am thankful to Maling Gombu and the Arunachal government for all their support,” Saxena said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
16-08-2021||North East||Petrol bombs hurled at Meghalaya chief minister's private residence, curfew in Shillong||Unidentified miscreants on Sunday night lobbed a petrol bomb at the residence of Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma, police said.  The incident took place around 10.15 pm when vehicle-borne attackers lobbed two Molotov cocktail bottles at the premises of his personal residence at Third Mile in Upper Shillong, they said.  No one was injured in the incident, according to a senior district police officer.  The first bottle was lobbed at the front part of the house while the second one was thrown behind the backyard, he said, prompting the guards there to douse the fire immediately. Curfew was imposed in Shillong and mobile internet stopped in at least four districts of Meghalaya on Sunday amid vandalism and arson over the police encounter of a top militant leader, who had surrendered, officials said.  The curfew was imposed in Shillong from 8 pm on Sunday till 5 am on Tuesday, they said.  Mobile internet was stopped for 48 hours, beginning at 6 pm, in East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hills and Ri-Bhoi districts, they said.  Stray incidents of vandalism and arson were reported, having the potential to disturb public peace and tranquility and cause a threat to public safety, Home Secretary CVD Diengdoh said, quoting reports from the police headquarters.  Violence was reported from these areas as Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, a militant who had surrendered, was laid to rest at a cemetery in Shillong after being killed by police in an encounter at his home on August 13.  Thangkhiew was suspected to be the mastermind of a spate of IED attacks since his surrender in 2018, police said.  Director-General of Police R Chandranathan said there was ample evidence against Thangkhiew when he sent his team to arrest the "retired" general-secretary of the banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC).  Thangkhiew allegedly attacked the police with a knife when his home was being raided, provoking a retaliatory shot in which he was killed, Chandranathan had said.  Hundreds of his supporters carried black flags as his body was taken to the cemetery.  Government vehicles were vandalised and a police vehicle was set on fire at Jaiaw area of Shillong allegedly by his supporters, police said.  Banning mobile internet, the chief secretary said, "Messaging systems like SMS, Whatsapp and social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and Youtube are likely to be used for transmission of pictures, videos and text and have the potential to cause serious breakdown of law and order."  The curfew was imposed in Shillong through an order issued by East Khasi Hills district administrator Isawanda Laloo.  The Meghalaya Human Right Commission has also taken suo moto cognisance of the encounter, noting, "The instant case appears to have resulted in gross human rights violation which according to Article 21 of the Constitution mandates for protection of life and personal liberty for every person within the territory of India."  The commission has directed the chief secretary to submit a detailed report on the incident within 15 days, failing which the commission has said it will conduct its own investigation into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
