17-08-2021||North East||Curfew to be lifted for daylight hours on August 18: Sangma||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Tuesday said curfew, which has been clamped here following unrest, will be lifted for daylight hours on August 18 as there were no untoward incidents in the last 24 hours. Easing of the restrictions will continue till Wednesday evening, he said. The curfew has been imposed in Shillong till 5 am of August 18 and mobile internet services withdrawn in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the state capital and nearby areas on Independence Day during the funeral procession of a former militant, who was killed in a recent police encounter. The CM said mobile internet services will also be restored by Wednesday evening. “There were no untoward incidents reported in the state capital in the past 24 hours. We are positive that normalcy will return. We will ease curfew till Wednesday evening. Mobile internet services will also be restored by tomorrow evening,” Sangma said. Violence erupted in Mawlai and Jaiaw areas of Shillong following the death of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, the former self-styled general secretary of the outlawed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), in an encounter when the police raided his home in the early hours of August 13. Thangkhiew, who had surrendered in 2018, was shot dead when he allegedly tried to attack a police team with a knife during the raid in connection with a series of IED blasts in the state. "In Shillong, two persons were injured on August 10 after IED blasts occurred. Following this, an investigation was initiated, and based on the inputs, the raid was conducted," the chief minister said. Unidentified miscreants hurled petrol bombs at the residence of Sangma late on Sunday. A vehicle carrying CRPF personnel was attacked by protesters in Mawlai area here during curfew hours. The state government launched a police helpline for people in need of evacuation. “The Meghalaya Police has set up a helpline number for citizens stranded in the state capital. While there were no untoward incidents, those who wish to get evacuated will be assisted,” a senior home department official told PTI. He said three control rooms being handled by the state police are tasked with responding to evacuation calls from anyone and anywhere in the city. Meghalaya Home Minister Lahkmen Rymbui had resigned on Sunday amid violence in the city over the police shooting of the former militant. The Meghalaya Human Rights Commission has also taken suo moto cognisance of the encounter and asked Chief Secretary MS Rao to provide a report on the incident within 15 days. Sangma had on Monday announced a judicial investigation into the encounter killing of the former militant. The Assam government has also issued an advisory, asking people not to travel to Shillong in the wake of the law and order situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||North East||Assam exempts fully vaccinated travellers from mandatory Covid testing||The Assam government on Tuesday exempted fully vaccinated incoming people carrying the latest COVID-19 negative report from mandatory testing for the virus on arrival in the state. The order will come into immediate effect, but the exemption will not be applicable for symptomatic passengers, a notification issued by the Health and Family Welfare department said. All incoming passengers who have been vaccinated with two doses of COVID-19 vaccine will be exempted from mandatory testing on arrival at airports, railway stations, road border points, etc, it said. The passengers must possess a negative COVID test report taken within 72 hours of their arrival in Assam, it added. However, passengers who are symptomatic shall have to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing at their own cost on arrival at airports, railway stations, etc. in Assam," the notification. The exemption has been given in view of decreasing number of new COVID-19 positive cases in the country as well as the state and growing number of fully vaccinated people, it added. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Health and Family Welfare Minister Keshab Mahanta said there has been some requests regarding COVID-19 testing at airports and it was decided to do away with the mandatory test for fully vaccinated travellers. The Assam government had on June 25 this year also issued an order exempting air and train passengers from mandatory testing if they were fully vaccinated. But the order was withdrawn on July 15 in view of detection of COVID-19 cases among fully vaccinated people and testing was made compulsory once again. Continuous screening of all incoming passengers at airports and railway stations is being conducted in the state since the first wave of COVID-19 last year. Altogether 758 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the state on Monday, pushing the total number of infections to 5,79,899, while the death toll has reached 5,502 with 10 deaths in the last 24 hours. The COVID-19 recovery rate in the state stands at 97.49 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||North East||State announces judicial probe into ex-HNLC leader encounter||The Meghalaya government on Monday announced a judicial probe into the death of a former rebel leader in an encounter to stem the tide of resentment against the ruling dispensation that led to the imposition of curfew in Shillong and its adjoining areas on Sunday night. The government initially imposed curfew till Tuesday, which has since been extended till Wednesday, and banned Internet services in four of its 11 districts following the breakdown in law and order, the trigger being the simmering tension in the Mehalaya capital since the death of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew in an encounter with the police at his residence on August 13. The Meghalaya cabinet met under chief minister Conrad Sangma on Monday in the wake of the “ current law and order situation “ in Shillong and took the following decisions: ⚫ Constitution of a judicial inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act to look into the events that took place on August 13 morning resulting in the death of the former HNLC leader. ⚫Setting up a peace committee, which will be chaired by deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong and have cabinet ministers Hamletson Dohling and Renikton Tongkhar Lyngdoh as members. The committee will co-opt other members from the civil society, including religious organisations and other stakeholders. ⚫Constitution of a sub-committee for security and law and order to be headed by the chief minister, deputy chief minister and home minister. This committee will look into the different aspects of law and order. ⚫ Extension of curfew till 5am on Wednesday keeping in mind the overall situation in Shillong city. The curfew was to end at 5am on Tuesday. Ban on mobile Internet service in East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hills and Ri Bhoi districts to be extended for the next 24 hours. Though no untoward incident was reported during the day, tension is palpable in and around Shillong, sources said, something which might have influenced the decision to extend the curfew at one of the popular tourist destinations of the Northeast. Five additional companies of BSF and CRPF are being deployed in the city to ensure order. Assam police have advised people from the state not to travel to Shillong till the curfew remains in force. Incidents of arson, stone-pelting and theft were reported on Sunday and there was the possibility of things getting worse leading to the imposition of curfew at 8pm. Sources said four unidentified men seized a police vehicle from the Mawlai area and drove it in the city brandishing weapons left behind by fleeing cops before setting it ablaze in the Jaiaw area in the afternoon. Three constables were suspended on Monday for leaving their arms behind in the vehicle. Thousands attended Thangkhiew’s funeral on Sunday. His family claims the encounter was staged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
17-08-2021||North East||Mahila Congress chief joins TMC||Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, who was known for her proximity to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, joined the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Monday. A former MP from Assam, Dev had written to Sonia on Sunday, informing the Congress president of her resignation from the party. Trinamul announced Dev’s induction in a tweet which had pictures of her with the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and MP Derek O’ Brien. “I had the opportunity to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee... She has an excellent future vision of the party and I hope to be helpful in that regard,” Dev said. In her letter to Sonia, Dev did not cite any reason for her leaving a party her family had become synonymous with. Dev’s father and former Union minister the late Santosh Mohan Dev was a seven-time Congress MP, while her mother Bithika was an MLA of the party from Silchar. The 1972-born Dev had represented Silchar both in the Lok Sabha and the Assembly but lost the 2019 general election. She has had differences with the Assam Congress leadership over its stand on the Citizenship Amendment Act and the alliance with the AIUDF in the recent Assembly polls. Sources said, those difference were the main reason behind her decision to snap her ties with the Congress. Most were under the impression that she would be joining the ruling BJP given her proximity to incumbent Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma but her departure for Calcutta on Monday morning left none in doubt about her future political address. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said the party was moving on with its “eyes wide shut” in an apparent criticism of Dev leaving the party. Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah said though Dev’s departure was a loss, the party would be able to unearth another Dev very soon. Describing his ties with Dev as that of “a brother and sister”, Borah said she was frustrated after her electoral reverse. Dev is the third prominent Assam Congress leader to leave the party since the BJP came to power for the second consecutive time in May. Two sitting MLAs, Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain, had resigned from the Assembly last month to join the BJP. A senior PCC member said: “Dev joining Trinamul is not a setback. Both Trinamul and the Congress are fighting the BJP. Dev has only changed her home. Instead of Sonia Gandhi, she will now be fighting under Mamata Banerjee. It would have been a setback had she joined the BJP.” The mood in Tripura’s Trinamul unit was upbeat as Dev’s induction is seen as a part of the party’s plan to boost its prospects in the state it is trying to win from the BJP-IPFT alliance in the 2023 Assembly polls. “I would be most happy if Dev is made in charge of the Tripura unit because she and her father shared very close ties with our state. Dev knows Tripura quite well given her frequent visits. I feel she will be an asset,” state Trinamul leader Ashish Lal Singh told The Telegraph. Ashish’s father — Sachindra Lal Singh — had been Tripura’s first chief minister from 1963 to 1971. Echoing Singh, another Tripura Trinamul leader said as the Mahila Congress president, Dev had frequently visited the northeastern state. “She used to mostly stay at former Congress MLA Gopal Roy’s house and carry out her party activities. Her father — Santosh Mohan Dev — was quite popular. She too knows the lay of the land — and its politics — much better than some of the visiting party leaders. Her joining will surely give a big boost to the party,” he said. Santosh Mohan Dev passed away in 2017. Trinamul leaders in Assam’s Barak Valley that borders Tripura were also upbeat about the development because Dev is seen as a proactive politician. She hails from Silchar in Cachar district. Political observers said Dev did not join the BJP because Barak Valley, which has 15 Assembly seats and two Lok Sabha constituencies, has “almost 50:50 Hindu-Muslim population”. “The BJP is largely seen as an anti-Muslim party. This would have stifled Dev’s activities and progress,” one of them said. Assam Trinamul functionaries said more Congress leaders were in touch with them to switch sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
