18-08-2021||North East||Tripura HC refuses to stay police probe against Abhishek Banerjee, five others||The Tripura High Court on Wednesday refused to put a stay on the investigation against TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and five others for allegedly obstructing police officers from performing their duties, and asked the state government to justify within two weeks why the case should not be quashed. A complaint has been registered in Tripura against Banerjee, MP Dola Sen, West Bengal education minister Bratya Basu, TMC's Tripura leader Subal Bhowmick and two others under section 186 of the IPC for allegedly coming in the way of the police who were carrying out their duties. Senior TMC leader Subal Bhowmick subsequently filed a plea before the court seeking dismissal of the case and a stay on the investigation against the TMC leaders. Justice A A Kureshi, while hearing the case, asked the state government to file a reply in two weeks on why the case should not be dismissed, and asked the police to continue with the investigation. The judge, however, maintained that the police should not submit its final report without consulting the court. Kiran Kumar, the superintendent of police (SP) in Khowai district, had said that a suo moto complaint was filed on August 10 against the TMC leaders, who "misbehaved" with officers on duty two days ago. "We booked them on August 10 under Section 186 (obstruction of public servants in the discharge of his public function) and 36 (common intention) of the IPC. The FIR pertains to entry into the Khowai police station. They will be summoned," the SP had stated. At least 14 leaders and workers of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were arrested in Khowai district on August 8, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP men the day before, for "flouting Covid-19 norms". Shortly after, the party's national general secretary, who is also West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and the de facto number 2 in the party, flew to Agartala from Bengal to meet the apprehended workers in Khowai police station. Those arrested were later produced before a local court, which granted them bail. In a video that went viral on social media, the TMC national general secretary was seen raising his finger to enquire why his supporters were arrested "after having faced assaults". According to the police, the 14 TMC members were nabbed for venturing out after the imposition of night curfew at 7 pm, in violation of the Covid-19 restrictions. Bhowmik, when approached by reporters during the day, said, "We are happy that the high court has admitted the case. Let the police investigate... the truth will come out."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
18-08-2021||North East||Ajoy Kumar appointed AICC in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland, Tripura||The Congress on Wednesday appointed Ajoy Kumar in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura. Kumar, a former IPS officer and an MP from Jamshedpur in the 15th Lok Sabha who had quit the party to join the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the Jharkhand assembly elections in 2019, had rejoined the Congress in September 2020. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has appointed Kumar AICC in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura with immediate effect. Kuljit Singh Nagra was in-charge of party affairs in Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura earlier. He was relieved of his duties after being appointed working president in Punjab Congress to assist Navjot Singh Sidhu in the run-up to the next Punjab Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
18-08-2021||North East||Covid: Vaccine cash award of Rs 5 lakh announced by Meghalaya govt||The Meghalaya government has decided to award Rs 5 lakh each to the first 100 villages that get their eligible population vaccinated by August 31. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma made the announcement in Shillong on Sunday in his Independence Day speech, devoted mostly to the challenges posed by Covid-19 and the government steps to check its spread. “An amount of Rs 5 lakh will be given to every such village (which meets 100 per cent vaccination target) for carrying out development work,” Sangma said as part of the government step to remove vaccine hesitancy. According to Sangma, though cases are on the decline compared to the peak in May, positivity rates continue to be high. Since the onset of Covid-19 last year, Meghalaya has detected over 71,000 positive cases and lost over 1,200 lives, a major worry for the government and the trigger to people vaccinated. “Despite the understanding that Covid-19 vaccination is crucial for protection against severe disease and death, the progress of Covid-19 vaccination in the state is sadly unsatisfactory. As on date only 47% of eligible individuals have taken at least their first dose. There is considerable vaccine hesitancy in the State especially in the rural areas largely due to misinformation,” Sangma said. Along with vaccine hesitancy, Meghalaya is also confronted with refusal for testing and delays in seeking medical attention by infected persons. “Studies and statistics world over as well as practical evidence have indicated that the impact of Covid-19 has not been severe on persons who have been vaccinated. Vaccines give protection from serious illness and death,” Sangma said, hailing the efforts of the frontline workers, police force and civil officials to check Covid-19. Nagaland chief minister N. Rio and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga too dedicated a significant part of their speeches to the impact of Covid and the government and community’s resolve to check the infection. Both of them urged the public to get themselves vaccinated. All the three chief ministers also spoke about finding an amicable solution to their inter-state border disputes with Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
