19-08-2021||North East||Tripura BJP MLA asks members to attack TMC workers in 'Talibani' manner||A ruling BJP MLA in Tripura, Arun Chandra Bhowmik, has stoked a controversy by allegedly saying that his party activists should counter Trinamul Congress leaders in Talibani style if they land at Agartala airport. The saffron camp, however, said it is the MLA's version and not that of the BJP. With an eye on the Tripura Assembly polls in 2023, TMC leaders, including its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, are visiting the hilly state frequently to try and build a base and an organisation for the party which till now has been confined to Bengal. The TMC is trying to harm the Biplab Kumar Deb-led government in Tripura that came to power by ending the 25-year-long Communist rule. All these are happening due to the instigation of Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the legislator who represents Belonia constituency said. Bhowmik made this remark Wednesday during a felicitation ceremony for newly inducted Union minister of state for Social Justice and Empowerment, Pratima Bhowmik at Belonia old town hall in South Tripura district. "I appeal to all of you that we need to attack them in Talibani style. We need to attack them once they land at the airport here. We will protect our government led by Biplab Kumar Deb with every drop of blood," he said. A video clip of his comments went viral on the social media inviting wide criticism. Reacting to his remarks, Tripura TMC leader Subal Bhowmik demanded the BJP MLA's arrest. Bengal TMC leaders were harassed last night at a private hotel in Agartala where they are staying. The incident happened after the MLA made this provocative remark, he claimed. BJP Tripura chief spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said the comment made by Bhowmik is exclusively his own and the party does not take any responsibility. It is entirely his responsibility. This is not the culture of BJP, Chakraborty told PTI. When contacted, Bhowmik said he had made the remark as an example to justify how to counter the TMC seriously. "I used the word 'Talibani' to make it clear that the way the Trinamul Congress is trying to harm the BJP government in Tripura, it needs a strong reaction. Use of the word Talibani' might have sent a wrong message, but my intention was just to narrate how to counter them seriously," the BJP legislator said. Clashes between the TMC and the BJP have been reported from Tripura over the past few weeks. On his first visit, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee's convoy was allegedly attacked by BJP workers in Tripura on August 3. The TMC had claimed that two of its youth leaders from Bengal sustained injuries after being attacked by BJP workers in Dhalai district of the north-eastern state on August 7. The TMC alleged that two of its MPs -Dola Sen and Aparupa Poddar were attacked twice by BJP supporters in South Tripura district on Independence Day. The saffron party, however, has denied the allegations, saying the TMC posed no threat to them in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
19-08-2021||North East||Centre gives Rs 1,352.92cr to NE to bolster Covid management||The Centre has allotted Rs 1,352.92 crore to the northeastern states to further bolster Covid-19 management in the region which bore the brunt of the now-tapering second wave of the pandemic. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who was in Guwahati on Tuesday to review the pandemic management of the northeastern states with health ministers and senior health officials, announced the financial package to aggressively strengthen the health infrastructure to effectively fight Covid-19. Assam got more than 50 per cent of the allotted amount. Mandaviya later tweeted the break-up of the funds allotted to each state with Assam, which has double the population of the other seven states combined, getting the highest Rs 812.46 crore and Sikkim the lowest Rs 21.85 crore. Arunachal Pradesh received Rs 141.94 crore, Nagaland Rs 62.46 crore, Meghalaya 91.94 crore, Tripura Rs 93.02 crore, Manipur Rs 85.95 crore and Mizoram Rs 44.3 crore. Those privy to the meeting said Mandaviya urged the states to meet their vaccination targets and move forward together to tackle the pandemic while assuring all possible help from the central government. He also suggested that infrastructure created for Covid management should be such that it could be used for treatment of non-Covid patients in the future. “The funds will help the states to procure medicines, create buffer stock, adequate stock of oxygen and creation of sufficient numbers of beds in hospitals at district and local levels, including ICUs. The Centre will ensure regular supply of vaccines to the Northeast so that the maximum number of people are vaccinated within the next few months,” Mandaviya told the media after the meeting. All the states made PowerPoint presentations on the Covid-19 situation, offered their suggestions on combating the pandemic and meeting vaccination targets at the shortest possible time and tackling a possible third wave. The Union minister was “hopeful” that the state governments are fully prepared and are equipped to thwart a possible third wave in the region. Mizoram and Manipur, which have suffered the most during the second wave, figured during the “in-depth discussions”. The health ministers of Assam, Sikkim, Mizoram and Nagaland were present at the review meeting along with the education minister of Tripura, adviser to the Manipur chief minister and senior officials of the health ministry. The day also saw Assam ease a few travel restrictions and reduce night curfew from 11 to 10 hours as Covid-19 cases continued to dip. Night curfew across Assam will be in force from 7pm to 5am, while inter-district travel has been allowed for private vehicles, except in Kamrup (metro). Gathering of 200 people has been allowed at public functions in open areas while 25 people can now attend weddings and funerals. An Assam government order said all incoming passengers, who have taken two doses of Covid-19 vaccines and possess a vaccination certificate, on production of the document in front of the screening authority, shall be exempted from mandatory testing on arrival at airports, railway stations, road border points, etc, provided they also possess a negative Covid test report of samples taken within 72 hours. Symptomatic passengers, however, will have to undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing at their own cost on arrival at airports and railway stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
