20-08-2021||North East||Assam provides govt jobs to kin of police personnel killed in border firing||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday gave appointment letters to the kin of six police personnel killed in the gunfight at the interstate border with Mizoram on July 26. The chief minister handed the appointment letters prior to addressing a press conference here to mark the 100 days of the BJP government led by him since he took charge on May 10. The state government decided to appoint the next of kin of the deceased personnel to government jobs under an exceptional circumstance, not to be cited as an example, he said. The jobs were given to the wives of deceased sub-inspector Swapan Kumar Roy, constables Mazrul Haque Barbhuiya, Nazmul Hussain and Samsuz Zaman Barbhuiya, along with the sister of constable Liton Suklabaidya and the son of havildar Shyam Sundar Dusad. An amount of Rs 50 lakh as ex-gratia was immediately handed over to the families and to "honour the sacrifice made by all the six police martyrs", they were awarded posthumously with the 'Chief Minister's Special Service Medal in a crisis situation' on the 75th Independence Day. "This act of the government is bound to boost the morale of the police force for each member to act fearlessly, sincerely and with a sense of pride and dedication in the interest of defending the territorial integrity of the state and to ensure safety and security of the people," Sarma said. The government has provided an ex-gratia amount if Rs 1 lakh to those policemen who were injured in the attack. Addressing journalists at the venue later, the chief minister said that positive steps were taken in maintaining peace along the interstate borders and the state government has ensured complete security of its land with not an inch being encroached. He said that during the last month, the state government also held border talks with Nagaland and Meghalaya governments with steps initiated to resolve the dispute and maintain peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
20-08-2021||North East||Tripura BJP MLA asks party workers to attack visiting TMC leaders in 'Talibani-style' ||A ruling BJP MLA in Tripura asked party workers to attack visiting Trinamul Congress leaders in “Talibani-style”. First-time BJP legislator Arun Chandra Bhowmik made the comment at a party function held to felicitate Pratima Bhowmik, new Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, on Wednesday evening. “I appeal to you all to attack them (Trinamul leaders) in Talibani-style. If they land at the airport here (Agartala), we need to attack them in Talibani-style. We will protect our government (in Tripura) with every drop of blood,” Bhowmik said. The 1.02 minute video clip of Bhowmik’s speech, in which he was heard suggesting Taliban-style attack on Trinamul, circulated widely in social media. Trinamul uploaded the video in social media. The BJP, however, distanced itself from Bhowmik’s remark. A BJP spokesperson underscored that the party was not in favour of violence and would never allow its cadres to take law into their own hands. Asked what had prompted him to bring the Taliban reference, Bhowmik said: “The BJP ended the 25-year misrule of the Left Front in 2018 and our chief minister is doing a good job. I used the Talibani-style expression to motivate our party members to politically fight Trinamul … It was not meant to incite anybody. We do not have guns and tanks like the Taliban. We have to fight politically.” The Trinamul leadership in Tripura has demanded the arrest of the BJP MLA. “We will file a police complaint against the MLA,” said senior Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik. Trinamul leaders also alleged that the ruling BJP was “unleashing” terror on them to prevent them from making inroads into Tripura before the 2023 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
