24-08-2021||North East||Assam Congress chief meets Akhil Gogoi for talks on bypolls||Assam Congress chief Bhupen Borah has met Raijor Dal supremo Akhil Gogoi to evaluate possibilities of jointly fighting the assembly bypolls likely to be held by the end of this year. However, the late-night deliberations at Sivasagar on Monday remained inconclusive and both parties vowed to carry forward the discussions in the coming days. "It was just a courtesy meeting as I am in his (Gogoi's) constituency for our party meeting...we both are against the BJP's divisive policies. We discussed how we will fight the saffron camp in future," Borah told reporters. He appreciated Gogoi, an Independent MLA from Sivasagar, for joining hands with the Congress inside the Assembly to raise voice against the "anti-people decisions" of the state government. "Earlier, we had tried to be united against the BJP and we will try again in future," Borah said without elaborating. On the other hand, Gogoi said that the two anti-BJP parties should unite for a long term instead of a shorter period. "We discussed how to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and how to form a government in Assam after the 2026 Assembly elections. We also evaluated options regarding the bypolls, but nothing has been decided yet," he said. This was the second round of meetings between top leaders of the two parties. On August 8, Congress working presidents Rana Goswami and Jakir Hussain Sikdar had visited the Raijor Dal's headquarters in Guwahati to meet Gogoi and other senior leaders. On August 16, another opposition party Assam Jatiya Parishad's vice presidents Shamsher Singh and Kamal Nayan Choudhury had met Borah and discussed a proposal to put up common candidates against the BJP-led alliance in the Assembly bypolls. AJP and Raijor Dal had formed a 'Regional Alliance', which was not part of the Congress-led 'Grand Alliance' in the assembly election this year. The Raijor Dal won one seat, while AJP drew a blank. Before the assembly polls, both the groupings had called for establishing a united platform of all opposition parties but the 'Regional Alliance' had shied away from joining the 'Grand Alliance' due to the presence of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in it. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, formed the 'Grand Alliance' with AIUDF, BPF, CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD, Adivasi National Party (ANP) and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP). In the 126-member Assam Assembly, the BJP bagged 60 seats, while its allies AGP won nine and UPPL six. In the opposition camp, the Congress won 29, AIUDF 16, BPF four and CPI(M) cornered one seat. Raijor Dal won one seat as an Independent. As per the seat arrangements of assembly at present, byelections will take place in five seats. One MLA each of United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) and Bodoland People's Front (BPF) has died, while two Congress legislators have resigned to join the BJP. Former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who joined the Union Cabinet as a minister, is yet to submit his resignation paper in the assembly, but is likely to do so in the coming days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
24-08-2021||North East||Snatched INSAS rifles fished out of Umkhrah river in Shillong||A team of the Meghalaya Fire and Emergency Services on Monday afternoon recovered from Umkhrah river the three INSAS rifles that were snatched on August 15 from police by unidentified persons. An eleven-member team scoured the area under the Umpohliew bridge on the river in Shillong for about an hour before fishing out the rifles, sources said. The search was conducted based on an anonymous letter addressed to the headmen of Mawlai Town Dorbar, claiming the weapons were dumped in the river. The letter also claimed the rifles were found in the possession of a few teenagers in Lawmali. To save the teenagers from trouble, the rifles were thrown into the river, the letter, a copy of which was sent to the East Khasi Hills police chief and the media, claimed. The bridge is about a kilometre away from Shillong’s Mawlai locality from where a police vehicle and the rifles were snatched reportedly by four unidentified men. The rifles were left behind in the police vehicle that the masked men had hijacked from the Mawlai area. They later drove around the city on the vehicle while brandishing the weapons before setting the car ablaze in Shillong’s Jaiaw. They were protesting against the killing of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, a former leader of the proscribed Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council, by a police team in the wee hours of August 13 at his residence in Mawlai. The deceased’s family claimed it was a staged encounter, fanning anger and resentment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
24-08-2021||North East||Assam Civil Society slams 'pro-Taliban' social media posts||Assam Civil Society, an apolitical organisation of prominent Muslim residents of the state, on Monday appealed to the people of the state to inform the authorities or the police if they come across any “pro-Taliban” social media posts from any member of the minority community as such messages will only “disturb” peace in the state. Formed in 2016, the society’s reaction follows Friday’s arrest of 14 persons from the Muslim community, including a medical student, a police constable, a politician and three maulanas, for their social media posts in support of the Taliban. The police have also warned the masses to be “careful” with what they post or what the like on social media platforms. “What is happening in Afghanistan is their internal matter. Why should Muslims in Assam celebrate or support what is happening there?  What the Taliban are doing there in name of Islam is completely un-Islamic and undemocratic. Supporting Taliban is unwarranted and condemnable as such posts will only lead to communal disharmony,” H.R.A. Choudhury, working president of the Civil Society, told The Telegraph. The Taliban have been in the news since their recent take-over of Afghanistan and are known for their extreme views, especially on women’s rights, and also for their harsh steps against those who do not toe their line. Choudhury also said that strict action should be taken against those posting pro-Taliban posts. “There is no sympathy for  those who are either supporting the Taliban directly or indirectly. We welcome the government action against them,” Choudhury said. Newly appointed Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah in a statement on Monday evening too  “strongly” condemned those in “our” country expressing support for the Taliban. “We also condemn those in our state that have extended moral support to the Taliban and demand that the government take strict action against them. We want strong action against the AIUDF leaders who support Taliban,” he said. Through the statement, Borah also tried to check the ruling BJP from dragging the name of the Congress in any matter related to the AIUDF. The Congress had stitched an alliance with the AIUDF in the recently-concluded Assembly polls which was won by the BJP-led coalition to get a second straight term at Dispur. “They (BJP) must remember that people are also aware of the fact that an alliance between the two parties is still on in the districts of Nagaon, Darrang and Karimganj Zilla Parishad’s. They are also close in the Soksoka Anchalik Panchayat of Sorbhog, the previous home constituency of BJP minister  Ranjit Das. Such alliance has raised questions among the people and their hypocrisy.  The BJP should make its stand clear on this issue,” Borah said. Nadeem Akhtar, 23, a medical student from Hailakandi district and Maulana Fazul Karim Qasimi of Darrang district, a general secretary of the Opposition AIUDF, were among those arrested for their posts in favour of the Taliban. AIUDF suspended Qasimi on Saturday. They have been booked, among others, under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IT Act and that they were closely monitoring social media platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
