31-08-2021||North East||Assam Congress unit decides to snap alliance with AIUDF||The Assam unit of the Congress on Monday unanimously decided to snap its alliance with the AIUDF formed before the March-April state Assembly polls won by the BJP-led alliance. A statement released by the Assam PCC after its core committee meeting also said it would send a proposal to the AICC leadership on its resolution to end ties with the AIUDF. The AICC had played a key role in forging the alliance. The committee based its decision on the AIUDF’s “behaviour and attitude in relation to the BJP” which had “baffled” the Congress rank and file. Most in the Congress also feel the alliance with the AIUDF could cost the party dear in the pending byelections to five Assembly seats. “The AIUDF leadership and senior members’ continuous and mysterious praise of the BJP party and the chief minister has affected the public perception of the Congress party... after a long discussion the core committee members of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee unanimously decided that AIUDF can no longer remain an alliance partner of the Mahajot and in this regard will send an intimation to the AICC,” said the statement released by media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma. The AIUDF said the “unilateral” decision of the Congress was unfortunate and it would only make the BJP stronger. “We have opposed the BJP in the past and will continue to oppose the BJP in the future. Instead of weakening the Mahajot, Congress should have strengthened it,” said AIUDF spokesperson Haider Hussain Bora. The PCC core committee also discussed ties with the BPF because the latter has “expressed their unwillingness in various forums to remain in the Mahajot”. The committee entrusted Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah to take a decision and intimate the high command. That the Congress would end ties with the AIUDF became clear when Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi released a statement on August 27 after a one-on-one meeting with Borah. “I believe it is time for the Indian National Congress party in Assam to be independent of the Mahajot. The Congress party is the only party that can take on the BJP. For that we need to strengthen our party organisation across Assam including those constituencies where there are MLAs of the Mahajot. The Mahajot was finalised a few months before the 2021 elections. Prior to that the party has fulfilled its duty as an Opposition party on its own,” Gaurav had said. He had added: “Going forward inside the Assam Assembly, the party may still consult with other Opposition parties if and when the BJP government brings anti-people policies. People have huge expectations from the Congress party and if we will fulfil them, we will form the next government in 2026. I conveyed these sentiments to the APCC president Bhupen Bora today in a meeting with him.” His father — and former chief minister late Tarun Gogoi — had played a key role in forging the alliance despite opposition from several Upper Assam MLAs. The Congress-led Mahajot could win only 50 seats of the 126 seats in the Assembly polls, handing the BJP-led pre-poll alliance a second straight term. The defeat was attributed mainly to the “rejection” of the Congress in Upper Assam, mainly due to its alliance with the AIUDF, and “vote cut” by the two regional parties — Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) — in at least 17 seats. The AIUDF is seen in Upper Assam as a party supporting the cause of illegal Bangladeshi migrants, a perception it had tried to remove by becoming a part of the Mahajot but failed. The Congress had on January 19 announced the pre-poll grand alliance (Mahajot) comprising six parties, including the AIUDF, to take on the ruling BJP in Assam Assembly elections. The Mahajot eventually had 10 parties — Congress, AIUDF, CPM, CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha, Bodoland People’s Party (BPF), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Jimochayan (Deori) People’s Party and the Adivasi National Party (ANP). The Congress won 29 seats out of the 95 it contested and the AIUDF bagged 16 out of the 20 it fought, gaining more out of the alliance than the key player. Those backing the Congress–AIUDF alliance had said the BJP-AGP-BPF together had a vote share of 41.9 per cent in 2011 while the Congress and the AIUDF had a 44 per cent vote share — 31 and 13 per cent respectively. During the 2021 Assembly elections, they also had the support of the BPF and the Left but the alliance still fell short.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
31-08-2021||North East||Assam government meet to discuss tea community problems ||The Assam government on Monday held a first-of-its kind meeting with intellectuals and citizens from the tea tribes to discuss the problems confronting the community and how these can be addressed. The interactive session organised by the state tea tribes welfare department titled “Humder Moner Kotha (Our Thoughts)”, which continued for nearly five hours, is the second community-oriented interaction after the one held for the Muslim community in July. Though details of the discussion were not available, former Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, who recently joined the BJP, thanked chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for organising the first-of-its kind interaction to know the problems of the tea tribes. Kurmi said seven sub-groups will be formed from among community leaders to interact with community members about their problems and submit a report and a road map on how to tackle their problems within six months. “The government said what they have done in the first 100 days of its second term and what they did in its first term from 2016 for the tea garden people. The government left it to the House to raise the issues confronting the community. The House raised the ST status and the daily wage issue,” Kurmi said after the meeting. The tea tribes in Assam are Adivasis but not all Adivasi people work in the tea gardens, sources said, adding that more such meetings will be held in the future. The overall demand of the Adivasi community, which includes the tea tribes, mainly revolves around four long-pending core demands — according Scheduled Tribe status to the community members, hiking the daily wage of garden workers to Rs 351, setting up of an satellite autonomous council and granting land pattas to the landless. Health, education and electricity are other issues which the community members feel will take care of itself if these demands are fulfilled. A senior Adivasi leader spearheading their cause welcomed the meeting but said nothing concrete will be achieved if the long-pending demands of the community, especially ST status and hike in minimum daily wage of garden workers, were not settled. “We have heard that the government talked about what it did in its first 100 days and what the government plans to do in the short-term and long-term for the development of our community. But there was nothing on according ST status or hiking the daily wage (of garden workers) which have been our demands, something all the parties know,” he said. The Adivasi leader added: “The Centre had introduced a bill to this effect in the Rajya Sabha before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A report was sought from the state government but there is no headway. Nobody knows our situation better than our chief minister. We are hopeful he will take the right steps to resolve pending core issues instead of giving us sops. They need to hear our moner kotha.” The population of the tea tribes will be over 75 lakh and they play a decisive role in about 40 of the 126 Assembly constituencies in Assam, a reason why both the ruling BJP and the Opposition assiduously woo the community but they have been voting overwhelmingly for the BJP since 2014. The meeting also comes in the run-up to the byelections later this year where the community will play a key role in at least two of the five seats that go to the polls. Both the Upper Assam seats were won by the Congress in the last Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
