04-04-2020||New Delhi||Delhi government to issue transit passes for foreigners stranded in city||The Delhi Government will issue transit passes for foreigners stranded in the city due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, a government note said.    Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also chairperson of the state executive committee of Delhi, on Friday issued an making a provision for transit arrangements for foreign nationals and release of quarantined persons.The order was issued by him under the DDMA Act, 2005,  According to the standard operating procedure drawn for the purpose, in case of stranded foreign nationals, the foreign government concerned in consultation with the civil aviation ministry will arrange for chartered flight and screening for COVID- 19 symptoms as per protocol prior to departure, the note said. Local transportation will be provided by the embassy concerned and transit passes will be issued by district magistrates. The note said a detailed protocol has been provided for persons to be released after completion of specified and mandatory quarantine period.In such a situation no person of any group will be released where even one person tests positive for coronavirus, it said.“Only those foreign nationals will be allowed to leave who are asymptomatic for COVID-19. In case of symptomatic persons the future course of treatment would be followed as per the standard health protocol,” the note said.The order also provides for the travel of people who have returned from foreign locations after February 15 and completed specified mandatory quarantine period and had to return to their homes from quarantine facilities after being tested negative for COVID–19. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-government-to-issue-transit-passes-for-foreigners-stranded-in-city-65583
04-04-2020||New Delhi||Healthy baby born to Covid-19 positive woman at AIIMS; first such case in Delhi||A coronavirus positive woman has given birth to a baby at the AIIMS here, official sources said, adding that the baby is "healthy and doing well as of now".Dr Neerja Bhatla, professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at AIIMS who led the team which carried out the delivery said the baby boy was born on Friday evening, a week early, through C-section and is doing fine so far.When asked if the baby's sample would be tested for COVID-19, she said, "We are going to monitor his condition and look out for symptoms. So far the baby is doing fine."   According to doctors, this is the first baby to be born to a coronavirus infected woman in Delhi.The baby's mother who was nine-months pregnant had tested positive on Thursday after her husband, a senior resident doctor working in the department of physiology at AIIMS, was found to be infected with the virus. The doctor's brother has also tested positive for the respiratory infection.  The baby is with his mother since he will need breastfeeding. So far, there is no proof that suggests that the virus can be transmitted through breastfeeding, another doctor said. The doctor said the mother is also fine and though she has tested positive for COVID-19, she is asymptomatic at present.  The AIIMS has already prepared a protocol dedicated to the care of COVID-19 infected pregnant women patients.According to WHO, women with COVID-19 can breastfeed if they wish to but should practice hygiene during the feeding, where a mask where available, wash hands before and after touching the baby and routinely clean and disinfect surfaces they have touched. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/healthy-baby-born-to-covid-19-positive-woman-at-aiims-first-such-case-in-delhi-65555
04-04-2020||---||Delhi reports 91 new cases in 24 hrs; total rises to 384||New Delhi, April 3Kejriwal to address parents, kids todayDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal along with his deputy Manish Sisodia and experts will interact with teachers and parents of all schools in the city on Saturday and will help them in “Parenting in the times of Corona”. Kejriwal said, “All children are at their homes asking so many questions related to coronavirus. The parents are unable to deal with the questions. So on Saturday at 3 pm I will be addressing the children and parents along with Manish Sisoida and experts. We will answer some of these questions.”Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has risen to 384, including 259 who were evacuated from Nizamuddin Markaz. Of the 384 cases, 58 had recent foreign travel history and 38 contracted the virus after coming in contact with them, he added.In the past 24 hours, 91 new cases were reported in the national capital and one more person evacuated from the Markaz died due to Covid, taking the total number of deaths in the city to five, he said.Addressing a digital conference in Delhi, Kejriwal said, “Community spread of the virus is not taking place in Delhi yet and there is no need to panic as the situation is under control.”“The government has made preparations if the virus starts spreading among people,” he added.The CM also launched a WhatsApp helpline — 8800007722 — for people to enquire about Covid-19, food banks, shelters among others.“Just send ‘Hi’ to this number on WhatsApp and a menu will appear before you. Information on Covid-19 symptoms, measures taken by the Delhi government to deal with the pandemic and all other information is available on this number,” he said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government had taken several measures to provide relief to the marginalised sections of society, who have been affected by the lockdown.“To ensure that no person in Delhi goes hungry, 1,780 hunger relief camps have been opened in Delhi. Yesterday, these camps provided lunch to 6,52,850 persons and dinner to 6,30,000. As many as 328 shelters have been opened in Delhi for migrant labourers and people from outside Delhi. These shelters can accommodate 57,270 persons and 11,443 people are living in these shelters,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-reports-91-new-cases-in-24-hrs-total-rises-to-384-65261
