06-04-2020||---||Modi speaks to former Presidents, PMs||New Delhi, April 5Expanding his outreach to political leadership in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to two former Presidents, two former Prime Ministers and several party chiefs, to discuss the situation arising due to Covid-19.While details of his conversation were not made public, official sources said, the PM talked to former Presidents Ms Pratibha Patil and Pranab Mukherjee and his predecessors Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda.On his part, Deve Gowda in his tweets mentioned that PM Modi called him to discuss the situation and sought his support while praising his administrative experience. “I have assured him of my support in our nation’s fight against the pandemic. Thousands of people are dying across the world due to Covid-19. The coming weeks are crucial for India in our fight against the virus. As a former Prime Minister, I agreed to cooperate in the fight...”The former PM also said while there is an immediate need to increase testing, during the time of crisis care must be taken to see there is no disruption in farming activities. He also asked the PM to look into the problems being faced by daily-wage earners who are not able to afford even essentials for survival.The PM also made calls to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh and party chief Akhilesh Yadav, TMC chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Odisha Chief Minister and Biju Janata Dal president Naveen Patnaik, Telengana Rashtra Samiti chief K Chandrasekhara Rao and DMK president MK Stalin.The move comes ahead of the invitation by the government to parliamentary party leaders for a virtual meeting on April 8, which the Trinamool Congress is planning to stay away from.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/modi-speaks-to-former-presidents-pms-66192
06-04-2020||---||Quash FIR against Delhi Gurdwara Committee, PM urged||New Delhi, April 5Takht Patna Sahib Jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh today requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to quash the FIR registered by the Delhi Government against the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) for providing shelter and food to passengers at Gurdwara Manju ka Tila during the ongoing lockdown.He highlighted the contribution of the committee in fighting Covid-19 and said all passengers had come to the gurdwara on their own. He said the DSGMC had intimated about their stay to the authorities well in time. “The DSGMC served langar to everyone while practicing social distancing,” said the jathedar.He condemned the Delhi Government for filing an FIR against the DSGMC with mala fide intention to defame the religious institution and for equating the Sikh community to the Tablighi Jamaat. He requested the PM to quash the FIR and encourage the DSGMC for providing selfless service to the country during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/quash-fir-against-delhi-gurdwara-committee-pm-urged-66185
06-04-2020||---||CRPF DG among 200 personnel quarantined||New Delhi, April 53 IGs in self-isolationA senior officer of the CRPF said those on the list made after contact tracing, including CRPF DG AP Maheshwari and Senior Security Adviser in the MHA K Vijay Kumar, have been advised quarantineThree IGs, whose wards returned from foreign countries, have also been quarantined as a precautionary measureAs a proactive measure, the CRPF has advised 200 of its personnel, including the Director General (DG), to self-quarantine.Source in the paramilitary force said they all were observing the protocol as a precautionary measure.A decision to this effect was taken after a Chief Medical Officer of the CRPF was found Covid-19 positive and isolated and eight other officers were quarantined, the sources said.A senior officer said those on the list made after contact tracing, including CRPF DG AP Maheshwari and Senior Security Adviser in the MHA K Vijay Kumar, have been advised home quarantine or quarantine at CRPF facilities till the test reports were out even though they have not exhibited any symptoms of being infected so far.At least three Inspector Generals, whose wards returned from foreign countries, have also been quarantined as a precautionary measure. “Former CRPF DG Vikram Srivastava is also under self-quarantine as a preventive measure,” said the sources.The CRPF chief, who is in home quarantine, is supervising the work of the force from home. While Maheshwari has not exhibited any Covid-19 symptoms, he is undergoing the quarantine drill as a precautionary measure, officials said.A spokesperson of the force said, “A CRPF officer has been tested positive for Covid-19. All personnel in contact with him have been quarantined. The CRPF DG had an indirect contact with the officer. As per protocol, the DG is observing quarantine.”“We will win together. The only mantra is social distancing. To all of us let this be the religion as well as spirituality of the day. Save oneself to save others. Save humanity,” Maheshwari has tweeted tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi, PMO, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/crpf-dg-among-200-personnel-quarantined-66184
