08-04-2020||New Delhi||Coronavirus: Delhi makes face masks compulsory, seals off 20 hotspots||The Delhi Government made face masks compulsory in public places on Wednesday, as the city’s coronavirus cases surged to nearly 600 with nine deaths.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet on Wednesday: “Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of corona virus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too”.Also on Wednesday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said some 20 of the city’s coronavirus hotspots have been sealed off.These areas include Gali No. 6, L-1ST Sangam Vihar; Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar; Mandawli Gali No. 1; Pandav Nagar H Block Gali No. 1; Khichdipur Gali No. 1-3; Kishan Kunj Ext Gali No. 4; two apartments in IP Extension -- Vardhaman, Mayur Dhwaj; and Mansara Apartment in Vasundhra Enclave, among others.Speaking to the media, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the decision was taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection."The areas will be completely sealed while the administration will ensure door-to-door delivery of essential items," Sisodia said.He also said that some positive cases have been reported in the Sadar area here. "So the area has been sealed too"."Total 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi and were sealed. Nobody will be allowed to enter or exit these areas," Sisodia said.According to the Health Ministry, an area with 10 or more cases of an infection is called a cluster and if multiple clusters develop in any region and have the potential to spread the infection further, it is called a hotspot.However, for coronavirus, it is an emerging term and even an area with one positive case can be called a hotspot, depending upon the possibility of the spread in that area, the Health Department said.After an area is declared a hotspot or has the capacity to be a hotspot, the authorities have the right to restrict the movement of the people and seal the area making it a containment zone --- locking down a defined geographic area to contain the outbreak of COVID-19.The containment zones, created to map the local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading, are announced by the office of the district magistrate. It completely shuts the movement of the common people with the authorities taking care of the essential supplies.The area and the houses in it are sanitised properly. So far, several pockets in the city have been declared containment zones, including parts of Nizamuddin, Dilshad Garden, Vasundhara Enclave, Kalyanpuri, Pandav Nagar, Krishan Kunj, Khichripur, Malviya Nagar, Sangam Vihar and Patparganj.Delhi has reported close to 600 positive cases since the outbreak of the infection, with more than 50 per cent cases from Nizamuddin Markaz -- where over 2,300 people from different parts of the world and country were staying under one roof without following any social distancing.They were evacuated last week after the lockdown was imposed.The development comes on a day when Uttar Pradesh made a similar announcement, sealing off hotspots in 15 districts of the state.India has more than 5,000 reported cases of coronavirus so far, with 149 recorded deaths. ---- Agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/coronavirus-delhi-makes-face-masks-compulsory-seals-off-20-hotspots-68424
08-04-2020||New Delhi||COVID-19 pandemic: Kejriwal holds video-conference with Delhi MPs||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday held video-conference with Members of Parliament from the National Capital, saying all have to unitedly fight against coronavirus.Kejriwal interacted with seven Lok Sabha MPs—all from BJP—and the three Rajya Sabha MPs from his Aam Aadmi Party.The Chief Minister said the MPs gave good suggestions, which will be implemented by the government soon.“Held videoconference with the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs from Delhi over corona. Many MPs have given good suggestions, the government will implement them soon. We all have to fight this battle unitedly,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.The meeting with the MPs came days after the Chief Minister held a similar meeting with all the MLAs, including from Opposition BJP, from the city. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-pandemic-kejriwal-holds-video-conference-with-delhi-mps-68388
08-04-2020||New Delhi||49-year-old Delhi traffic policeman tests positive for coronavirus||An assistant sub-inspector posted in the traffic unit of Delhi Police has been tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Wednesday. He has been admitted at the Super Speciality Block of Safdarjung Hospital, they said. The 49-year-old police official was posted in Hauz Khas circle of the traffic unit.He was taken to AIIMS on April 1 for a check-up after he complained of having cough and fever, they said.Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had advised him 14 days of home quarantine following which he stayed at his residence in Kalkaji, police said. On Tuesday, he was tested for the virus and was found to be positive, a senior police official said.The authorities of Safdarjung Hospital have noted details of the ASI's health history as well as that of his family members, the officer said.Three traffic staff working with him have been informed to self-isolate for the next 14 days, he said.SHO Kalkaji has also been informed about the development, police added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/49-year-old-delhi-traffic-policeman-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-68379
08-04-2020||---||Ban on Tablighi Jamaat sought||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 7As Tablighi Jamaat chief Mohammad Saad remains underground, a letter petition on Tuesday requested the Supreme Court (SC) to direct the Centre and Delhi Government to immediately impose a complete ban on the activities of Tablighi Jamaat that hit international headlines for violating the Covid-19 lockdown.The development comes a day after Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind moved the top court seeking directions to the government and the media not to communalise the issue and demonise the entire Muslim community.Filed by one Ajay Gautam of Delhi, the letter petition sought a direction to the Centre and Delhi Government to transfer the investigation to the CBI to probe the alleged “conspiracy of spreading the infection throughout India in the garb of congregation.”Gautam also urged the top court to order the Delhi Government to demolish Tablighi Jamaat headquarters at Nizamuddin for violating the provision of the MCD Act.Around 9,000 people, including those from abroad, are said to have participated in the religious congregation last month at Markaz Nizamuddin West area of Delhi which has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in India.Out of over 4,000 Covid cases in India, at least 1,445 have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation here, the Health Ministry had said on Monday.Gautam also demanded strict action against Delhi Police and government officials for failing to enforce lockdown order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/ban-on-tablighi-jamaat-sought-67203
08-04-2020||---||Delhi readies 5-T plan to tackle Covid||New Delhi, April 7The Delhi Government has come up with 5-T plan to tackle Covid-19 in the national capital. The five-point plan stands for "testing, tracing, treatment, team work and tracking and monitoring" of the patients.Dedicated hospitalsThe Delhi Government has declared LNJP and GB Pant hospitals as exclusive Covid hospitals. A total of 2,450 beds are there in the government hospitals and 450 in private hospitals for Covid patients. The plan is also ready for up to 30,000 patients — with 8,000 beds in hospitals and 12,000 in hotels, and accommodation of 10,000 patients in banquets and dharamshalas.The government has decided to conduct one lakh tests to identify Covid hotspots in the city. The government has already ordered kits for rapid test and is in the process of procuring PPE kits."The first T is testing. We have observed that the nations where testing was not done, were not able to contain the outbreak of corona. Maximum testing enables us to know the actual statistics of people affected by corona. South Korea, for instance, increased its testing capacity so that it can quarantine and treat infected people, and control further spread of the virus," said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.He said the government had ordered testing kits for around 50,000 persons. The shortage of PPE kits would be overcome with the help of 27,000 PPE kits from the Central Government.The second T is tracing, which involves identifying and self-quarantining people who have come in contact with an infected person in the 14-day period. The police will be tracking infected persons.Explaining the third T, Kejriwal said: "The third T is treatment. We have around 3,000 beds ready for treatment. LNJP and GB Pant hospitals have been declared as primary hospitals for corona treatment with 1,500 beds and 500 beds, respectively, and no other treatments are being carried out there. Rajiv Gandhi hospital has 450 beds and has been declared as corona hospital. We would need 400 ventilators and 1,200 oxygen kits for 30,000 patients.""The 4th T is teamwork. No one can work on containing corona alone. It requires teamwork and a collective effort to do that and I am happy that all state governments and the Centre are fighting together against it. All state governments must learn from each other and work towards eliminating corona," he said.Kejriwal said: "The 5th T is tracking and monitoring. It is my responsibility to ensure that all these measures are in place and all the systems are functioning smoothly. I am tracking and monitoring all these things 24x7."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-readies-5-t-plan-to-tackle-covid-67195
