02-06-2021||---||Another storm disrupts power supply in Punjab||Patiala, June 1A thunderstorm hit the region for the second time in as many days on Monday, snapping power supply to several parts of Punjab. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials are still working to restore power to many areas.Cotton fields, orchards inundated in AboharAbohar: Hailstorm and rain caused a widespread damage in Abohar, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh on Monday night. Three breaches occurred in different canals, inundating recently sown cotton fields and fruit orchards spread over hundreds of acres across the region. Besides uprooting hundreds of trees, the hailstorm damaged solar panels at various places. Power supply was disrupted in many areas. OCThundershowers and strong wind snapped off power lines in parts of Fazilka, Muktsar, Bathinda, Barnala, Moga, Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib, officials said.Electricity poles were reportedly damaged in many villages across the districts. Various educational institutions in Fatehgarh Sahb, including SGGS World University and BBSB Engineering College, were without power. Though the electricity supply had been restored to major parts of the district, residents complained that customer care centres and PSPCL officials were not responding to their calls. Surinder Singh Bains, Executive Engineer, PSPCL, Fatehgarh Sahib, said officials were trying to rectify the faults.“Around 10 pm on Monday, the power load of whole Punjab touched a low of 3,400 MW, which meant that most of the state faced almost a blackout-like situation. This low load in peak summer is alarming. Usually, 3,000 MW is the load during the peak winter in December and January,” a top PSPCL official said. “Our officials are working hard in the field, but due to high-velocity winds, our field staff is finding it hard to rectify the problem,” an official said.Later, senior PSPCL officials said after restoring supply to most cities in Punjab, work was under way to resume power to villages. “All officers in the field are working tirelessly as the high winds for two days have caused ample damage,” they said. Meanwhile, the PSEB Engineers’ Association announced its “Work to rules protest” from June 1. “No engineer will work beyond his normal duty hours, including in power breakdown cases. Engineers will not perform the duties of subordinate staff and will perform their duty as per their present place of posting,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/another-storm-disrupts-power-supply-in-punjab-262087
02-06-2021||Patiala||Patiala Doppler radar defunct following snag||The Doppler weather radar at the Patiala centre of the Indian Meteorological Department has been down for the past three days. Heavy rain and high-velocity winds on Sunday and Monday lashed the region, toppling over a number of trees and electricity poles.Protesters’ tents uprooted in SangrurSangrur: The storm on Monday night uprooted tents of protesting ETT and TET teachers and farmers while the PSPCL also suffered huge losses here. Later, the protesters again pegged their tents at the spot. Sources in the PSPCL said the storm affected 950 electricity poles and damaged 55 transformers in Sangrur, Sunam, Khanauri, Lehra and other areas. “In total, the storm caused Rs 1-crore damage to the PSPCL. We have restored electricity to 90 per cent areas,” said RK Mittal, Superintendent Engineer, PSPCL, Sangrur. TNSDoppler radars are remote sensing instruments used to determine the structure of storms and help predict their severity. A senior official on Tuesday shared information regarding expected strong winds and intense rain in the Chandigarh region along with Rupnagar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Pathankot and Gurdaspur.Met officials said a technical fault was identified at 4 am on Saturday. “We have been trying to fix it. This can take a few days as the spare parts are delivered from outside the district,” Amit Kumar, head, Doppler weather radar (DWR), Patiala said. He added the radar provided information about the motion, intensity and height of hydrometeors in a 300-km range. The IMD has forecast a spell or two of rain or thundershowers on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-doppler-radar-defunct-following-snag-262091
02-06-2021||Patiala||2nd wave hits rural areas, kids hard||The second wave seems to have hit the rural belt hard. The case fatality ratio (CFR) in rural areas in the second wave is almost twice as high as urban areas. The Health Department data reveals that rural CFR is 3.46 against 1.97 in the urban areas in the second wave. The health department said 7,548 people, belonging to the rural belt, were infected with coronavirus, of whom 261 succumbed in the second wave.In Urban areas, 21, 927 contracted the coronavirus during the second wave which started in March. Of them, 432 died of the virus, reveals the data. The department said CFR in the rural population was high because villagers did not come forward for Covid testing and reached the hospital at a very late stage.1,044 children infectedAs many as 1,044 children were infected with coronavirus in the second wave, said the Health Department. Of them, 562 were boys and 482 girls. The department said only two Covid deaths were reported among children in the second wave. As per the data analysis, the infection among children was only 486 in the first wave last year. In order to prepare for the third wave, which is likely to impact children the most, the department has dedicated a separate Covid ward for children at private and government hospitals. Besides, the department has asked all paediatricians to get all children tested, if anyone shows Covid-like symptoms.A medical officer posted in the rural area of the district, who did not wish to be named, said: “Initially, villagers were very reluctant towards Covid testing. In some areas, they even opposed the health officials. The villagers came forth only after people started to die of Covid. Moreover, villagers were overwhelmed with hesitancy to get themselves admitted to any hospital for Covid treatment. They preferred home isolation.”It is pertinent to mention that the state government last month kicked off a special campaign “Covid Mukt Pind” to stem the spread in the rural areas. However, the health experts said it was too little too late as Covid had already ravaged the villages.Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the rural CFR was high because villagers did not come forward for Covid testing despite repeated efforts of theirs. “Villagers were reaching at a very late stage of the disease, wherein, chances of survival were minimal. If the detection of a virus is low due to testing, the death rate automatically becomes higher.”Now, the villagers have understood the seriousness of the disease, and they have started coming forward for testing, says the doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2nd-wave-hits-rural-areas-kids-hard-261997
02-06-2021||Patiala||Work to construct new bridge over Patiala's Jacob drain begins||Work on constructing a 34-foot-wide bridge on the Jacob drain, near Government Mohindra College, started today. The old 14-foot bridge has been declared unsafe.The new bridge will be 34-foot wide and will be constructed at a cost of Rs68 lakh. Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said the narrow bridge had been a cause of traffic jams in the area. The bridge connects the areas of Sheesh Mahal Colony, Sanauri Adda and other areas of the city. Rs68-lakh project to rid area of traffic jamsThe new bridge will be 34-foot wide and will be constructed at a cost of Rs68 lakh. Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said the narrow bridge had been a cause of traffic jams in the area. The bridge connects the areas of Sheesh Mahal Colony, Sanauri Adda and other areas of the city.He said construction of the bridge would continue in the rainy season as well. “The pillars of the old bridge hindered the flow of water in the Jacob drain, leading to accumulation of water in the city areas. The new construction will address this issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-to-construct-new-bridge-over-patialas-jacob-drain-begins-261998
02-06-2021||Patiala||PWD to construct elevated road for Patiala's new bus stand||The Public Works Department (PWD) will construct an elevated road for the entry of buses to the new bus stand under construction here. The earlier plan was expected to increase traffic load on the Patiala-Rajpura road. The PWD will now spend Rs 7.70 crore on the elevated road project.To be completed by November 30Officials said the length of the elevated road would be 265 metre and width from 7.50 metre to 9 metre, allowing the traffic to move at a speed of 15 km ph. The project has been approved by the Local Government Department. With funds being provided by the PIDB, the project is to be completed by November 30.Officials said the length of the elevated road would be 265 metre and width from 7.50 metre to 9 metre, allowing the traffic to move at a speed of 15 km ph.The project has been approved by the Local Government Department. With funds being provided by the PIDB, the project is to be completed by November 30.Officials in the PWD said: “The project has been conceived to avoid frequent traffic jams on the Patiala-Rajpura road expected to be caused by the entry of vehicles into the bus stand.”They said the PWD had earlier decided to widen the Patiala-Rajpura road from the Urban Estate chowk to the Choura road from where the buses would have taken a U-turn to enter the bus stand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pwd-to-construct-elevated-road-for-patialas-new-bus-stand-261999
02-06-2021||Patiala||Doctors’ union to oppose Baba Ramdev in court||The Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab has announced that it would be a party in the court case filed by the Resident Doctors Association, AIIMS-Rishikesh, against Baba Ramdev for his remarks against allopathy.The association said the remarks by Baba Ramdev against allopathy were derogatory, insensitive and against the human race.They added that ridiculing the modern medicine was an insult to all frontline workers who were risking their lives to save people from coronavirus. Besides, the association held a symbolic protest against Baba Ramdev at the Government Rajindra Hospital today.One of the protesting doctors claimed that it was a part of a larger conspiracy, of like-minded people, to devalue intellectual pursuits and apply anti-intellectualism to repress the modern sciences and logic in the country.Another protesting doctor said: “It seems showering of flower-petals and honouring frontline workers by the Central Government was humbug because no action has been taken against Baba Ramdev for mocking at allopathy so far. Hundreds of doctors have already lost their lives in the fight against Covid.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctors-union-to-oppose-baba-ramdev-in-court-262000
