03-06-2021||Patiala||Illegal under-construction building collapses, 5 labourers buried under debris in Patiala||As many as five labourers were buried under debris after an under-construction building adjacent to the New Sabzi mandi at the Sanauri adda collapsed to the ground in Patiala on Thursday afternoon.Those buried were pulled out after about two hours and rushed to the government Rajindra Hospital.Onlookers said the building spread in an area over 500 square yards had been under-construction since many days.“The first floor of the building was being constructed when the building gave away. They started the work of laying the reinforced cement concrete roof only today at about 11 am,” Parminder Singh, a worker at an adjacent site, said.While the owners and contractors were not available, MC officials said the work was being carried out illegally.The building was being constructed on a land on lease.Interestingly, the site is adjacent to a nullah which was covered by the Municipal Corporation recently.Also, the incident took place within a month of collapse of another illegally constructed roof adjacent to a nullah.The matter has raised questions over the working of Municipal Corporation’s team of the building branch.Political leaders in the city said illegal works of construction have been going on in the city under the very nose of the Municipal Corporation’s officials of the building branch and area councillors.They said, “Junior officials do not report the illegal construction. Those involved are not taken to task. Minor action after issuance of a notice is taken only after uproar.”Amarinder Singh Bazaz, former Municipal mayor said, “Illegal construction is on the rise. Hundreds of buildings have been constructed illegally. It is happening with the connivance of MC officials.”Meanwhile, officials of the building branch including the ATPs and STP were not available for comment despite repeated attempts.Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur when contacted said, “We had issued demolition orders for the under-construction site. A drive had been carried out on May 19 and 20 after which the action was directed. Before this, they were issued multiple notices as well. The building along with another set of shops adjacent to it will be razed in two to three days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-under-construction-building-collapses-5-labourers-buried-under-debris-in-patiala-262887
03-06-2021||---||Coronavirus cases dip in Patiala district, only 110 test positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2For the first time in three months Patiala district reported lowest Covid cases today. Only 110 tested positive for the virus today. With this, the total count of the coronavirus cases in the district stands at 46,946 since the outbreak of the disease last year.Of 110 cases, only 16 were contacts of the past positive patients, while 94 were reported from elsewhere afresh. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Patiala city has reported 35 cases, Kauli 17, Bhadson 15, Nabha 12, Dudhan Sadhan seven while Shutrana and Harapalpur six each. Besides, four positive cases each have been detected in Rajpura and Samana.”The Health Department said 209 people recovered from Covid, thereby, reducing the active case count to 1,763 in the district. Notably, the active caseload in the district was above 4,000 two weeks ago. Cases had reduced drastically over the last two weeks, the Health Department added.“Though positive cases have decreased in the district, people should not lower their guard against the virus. It’s time to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour. Besides, people should get themselves vaccinated at the earliest,” said Dr Satinder Singh.However, there was no respite from Covid deaths. The district reported eight Covid deaths, thereby, taking the total count to 1,239 since the emergence of virus.As per the Health Department, 29, 475 persons contracted virus in the second wave, which was more infectious, while only 11, 009 were infected in the first wave.The virus had mutated, therefore, it was more infectious during the second wave, the Health Department added.The District Epidemiologist, Dr Summet Singh, said, the decline in Covid cases was expected. However, the rate at which cases dipped was unexpected, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/coronavirus-cases-dip-in-patiala-district-only-110-test-positive-262671
03-06-2021||---||Punjabi University teaching faculty bags copyright of research work||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2Teaching faculty of the Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University College, Miranpur, university campus and DAV College, Jalandhar, have acquired two copyrights for their research work in automation of Indian sign language (ISL) from the Government of India. Asst Prof Rakesh Kumar, Department of Computer Science, University College, Miranpur, Prof Vishal Goyal, Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University, and Associate Prof, Dr Lalit Goyal, DAV College, Jalandhar, have acquired the copyrights.Calling it the world’s first public announcement system for deaf, the faculty members said they had developed prototype of the automatic conversion tools for public announcements at airports and railway stations in Indian sign language synthetic animations. These conversion tools could automatically convert public announcements into sign language synthetic animations at airports and railway stations, they added.“Developed tools are the first of the kind in the world,” they said.When asked about their plans in the area of research, Asst Prof Rakesh Kumar said he was currently working on the development of ISL dictionary using synthetic animations for public places.Dr Vishal Goyal said they were trying to improve the accuracy of their previously developed translation system for complex and compound English sentences into Indian sign language using synthetic animations.Dr Pushpinder Gill, Dean (External centres), Punjabi University, said such research work was a source of inspiration for college students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-teaching-faculty-bags-copyright-of-research-work-262679
03-06-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students pay semester fee, allowed to sit  in exams||Punjabi University has managed to collect pending semester fee from students, who have to appear in exams. Earlier, in a strong worded letter, Dean (Academic affairs) had directed department heads to ensure that internal assessment marks of students, who failed to pay their semester fee, be withheld and they also be barred from appearing in ongoing exams.The university Dean (Academic affairs), Dr BS Sandhu, said the office received information about 141 students of various departments had failed to deposit their semester fee. These students had managed to download their exam slips on mere submission of examination fee, he added.“We can’t allow such anomalies on part of students and faculty members. The faculty has been directed to ensure that internal assessment marks of such students are not be uploaded on the university website failing which they will be held accountable,” he added.“These students have now complied and deposited their examination fee,” he said. “Only two students have been given special permission to take exam to be held tomorrow and submit their fee thereafter,” he added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-pay-semester-fee-allowed-to-sit-in-exams-262685
03-06-2021||---||DLSA officials inspect Nabha jails||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2Representatives of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) inspected maximum security jail, new jail and open jail in Nabha today.During inspection, the DLSA secretary, Parminder Kaur, interacted with jail inmates and discussed problems faced by them. She also directed the jail authorities concerned to take special care of inmates’ medical and health related concerns. Besides, she sought information regarding inmates’ interim bail.The facilities provided to jail inmates were checked from time to time, she said. Inmates were also informed about their legal rights, she added.“Those in need of legal services can call the toll free helpline No. 1968,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dlsa-officials-inspect-nabha-jails-262689
03-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Blood donation camp in Sirhind||Akal Welfare Society organised a blood donation camp at Sirhind today. Didar Singh Bhatti, halka in-charge, SAD (B), inaugurated the camp. A team of doctors from the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, collected more than 50 units of blood at the camp.Addressing the gathering, Bhatti said every drop of blood was precious as it saved human lives. Blood was a natural gift and could be collected through donation, he added. He called upon people to come forward for the noble cause. There was a big gap between demand and availability of blood, he said.Everyone should donate blood especially in the present Covid crisis, he added. People were not donating blood due to Covid threat, he said. He appreciated efforts of Akal Welfare Society in organising the camp. Surjit Singh Sahi, Suresh Sharma, Sanjay and other Akali leaders addressed the gathering on the occasion.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/blood-donation-camp-in-sirhind-262697
03-06-2021||Karam Prakash||17K kids +ve in Punjab so far, but no ‘Fateh’ kits for them||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 2If the official data is to be believed, as many as 17,191 children have already been infected with Covid in the second wave across Punjab. However, there is no specific ‘Fateh’ kit for them.The Health Department, during the first wave, launched ‘Fateh’ kits that included medicines and other items for the home-isolated patients. Though the initiative has been widely acclaimed, the medicines in the kits are appropriate only for adults.WilL be ready soonIn both waves, the infection percentage among children has been around 4. Keeping the third wave in mind, we are already in the process of making special kits for children. —Dr Rajsh Bhasker, State nodal officer“My whole family was infected with Covid, including my children. We had to specially purchase syrups and medicines meant for kids as ‘Fateh’ kits is for adult patients only,” says an advocate.Health experts say a dosage of medicine for a child is different from what it is for an adult. Dr Harshinder Kaur, paediatrician, Government Rajindra Hospital, says: “We have special medicines for the paediatric age group, especially, for the children below the age of five. They should be given syrups instead of tablets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/17k-kids-ve-in-punjab-so-far-but-no-fateh-kits-for-them-262450
