04-06-2021||---||Illegal under-construction building collapses, 6 hurt||Patiala, June 3Six labourers were injured when they got buried under debris after an under-construction building adjacent to the new sabzi mandi at Sanauri Adda collapsed today afternoon. Those buried were pulled out around two hours after the incident and rushed to the Government Rajindra Hospital.Onlookers said construction of the building in an area over 500 square yards had been going on for the past few days. The first floor of the building was being constructed when it collapsed, they added. Labourers started the work of laying the reinforced cement concrete (RCC) roof today at 11 am, said Parminder Singh, who was working on an adjacent site.While owners and contractors were not available for their comments, Municipal Corporation (MC) officials said the building construction work was being carried out illegally.Interestingly, the site was adjacent to a nullah, which was covered by the MC recently. Earlier this month, an illegally constructed roof adjacent to another nullah collapsed leaving many domestic animals injured.The matter has raised questions over the working of the MC building branch team. Political leaders in the city said illegal construction work had been going on in the city under the nose of the MC building branch and area councillors.“Junior officials do not report illegal construction. Those involved are not taken to task. Minor action after issuance of a notice is taken only after an uproar,” they added.Amarinder Singh Bazaz, former Mayor said, “Illegal construction is on the rise in the city. Hundreds of buildings have been constructed illegally. It is happening with the connivance of MC officials.”Meanwhile, officials of the MC building branch, including ATPs and STP were not available for comment despite repeated attempts to contact them.When contacted, Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “We have issued orders for demolition of the under-construction building. Before this, owners were issued multiple notices. The building along with shops adjacent to it will be razed in two to three days.”Kundan Gogia of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), who reached the site, demanded, “A police case should be registered against owner of the under construction building.”Inspector Inderpal Singh, SHO, Patiala Kotwali, said, “Police officials have gone to hospital to record statement of the injured. A case will be registered thereafter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-under-construction-building-collapses-6-hurt-263204
04-06-2021||---||Members of  Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha hold protest march||Patiala, June 3School teachers associated with the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha held a protest march and burned effigies of the Punjab education minister and secretary here today. Teachers said the department had recently announced holidays, but departmental and classroom work was being done as per previously devised schedule.Teachers held a protest march from the PUDA grounds in the city while holding black flags. They also burned effigies.They were protesting against the state government’s decisions according to which teachers were to hold online zoom classes, meetings, training, distribute food and books and work for students’ admission during summer holidays, protesters added.The government is destroying education with the implementation of the new policy. The services of contractual teachers are not being regularised. Teachers infected with Covid are given sick leave instead of 30 days’ isolation period as directed by the Department of Personnel. —Vikramdev Singh, member, Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha“The government has also not implemented the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission,” said protesters.Association leaders said the state government was closing government schools under the cover of reducing employees in the Education Department. “The government’s victimisation of employees, who participated in protests, has been continuing since 2019,” leaders added.Vikramdev Singh of the teachers’ union said, “The government is destroying education fabric with implementation of the new policy. Services of contractual teachers are not being regularised.”“Also, teachers infected with Covid are given sick leave instead of 30 days’ isolation period as directed by the Department of Personnel,” he added.Their demands included not appointing retired teachers in schools and providing proper facilities for conducting examinations, he said.Later, teachers submitted memorandum regarding their demands at the Deputy Commissioner’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/members-of-sanjha-adhyapak-morcha-hold-protest-march-263206
04-06-2021||---||ETT, TET pass teachers march towards CM’s residence, stopped||Patiala, June 3A minor tussle took place between unemployed ETT and TET pass teachers and police officials when the former tried to march towards the Chief Minister’s residence today afternoon. Teachers also held a sit-in at Fountain Chowk, which created traffic bottlenecks in the city.Unemployed teachers carried out a protest march from Leela Bhawan Chowk to Fountain Chowk. An hour-long sit-in was held at the site, which obstructed traffic.Commuters were stopped from using road near Leela Bhawan Chowk and Sheranwala Gate, which left many stranded in a traffic jam in the internal city area.Later, when teachers marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence a minor tussle took place between them and police personnel.Teachers’ union leaders Deepak Kamboj and Sandeep Sama said they had been demanding separate posts for ETT and TET pass candidates. They wanted the government to start recruitment drive for 10,000 ETT teachers, leaders added. Extra marks should not be given to education providers and volunteers while hiring, said leaders. ETT and TET pass teachers should be given age relaxation, leaders added.Later, district administration officials gave protesters a written assurance of arranging a meeting with the Punjab Chief Secretary, Vini Mahajan, on June 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ett-tet-pass-teachers-march-towards-cms-residence-stopped-263207
04-06-2021||Patiala||Retired IIT Prof is Director of Punjabi varsity Talwandi Sabo campus||Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind has started taking curative measures regarding the university functioning and administration. The university in orders issued today deputed Dr Gursharan Singh Randhawa, a retired professor from the IIT, Roorkee, as the honorary centre Director of the Punjabi University Talwandi Sabo campus. He will now oversee the functioning of Yadavindra College of Engineering, Guru Kashi College, University School of Business Studies Department and Punjabi University Maur campus.The university has allocated all administrative and financial powers to Dr Randhawa.Talking to The Tribune, the VC said it could be termed as an administrative reform. “The engineering college, constituent college and the centre have all been running from the same campus in individual capacity. This is not viable given the facilities and resources available there. Therefore, we have decided to combine their functioning under one office,” the VC added.“Dr Randhawa will be available on the campus. We hope academic activity will thrive, admissions will increase and there will be efficient management of the campus along with faculty exchange between departments,” said the VC.Prof Randhawa has 34 years of teaching experience. He held the post of honorary Vice-Chancellor, Guru Kashi University, Talwandi Sabo. He was a professor at the Department of Biotechnology, IIT Roorkee, from 1996 to 2018. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/retired-iit-prof-is-director-of-punjabi-varsity-talwandi-sabo-campus-263208
04-06-2021||Patiala||Virtual book meet held||An exclusively women book club for sisterhood dedicated to reading books, Patiala Reads, held a virtual book meet with Balli Kaur Jaswal, author of four bestselling novels, yesterday.Notably, in 2019, the Business Times had described Jaswal as “the most internationally well-known Singapore novelist after Crazy Rich Asians’ Kevin Kwan”.Jaswal is currently working on a new novel based on Filliphino workers in Singapore, which is due to release internationally in May 2022. During the meet, Jaswal revealed that she was also involved as a writer in numerous local projects that highlight untold narratives in Singapore, such as AWARE’s Saga podcast and the Indian Heritage Centre’s Sikhs in Singapore exhibit.Patiala Reads said it was an engaging conversation that left members of the group wanting much more. Jaswal with her energy and smile was an awesome person to talk to, the club added.Neetu Narula, Vitesha and Cherry Garg said all were geared up for their next meeting with another women writer to discuss her novel.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/virtual-book-meet-held-263209
04-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man seeks bribe from Rajpura patwari, son arrested||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) today arrested a person who was collecting money as a bribe from a revenue patwari posted at Rajpura, Patiala district. The arrested person’s father was demanding bribe by impersonating himself as an inspector of the Vigilance Bureau.Disclosing this, a spokesperson of the Vigilance Bureau said accused Balwinder Singh, alias Guddu, of Rajpura town was demanding Rs 5,00,000 as bribe from Dharampal Singh, revenue patwari, posted at Rajpura, by blackmailing him and was impersonating as an inspector of the bureau.The spokesperson said the complainant patwari approached the bureau and lodged a complaint in this regard. After finding facts of impersonation, a VB team laid a trap but accused Balwinder Singh didn’t come and sent his son Gurdhiyan Singh for receiving the money from the complainant.The VB team immediately arrested Gurdhiyan Singh on the spot near the railway bridge in Rajpura red-handed while accepting Rs 50,000 as bribe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-seeks-bribe-from-rajpura-patwari-son-arrested-263014
