05-06-2021||---||Vax crunch hits drive for 18+ beneficiaries in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 4Following vaccine crunch, the Health Department is not inoculating beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 years age group for the past five days.The Health Department announced that tomorrow also there would be no vaccination for this group. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had not received vaccine from the State Health Department. Therefore, they would be no vaccination of the 18 years plus age group, he added.“For the past many days, we haven’t received any vaccine for the 18 to 44 years age group. The state has to provide vaccine for this age group. However, we are vaccinating beneficiaries above 45 years from the stock of the Central pool,” he said.Despite bureaucrats’ tall claims of boosting the vaccination drive it has been severely hit over the past one week. Due to vaccine shortage, many beneficiaries have failed to get even their first dose. Health experts believe that at a time when the government should have been expediting the vaccination process, the Health Department is facing vaccine shortage.The rural belt, which is severely hit by Covid, is also at the receiving end due to the vaccine crunch.A health expert said, “Amid drop in positive cases, the government should vaccinate maximum people. At the present pace, majority of population will be waiting to get vaccinated and the third wave will arrive.”Yesterday, only 1,297 beneficiaries above 45 years were inoculated at vaccination camps in the district, said the Health Department. So far, 3,55,471 people had been vaccinated in the district, the department added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vax-crunch-hits-drive-for-18-beneficiaries-in-patiala-263709
05-06-2021||Patiala||Oxygen generation plant inaugurated at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital||The local Member of Parliament (MP), Preneet Kaur, today inaugurated the first 1,000 LPM capacity PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen generation plant at the MCH building of Government Rajindra Hospital. The MP said 10 such oxygen plants were being set up in Patiala district. “I have dedicated Rs2.08 crore from my MPLAD fund for setting up and maintenance of this project,” the MP added.“These PSA plants will help in meeting the escalating demand of medical oxygen due to the Covid pandemic in Patiala district,” the MP said.On the occasion, the MP also inaugurated a new oxygen manifold setup at a cost of Rs62.78 lakh in the newly built Covid ward of Rajindra Hospital.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/oxygen-generation-plant-inaugurated-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-263711
05-06-2021||Patiala||Interns protest at GMC, Patiala||Demanding stipend, interns of the Government Medical College (GMC) held a protest outside the Covid ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital here today. These MBBS interns were shifted from Gian Sagar and Chintpurni Medical Colleges to the Patiala GMC.Many interns posted at the isolation ward of the hospital said the government was not paying a single penny to them. They had cleared all professional exams and completed their degree from the Patiala GMC, interns added. Still they were treated as foreign students, said interns. Ironically, their counterparts, native students of the Patiala GMC, were getting Rs15,000 per month, said interns.MBBS students of Gian Sagar and Chintpurni Medical Colleges were shifted to various government medical colleges after their institutions were closed while they were pursuing their degree.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) had nowhere mentioned while shifting MBBS students to other government medical colleges that they wouldn’t be given stipend, interns added.“We make all out efforts to save lives of Covid patients. Moreover, we are continuously exposed to virus while treating patients. However, we are not getting even a single penny,” said a protesting intern.“We are working as frontline workers in this unprecedented time of Covid crisis. Only thing we are asking for is equal treatment. The authorities are discriminatory and unjust towards us,” another protesting intern added.After protest, interns handed over a letter highlighting their grievance to the Patiala MP, who was at Rajindra Hospital, to inaugurate the oxygen plant today.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/interns-protest-at-gmc-patiala-263712
05-06-2021||Patiala||PSPCL contractual staff, kin protest||Members of the Powercom and Transco Contractual Employees Union Punjab, along with their families and children, held a protest outside the PSPCL office on the second day today. The union state president, Balihar Singh, said, “The state government and the PSPCL are exploiting contractual employees, who are working on meager salaries.”“Before coming to power the Captain-led government assured people that they will be provided government jobs and contractual employees be regularised, but none has been fulfilled,” he added.The state government and powercom chairman had taken decisions, including rehiring of relieved contractual employees, doing away with leave policy, providing regular jobs and financial assistance to families of those, who died during service and releasing pending payments, but these were not being implemented, he said.Pending assurances should be fulfilled contract of the private company hiring employees should be increased for one year else they be given regular jobs, said protesters.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pspcl-contractual-staff-kin-protest-263713
