09-06-2021||---||F&CC nod to parking lot in A-tank area of Patiala||Patiala, June 8The Municipal Corporation will develop a public parking at the A-tank area in the city. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F and CC) today.MC officialsOnce the parking lot is developed, no one will be allowed to park his two-wheeler in front of shops.The committee has decided to spend Rs21 crore on various developmental works.Officials of the MC said residents of the areas of Adalat Bazaar, old sabzi mandi, Sadar Bazaar, Top Khana Mor and AC market will benefit from the new parking lot.The officials said: “Once the parking lot is developed, no one will be allowed to park two-wheelers in front of shops.”They have decided to spend Rs4.82 crore on road works in the city. The MC will also spend Rs86 lakh on the installation of water supply lines and their repairs. The officials said they would also spend Rs73 lakh on the sinking of three tubewells in the city.Work on the canal water supply project worth Rs503 crore is already going on in the city which is aimed at supplying water to residents round the clock.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “The tubewells will be sunk to meet the water needs of residents. The canal water supply project will take a few years and till then, it is the corporation’s responsibility to provide all residents with water. The matter has been passed at the Finance and Contract Committee meeting. Work will be allocated soon after tenders, and will be carried out in a month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fcc-nod-to-parking-lot-in-a-tank-area-of-patiala-265733
09-06-2021||---||Most patients afflicted with black fungus post-Covid recovery: Health Department||Patiala, June 8Of a total of 58 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus) reported in the district, 49 patients are the ones who developed fungus after they had recovered from Covid.Dr Satinder Singh, Civil SurgeonWhat Civil Surgeon has to sayA majority of cases of black fungus were reported among Covid patients post-recovery while the disease was also reported among people who were not even infected with Covid. Officials in the Health Department said the patients reported the symptoms of black fungus after they had recovered from Covid. Of the 58 cases of black fungus reported in the district, 27 were from Patiala and the rest from the other districts of the state.In some cases, the disease was reported among Covid patients who were not hospitalised. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said: “A majority of cases of black fungus were reported in Covid patients post recovery while the disease was also reported among people who were not even infected with Covid.”Dr Satinder Singh said 49 patients had diabetes. Nine patients had died. However, the cause of death would be ascertained only after the state committee submitted its report.Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the cases of black fungus were reported among patients who had taken high doses of steroids during Covid treatment and were suffering from diabetes. He said they had issued directions to the government and private hospitals alike to notice early signs and symptoms of fungus before Covid patients were admitted to the ICU.The department said the Government Rajindra Hospital had got enough injections which were needed for the treatment of mucormycosis while private hospitals were being provided with alternative medicines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/most-patients-afflicted-with-black-fungus-post-covid-recovery-health-department-265716
09-06-2021||Patiala||Free vaccine camp held at Punjabi University||A free vaccination (Covishield) camp was held today by Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre, Punjabi University, in collaboration with the Office of Civil Surgeon.Around 500 persons above 45 years of age and frontline workers were vaccinated. The camp was inaugurated by the Vice-Chancellor, Professor Arvind. He said the proactive initiatives of the health centre and the district administration were highly appreciated. The university was one of the most proactive campuses as far as the fight against Covid-19 was concerned, he added.The Vice-Chancellor said: “We hope to build a vaccinated Punjabi University community very soon which can function confidently.”Dr Satinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, said every person above 45 years of age must get vaccinated as early as possible. Dr Regina Maini, SMO of Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre, said the camp was held as per the guidelines issued by the Punjab Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/free-vaccine-camp-held-at-punjabi-university-265712
09-06-2021||---||House in Patiala's Mohindra Colony damaged during work on drain||Patiala, June 8A house adjacent to the eastern peripheral drain was damaged today while channel work was going on.The owners of the house in Mohindra Colony, near Government Mohindra College, claimed their house had been damaged due to the cleaning process being carried out by the Drainage Department. However, the officials concerned said the house was constructed by encroaching on the property of the department and they had already issued notices to the owners. The officials said the owners were also discharging domestic waste into the drain.The department had recently issued a number of notices to house owners who had encroached on land adjacent to the drain.Reacting to the damage caused to the house, the officials of the department said the cleaning of the eastern peripheral drain was going on. “The machines are working at a distance from the house, a wall of which gave way today. In fact, we have already issued notices to the owners of various houses for encroaching on the land of the department adjacent to the drain. Over 40-45 notices have been issued,” said Ramandeep Singh, XEN, Drainage Department.Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur when contacted said, “This is the second incident of a house being damaged on the banks of the drain. While the work is being carried out by the Drainage Department. we have been assisting them as the area falls under our jurisdiction. During a meeting today, a decision was also taken to ensure shuttering behind the houses so that they are not damaged during the work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/house-in-patialas-mohindra-colony-damaged-during-work-on-drain-265709
09-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala saw 20% more applications for death certificates in past 3 months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 8The number of death certificates issued by the Municipal Corporation, Patiala, from March to May witnessed an overall increase of 20 per cent from the count of the previous year.The MC received fewer applications in March and April last year in comparison to the same months this year. However, the number of applications increased in May. The city was under lockdown during the period. As per the data procured from the MC, 181 death certificates were issued in March last year, which increased by over 50 per cent in the same month this year. The count rose to 279.In April 2020, the MC issued 147 certificates as per applications received, which again witnessed an increase of 52 per cent in the same month this year as 309 certificates were released. The corporation, meanwhile, issued a whopping 390 death certificates in May last year, 29 per cent more than that of this year, when it issued only 274 certificates.The total of three months of 2021 subsequently came down to an increase of 20 per cent of applications received from March to May last year.Meanwhile, the data of Municipal Corporation’s death certificates matched with that of deaths recorded by the Health Department in the city. The Health Department, however, does not have any record of deaths as of March 2020.Department officials said: “We did not receive any reports in March last year, which is why the data is nil for the month.” Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “All records are maintained and death reports are issued without any delay.”Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said: “We provide the certificates as per applications received, data of the health department and that of the crematoriums. Death and birth certificates are issued at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-saw-20-more-applications-for-death-certificates-in-past-3-months-265501
09-06-2021||Patiala||Jobless youth, cops clash in Patiala||Members of the Berozgar Sanjha Morcha were detained near the YPS roundabout by the Patiala police when they tried to force their way to the CM residence here today.The police had to use mild force to disperse the protesters. A minor scuffle broke out between the protesters and police at the YPS roundabout, which is just 100 metres away from the CM residence. The protesters, who were demanding jobs, included Bed-TET pass teachers, multipurpose healthcare workers, DPE teachers, art and craft teachers and PTI teachers. The detained protesters, including women, were taken to different police stations of the district. The protesters claimed many members of the morcha had been injured in police action.Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, leader, Berozgar Sanjha Morcha, said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had promised jobs to them before the 2017 Assembly elections but he failed to keep his word. “The sad part is that they (government) are treating us as if we are criminals. Instead of providing jobs, the government is beating us up with sticks. The police are filing FIRs against us.” Later, they were assured of a meeting with Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on June 14. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jobless-youth-cops-clash-in-patiala-265516
09-06-2021||---||Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law demands fee, students to move court||Patiala, June 8Students of the undergraduate BA LLB (Hons) course at Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) here have decided to move court after the university directed them to submit pending dues before the commencement of examinations.Most students have not submitted fee since May last year, when they approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court demanding a concession due to economic crises caused by the pandemic. The case is sub judice. The students are apprehensive they may have to pay the entire fee, amounting Rs 2 lakh, in 13 days.The university has announced open-book end-term online exams from July 1. The students are required to clear their dues on or before June 20. The students, who have been demanding concession on the ground that the university had not incurred expenditure as the campus remained shut, called the decision arbitrary.“They are directing students to submit the fee in 13 days. They are forcing us to pay up by making it a precondition for the exams. We will move court tomorrow,” said a student associated with the matter.The students added the university had already provided relief to LLM students.Registrar Dr Naresh Vats said: “We have written to the Secretary, Higher Education, seeking approval to hold the exams.” Regarding the submission of fee, he said: “We have held a number of meetings with students and offered to give them a concession. Some agreements have been reached. Meanwhile, fee submission will be subject to the court ruling and as such, the university will reimburse the amount later, if needed.”He added the university had already asked students to write to the administration if they faced difficulty in submitting the fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-demands-fee-students-to-move-court-265520
