10-06-2021||Patiala||Dharamshala work begins||The Municipal Corporation (MC) today started the construction work of a dharamshala in Ward No. 48 along with installation of interlocking tiles in Ward No. 49 of the city. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur and Senior Deputy Mayor along with other people were present at the time of the commencement of work.Officials said Rs20 lakh would be spent on new dharamshala. Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi said area behind gurdwara in the ward would be joined with the Chhoti Baradari through Anardana Chowk. The work of laying interlocking tiles in Ward No. 49 at a cost of Rs29 lakh also started today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dharamshala-work-begins-266266
10-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||Spend money on healthcare, not installation of statues, say Patiala residents||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 9City residents have alleged there is politics behind installation of statue after another statue at Bari Nadi on the Patiala-Sanaur road here. Sanaur Chowk will now be renamed Shaheed Udham Singh Chowk after widening and completion of work.A seven feet tall life-size statue of Shaheed Udham Singh will be installed at Sanaur Chowk. The city already has statues of personalities, including Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh, former Chief Minister Beant Singh, Sewa Singh Thikriwala and others. Local leaders, however, rejected such statements.The Sanaur Panchayat Samiti chairman, Ashwani Batta, said,“The statue has been installed on demand of the general public and the Kamboj community. Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann had assured people last year that the chowk will be widened and the statue will be installed here.”“The work is being carried out in collaboration with Congress leaders, contributions from the general public and help from the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Municipal Corporation,” he added.“An amount of Rs9 lakh is being spent on the installation of statue. Congress leaders in the area and the Kamboj community have contributed Rs6 lakh. The remaining amount will be sourced through public contributions. The marble statue weighs 11 kg,” he said.“The statue will be unveiled by Member Parliament Preneet Kaur on July 31, observed as Udham Singh’s martyrdom day,” he added.Raminder Shah, an area resident, said, “These noble souls are urging people not to waste money on their statues and rather starting a healthcare facility with this amount. Their name on a hospital will give them more respect than a statue.”Another resident said, ‘Ethe statue la k ki kerna. Jehda ve support kar rhea o ik var mere naal chal ke dekhe ki Shaheed de parivar da aj ki haal hai. Kurbaniya kon ker gea te ohna de naam te faida leader chakki firde hai’ (What is the need of a statue here? Those, who support its installation, should come with me and see the condition of the family of the Shaheed (martyr). They (martyrs) laid their life and leaders are gaining benefits from it.)When questioned about comments of the public on politics, Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann said, “There is no politics involved in installation of statue. The development is solely because of years’ long pending demands of residents. We had sought permission from the MC and the PWD in this regard, which was granted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/spend-money-on-healthcare-not-installation-of-statues-say-patiala-residents-266265
10-06-2021||---||3 of gang arrested on charge of car thefts||Patiala, June 9The CIA staff have nabbed three members of a gang involved in stealing cars and other crime. The police also recovered four pistols and Rs4.95 lakh from them.The suspects have been identified as Sandeep Singh, Rupiner Singh and Sant Pamaldeep Singh.The Patiala SSP, Dr Sandeep Kumar Garg, said cases were already registered against members of the gang in Fatehgarh Sahib, Ludhiana, Malerkotla, Sangrur and Patiala for committing various crimes.Sandeep and Rupidner were together lodged at the Patiala Central Jail for over two and a half years, the SSP added.Later, Sandeep and Pamaldeep were involved in various illegal acts in Patiala, Bathinda and Ludhiana, the SSP said.The police party nabbed suspects near the PRTC workshop on the Nabha road here, the SSP added. They were presented in court, which sent in police remand, the SSP said. The three suspects would be interrogated to find more information about stolen items and other illegal activities, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-of-gang-arrested-on-charge-of-car-thefts-266264
10-06-2021||---||Playing safe, Patiala admn sets up task forces to tackle ‘3rd Covid wave’||Patiala, June 9In the wake of a possible third Covid wave and its impact on children, the district administration has set up two task forces — district level task force and paediatric task force, especially for children, — here. Besides, the district administration has also formed a paediatric expert group.“The district level task force will monitor overall arrangements and activities during the Covid pandemic while the paediatric task force will ensure preparations to deal with coronavirus cases among children. It will take immediate action when such cases come to the fore. The paediatric expert group comprising senior doctors will provide technical inputs about the line of treatment for Covid-affected children. The group will also assist and guide the district level task force,” said Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner (DC), Patiala.“The pediatric expert group will have two doctors, who will be nominated by the Civil Surgeon and Medical Superintendent of the Government Rajindra Hospital,” the DC added.Stressing on the need for enhancing existing L-2 and L-3 bed capacity for the third wave, the DC said special attention would be given to children. He asked health officials to keep the medical infrastructure well prepared keeping in view paediatric needs. He directed the paediatric expert committee to visit government and private hospitals of the district for mapping the required infrastructure.Setting up a 15 days window for training and other preparations for doctors, ANMs and Anganwadi workers, the DC said that they would complete all the basics by the time state framed SOPs. Opening of educational institutions in the coming days might be a big challenge, the DC added while addressing the DEO, DPO and DSSO.Henceforth, as soon as protocols of treatment line from the state authority were received they would arrange the stock of requisite drugs, said the DC while invoking shortage of certain medicines during the second wave.The DC directed officials to keep a strict vigil on demand of medical oxygen. Strict audit of oxygen use would be conducted to stop its wastage, the DC added. Private hospitals would also be alerted about strict compliance of capping while treating Covid patients, said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/playing-safe-patiala-admn-sets-up-task-forces-to-tackle-3rd-covid-wave-266263
