11-06-2021||Patiala||Discussion on inclusion of MOOCs in Punjabi varsity  curriculum||The Centre for E-Learning and Teaching Excellence (CELTE), Punjabi University, today organised a capacity building programme on incorporation of massive open online courses (MOOCs) in the curriculum for deans of faculties and heads of departments on and off the campus today. Officials said MOOCs aimed at enhancing the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education by inclusion of masses.The Punjabi University Vice Chancellor (VC), Prof Arvind, talked about developing online interactive laboratories in which certain material was available for students and instructions and videos shared with them by their teachers for performing experiments. “The university has contributed for e-contents in the form of MOOC courses. The UGC and the AICTE are exhorting universities to add at least 20 per cent of their courses as MOOC courses,” he added.The Dean, Academic Affairs, Dr BS Sandhu, said, “The Physics Department has added Swayam courses as open elective courses for their students.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/discussion-on-inclusion-of-moocs-in-punjabi-varsity-curriculum-266733
11-06-2021||Patiala||Central team checks records at hospitals||A four-member Central team visited Covid facilities in the district today to check the maintenance of various records related to the disease.The team visited Government Rajindra Hospital and some private hospitals and is said to have especially checked the records of Covid deaths and reasons thereof.The team from the office of the Registrar General of India has reportedly found some minor omissions in recording of deaths at Government Rajindra Hospital.Sources said the hospital had not updated the data of medical certification of cause of death (MCCD) in Covid patients. The sources added that the team had reportedly taken along some records received from the hospital authorities.Notably, the hospital has reported over 2,300 Covid deaths since the pandemic broke out last year.When asked about some gaps in maintaining the record, Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, said, “They have asked us to fill in some more information while maintaining the record. We have already deployed more staff and work will be completed in the coming days.”The hospital authorities have reportedly assured the Central team to complete the pending work within a week. It is learnt that extra workforce had been deployed to work overnight to finish the incomplete work at the earliest.Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the team was satisfied after they provided all required documents. He said the visiting team did not observe any discrepancy in the media bulletin and the hospital records. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/central-team-checks-records-at-hospitals-266732
11-06-2021||Patiala||Lack of public toilets irks shopkeepers||Many shopkeepers, workers, labourers and visitors are inconvenienced due to lack of public toilets in the railway crossing No. 22 area and on Bhupindra Road in the city. Members of market committees have also submitted letters to officials concerned demanding more public toilets in the city.Members of a welfare club in the city today said they submitted a memorandum at the Deputy Commissioner’s office addressed to the Member of Parliament demanding construction of public toilet in the area.“There are no public toilets in the area. People have to find a proper place to ease themselves. Many end up relieving themselves in the open,” said Arvinder Kumar of New Patiala Welfare Club.“Shopkeepers, employees and labourers are inconvenienced as there are no public toilets in the railway crossing No. 22 area and throughout Bhupindra Road,” he added.“Earlier, we had contacted the office of the Municipal Corporation Commissioner after which the authorities decided to construct one toilet adjacent railway crossing. Later, the plan was dropped due to objections raised by residents of the area. But the matter is serious and we want officials to find a resolution to the problem,” he said.When contacted, Municipal Corporation (MC) officials said the office was holding internal meetings and identifying new places for constructing toilets. “This also includes the railway crossing No. 22 area,” said officials. Lack of space affected plans of the MC, officials added. Objections raised by residents and other reasons also delayed corporation’s development works, said officials.Municipal Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said, “Regular meetings are being held to discuss construction of more public toilets in the city. This is an initial stage. Also, we are identifying places across the city where toilets for residents and commuters can be constructed. Besides, the corporation is aiming for a water plus certification after it was awarded ODF++ (open defecation free ++) status in December.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lack-of-public-toilets-irks-shopkeepers-266731
11-06-2021||---||Law varsity to address fee issue, won’t debar pupils from exams||Patiala, June 10Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) will now discuss the matter of fee waiver for its BA LLB (honours) students at a meeting of the finance committee.In a clarification issued today the university said it would make all efforts to accommodate and resolve fee related issues and not debar students from appearing in exams. This is a day after students moved High Court for the second time over matter related to fee.The matter related to submission of fee and demand for its waiver on grounds of economic losses during the pandemic caught the limelight after students decided to go to court for the second time.This was after university directed students to deposit their dues in time.The university administration, however, in response to a question said they would accommodate all demands of fee waiver on individual grounds. But, students went to court claiming that the university had attempted to take an arbitrary decision while directing them to deposit all pending amount despite a case relating to the matter, filed last year, was subjudice.The university today clarified that it would make all efforts to accommodate and resolve fee related issues. Students would not be debarred from taking examination and payment of dues in instalments was also open, the university added.The matter of depositing fee would be taken up at the finance committee meeting to be held on June 15, the university said.“The university proposes to sympathetically deal with applications of those students, who have requested special waiver on account of Covid linked eventualities in their families, subject to the recommendation of a specially constituted committee and approval from the competent authority,” the university added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/law-varsity-to-address-fee-issue-wont-debar-pupils-from-exams-266730
11-06-2021||---||Capt Amarinder, Navjot Sidhu posters on each other’s turf||Amritsar, June 10Amid political crisis in the state Congress, a poster war has erupted to claim supremacy. In the latest development, posters in favour of Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh have emerged in parts of Amritsar. On the other hand, Navjot Singh Sidhu’s posters were spotted in Capt Amarinder’s home turf Patiala.Titled as ‘Punjab Da Ik Hi Captain’ with hashtag ‘Captain for 2022’, the big hoardings have Capt Amarinder’s picture with Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu’s image alongside. Another banner ‘Captain Ik Hi hunda Hai’ was also seen with the picture of Capt Amarinder and Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon.These hoardings were spotted on the main Bhandari Bridge, Crystal Chowk, bus stand and in other parts of the holy city. “It is just a gesture of the local Congress workers expressing their feelings for Capt Amarinder Singh,” said the Mayor. It is learnt that identical hoardings favouring Capt Amarinder were spotted in Patiala too.In Patiala, the posters depicted that the entire Punjab was with Sidhu. The posters termed him as the ‘voice of farmers’ who stood against the 2015 sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib with titles like ‘Sara Punjab Sidhu De Naal’, ‘Kisaana Di Awaaz Mangda hai Punjab Guru Di Beadbi Da Hisab’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/capt-amarinder-navjot-sidhu-posters-on-each-others-turf-266521
