12-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala panchayat caps labour charges, Rs 50K fine for violation||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 11A panchayat in the Nabha block of the district has passed a resolution regarding capping labour charges. A labourer will be imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 if found overcharging. Farmers will also be fined if found to be violating the resolution.The Naura panchayat has announced that each farm labourer will get Rs 700 without dry ration for one bigha of paddy plantation. However, the price will be Rs 650 with dry ration. The decision to pass the resolution was taken in the presence of a few kisan union leaders and members of the panchayat.Ironically, the decision viewed against the labourers came when farm labourers were openly supporting farmers in their agitation against the three farm laws.Decision draws criticismThe decision drew strong criticism from the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, Punjab. The committee has already demanded action against the Naura panchayat. It said the decision was against farm labourers.When asked about the same, Dharminder Singh, sarpanch, Naura, said the decision was taken to maintain uniformity in the price of paddy plantation. He said, “Once the rate is fixed, there will be no issue regarding price among farmers. The decision has been taken with consensus. The charges are neither low nor too high for both farmers and labourers.”The decision, however, drew strong criticism from the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, Punjab. The committee had already demanded action against the Naura panchayat. The committee said the decision was against poor farm labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-panchayat-caps-labour-charges-rs-50k-fine-for-violation-267147
12-06-2021||---||Storm claims 7 lives in 4 Patiala villages||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 11Seven persons, including two children, died in the storm-related incidents in the district on Thursday night.In one incident, four members, including two children, of a migrant labourer family died at Saidkheri village. The incident took place near Rajpura when a brick wall fell on their hovel. The deceased have been identified as Girish (25), Ram Shree (30), Madhu (10) and Radhika (6).In another incident, a farmer died when a roof buckled on him at Ganda Kheri village. It has been learned that the farmer had gone to his fields on Thursday night to turn on the tubewell for the paddy plantation. He had to take shelter from windy weather in the engine room the roof of which caved in after a tree fell on it. The deceased farmer has been identified as Gurjeet Singh.Besides, one person died after a parked container — owing to the storm — had turned over and fell on him, while he was taking shelter from the storm to the side of the container near Babbar Dhabha on the Rajpura road. The deceased has been identified as Shekhar Gir, a resident of Rajpur town.Similarly, a migrant labourer died in Sanour after a wall fell on him due to high-velocity winds that hit the district on Thursday night. It has been learnt that around one dozen people have been injured in this storm. Meanwhile, rough weather damaged electricity poles, property and uprooted many trees.Manjeet Singh Nial, district president, BKU (Ugrahan}, said: “The storm has damaged the electricity poles and transformers in villages, which would affect the electricity supply to the fields.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/storm-claims-7-lives-in-4-patiala-villages-267137
12-06-2021||Patiala||Sanitation workers continue protest in Patiala||Residents of various areas in the city are facing problems as safai karamcharis of the Municipal Corporation (MC), who have been protesting for regularisation of services and other demands since May 31, have stopped their work.Sunil, one of the MC workers, said, “Since May 13, we have been protesting for our demands throughout Punjab. In Patiala, over 400 workers associated with Safai Sewak Union Punjab have stopped doing their assigned tasks since May 31.”Municipal Corporation workers said, “We are protesting for regularisation of services. We want the government to end the contractual system in the state. All outsourced employees should be regularised.” “We have submitted memorandums of our demands to the administration and at the office of Local Bodies Minister. We also want that our salaries be released on time and the solid waste management be brought under the government purview,” they added.“Workers deployed in various wards of the city, including No. 40, 47, 7 and others, are not executing their work,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sanitation-workers-continue-protest-in-patiala-267075
12-06-2021||---||Patiala district witnesses dip in Covid cases||Patiala, June 11Though cases have started to decline in the district, coronavirus continues to spread in the rural areas. Of the total positive cases reported over the past week in the district, around 60 per cent were from villages. Of 89 positive cases detected today, 57 were from the rural belt.The Civil Surgeon, Satinder Singh, said Patiala city reported 24 cases, Rajpura five, Nabha two and Samana one. Among the rural areas, Dulhan Sadhan reported 21 cases, Harpalpur 12, Kauli nine, Shutrana seven, Bhadson six and Kallon Majra two.The Health Department on Wednesday declared a micro-containment zone at Sukhdaspura village after seven fresh cases were reported from the area.Meanwhile, a micro-containment zone at Kansua Kalan village in Nabha was converted into a macro-containment zone after seven more cases were reported from there. At present, Kanusa Kalan village alone had 23 active coronavirus cases, said the Health Department.The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said positive cases would continue to surface in villages, which had remained unaffected by Covid so far. Majority of fresh cases were being reported from the rural belt, he added.“A containment zone will be declared in any village, if we find clustering of cases. Thereafter, we test residents after tracing contacts of positive patients,” he said.Meanwhile, the district reported three Covid deaths, thereby, taking the toll to 1,298 since the outbreak of the pandemic last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-witnesses-dip-in-covid-cases-267071
12-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||Storm uproots trees, electricity poles in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 11Trees, electricity poles and walls of buildings were damaged by strong winds in Patiala and adjoining areas late yesterday evening. Many trees and electricity poles were uprooted, which left many parts of the city without electricity throughout night. Officials of the PSPCL said their office incurred a loss of over Rs3 crore in Patiala circle alone as over 2,100 to 2,200 electricity poles were damaged by strong winds.Surinder Mohan Chopra, SE, PSPCL (South), said, “We are still restoring electricity in various areas of the city. Densely populated areas are being catered to at the earliest.”Trees and electricity poles were damaged on Dakala Road, Sullar Road, and near Passé Road late yesterday evening. The adjoining areas witnessed power outage for long hours. Trees and electricity poles were uprooted at the NIS leaving the whole area without power for over 24 hours.A car was also damaged in the city though no one was hurt as a tree fell on it. Another house was damaged by a tree at Sanauri Adda. The boundary wall of the Miranpur Constituent College, Punjabi University, also collapsed in the storm, said officials.Earlier, the Meteorological Department had issued a warning of strong 40 kmph to 50 kmph winds and rain yesterday evening. Officials said the doppler weather radar on the Punjabi University campus was nonfunctional for a couple of hours yesterday afternoon for yearly maintenance.The Meteorological Department has forecasted rainfall on June 11 to 14, along with thunder, lightning and 40 kmph to 50 kmph winds in Patiala, SAS Nagar, Chandigarh, Rupnagar, Hoshiarpur and other areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/storm-uproots-trees-electricity-poles-in-patiala-267069
12-06-2021||Patiala||Storm claims seven lives in Patiala villages||Around seven persons—including two children—died in the storm-related incidents in the Patiala district on Thursday night.Four members of a migrant family, including two children, died at Saidkheri village when a brick wall fell on their hovel.A farmer died when the roof of his house caved in at Gandakheri village.Another person died after a parked container turned over and fell on him while he was taking shelter from the storm.A migrant labourer died in Sanour after a wall fell on him due to high-velocity winds that hit the district on Thursday night.It has been learnt that around a dozen people have been injured in the storm which also damaged electricity poles, property and uprooted many trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/storm-claims-seven-lives-in-patiala-villages-266822
