13-06-2021||---||Health Dept recommends only ELISA test for dengue||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 12In the wake of alleged under-reporting of dengue cases, the Health Department has issued directions to private labs and hospitals to get confirmatory tests done at government labs.In new directions, the Health Department has asked private labs and hospitals to send samples of suspected dengue patients to government labs. Besides, private labs have been asked to send samples for the ELISA test if patients test positive for dengue through other initial tests.Health officials claimed that private labs and hospitals were conducting rapid card test for dengue, which was not a confirmatory test to ascertain if a person was suffering from the disease.It has been learnt that private labs had already declared many patients positive for dengue. However, the Health Department didn’t confirm their reports.The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said, “Every private hospital and clinic is required to intimate the Health Department about any suspected and confirmed dengue case and send the affected patients sample to government lab for confirmatory tests.”The Health Department had once again issued directions to private labs and hospitals in this regard, he added. So far, no dengue case had been confirmed in the district, he said.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Card test, which is conducted by private labs, is not confirmatory. People should go for ELISA test conducted at government hospitals free of cost.”Dengue larvae were detected and destroyed during a drive, he added. Besides, warning notices had been issued to owners of houses where dengue larvae were found, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-dept-recommends-only-elisa-test-for-dengue-267781
13-06-2021||Patiala||85 days on, unemployed teacher continues protest atop mobile tower||An ETT/TET pass jobless teacher has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the last 85 days while braving extreme weather conditions. He called Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ‘Ghar Ghar Rozegar’ a ‘Jumla’ . The teacher, Surinder Pal, from Gurdaspur, said despite him and many others being qualified the state government couldn’t provide jobs to them.Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Pal said, ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ campaign was Chief Minister’s ‘jumla’. Many like him, who had already cleared the TET examination, were without jobs, he added.Notably, the ETT/TET pass teachers have been protesting for a long time. They were cane charged many times whenever they tried to march towards the CM’s residence. Besides, ETT/TET pass teachers also jumped into Bhakra Canal to make their voice heard.Surinder Pal, whose health deteriorated, alleged that the Chief Minister had turned a blind eye towards the plight of jobless teachers in his own home town on purpose.Sandeep Sama, state leader, ETT/TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union, said the government had promised to give 16 lakh jobs, which meant employment for 123 persons in each village of Punjab. However, villagers had already exposed false claims of the government, he added. “All job figures presented by the CM are turning out to be ‘jumlas’. We have already started awareness drives in villages to expose lies of the state government,” he said.Meanwhile, a meeting of the teachers union and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla was held at the Circuit House here yesterday. After meeting the teachers union said the Education Minister had agreed to some of their demands. However, the Minister failed to give any written assurance in this regard, the teachers’ union added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/85-days-on-unemployed-teacher-continues-protest-atop-mobile-tower-267782
13-06-2021||Patiala||85 days on, unemployed teacher continues protest atop mobile tower||An ETT/TET pass jobless teacher has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the last 85 days while braving extreme weather conditions. He called Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s ‘Ghar Ghar Rozegar’ a ‘Jumla’ . The teacher, Surinder Pal, from Gurdaspur, said despite him and many others being qualified the state government couldn’t provide jobs to them.Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Pal said, ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ campaign was Chief Minister’s ‘jumla’. Many like him, who had already cleared the TET examination, were without jobs, he added.Notably, the ETT/TET pass teachers have been protesting for a long time. They were cane charged many times whenever they tried to march towards the CM’s residence. Besides, ETT/TET pass teachers also jumped into Bhakra Canal to make their voice heard.Surinder Pal, whose health deteriorated, alleged that the Chief Minister had turned a blind eye towards the plight of jobless teachers in his own home town on purpose.Sandeep Sama, state leader, ETT/TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union, said the government had promised to give 16 lakh jobs, which meant employment for 123 persons in each village of Punjab. However, villagers had already exposed false claims of the government, he added. “All job figures presented by the CM are turning out to be ‘jumlas’. We have already started awareness drives in villages to expose lies of the state government,” he said.Meanwhile, a meeting of the teachers union and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla was held at the Circuit House here yesterday. After meeting the teachers union said the Education Minister had agreed to some of their demands. However, the Minister failed to give any written assurance in this regard, the teachers’ union added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/85-days-on-unemployed-teacher-continues-protest-atop-mobile-tower-267783
13-06-2021||---||‘SAD, BSP alliance has changed political equations in Punjab’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 12After the announcement of alliance between Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the upcoming Assembly elections, Sukhwinder Minta, a member of the SAD political affairs committee, said political equations in the state had completely changed.The alliance would ensure that the SAD-BSP would form the next government in the state, he added. It was a historical alliance after a gap of 25 years, he added.“We have already started working together and held a meeting to plan the future course of action. The alliance will bring new changes in the state, which will save people from the Congress, which is looting them,” he said.After the alliance, workers of both the parties distributed sweets among residents in the city. Local leaders of both the parties have already started working together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sad-bsp-alliance-has-changed-political-equations-in-punjab-267784
13-06-2021||Patiala||Theft suspect tonsured, tied  to tree||In what could be termed as street justice, some people tied a man to a tree after shaving off his head for an alleged theft at Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar in the city. The incident came to light after its video clip went viral on the social media. In the clip, a group of men first got the suspect’s head shaved off, cut his one side moustache and tied him to a tree.It has been learnt that the man was accused of stealing an LCD from a house. Residents claimed that the LCD was recovered from the suspect and they wanted to teach him a lesson. In about three minutes video, the suspect was heard pleading to a group of men to let him go.Meanwhile, responsible citizens continue to raise questions over such incidents. One city resident commented, “The incident highlights people’s lack of faith in the law enforcing agencies, especially the police. I am totally against these ‘Talibani’ ways of street justice.”However, the police have yet to take any action against those involved in the incident. When contacted, the Ghalouri Gate Station House Officer, Mahal Singh, said, “So far, no complaint has been received. We will take action if complaint is filed in this regard.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/theft-suspect-tonsured-tied-to-tree-267785
13-06-2021||Patiala||APON promotes research at Pbi University||The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, Punjabi University, is running various projects with funds worth Rs70 lakh provided by the SERB (Science and Engineering Research Board) and the AISTIC. The department is also running an APON (Advanced photonics and optical networking) lab to promote research. The lab was inaugurated by the Punjabi University Vice Chancellor, Dr Arvind, last week.Department officials said at present, two projects worth Rs70 lakh, funded by the SERB and the AISTIC, were running at the APON. A project worth Rs1.1 crore was also started while another of around Rs93 lakh was accepted under the RUSA grant, they added.Recently, the APON principal investigator, Dr Simranjit Singh, submitted Rs37 lakh project under the CRG scheme of the SERB. Seven PhD students are carrying out research at the lab.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/apon-promotes-research-at-pbi-university-267786
