14-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Only 41,000 fully vaccinated in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 13Though the district administration and the Health Department have been trying hard to push the vaccination drive, only a small chunk of targeted beneficiaries, including medical and non-medical frontline workers, could be fully vaccinated.Of 3.65 lakh Covid vaccine shots administered until June 10, only around 41,000 beneficiaries could get both doses in the district.Senior citizens are said to have responded well to the vaccination drive. According to the Health Department, around 2.10 lakh senior citizens have received the first dose. Dr Venu Goyal, district immunization officer, said: “We have been able to cover around 50 per cent of senior citizens so far. Of a total of 4.5 lakh senior citizens in the district, 2.10 lakh have received the first dose of the vaccine.”Meanwhile, health experts blamed the shortage of vaccines for a slower pace of vaccination drive in the district, especially, in the age group of 18-44 years.The department received the vaccine meant for the 18-44 age group on Saturday, after a gap of almost two weeks. Only 65,000 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years of age have received their first shot of the vaccine.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said there was a huge demand among the youngsters for the vaccine. They vaccinated 6,629 beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group on Sunday. “If we had enough vaccine, our daily vaccination count would be above 7,000. Yesterday, we received around 8,000 doses from the state pool. We are trying our best to vaccinate as many beneficiaries as we can.”Meanwhile, health officials said they had been able to cover only around 30 per cent of the target population of 12 lakh beneficiaries in the district. The department attributed the low vaccination to a host of factors such as shortage of vaccines, increase in the gap between two shots and vaccine hesitancy among the rural population.Though the Divisional Commissioner has made visits to villages to motivate residents for vaccination, nothing much has changed on the ground.The Civil Surgeon, when asked about low vaccination in rural belt, said: “I will be going to villages to motivate people for vaccination. Besides, we are planning to send mobile vans for vaccination in rural areas.” What health officials sayHealth officials said they had been able to cover only around 30 per cent of the target population of 12 lakh beneficiaries in the district. The department attributed the low vaccination to a host of factors such as shortage of vaccines, increase in the gap between two shots and vaccine hesitancy among the rural population.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/only-41-000-fully-vaccinated-in-patiala-district-268201
14-06-2021||---||Protesters wave black flags at Cong MLA||Patiala, June 13Farmers, under the aegis of the Kissan Mazdoor Ekta Union, today showed black flags and blocked the way of Rajpura MLA Hardyal Kambhoj in protest against the government’s failure to tackle issues pertaining to farmers and debt waiver. Kambhoj was visiting Budhanpur village near Banur.The protesters, including youths and women, waved black flags at him while he had come to meet party workers as also to welcome some AAP workers into the Congress.A majority of residents of the village had announced that they wouldn’t allow any politician to visit their residences in the wake of their protest against the farm laws. “We have already announced that no politician will be allowed in the village till the farmers’ protest is on and these politicians speak unanimously in support of farm laws,” said the protesters.When Kambhoj, along with his cavalcade, came to the residence of a Congress activist in the village where some AAP workers were to join the Congress today, several farmers gathered and protested by showing black flags outside the residence. Meanwhile, sensing the gravity of the situation, a police party reached there and escorted the MLA.Later, speaking to The Tribune, Kambhoj said a few people were protesting against him due to factionalism in the village and the protesting villagers were AAP workers. “I have already given Rs80 lakh to the village for various development works,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/protesters-wave-black-flags-at-cong-mla-268206
14-06-2021||---||3 booked for beating animal to death||Patiala, June 13The police booked three persons for allegedly killing a cow with sticks in the Sundar Nagar area here today. One of the suspects has been identified as Manga, a resident of Shanti Nagar.According to the police said Manga, along with two unidentified persons, hit the cow with sticks, killing it on the spot. They have been booked under sections 429 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The police have also slapped section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act on the suspects.According to the complainant, three bike-borne youths beat the cow with sticks. “They were mercilessly beating the cow with sticks at night. After some time, the cow fell and died,” said the complainant, Harjeet Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-booked-for-beating-animal-to-death-268210
