15-06-2021||Patiala||Garbage piles stink Patiala as cleanliness workers protest; burn Punjab CM effigies||Garbage piles have started to pile and stinking up various parts of the state—including the Chief Minister's home district, Patiala—as workers associated with the cleanliness worker union Punjab are in protest.Apart from dumping garbage in the open, the protestors on Tuesday resorted to burning effigies of the Chief Minister and Local Bodies Minister at their respective corporation and council areas.The protestors have been holding strikes throughout the state—including Pathankot, Bathinda, Patiala, Barnala, Sangrur, Faridkot, Mohali among others—since May 13.Over 30,000 workers are associated with the Union. The Union's president Ashok Sarwan, from Faridkot, said: "The state government has not regularised our jobs for many years. We want them to put an end to the 'thekedari' system and regularise our workers. Also, promotions of previously hired employees have not been carried out for years. They are yet to release our pending Dearness allowance arrears."In Patiala city, the protestors blocked the lower mall road and burned the effigy of the local bodies minister.In Khanauri, they burned the effigies of the Chief Minister and the Local Bodies Minister.In Rajpura and Nabha municipal council areas as well, the workers carried out a protest march throughout the city, while raising slogans against the state government.Patiala President, Sunil said: "The protests are being carried out in the state and Patiala since May 13. Our contractual workers are paid a mere Rs 7,653 per month, which is way less. Many have been working for the last 10 to 15 years. We will continue the protest until the government accepts our demands."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/garbage-piles-stink-patiala-as-cleanliness-workers-protest-burn-punjab-cm-effigies-268794
15-06-2021||Aman Sood||Fear of Ghaggar flood looms as repair work incomplete||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 14The monsoon is expected to hit the state this week, but major repairs and strengthening work around the Ghaggar are still pending. Even two years after the Ghaggar crossed the danger mark and entered villages in Patiala and Sangrur districts, damaging hundreds of acres of fertile land, no permanent solution has been found to tame the floodwaters.Alleging hundreds of crores had been spent on temporary measures, residents of the flood-prone villages said rampant corruption in carrying out annual repair and maintenance had exposed them to Ghaggar floods’ fury.“Wild growth blocks the natural flow of water in many villages. Even there’s no check on encroachment on the river banks. The rains can arrive any time now, but the Irrigation Department has just started the work in some villages; in many others, it’s yet to begin,” said Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Darauli village.“Our teams are working hard to ensure minimum damage due to floods. We have almost completed major work in several villages where Ghaggar banks and bridges needed repair. We are hopeful the work will be over before the rains,” said Ramandeep Singh, XEN (drainage), Patiala division.For the past almost two decades, politicians have been milking the Ghaggar issue without offering a permanent solution. According to officials, this year a budget of Rs 4 crore has been sanctioned for the urgent repairs and strengthening work of the Ghaggar and the “work is yet to be completed”. “The work continues at full speed and we expect to complete it in a fortnight from now,” said irrigation officials.A former chief engineer said the seriousness of the department could be judged from the fact that a majority of the technical staff were mechanical engineers who weren’t trained in dealing with floods. “Flood-control measures like cleaning drains, maintenance of protection bundhs are entirely a civil work and has nothing do with mechanical engineering.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fear-of-ghaggar-flood-looms-as-repair-work-incomplete-268432
15-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Novel protest: Singla’s video logs 8.9K ‘dislikes’||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 14After bombarding CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s live interaction on online video sharing platform YouTube with “dislikes”, government school teachers have extended a similar treatment to Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.The Democratic Teachers Front, an organisation of government schoolteachers, said the government was hiding its failures under the garb of recent education ranking, which was based on “false data”.As on Monday morning, the Education Minister’s interview had logged 8.9K “dislikes” against 488 “likes”. Similarly, CM’s video had received more “dislikes” than “likes”. Calling Punjab’s first rank in the country in the field of education “sham”, the organisation said they would continue to dislike government videos.Recently, the state ranked first in the national performance grading index of school education for 2019-20, released by the Centre. However, schoolteachers, especially union leaders, objected to the ranking, saying it was based on “false data”.Vikram Dev, state president, DTF, said: “We have asked teachers if they think the government has been projecting a manipulated image of the department to earn the ranking, they should dislike videos as a mark of protest. False ranking is being used for political gain.” He said the use of schoolteachers by the government for political gain was a matter of shame.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/novel-protest-singlas-video-logs-8-9k-dislikes-268436
