16-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||MC nod to another commercial area||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 15Claiming that the decision will bring financial benefit to the Municipal Corporation, the general House today approved the road behind Columbia Asia Hospital as a commercial area.The out-of-agenda matter was proposed by councillor Vijay Kumar who claimed more than half the area along the road behind the hospital which has already been converted into a commercial area. The MC had earlier also declared a number of pockets of the city as commercial hubs on the pretext that people had raised commercial properties there, which has exposed the inability of the building branch to keep a check on illegal constructions across the city.Responding to it, Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said the matter had been passed by the House and will be implemented only after the government’s approval.The House meeting was held through videoconferencing. The MC will purchase another 40 smart semi-underground garbage bins for the city. Around 21 bins were purchased earlier. Officials said there were various areas where residents continued to dump waste on roads and in vacant plots. The Mayor said the designated points for the bins had been identified. The MC will also buy mechanical sweeping machines for Rs6.17 crore which will be run for five years.The House also gave its approval to the second phase of construction and development of the dairy farm scheme at Ablowal village. The work of phase I is underway. The MC will carry out the works pertaining to the construction of a veterinary dispensary, cowshed, cow-dung storage shed and others at a vetted cost of Rs10 crore.The MC will now pay contractors over Rs1 crore more than the previously decided rate for the bio-remediation of the dump on the Sanour road as per technical directions of the local Government Department. The Mayor said: “We have also included the Urban Estate area and 40 colonies in the multi-crore water supply project. The approval was given today. This will help provide the residents of these colonies with clean drinking water from the canal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mc-nod-to-another-commercial-area-269241
16-06-2021||---||Trash raises stink as workers protest||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 15Garbage piles are now raising a stink in various parts of the state, including the Chief Minister’s home district of Patiala, as members of the Cleanliness Workers Union, Punjab, continue their protest to press for regular jobs.Apart from dumping garbage in the open, the protesters today burnt the effigies of the Chief Minister and the Local Bodies Minister in their areas.The protesters have been on strike throughout the state since May 13.There are more than 30,000 workers associated with the union. The union’s president, Ashok Sarwan, from Faridkot, said: “The state government has not given us regular jobs for many years. We want them to put an end to the ‘thekedari’ system and give regular jobs to our workers. Also, promotions of previously hired employees have not been carried out for years. They are yet to release our dearness allowance arrears.”Meanwhile, the protesters blocked the lower mall road and burnt an effigy of the Local Bodies Minister. At Khanauri, they burnt the effigies of the Chief Minister and the Local Bodies Minister. In the Rajpura and Nabha municipal council areas as well, protesters took out a protest march and raised slogans against the state government.Patiala unit president Sunil said: “Our contractual workers are paid a mere Rs7,653 per month. Many have been working for the past 10-15 years. We will continue the protest until the government accepts our demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/trash-raises-stink-as-workers-protest-269245
16-06-2021||---||Webinar on Sikh Guru, Gurmukhi conducted||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 15Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur National Integration Chair of Punjabi University, in collaboration with the department of Punjab historical studies, organised a national webinar on Guru Tegh Bahadur and Gurmukhi sources. What expert saysDr Daljit Singh, Head, Guru Tegh Bahadur National Integration Chair, said Guru Tegh Bahadur had given an unprecedented sacrifice to save mankind from the evils of Mughal tyranny and promoted religious freedom, national integration and cultural heritage of India.Dr Daljit Singh, Head, Guru Tegh Bahadur National Integration Chair, said Guru Tegh Bahadur had given an unprecedented sacrifice to save mankind from the evils of Mughal tyranny and promoted religious freedom, national integration and cultural heritage of India.Members also discussed various sources of information related to life and legacy of the Guru. They said the Guru was very conscious about the path of martyrdom he opted for. Dr Kulwinder Singh Bajwa, Former Head and Associate Professor, Department of Punjab Historical Studies, said there was a difference of opinion among various sources about the historical facts related to he Guru’s arrest and travel routes.The Vice-Chancellor, Dr Arvind, also laid stress on a deep analysis ofthese sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/webinar-on-sikh-guru-gurmukhi-conducted-269246
16-06-2021||Patiala||ASI booked for supplying drugs to jail inmates||The police today arrested an ASI deputed at the Central Jail, Patiala, who allegedly supplied narcotics to prisoners. The ASI has been identified as Ranjit Singh (55).Ranjit was deputed in the zone which was meant for gangsters. He allegedly supplied intoxicants to the inmates in lieu of Rs3,000. The police took action against the ASI on a complaint of Assistant Superintendent Jagjit Singh.Jail officials had recovered 5 gram of powder from Ranjit inside the jail and when he was grilled, he said he had procured the powder from a person outside the jail. “When jail officials opened his locker in the jail, they found his phone and another 80 gram intoxicant powder. The Tripuri police were informed and a case was registered against him,” said the jail officials. Other inmates named in the FIR are Shinda Singh and Sukhjinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/asi-booked-for-supplying-drugs-to-jail-inmates-269247
16-06-2021||---||‘Patiala Reads’ conducts session with author||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 15“Patiala Reads”, an all-woman book club, hosted an online meeting with author Faiqa Mansab to discuss her debut novel: “This House of Clay and Water”. It delves into the travails of transgenders and their hardships in a country where gender or anatomy defines the role and relevance of an individual. It is an unusual love story of two persons, Nida and Bhanggi. Nida is invisible to her family while Bhanggi is invisible to society in which he lives, rather survives.“As June is globally celebrated as Pride month in solidarity with human rights of the LGBT Q+ community, we decided to host the author for our June session,” said founder member Neetu Narula. Faiqa Mansab did her Masters in Fine Arts Creative Writing with distinction from Kingston University of London with the Legendary writer, Elif Shafak, being her supervisor.The session was presided over by Dr Sabreena Sandhu while Manninder Singh, a young frontline worker for the Pride movement in Patiala, discussed the issues faced by the LGBT community. “The club has opened its membership to avid woman readers for a short time. Bhavya Garg, the 18-year-old member, intends to set up an exclusive chapter of “Patiala Reads” for the young adults, in the age group of 15-25”, said members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-reads-conducts-session-with-author-269248
