18-06-2021||---||Municipal Corporation not to allow construction on nullahs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 17The Municipal Corporation (MC) will not allow any construction on nullahs in the city for commercial activities. Recently, the MC passed a proposal in this regard at its General House meeting. This is while illegal constructions have already come up adjacent various nullahs in the city.The MC has covered various nullahs (drains) in the city adjacent the office of the Languages Department, the Nabha Gate area, the Ragho Majra area and the Sanouri Adda area among others to make more space for vehicles and remove stink.Though roads were widened for commuters and other purposes, many shops had already come up over them illegally under the very nose of the MC.Shops have come up adjacent drain at Sanouri Adda. The MC had issued orders for the demolition of shops, but no action was taken against such illegal constructions. Another shop is under construction in the same area while the civic body has turned a blind eye towards the illegal activity.Earlier, an under-construction building collapsed in the same area over a fortnight ago after the Corporation issued orders for its demolition. While giving assurance Corporation officials today said illegal constructions would be razed. “The debris will be considered as evidence by the Police Department to register an FIR,” they added.The ATP, Manoj Kumar, said, “The MC will take action in a few days.”Meanwhile, Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said, “The decision has been taken to prevent any misuse of the government land in future.”When asked about illegal constructions already carried out in the city, he said, “Those, who carry out illegal constructions, can’t hide. The Corporation will be taking due action against all such activities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/municipal-corporation-not-to-allow-construction-on-nullahs-270302
18-06-2021||Aman Sood||Protest against Chandumajra’s visit to Akkarh village, shown black flags||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 17Three days after farmer unions opposed Congress’ Rajpura MLA Hardyal Kambhoj during a political function at Budhanpur village, near Banur, protesting Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Union members today opposed visit of senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra at Akkarh village. Chandumajra visited the village to honour BSP leaders, including party’s district president Kesar Singh Bakhsiwala.When Chandumajra reached the function venue at Gurdwara Nimm Sahib in Akkarh village, protesters, including youths and women standing outside, waved black flags. They demanded that Chandumajra should come of the venue and answer their questions.Sources say Chamdumajra was eyeing SAD ticket from Ghanaur. His recent visits to various parts of the constituency were initial steps before he staked claim from the Assembly segment, presently held by the Congress, the sources added.Farmer unions have already opposed political events in villages. They claimed that no politician from any party would be allowed to address residents of any village till farmers were protesting on Delhi borders. “We have already announced that no politician will be allowed in the village till farmers’ protest is on. However, these political leaders are so power hungry that instead of showing solidarity with farmers, sitting on dharna at Delhi borders from past many months, they continue to attend political events,” said Rajinder Kaur, senior leader of Krantikari Kisan Union.Earlier, when Chandumajra, along with his supporters, reached the village, members of several farmer unions gathered outside the function venue and protested by showing black flags.Meanwhile, sensing gravity of the situation, SAD supporters escorted Chandumajra out of the village without confronting protesting leaders of farmer unions.Later, Chandumajra said, “The BSP-SAD coalition will prove vital and the BJP and the Congress will face the heat in the upcoming polls.”On the protest against his visit, Chandumajra added that majority of protesting leaders were outsiders. “Everyone knows that even during the Covid times I stood with farmers and have always been taking up their issues with the government,” Chandumajra added. When asked if he was a contender from Ghanaur, Chandumajra said, “The party has already decided that only winning factor will be the criteria for ticket allocation. I am ready to contest from wherever the party decides to field me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/protest-against-chandumajras-visit-to-akkarh-village-shown-black-flags-270303
18-06-2021||---||Pbi varsity’s decision to collect PTA funds from SC students opposed||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 17Students of Punjabi University have flagged the university’s decision to collect fee under the parent-teachers association (PTA) funds head from all SC category pupils of constituent colleges.While the university authorities claimed that they had issued directions to constituent colleges as per discussions with officials of the Finance Department of the state government, students want them to take an independent decision and not collect the fee.Members of various student political parties have raised the matter with university officials. They said the university had issued directions to all constituent colleges to collect PTA funds from students of the SC category.“The university has issued directions to principals of constituent colleges stating that such funds are being collected from all students of government colleges as per directions of the state government. They want constituent colleges to collect funds from us, which are used to pay salaries of the guest faculty and take care of other expenditures,” said Rashpinder, a student associated with the Punjab Radical Students’ Organisation (PRSU).“The fee of the SC category students is paid as per the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme. Therefore, no amount should be collected from the SC category students. But, the university wants to use funds collected from them for its various expenditures,” said students.When contacted, the Dean, Academic Affairs, Dr BS Sandhu, said the state government’s Finance Department had asked the university to collect fee from students of constituent colleges as was being done in other government and private institutions. So, the university had decided to collect fee from the SC category students under the PTA funds head at its constituent colleges, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pbi-varsitys-decision-to-collect-pta-funds-from-sc-students-opposed-270304
18-06-2021||---||Alleging police inaction, couple protests near Chaura village||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 17Alleging that they have been running from pillar to post for seeking justice for over six months, but to no avail, a couple in their 40s and 50s today held a protest near Chaura village on the Rajpura road alleging inaction on part of the police over their complaint. The police on the other hand said the couple’s issue with their neighbours had been amicably resolved.Santoshi (47) and her husband Kundan Lal (57), residents of Chaura village, in requests submitted to officials of the district administration and the Police Department had alleged that they were attacked by their neighbours on October 19 last year, but the police failed to register a case against them.Kundan Lal said their neighbours were attempting to illegally acquire the government land adjacent to their houses, which the couple had objected to.“Three persons, including a woman from the neighbours family, attacked us on October 19 last year. My wife suffered injuries and her hip-bone was fractured in the attack. I also got injured. We have been submitting applications at offices of the administration and to police officials, but to no avail,” Kundan Lal added.The couple in one of their complaints had also alleged that a police official was in favour of the neighbours, who had got a counter case registered against them.“Our visits at the offices of SDM, Patiala, Local Bodies Minister Brahm mohindra, Member Parliament Preneet Kaur and others have yielded no results,” said Kundan LalMeanwhile, the police claimed that the matter had been resolved, but the two neighbours continued to fight amongst themselves.The Station House Officer (SHO), Urban Estate police station, Ronnie Singh, said, “The issue among the two families has been resolved. I myself visited them.”“The matter has also been taken up at the SDM office. The statements of both parties have been recorded, following which the matter has been resolved amicably. They have started fighting again amongst themselves,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/alleging-police-inaction-couple-protests-near-chaura-village-270305
18-06-2021||---||Peddler held with 750 gm  of opium||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 17The Sirhind police have arrested a peddler and seized 750 gm of opium from his possession. The police also recovered the car used by the suspect. The suspect has been identified as Dhanwant Singh, a resident of Beed Bhamarsi village in the district.The ASI (Narcotics Cell), Gurmeet Kumar, said last night the police got a tip-off about a peddler coming to supply opium in the district, which he had brought from Bihar and Jharkhand. The police laid naka on GT Road, near Nabipur village. Cops manning the naka signalled a car (bearing registration number PB12Q-9656) to stop for checking, he added. During search of the vehicle the police recovered 720 gm of opium, he said.The police had registered a case against the suspect, he added. During preliminary interrogation the suspect revealed that he used bring drugs from other states and supply these in Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib districts, he said. During police remand it would be ascertained from where he procured opium and to whom he was going to supply it, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/peddler-held-with-750-gm-of-opium-270306
