20-06-2021||---||Two die after inhaling poisonous gas at plant tank in Dodra village||Patiala, June 19Two persons died at Dodra village in Samana block of the district today morning after they reportedly inhaled poisonous gas in tank of a biogas plant.Both the victims, who have been identified as Darshan Singh (55) and Gurdhyan Singh (30), were pulled out of the biogas plant tank with the help of fellow villagers. A JCB machine was used to pull out victims from the tank.It has been learnt that Darshan Singh, along with Gurdhyan Singh, had gone to see the biogas plant in his animal yard after they found that it had stopped functioning. To fix the plant, Gurdhyan reportedly climbed down into the tank, but didn’t come out. Subsequently, his friend, Darshan Singh, also went down into the tank, but he too got trapped inside. Unfortunately, both died after inhaling poisonous gas in the tank. The incident took place around 7.15 am today.The Samana Sadar Station House Officer (SHO), Ankurdeep Singh, said bodies of the victims were handed over to their family after the post mortem examination at the Samana Civil Hospital. “The post mortem report is yet to arrive,” the SHO added. “The moment we received information, our team rushed to the spot and helped take out bodies,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-die-after-inhaling-poisonous-gas-at-plant-tank-in-dodra-village-271272
20-06-2021||---||Enough doses, but response to vaccination drive tepid in dist||Patiala, June 19Despite availability of vaccines, there is a tepid response from the eligible beneficiaries to get inoculated against Covid. It has been learnt that the vaccination drive is yet to pick up pace in the district.The Health Department said despite availability of sufficient vaccine doses they could vaccinate around 4,178 people today due to poor response from beneficiaries. The response was not ‘good’ from residents, the Health Department added.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Earlier, we were vaccinating around 9,000 people everyday even with limited stock. Now, despite having enough vaccine stock the response is not good from beneficiaries.”There was still vaccine hesitancy among the rural population, which had affected the vaccination drive, he added. Seemingly, in the wake of steep decline in Covid cases, people had become complacent, he said. “We will visit villages and convince residents to get vaccinated. Before the expected third wave, we want to vaccinate as many people as we can,” he added.However, only four lakh vaccine shots have been administered so far, which is just 30 per cent of the total population in the district.Meanwhile, Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, said, “People must realise that the third wave can only be averted through vaccination. Therefore, they should get vaccinated as soon as possible.”Covishield preferred over CovaxinDespite reducing gap between two shots of Covaxin people reportedly avoid vaccination. Sources in the Health Department said people preferred Covishield over Covaxin due to its worldwide acceptance.“Although there are some side effects, people prefer Covishield over Covaxin. Those, who want to go abroad, are demanding Covishield,” said a senior health official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/enough-doses-but-response-to-vaccination-drive-tepid-in-dist-271271
20-06-2021||Aman Sood||PSPCL forms committee to discuss power purchase pacts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 19Days after The Tribune highlighted how consumers in ‘power-surplus’ Punjab are paying approximately Rs 1.05 per unit extra due to the faulty power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed by the previous state government, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has formed a three-member committee. The committee, comprising director, generation, chief engineer (PP&R) and president of the PSEB Engineers’ Association, has been set up for improving the “working of the PSPCL”.Political issueThe Congress had in its 2017 election manifesto assured voters of reviewing the PPAs, and many ruling party leaders have already demanded their cancellationIn a letter on June 15, the PSPCL top brass apprised the PSEB Engineers’ Association that its letter mentioning two points had been considered and a committee had been formed. “The three-member committee should submit its report within a month,” reads the letter. “Till 2020, the PSPCL has surrendered unutilised power worth more than Rs 4,000 crore. The per-unit cost from the IPPs has been increasing. Moreover, the IPPs have been finding loopholes and indulging in litigation. The overall impact of such a litigation will be around Rs 20,000 crore over the next remaining 20 years of the agreements,” reads the first point raised by the PSEBA, under consideration of the committee.The other point raised by it, to be taken up by the three-member committee, is to make Pachawara coal mines fully operational, which can help save money. “If the captive coal mine is made fully operational, the PSPCL will save crores of rupees,” it had suggested in its letter in April.Under the agreements, fixed charges are to be paid to these three plants even if the state does not require power. In its opinion to the government, the Punjab Advocate General office has already opined that there was deviation from bidding guidelines, adding that the very quantum of power required to be procured by the then state government was unnecessarily increased by the state.The last Congress government in Punjab (2002-07) had decided to have two private sector thermal plants with a capacity of 1,000 MW each. However, after the change of the government, the proposed capacity was enhanced based on peak demand. “The PSPCL has already paid about Rs 5,500 crore as fixed charges till date for surrendered power. Had this not been paid, the present power rates could have been cheaper by over Rs 1.20 per unit given the cess and taxes on power,” said PSPCL sources. “There is a pressing need to review these IPPs to have an efficient strategy to bring down the cost to make it realistic in the current scenario. Paying fixed charges for three years will be a better option than bleeding the state for 20 years,” say PSEBA officials.However, officials responsible for arranging power said: “To meet the peak power demand, which is well in excess of 13,000 MW during the paddy season, the PSPCL cannot meet its peak demand without IPPs’ generation. Thus, if the PPAs are to be scrapped or reviewed, the new committee must ensure an alternative power availability mechanism during these peak months,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pspcl-forms-committee-to-discuss-power-purchase-pacts-271223
