21-06-2021||---||Roads under construction in city, motorists forced to take detours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 20Many roads in the city are under construction forcing residents to take long detours to reach their destinations. The monsoons season is around the corner but road works are still going on.These works have been started only recently in some areas and are set to continue throughout the rainy season.The work of installation of interlocking tiles is going at Chandni Chowk, Peeli Sadak and at Ragho Majra in the city. The Heritage Street work has been going on for a long time near the Hanuman Mandir.Meanwhile, a number of roads are under construction near the Bartan Bazaar chowk, government school at Anardana Chowk and near the office of languages department. Work is also going on near the Government Rajindra Hospital.A shopkeeper of Anardana Chowk, Sukhminder, said: "Roads in the whole city are being constructed. They start work on a road and soon move to another stretch without completing the earlier one."A commuter in a four-wheeler who was trying to reach the Lower Mall Road area from the internal city at Peeli Sadak, claimed: “We had to turn around from three points already.”Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said: “Work is going on at a high speed. The laying of sewerage pipes is going on only for the benefit of local residents as the roads are being widened.” He said the residents wanted the work in their areas to be started along with others. “But we will direct the engineering team to identify the spots prone to waterlogging and take requisite steps.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/roads-under-construction-in-city-motorists-forced-to-take-detours-271812
21-06-2021||---||Medical, dental teachers reject pay||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 20Doctors working at government dental and medical colleges of Patiala and Amritsar has rejected the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. The Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association finds the report, in the present form, a huge financial loss to their cadre and decided to oppose it.The association has announced that OPD and operation theatre services would be suspended in Patiala and Amritsar for three hours on Monday as part of their protest. The doctors also wouldn’t let run teaching there.Dr DS Bhullar, general secretary of the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association, said the Cabinet decision on the pay commission report, which was meant to provide financial benefits, would result in a drastic cut in the salaries of medical and dental teachers. The non-practising allowance (NPA) has been decreased from 25 to 20 per cent and delinked from the basic pay which has never been in the past, says the association.Dr Bhullar clarified: “The NPA has to be a part of the basic pay for calculation of other allowances such as dearness and house rent. Even the Supreme Court has upheld the decision of the Tribunal and the High Court by holding that 25% of the pay as the NPA would mean 25% of the basic pay inclusive of the benefits. The court has also held that the doctors were entitled to the NPA linked to their pay i.e. 25 per cent of their basic pay.”The executive body of the association and its Patiala unit at its emergency meeting held in Patiala yesterday decided to oppose any such financial loss to the faculty and urge Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene to undo the injustice to the medical and dental teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/medical-dental-teachers-reject-pay-271813
21-06-2021||---||2 more infected with black fungus in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 20Despite a decline in Covid-19 cases, the district continues to report cases of black fungus. It reported two fresh cases of black fungus today, taking the total count to 88. Of these, 66 cases were reported at the Government Rajindra Hospital and 16 at private hospitals. Health officials said a majority of the cases of black fungus were from other districts.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said: “Despite the drastic decline in positive cases of coronavirus, black fungus cases are continuously being reported.”He said people should immediately report to the nearest health centre if they find any symptoms of the disease.Meanwhile, Patiala today reported only 35 Covid positive cases and no death. The Health Department said the district witnessesd a steep decline in positive cases and covid deaths over the past few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-more-infected-with-black-fungus-in-patiala-district-271815
21-06-2021||Patiala||Commission for SCs summons VC||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has summoned the Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University in a complaint of alleged caste-based discrimination and denial of promotion and arrears filed by an employee. The hearing is supposed to be held on June 22.Dr Harminder Singh Khokhar, who was earlier appointed APRO on the campus in 2001, said he was appointed against a permanent reserved post for SCs but was removed from service in 2003 as a post was abolished.He then challenged the abolition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2004. “Later, I was reinstated after the university’s high-power committee, including the Dean, Academics, the Registrar and others, for redressal of grievances examined and pointed out that the matter had not been presented in front of the syndicate,” said Khokhar. He was not paid the arrears for the years he had remained out of work.Another committee of the university passed his arrears in 2013 but those were not released to date. “I went to the commission in 2018 for release of arrears and promotion. The pending promotion and arrears were passed at the syndicate meeting in August 2020, but I am still awaiting them.”The commission has said reminders were issued in November 2020 and March 2021. It had directed the university VC to be present at the hearing with relevant documents on June 22. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/commission-for-scs-summons-vc-271816
21-06-2021||---||Sikh studies scholar passes away||Patiala, June 20A former professor of Sikh studies at Punjabi University, Dr Jodh Singh (79) passed away today. He had been suffering from the alzheimer’s disease for the past four years. He was born in Gurdaspur.He was also editor-in-chief of Sikh Encyclopaedia published by the university. Dr Jodh Singh, who started his academic journey from Benaras Hindu University with a degree in philosophy, had joined Punjabi University as Professor at the department of Sikh encyclopaedia.He worked on Sikh thought, philosophy and Gurbani. He also translated the ‘waran’ written by Bhai Gurdas into English apart from translating Guru Granth Sahib into Hindi. He also worked on “banis” of Dasam Granth.He was a member of the Indian Council of Philosophical Research, New Delhi.Dr Satnam Singh Sandhu, University Dean, Languages, and Head, Department of Distance Education, said: “A number of his lectures on Dasam Granth are available where he expressed his firm openions on the topic. His daughter-in-law is an assistant professor at the university while two professors on the campus, who were his students, are carrying forward his legacy of work of Punjabi adaptation of Sikh encyclopedia. It’s fourth volume is expected to be out in a year.”Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh expressed his condolences on his demise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sikh-studies-scholar-passes-away-271817
21-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Atop mobile tower for 92 days in Patiala, teacher slams move||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 20An ETT-TET pass unemployed teacher, protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 92 days, has slammed the Chief Minister for “ignoring qualified candidates to favour a few”.“The government is giving jobs to MLAs’ sons while qualified candidates are being forced to protest. I don’t want to live,” said Surinderpal in a video message. Surinderpal has now started a fast-unto-death atop the tower.Surinderpal, protesterMerit ignoredMLAs’ sons are getting jobs, while qualified candidates are forced to protest. I don’t want to live.He has also requested the President and the Punjab Government to grant him permission to kill himself. “Why can’t the CM see our plight?” he asked. Surinderpal has been protesting at a height of 260 feet over the state government’s decision to allow BEd graduates to apply for 2,364 posts of ETT teacher. He along with ETT-TET Pass Unemployed Union has been protesting the move for the past several months.“I think the Ghar Ghar Rozgar scheme of the government is only meant for MLAs and MPs. The poor educated youth have to climb up 260 feet to grab the attention of the government, while sons of MLAs are getting jobs sitting at home,” he lamented. Meanwhile, the unemployed youth in the state have decided to launch an agitation against the Congress’ election manifesto promise of ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/atop-mobile-tower-for-92-days-in-patiala-teacher-slams-move-271678
