22-06-2021||Patiala||Doctors protest against Sixth Punjab Pay Commission report in Patiala||Doctors working at Government Medical and Dental Colleges in Patiala on Tuesday burnt the effigy of the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission in protest of the commission's report that caused them a huge financial loss.Doctors have decided to oppose the report and have started agitation in collaboration with PCMS, Ayurvedic, veterinary, RMO and Dental surgeons associations in the state.OPD and operation theatre services in Rajindra Hospital and Dental College along with the teaching of the medical students in Government Medical and Dental Colleges and hospitals in Patiala remained suspended for three hours in protest.The doctors raised slogans against Punjab Pay Commission and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for "misguiding" the Punjab Cabinet on the pay of government doctors which will lead to a drastic cut in the salaries of medical and dental teachers instead of any financial benefits as the non-practice allowance (NPA) has been decreased from 25 to 20 per cent and delinked from the basic pay along with withdrawing of the academic allowance being given to the medical and dental faculty for academic and research purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctors-protest-against-sixth-punjab-pay-commission-report-in-patiala-272382
22-06-2021||---||Varsities observe International Yoga Day||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 21Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Punjabi University, Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University and other offices celebrated the International Yoga Day today.The state open university organised a webinar on “Yoga for well-being and blissful life”. The state open university Vice-Chancellor, Dr Karmjeet Singh, emphasised on the positive role of yoga for the people during the Covid-19 pandemic.Brahm Kumari Anita talked about how yoga promoted health in a holistic manner. Yoga improved physical, mental, emotional and spiritual health, she added. A synthesis of yoga, meditation and mindfulness had therapeutic impact on enthusiasts, she said.Dr Rajeev Mishra shared curative powers that different poses of yoga hold to alleviate chronic health and mental ailments.One-month programme at sports universityMaharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University is running a month- long yoga awareness and practice programme through virtual mode in collaboration with Everest Yoga Institute. The university is otherwise running two postgraduate courses for yoga including MSc (Yoga) and the postgraduate diploma in yoga.The university Vice-Chancellor, Lt Gen JS Cheema (retd), said, “Teachers, life science experts and students of the university are being brought together on a single platform to create awareness and facilitate the practice of yoga and general well-being. With over 9,000 subscribers, the carnival has been well received across the globe.”DMW employees learn yoga techniquesDiesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW), a unit of Indian Railways, Patiala, observed the seventh International Yoga Day on today. The programme was based on the theme “Yoga at home, yoga with family”. DMW officers and staff participated in the programme through a digital link. Shri Arun Upadhaya, a DMW employee and yoga expert, conducted the event. He taught various yoga techniques and apprised participants about their advantages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsities-observe-international-yoga-day-272325
22-06-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University, Patiala, to admit students on lateral-entry-cum migration basis||Punjabi University will now fill seats left vacant at the time of admission or those vacated by students mid-course through a new policy of “lateral-entry-cum-migration”. Though the matter is yet to be passed in the Syndicate meeting, the university has decided modalities of the admission process and other conditions.The lateral-entry-cum-migration policy will be launched from the 2021-22 academic session. Under the policy, students, who have studied first year of their respective courses at another recognised institute or university, will be able to take admission in Punjabi University for completing their remaining course.In a notification released today, university officials said, “The university will collect details of all seats left vacant at the time of admission or otherwise vacated by students mid-course from its various departments. Lists of such seats will be uploaded on the university website and applications to fill them will be sought from students.”“The lateral entry-cum-migration fee will be fixed by the Dean, (Academic Affairs), Dean (Faculty) and Finance Officer. The university will also decide the number and particulars of papers, which students have to appear in to clear their respective courses. The university will inform about its decision to the office of controller of examinations,” officials added.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-to-admit-students-on-lateral-entry-cum-migration-basis-272312
22-06-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||MP inaugurates overbridge work at Mandi Gobindgarh||The Fatehgarh Sahib Member of Parliament (MP), Dr Amar Singh, accompanied by the Amloh MLA, inaugurated the work of an overbridge on the National Highway in front of the industrial focal point at Mandi Gobindgarh today. The 100-metre long bridge will be constructed at the cost of Rs 21 crore.Addressing mediapersons Dr Amar Singh said due to internal movement of vehicles in the industrial area long traffic jams were witnessed, which inconvenienced locals and commuters on the National Highway. Local MLA Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha brought the matter to his notice, Dr said Amar Singh. He took up the issue with Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and the NHAI Chairman and they sanctioned the project, Dr Amar Singh added.When mediapersons asked about his absence from the district Dr Amar Singh evaded all queries. Clarifying his long absence as alleged by SAD leaders, who had put up posters of him gone missing from the constituency, Dr Amar Singh said, “SAD leaders don’t have any agenda. They are indulging in cheap politics just to get media attention.”—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mp-inaugurates-overbridge-work-at-mandi-gobindgarh-272306
22-06-2021||---||Regularisation of jobs: Garbage piles up in Patiala city as MC sanitation staff continue protest||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 21Adamant on not to rely on verbal assurances, sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) associated with Cleanliness Worker Union Punjab have decided to continue their agitation for regularisation of services. They staged a dharna in the city today. Workers said they want the government to issue a notification instead of giving assurances. Workers have also decided to intensify their protest and stop all cleanliness work from Wednesday onwards.Sanitation workers have been holding protests in the city and at other places since May 13. Their main demands include regularisation of jobs, end of ‘thekedari’ system, along with promotion of previously hired employees, and release of pending dearness allowance arrears.Meanwhile, officials in the state government have given verbal assurances that services of all sanitation workers will be regularised.Sunil, city unit president of the Cleanliness Worker Union Punjab, said, “We continued our protest today as the government has only issued verbal statements. We can’t rely on such assurances. Instead, the state government should release a notification in this regard.”“Sanitation workers have been protesting for the past many days. They will continue their agitation in the coming days too,” he added.“We have been doing our work despite protest. But, we will intensify our agitation from Wednesday and stop all work if the government does not release notification regarding our demands,” he said.“The Municipal Corporation has already issued notices to leaders of the association demanding clarifications over their protest. We have submitted our responses, but the protest will continue until our demands are met,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/regularisation-of-jobs-garbage-piles-up-in-patiala-city-as-mc-sanitation-staff-continue-protest-272305
22-06-2021||---||18 injured as bus overturns after ramming into 2 cars near Sirhind||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 21Eighteen persons were injured when an overcrowded tourist bus carrying migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh to Ludhiana overturned after ramming into two cars parked on the GT Road at Saidpura village, near Sirhind. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib.The Nabipur police post in-charge, Sikandar Singh, said an overcrowded tourist bus carrying migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh was on its way to Ludhiana. When the bus reached Saidpura village, all of a sudden it rammed into two cars parked on the road side and overturned. Two car occupants Manjot Singh and Ramanjot Singh were injured in the accident. Their other family members escaped unhurt as they had gone to washroom at the nearby dhaba. Both were rushed to a private hospital in Patiala after giving first aid at the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib.Gurdeep Singh, occupant of the second car, along with 15 migrant labourers, sustained minor injuries in the accident. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib.Gurdeep said he was going to Amritsar with his family. He had stopped near Saidpura village as his family wanted to use washroom of the nearby ‘dhaba’ when a bus rammed into their car from backside and overturned, he added. He thanked the Almighty that his family members and children were not in the car. The police have registered the case in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/18-injured-as-bus-overturns-after-ramming-into-2-cars-near-sirhind-272303
22-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Sans technologists, docs unable to perform surgeries at Government Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 21Despite availability of cardiologist and cardiac surgeon at the newly constructed super specialty ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital, heart patients of the Malwa region, especially poor people, are at the receiving end. Reason is lack of surgical technologists.Heart surgeries, including bypass (CABG), valve replacement and congenital heart defect repairs, cannot be performed sans allied health professionals.It has been learnt that the catheterisation laboratory, commonly referred to as cath lab, has been non-functional for over a year owing to non-availability of the technical staff.As a result coronary angiography (CAG) and angioplasty cannot be performed at the hospital. Patients either rush to expensive private hospitals or go to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, for such surgeries.Notably, coronary angiography, a procedure to detect coronary artery diseases like blockage etc costs between Rs10, 000 to Rs20,000. And angioplasty, an invasive endovascular procedure used to open blocked or narrowed arteries, costs between Rs1.30 lakh to Rs3.5 lakh.Ironically, not even a single open-heart surgery has been performed despite availability of cardiac surgeons at the super-specialty ward of Rajindra Hospital, which was inaugurated in 2019.One of the super-specialist doctors while pleading anonymity said, “We are not here for OPDs. We need to perform surgeries and save lives. It is disappointing that the government is not providing the support staff. If things don’t change sooner, I have no option, but to leave the job.”It is pertinent to mention that a neurosurgeon had to resign last year after he couldn’t perform a single surgery since his joining.Sources informed that doctors need ICU technician, OT technician, perfusionist and cath-lab technician in their team to perform surgeries.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “Cath lab will be functional as soon as we get technician. Besides, some heart surgeries are being performed at the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sans-technologists-docs-unable-to-perform-surgeries-at-government-rajindra-hospital-272302
22-06-2021||---||‘Overburdened’, patwaris go on strike||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 21Patwaris and kanungos of the Punjab Revenue Department went on an indefinite strike today over the alleged inability of the Punjab Government to accept their demand of filling over 2,800 vacancies. Overburdened with work owing to shortage of staff, patwaris and kanungos across the state have decided to give the go-by to the additional responsibilities as a mark of protest. Consequently, villagers, especially farmers, will be at the receiving end of the decision because revenue work, land records, registry, and access to ‘fard’ in around 8,000 villages in the state would be severely hit.The announcement was made by the coordination committee of the Revenue Patwar Union and Kanungos’ Association, Punjab, during a press conference in Patiala on Monday. The committee said there were 4,716 sanctioned posts of patwari in the state but only 1,995 patwaris are working, who were holding additional charge of 2,721 patwar circles.Similarly, 500 kanungos have been holding additional charges of 161 circles, said Amirk Singh Rai, who is the district president of the kanungo association.Gurmukh Singh, district president, Revenue Patwari Union, Punjab, said, “Many patwaris are looking after three to four additional circles. This is sheer exploitation of employees, who are overburdened with work.” Singh claimed around 400 patwaris, who were recruited in 2016, had already left the job due to overload of work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/overburdened-patwaris-go-on-strike-272252
