23-06-2021||Patiala||Punjab Education dept asks students, teachers to 'like, share' its Facebook posts for 'district-wise competition'||Punjab's Education Department has urged teachers, students and parents to like, comment and share the posts which are uploaded by it on Facebook.Students who don’t have an account on the social media website have been asked to create new accounts.A "healthy competition" for shares, likes and comments has been conceived by the department, say sources. In the competition, whichever district gets the most likes and shares in 24 hours will be declared the winner.A message from Patiala Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) to parents, teachers and students said: "We have to increase followers and likes of the Education Department page on Facebook. We have 24 hours to go, therefore, everyone has to get as many likes and share as possible."Sources said that District Education Officials on Wednesday had held a meeting with school principals and directed them to ensure maximum participation in the competition. Following the meeting, school heads directed the teachers to get ‘maximum’ likes in the coming 24 hours.Deputy DEO, Sukhwinder Khosla, said, “We have been asked to share the posts so that maximum people get aware of improvements in the Punjab School Education Department.”When asked about having young children creating FB accounts, Khosla said, “Only students’ above class ninth have been asked to participate.”Meanwhile, Vikram Dev, state president, Democratic Teachers Front, said, "Ahead of Assembly elections, the government is using the Education Department as an IT cell for their political benefits. It is shameful to use teachers and students for non-academic work which is unproductive work. We teach students that respect is commanded and not demanded. However, the step, seemingly, is the antithesis of this saying."Dev further added that the directions were against the sole idea of freedom on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-education-dept-asks-students-teachers-to-like-share-its-facebook-posts-for-district-wise-competition-272883
23-06-2021||---||Illegal liquor racket busted in Patiala, 3 held||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22The police today claimed to have busted a three-member gang involved in manufacturing of fake liquor, making machines and liquor-packaging material. The illegal liquor with “meant only for sale in Chandigarh” labels was being produced and sold in parts of Patiala, Rajpura and Ghanaur.Patiala SSP Sandeep Garg said a fake liquor distillery and packaging unit being run in Shagun Vihar at Chaura village was raided by a police team under the supervision of City SP Varun Sharma, DSP Saurav Jindal and Inspector Shaminder Singh.“We recovered 41,000 labels to be fixed on bottles and branded stickers of desi tango santra, masaledar desi sharab for sale in Chandigarh only,” said Garg. An FIR was registered at the Urban Estate police station.A large quantity of counterfeit liquor making machines, liquor packaging material and other items were recovered from the factory premises. “Those arrested are Salwinder Singh Shinda, Hardeep Kumar Deepu and Hanish Kumar. Their two accomplices Atinderpal Singh and Vishal are absconding,” the SSP said.The mastermind of the gang, Salwinder Singh alias Shinda, is already facing 12 cases of illegal supply of liquor in various police stations of the state. “After March 2020, Salwinder met Vishal and bought machines and packaging material from Delhi and bottles from Baddi. They used to mix extra neutral alcohol with flavours and sell it in Patiala and adjoining areas, claiming that this liquor was meant for sale in Chandigarh only,” said Inspector Shaminder Singh, adding that a carton of 12 bottles was sold for Rs 900.The police said the accused had first set up the illegal unit in Ekta Colony, but later shifted it to an unoccupied house in Ghanaur and thereafter to Shagun Vihar in Chaura village.Sources say Deepu is close to an MLA and a councillor and despite being booked in many cases of the Excise Act, he openly indulges in illegal liquor units. “His interrogation is important to reach those profiteering from his trade,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-liquor-racket-busted-in-patiala-3-held-272756
23-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||UGC grant misused: Punjabi University panel||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22Punjabi University’s internal committee, constituted to probe the alleged misappropriation of funds of the UGC grants, has submitted its report. As per sources on the campus, the committee has reported that some bills are fake, and as such, the university is contemplating action against its employees involved in it.The committee, comprising the Registrar, Dean, Research, and Finance Officer, was constituted by Vice-Chancellor Arvind after an internal team, set up to carry out an audit of the university’s records, flagged some bills, amounting in Rs 6 lakh that were generated in the name of research scholars. The Vice-Chancellor then demanded a time-bound preliminary report. Sources on the campus today said, “The bills have been found faulty. The stamps, signatures of department heads are fake in the bills. Even the research scholars in whose names the bills were generated also do not exist.” VC said, “The internal report has been submitted. We are analysing it to see what further actions need to be taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ugc-grant-misused-punjabi-university-panel-272775
23-06-2021||Patiala||Petrol pump robbery solved, six arrested in Patiala||The police today claimed to have arrested six persons involved in the robbery at a Reliance petrol pump in Baran village on June 6. They allegedly looted cash and a weapon at gunpoint from the petrol pump guard and helper.Patiala SSP Sandeep Garg said they had arrested Vishal Singh, Harbhajan, Gursantkirat, Gobind Singh, Salpreet Singh and Amardeep Abrol. “Vishal is the kingpin who hails from Jahlan Khurd village in Patiala and faces many cases of the NDPS Act registered at various police stations in Punjab and Chandigarh. He got in touch with Harbhajan in jail and they all formed a gang, once out on parole,” he said.The police said the next target of the gang was a doctor couple at Jakhal in Haryana and they had planned to barge into their house and rob them. “We are further interrogating them to ascertain their role in other crimes,” said the police.On June 6 at 2.45 am, the six suspects stopped at the petrol pump and attacked an employee after asking him to fill the tank of their Innova car. They entered the cabin, robbed the cash and also took the weapon of the guard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/petrol-pump-robbery-solved-six-arrested-in-patiala-272792
23-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University, Patiala to keep courses in abeyance, shift faculty||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22Punjabi University here has decided to keep a number of courses being run at its centres of Rampura Phul, Bathinda and Mohali in abeyance from the upcoming academic year. In fact, the university has decided to stop admission to all courses being run at the Rampura Phul campus. The move is aimed at curtailing the university’s expenditure incurred due to a negligible number of admissions. The university will also shift teachers from the respective centres to its 14 constituent colleges.Report from campusesIn decisions that were finalised by the university during a meeting organised today, it decided to take steps to curtail extra expenditure. This is after its campuses reported low enrolments for various courses every year but huge expenditure on the salaries and other facilities.The university has now decided to keep the BTech course being run at the College of Engineering and Management, Punjabi University Neighbourhood Campus, Rampura Phul, in abeyance. As such, the university will not admit students to the BTech regular and lateral entry (Electronics and Communication Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering) courses from the coming session.The Dean, Academics, Dr BS Sandhu, said: “The Vice-Chancellor (VC) held a meeting with the principals of the constituent colleges today. He said the teachers of the Rampura Phul campus will now be shifted to the constituent colleges as per needs. This will help curtail unwanton expenditure incurred for paying lecture-based teachers.”The university has also decided not to admit students to all its courses being run at the Punjabi University Regional Centre for Information Technology and Management, Mohali. The university has been running MTech, MCA, Master of Computer Application, MBA, MCom, BCA+MCA, BSc and other courses at the centre. All courses at the centre will be kept in abeyance.Dr Sandhu said: “The university has also formulated the modalities of providing the Rampura Phul campus to the Punjab Government to run an ITI on rent. The modalities to utilise our facilities, including classes, labs and other facilities, on rent have been prepared and sent to the state government. The final decision will be implemented in accordance with the state government’s approval.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-to-keep-courses-in-abeyance-shift-faculty-272790
23-06-2021||---||Residents find plastic speed humps a threat in Patiala||Patiala, June 22Residents in the city have questioned the need for plastic speed humps fitted with nails on main and internal roads of the city. Alleging that these speed humps have become a threat to life and property of commuters, RTI activists have complained to the Municipal Corporation (MC) and the Public Works Department (PWD).Davinderpal Singh, RTI activist Most of these speed humps are constructed in an unscientific manner and do not conform to the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) standards. These are leading to fatalities, mishaps and damage to vehicles.In his complaint, RTI activist Davinderpal Singh has said unscientific plastic speed humps in yellow and black colour pose a big danger to motorists, especially two-wheeler riders. “Most of these speed humps are constructed in an unscientific manner and do not conform to the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) standards. These are leading to fatalities, mishaps and damage to vehicles.”Speaking with The Tribune, Davinderpal Singh said such speed humps had been installed on internal as well as external roads of the city. “These cause harm to the driver and the vehicle and are in violation of IRC rules. Also, their life is only four or five months, after which, the four-inch-long iron screws pose a threat to the vehicles. In actual, the speed humps should be made while carpeting the roads or installing interlocking tiles. The speed humps should form a hump of 3.7-metre width and 0.10-meter height with a preferred advisory speed of 25 kmph for general traffic. The specifications have been mentioned in the IRC rules and these should be followed.”Such speed humps have been installed on main roads, including the Lower Mall Road, YPS road, Sewa Singh Thikriwala Chowk-YPS road stretch and internal roads, including near the Passi road.Meanwhile, Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the MC could ensure that rules were followed for internal roads in its ambit. “The main roads are constructed by the PWD. We do not have anything to do with them.”The PWD XEN, Sohan Lal Garg, said the rules of IRC would be looked into. “We will take steps as per law. If the speed humps are found faulty, they will be removed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/residents-find-plastic-speed-humps-a-threat-in-patiala-272786
23-06-2021||---||Medical, dental teachers burn effigy of pay panel in Patiala||Patiala, June 22Doctors working at government medical and dental colleges in the district today burnt an effigy of the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission. The doctors said the pay commission report had resulted in a huge financial loss to them.Opposing the pay commission report, doctors of the medical college, along with PCMS, Ayurvedic, veterinary, RMO and dental surgeons’ associations in the state, have launched an indefinite agitation against the government.The OPD and operation theatre services at the Government Rajindra Hospital and Dental College, along with teaching of the medical students in government medical and dental colleges and hospitals in Patiala, remained suspended for three hours in protest.The doctors raised slogans against the Punjab Pay Commission and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for misguiding the Punjab Cabinet on the pay of government doctors which will lead to a drastic cut in the salaries of medical and dental teachers, instead of any financial benefits as the non-practice allowance (NPA) has been decreased from 25 to 20 per cent and delinked from the basic pay besides withdrawing the academic allowance being given to the medical and dental faculty for academic and research purpose.According to Dr DS Bhullar, general secretary of Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association, the state and Patiala units of the association, along with action committee members, held a meeting today and decided to continue the agitation till the restoration of the NPA provision in its original form.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/medical-dental-teachers-burn-effigy-of-pay-panel-in-patiala-272782
23-06-2021||---||Special vaccination drive for rural areas in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 22The district administration today announced a special door-to-door vaccination drive to cover the rural belt.Around 150 beneficiaries in each village will be vaccinated, and each block of the district will be covering 10 villages in a week during the first phase of this special vaccination campaign for the rural belt.The administration has decided to initially select only those villages where vaccination has already reached about 40 per cent.Sources said overall vaccination in the rural belt was about 22 per cent. In some villages of the district, the vaccination figures were said to be very dismal.The announcement of the special drive came after Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit held a meeting with officials of the Health Department, Panchayat Department, Revenue Department, Agriculture Department and Cooperation Department, including SDMs of the subdivisions concerned. During the meeting, the Deputy Commissioner directed the various departments to cooperate with the Health Department in the vaccination drive being carried out in the villages. He asked the officials to ensure that the immunisation programme was announced one day in advance in the village concerned. He advised that Covid vaccination might be expedited by involving the educated youth of villages in this campaign.Special checking of hotels, cafes, dhabas, gymsThe district administration would start a special checking of restaurants/hotels, cafes, dhabas and gyms to ensure that the staff working at these establishments have got their first dose of the Covid vaccine, said ADC (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal.She added two teams, led by AETC (GST), had been formed to make sure that these ventures followed the guidelines of vaccination. Besides, these two mobile teams would be accompanied by immunisation teams.‘On-call vaccination’ from FridayThe administration will start an ‘On-call vaccination drive’ on Friday to cover the urban areas of Patiala city. ADC (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal said any locality having five or more persons ready to be immunised, a team would approach them for on-the-spot vaccination. However, they would have to fix the schedule by dialling district control room number 0175-2350550 in advance, said Syal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/special-vaccination-drive-for-rural-areas-in-patiala-district-272781
