24-06-2021||Our Correspondent||6th Pay Commission recommendations : Doctors submit memo to Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 23The Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, led by Dr Satnam Banga, today held a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office against the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations.Doctors from various Civil Hospitals and veterinary, dental, ayurvedic and rural medical officers marched from the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, to Deputy Commissioner’s office and raised slogans against the state government in support of their demands.Addressing mediapersons Dr Satnam Banga said, “It’s unfortunate that the Sixth Pay Commission not only decreased the non-practice allowance (NPA) from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, but also de-linked it from basic pay salary.”“Government doctors have worked as frontline warriors during the pandemic. Now, the government is going to reward them in this manner instead of giving special allowance,” he added.Doctors submitted a memorandum to Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik demanding that the NPA should be increased to 33 per cent and linked with the basic pay and the pension should be fixed on these criteria. Doctors, who worked as frontline warriors, should be given special allowance, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6th-pay-commission-recommendations-doctors-submit-memo-to-fatehgarh-sahib-deputy-commissioner-273270
24-06-2021||---||Residents protest in Bassi Pathana||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, June 23Large number of Bassi Pathana residents today protested against ‘substandard’ material being used in the construction of the new Sant Namdev road. Residents raised slogans against the contractor and PWD officials during protest. They complained to higher officials and local MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, who rushed to the spot and stopped the ongoing work. He directed contractor to reconstruct the road with quality material.The DCC vice-president, Ashok Tulani, said the contractor was using poor quality material in road construction. Department officials were not inspecting the ongoing work, he added.The MLA said he had asked officials and contractor to maintain quality. The MLA called upon residents to keep a close watch on all projects. FIRs would be lodged against those indulging in corrupt practices, the MLA added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/residents-protest-in-bassi-pathana-273265
24-06-2021||Karam Prakash||Punjab Education Department tells teachers to like, share posts on Facebook page||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 23In an unusual development, teachers, students and parents have been asked to like, comment and share posts, which are uploaded by the Education Department on its Facebook page. Those students, who don’t have an account, have been asked to create one.Notably, a ‘Healthy competition’ of share, like and comment, announced by the department, is already underway. In the competition, whichever district gets most likes and shares in 24 hours will be declared winner.Sukhwinder Khosla, Deputy District Education Officer, PatialaWe have been asked to share posts so that maximum people get to know of the improvements made by the Punjab School Education Department.A message from Patiala Deputy District Education Officer (DEO) to parents, teachers and students reads: “We have to increase followers and likes of the Education Department page on Facebook. We have 24 hours to go. Therefore, everyone has to get as many likes and share as possible.”According to sources district education officials today had held a meeting with school principals and directed them to get maximum participation in the competition.Following meeting, school heads directed teachers to get ‘maximum’ likes on Facebook in the coming 24 hours.When asked about development, Deputy DEO, Sukhwinder Khosla, said, “We have been asked to share posts so that maximum people get aware of improvements in the Punjab School Education Department.”When asked about telling young children create FB accounts, Khosla said, “Only students’ above Class IX have been asked to participate.”It has been learnt that teachers and students were asked to get likes and comments from neighbours, shopkeepers and villagers.In fact, a Congress MLA also liked activities page of the Education Department on FB to increase the number of likes.Meanwhile, Vikram Dev, state president, Democratic Teachers Front, said, “Ahead of the Assembly elections, the government is using the Education Department as an IT cell to gain political benefits. It is shameful to use teachers and students for non-academic work, which is unproductive. We teach students that respect is commanded and not demanded. However, the step, seemingly, is the antithesis of this saying.”Dev further added that directions were against the sole idea of freedom in social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-education-department-tells-teachers-to-like-share-posts-on-facebook-page-273258
24-06-2021||---||1,200 dogs sterilised since January by Patiala Municipal Corporation||Patiala, June 23The Municipal Corporation (MC) has sterilised over 1,200 dogs in the city this year. Earlier, the civic body carried out the drive regularly for two years from November 2018 to October 2020 during which over 8,000 dogs sterilised.“As the MC does not conduct census of dog population in the region its office does not have any stats,” said officials.Dr Ankit Narang, who has been carrying out sterilisation drive in the city said, “We carried out one such drive in the city from November 2018 to October 2020. We sterilised 8,052 dogs in 60 wards in two years.”The MC again started the dog sterilisation drive from January this year, he added. “We have been sterilising around 250 to 300 dogs per month since January. Till now, 1,200 canine have been sterilised. The drive will continue in future also,” he said.When asked about survey of stray dogs in the city, he added, “The MC office does not have an exact census report of dogs in the city. We do not carry out census of dogs or other animals. But, the sterilisation drive is conducted regularly. Besides, the number of canine bite complaints, which we receive have declined as compared to previous years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/1-200-dogs-sterilised-since-january-by-patiala-municipal-corporation-273255
24-06-2021||---||Patiala Municipal Corporation sanitation workers protest for regularisation of services||Patiala, June 23Sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today stopped all work to protest for regularisation of jobs. Workers blocked gates of the MC Fire Department and stopped all sewer and garbage related works inconveniencing city residents.Meanwhile, another protest was held for regularisation of jobs by members of the Punjab Sanitation Workers Federation outside the city bus stand. They held a protest march till Fountain Chowk in the city.Sanitation workers associated with the Cleanliness Worker Union Punjab have been protesting for various demands, including regularisation of services. They gathered in large numbers at gates of the fire brigade office and raised slogans against the Municipal Corporation.Sunil, city unit president of the workers, said, “Earlier, we had announced to stop all cleanliness work if our demands were not met. Sanitation workers have been working for residents on minimum payment for years’ altogether. They deserve proper salary. The state government has not yet accepted our demands and as such more protests will be held.”Workers stopped all sewage and garbage disposal and cleaning work in the city, he added. “We will continue protest till our demands are not met and jobs regularised,” he said.Workers on contract, daily wages and outsourced employees of various grades also held a separate protest at the city bus stand. Those associated with the Punjab Sanitation Workers Federation and civic body employees participated in the protest.Chandan Grewal, state president, Punjab Sanitation Workers Federation, said, “The state government has been exploiting workers. They are not paid minimum wages. Recruitment for various posts in government departments has been stopped.”Protesters marched till Fountain Chowk where they submitted a memorandum to officials of the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-municipal-corporation-sanitation-workers-protest-for-regularisation-of-services-273241
24-06-2021||Mansa||Awaiting dues, nambardars to hold stir in Patiala||Miffed over not being paid hiked honorarium as promised by Revenue Minister Gurpreet Kangar for two years, the Punjab Nambardar Union has decided to hold a state-level protest rally in CM’s hometown in Patiala soon.This was announced by Gurpal Singh Samra, state president, at a state-level meeting held here today. “The Revenue Minister had promised that the honorarium paid to nambardars will be increased from Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 per month. We have met the minister a number of times and submitted representations, but to no avail. At one of the meetings last year, he had said the government would increase Rs 500 in the first phase and the rest of the hiked amount would be paid in a phased manner. However, we haven’t received even a penny. After holding district-level meetings, we have now decided to hold a state-level rally in Patiala,” said Samra.“In addition to the honorarium, there are a slew of other long-standing demands that the state government has failed to address in its four-year rule,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/awaiting-dues-nambardars-to-hold-stir-in-patiala-273061
