25-06-2021||Patiala||Plantation drive at varsity||Punjabi University today organised a plantation drive in collaboration with its environment society. Indo-African students of the university took part in the drive.Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind inaugurated the plantation drive. The university caters to over 150 Indo-African students from countries, including Ghana, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia, Nigeria, Djibouti and others. Students said the drive was organised to remember their tenure in university and keep the Indo-African friendship alive.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/plantation-drive-at-varsity-273669
25-06-2021||---||Govt college guest faculty members demand part-time employee status||Patiala, June 24Working for many years at minimal pay, the guest faculty of 50 government colleges in the state, have now demanded that the government should give them the status of part-time employees.Teachers, who carry similar educational qualifications, are already working part-time. The guest faculty wants the government to pay them salaries from its coffers rather than leaving them at the mercy of PTA funds and grant-in-aid.The president of the Guest Faculty Assistant Professor Association Government Colleges Punjab, Dr Ravinder Singh, said, “There are 962 guest faculty teachers working in various government colleges of the state. I have been working for the last 19 years. Many have been working for the last 15 years, but we are paid a minimal amount of Rs24,000 per month only.”“On the other hand, the state government is paying Rs53,568 to part-time teachers of government colleges. That includes basic pay, grade pay and dearness allowance,” he added.“There are 1,900 sanctioned posts of teachers in government colleges. But the state government has filled only 325. Besides, there are 250 part-time teachers. It’s 962 guest faculty teachers, who are running colleges. The government should consider our long-standing experience and accept our demands of conversion to part-time teachers,” he said.The government should fill the remaining vacant seats, said teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/govt-college-guest-faculty-members-demand-part-time-employee-status-273668
25-06-2021||Patiala||NZCC remembers Shyama Prasad Mukherjee||The North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) today organised a virtual programme ‘Shardhanjali’ as part of the ‘Azadi ka amrit mahotsava’ in memory of Indian politician, barrister and academic Shyama Prasad Mukherjee.The programme included a performance on ‘sufi gyan’ of Kashmir by Mushtaq Ahmad Saaznawaj and group, panel discussions on the life and work of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee by Shri Tarun Vijay, Chairman, National Monument Authority, Government of India, and Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, Chandigarh, followed by santoor vadan by Abhay Rustom Sopori Ji and group.The panelists discussed prospects of the life and work of Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, his contribution toward freedom struggle in general and to keep Jammu and Kashmir as an integral part of the country.Tarun Vijay also showcased old memorable photos from his archives to the audience. During santoor vadan Abhay Rustom Sopori ji played the ‘sharda raag’, named after Goddess Sharda and his father Padma Shri Bhajan Sopori Ji’s composition in raag ‘lalwak. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nzcc-remembers-shyama-prasad-mukherjee-273657
25-06-2021||Patiala||OOAT clinics, de-addiction centres transform lives in dist||The anti-drug campaign of the Punjab Government has transformed lives of several addicted youth by providing them treatment. Following treatment, young men have now become the earning hand of their families.After recovering through treatment from Red Cross Society’s Saket De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, a young man said, “The government’s de-addiction drive has given me a new life. I am farmer by profession. Now, I do all agriculture-related works on my own.”“Chemical drugs not only exhaust body, rather in a state of intoxication there is also a tendency of taking to crime. Besides, drug overdose also proves fatal,” he added. Giving credit to Saket Hospital, he said the care and counselling given here transformed his life.The OOAT (Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment ) clinics functioning in Patiala district are also proving a better way for youth to shun drugs and return to normal life and mainstream of society.The District Nodal Officer of OOAT centres, Dr Sajila Khan, said, “Even during the Covid pandemic OOAT Centres are in touch with patients. Counsellors are giving patients full information about medicines and providing daily doses for 14 days so that they do not face any problem.”A 50-year-old patient, who was receiving treatment at an OOAT clinic in Ghanour said after getting addicted to opium it was becoming difficult to survive financially and physically. “I contacted the doctor and counsellor. Now, I am feeling better. I am completely off the drug,” he said.“These clinics treat patients addicted to opium, heroin, poppy husk, synthetic drugs and smack etc. Patients get treatment from specialist doctors, paramedical staff and counsellors. Patients are given medicine and taught yoga. Prayers also help patients move away from drugs,” Dr Khan added.The Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, Kumar Amit, said Saket Hospital, Central Jail, Civil Hospital, Nabha, and CHCs at Samana, Rajpura, Model Town, Tripuri, Kalomajra, Bhadson, Ghanour, Dudhan Sadhan and Patran were among the 12 OOAT centres where 4,932 patients had registered so far. Many of them had recovered and living respectful lives, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ooat-clinics-de-addiction-centres-transform-lives-in-dist-273648
25-06-2021||---||MC’s road repair work during monsoon raises eyebrows||Patiala, June 24Questions are being raised over the road carpeting work started by the Municipal Corporation (MC) during the monsoon season. City residents say it will affect the quality of work. According to corporation officials, the temperature in the region was conducive to the road-related work and there was enough warmth in the air.The Indian Meteorological Department declared the onset of monsoon in the state on June 13. Meanwhile, the city today received mild showers, which brought the temperature down.The work of carpeting road adjacent to Nirankari Bhawan, near Alipur Araiyan village in Ward No. 18 of the city, was started in the presence of Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma. The ward councillor, Ranjit Singh, said the road had been in bad condition for a long time. Around 1,000 metre stretch would be re-carpeted at a cost of Rs20 lakh, he added. Most ongoing works in the area were road related only, he said.Former Mayor Amarinder Singh Bazaz said, “The road repair work is related to bitumen. It should not be carried out during the monsoon season. There is waterlogging on city roads during the rainy season, which affects the quality of repair work. The MC should have completed road carpeting work earlier.”Municipal Engineer Sham Lal Gupta could not be contacted for his comments on the issue. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the temperature and other conditions in the area were conducive for carrying out road carpeting work. “Engineers are aware of the work. Little rain won’t affect the road work. Also, we are laying the first coat of the road. The second will be laid after the monsoon season.”Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said the work was started keeping in view clear sky forecast for the next 10 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mcs-road-repair-work-during-monsoon-raises-eyebrows-273634
