26-06-2021||---||6th Pay Commission: OPDs suspended at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital, patients bear brunt||Patiala, June 25Patients were at the receiving end here today as doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital suspended OPD services as a mark of protest against the 6th Pay Commission’s recommendations.Made to suffer for no fault of oursI along with my ailing mother reached the hospital at 7.45 am. Doctors asked us to wait until 11 am. Later, citing the strike, they reneged. Patients are being harassed for no fault of theirs. Rajwinder Kaur, AttendantPatients, especially who came from other districts, had to return after waiting for hours outside the OPD wards as they had no prior information about the strike.Rajwinder Kaur, an attendant of one of the patients, said, “I, along with my mother, who has been suffering from an infection, reached here at 7.45 am. Doctors asked us to wait until 11 am. Later, citing the strike, they reneged. Patients are being harassed for no fault of theirs.” Another patient questioned why the hospital staff issued an OPD slip when there was no doctor.Meanwhile, doctors gathered outside the office of Principal of Government Medical College and raised slogans against the state government. The doctors, under the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association, submitted a memorandum to the Principal for the Chief Minister and the Medical Education Minister.Dr. DS Bhullar, general secretary, Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association, said they had been backstabbed. “The report of the 6th Pay Commission, if implemented, will result in a huge cut in the salaries of medical and dental teachers instead of financial benefits as claimed by the authority. The non-practice allowance (NPA) has been decreased from 25 to 20 per cent and delinked from the basic pay for the first time in the history of pay commission reports in Punjab.”The association announced that they would keep suspending OPD services along with teaching for two hours every day, until their demands were met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6th-pay-commission-opds-suspended-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-patients-bear-brunt-274183
26-06-2021||---||6th Pay Commission: Staff protest paralyses work||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 25Work at various government departments remained affected on Friday as employees protested the recommendations and implementation of the 6th Pay Commission in the state. The protest started on June 23. The employees will hold a joint march to Patiala on July 29 and a statewide‘hartal’ on July 8 and 9.The government employees working at district administrative complexes, offices of PPSC, treasury, soil conservation, agriculture, forest, PWD, and Chandigarh and Mohali directorates among others held the protest today.Ravinder Singh of the PPSC employees’ front said they opposed the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission as these were against their interest. “The government has decided to increase the basic pay by a multiplication factor of 2.25 per cent only. It should rather be increased by 2.75 per cent. Also our DA arrears are pending for years and the government wants to pay it in instalments.” He said the employees of the PPSC participated in the protest being organised by the PSMSU today.Mandeep Sidhu, general secretary, Punjab State Ministerial Services Union (PSMSU), said, “Work was affected at government offices throughout the state. The employees want that the old pension scheme should be re-implemented while the contractual and other staff should be regularised. We want the government to provide its employees full payment during the probation period.” He added, “We will hold a complete ‘chakka jam’ throughout the state on July 8 and 9.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6th-pay-commission-staff-protest-paralyses-work-274203
26-06-2021||Patiala||Punjab Govt harassing cultivators: AAP||AAP Kisan Wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the Congress government was using various tactics to harass farmers “in connivance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.Sandhwan said the government, which claimed to have surplus electricity, had failed to provide uninterrupted power supply to farmers for eight hours. He said this shortage of electricity was similar to the artificial shortage of ‘bardana’ (gunny bags) created at the time of wheat procurement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-govt-harassing-cultivators-aap-274247
26-06-2021||---||Cops lathicharge ETT teachers in Patiala||Patiala, June 25The police resorted to mild lathicharge on ETT teachers near YPS roundabout when they tried to force their way towards the Chief Minister’s residence today afternoon. The YPS roundabout is 100 metres away from the CM residence. Several teachers were injured during the lathicharge.The police also detained some protesters, who were later released. Teachers said the government didn’t give them appointment letters even after six months of their selection. Teachers claimed that as the government had already cancelled two scheduled meetings in the past, therefore, they were left with no other option, but to hold protest.Jagdeep Singh, a protesting teacher, said, “We have already been selected, but the government is not giving appointment letters. We were holding a peaceful protest. However, the police cane charged us. We will intensify our protest in the coming days.”Meanwhile, Yogesh Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said they had been holding talks with protesters since the morning. However, teachers refused to hold meeting with officials concerned. Despite assurance of meeting, they pressed for the protest march and disrupted the smooth flow of traffic at the Fountain roundabout, the DSP added. Protesters pushed policemen on duty despite their requests to remain peaceful, the DSP said.The police had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse protesters after receiving orders from the duty magistrate, the DSP added.It has been learnt that the matter regarding recruitment of ETT teacher on 2,364 posts was subjudice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cops-lathicharge-ett-teachers-in-patiala-274286
26-06-2021||---||Patiala MC to replace traffic, street lights||Patiala, June 25Faulty and damaged traffic lights of the city will now be changed after a gap of nearly 20 years. The Municipal Corporation (MC) has floated a tender for the installation of new traffic lights at 41 locations in the city. Also, the MC will change defunct street lights for which another tender has been floated.Earlier, the MC and the administration drew flak for not repairing or changing non-functional traffic lights in the city. In fact, traffic lights at important points, including Thapar Institute-Nabha road, district administrative complex, Fountain Chowk and near SST Nagar on the Rajpura road have been lying defunct for long. Residents have raised questions over the indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned towards defunct traffic lights.Officials of the MC today said they floated a tender worth Rs2.27 crore for replacing traffic lights in the city. As such, LED lights will be installed at 41 locations out of total 64 points throughout the city.“Many traffic lights are almost non functional. There is an urgent need to change them. These lights are 20 years old,” officials added.Officials also informed that a tender worth Rs1.28 crore for the renovation of defunct and faulty street lights had also been floated. “There are 32,000 street light points in the city of which changes will be made at 5,000 locations,” officials added.Earlier, tender was floated, but it did not attract any bidders, informed an official. Now, the tender had been floated again, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-to-replace-traffic-street-lights-274283
26-06-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University renames Talwandi Sabo campus||Punjabi University has now brought its three centres at Talwandi Sabo under one umbrella and renamed these as Punjabi University South campus. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will virtually inaugurate the campus on July 1.The charge of the three centres — Guru Kashi Damdama Sahib, Yadavindra College of Engineering and University School of Business Studies — was given to newly appointed honorary centre director Dr Gursharan Singh Randhawa, a retired professor from the IIT, Roorkee. Both the matters, including deputation of the in-charge, have been passed in the Syndicate meeting.The university also cleared promotions of the teaching faculty members. They were awaiting promotion letters for many years. Officials said Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind decided to go ahead with promotions under the career advancement scheme of members belonging to physical science, life sciences and medicine faculties.“The remaining matters will be looked into at the upcoming meetings of the Syndicate, which will be held every month,” officials added.The university also promoted its non-teaching employees, whose promotions were pending and some, who retired recently. Besides, charges of university registrar and other officials, which were given recently in anticipation of the Syndicate meeting, were also approved by Syndics.Dean (Academics) Dr BS Sandhu said, “The university has also deputed Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind as professor (honorary) at the Department of Physics. He will teach at the department like other professors.” Meanwhile, in order to reduce guest faculty teachers hired by university every year, the Syndicate today decided that faculty members deputed at various research centres on the campus will do the teaching work from the upcoming academic session.“This decision clubbed with transfer of other teachers from external centres will reduce the need for the guest faculty,” said officials.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-renames-talwandi-sabo-campus-274281
26-06-2021||---||Webinar dwells on railway vendor development programme||Patiala, June 25Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) today organised a virtual vendor development programme in association with the Confederation of Indian Industry, Chandigarh, to expand the supplier base of high technology products with special emphasis on indigenisation of imported items under the Government of India policies of ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atamnirbhar Bharat’.Officials said emphasis was laid on development of the MSE sector in the meeting. Around 200 entrepreneurs from different parts of the country participated in the webinar.Pramod Arora, deputy chief materials manager, apprised suppliers about present and future requirements of Indian Railways and items likely to be procured by the DMW.They also discussed the railway procurement system and future activities of the DMW in the webinar, officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/webinar-dwells-on-railway-vendor-development-programme-274279
