28-06-2021||Ravneet Singh||SGPC president offers support to girl, family; exhorts people to stick to religion they are born in||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 28Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday expressed support for the family and the girl, who allegedly got forcibly converted to Islam in Kashmir, and advocated that people in the country should stick to the religion they are born in.Jagir Kaur was speaking on the alleged forced conversion of a Sikh girl into Islam in Kashmir through marriage at a press conference here.“As Sikhs, it is the family’s duty to educate and encourage their children to follow the Sikh way of life. Given that in a democracy one can practice their religion, no one should force anyone to convert. We as the SGPC can preach about the religion, but no one can force another to adhere to doctrines of a religion,” she said.The controversy erupted in Kashmir after allegations were levelled that the girl was forcibly abducted and converted. Later, the matter reached the court which favoured the girl’s decision to convert.Jagir Kaur said the family and relatives of the girl had approached the SGPC and also tried to convince the girl to convert back to Sikh religion. “The girl did not relent and as such we will not force anything on her. We offer her and her family all our support”, Jagir Kaur said.Meanwhile, after visiting a property allegedly belonging to the Khalsa College trust near railway crossing 24 in Patiala, she alleged that the police and district administration, Patiala, were interfering in SGPC keeping hold onto its land.She said the Khalsa College Trust has over 110 bighas of land there. The Mata Sahib Kaur Girls’ Khalsa College is constructed on 25 bighas of it, while some people have acquired a portion of the remaining land and started construction of plots. “The administration and police are interfering in it and are not allowing us to keep hold on it. We wish to keep hold of the remaining land”, she said and added she has also had a word with MP Preneet Kaur.Residents of the village, meanwhile, said the trust land had been sold out by none other than members of the Khalsa college trust to private persons. Jagir Kaur said: “Those who have any documents of ownership should come and show us.”Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh when contacted said the administration does not aim to interfere in the matter. “We are only maintaining law and order. Those who have the documents of ownership should show them to us.” He added that some members of the SGPC had approached his office.“We told them to submit a complaint. We haven’t received any till now,” the SDM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sgpc-president-offers-support-to-girl-family-exhorts-people-to-stick-to-religion-they-are-born-in-275247
28-06-2021||---||Patiala Beopar Mandal chief receives threat letter from ‘gangsters’||Patiala, June 27A local resident and president of Patiala Beopar Mandal, Rakesh Gupta, today alleged unidentified persons threatened him with dire consequences if he did not pay them a ransom of Rs 15 lakh.Gupta, who claims to be actively involved in social activities, including drives against illegal constructions in the city, said a letter was allegedly sent by gangsters of the Samana area from the Gurbaksh Colony post office. “They have threatened to abduct my daughter if I approach the police. I have no personal animosity with anyone.”Gupta said: “I am satisfied with the police’s probe but want that the miscreants should be arrested at the earliest.” he added, adding, “An address of Samana is mentioned on the letter but no one lives over there.”Gupta said the threats could be related to illegal constructions being carried out in areas of the Municipal Corporation and the Improvement Trust, Patiala. He showed a number of photographs of illegal constructions being carried out in the city. “The Beopar Mandal had recently raised the matter of illegal land acquisition and construction by mafia in Patiala. Some colonisers have carried out illegal constructions but the Municipal Corporation officials have failed to act against them despite many complaints. Some colonisers could have been miffed due to the same,” he said.He has decided to approach the SSP, Vigilance.Meanwhile, Joint Commissioner of MC Avikesh Gupta said: “I am unaware of any pending complaint filed by him. But if there are specific concerns, we will definitely look into them and take action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-beopar-mandal-chief-receives-threat-letter-from-gangsters-275149
28-06-2021||---||Union expresses solidarity with protesting teacher in Patiala||Patiala, June 27The ETT, TET Pass Unemployed Union today held a protest to express their solidarity with the teacher who has been protesting atop a mobile tower for the past 99 days.Members of the union blocked the Children Memorial Chowk by staging a sit-in for a while. Thereafter, they marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence.However, they were stopped by the police near the YPS roundabout, just 100 metre away from the CM’s residence.Sandeep Sama, union leader, said: “It seems that the government is waiting for some untoward incident to happen with the protesting teacher. However, we will not let this happen because a human life is at stake.”It has been learnt that a few members of the union had taken some food items to the protesting teacher, Surinder Pal.Meanwhile, Dr Dharamvira Gandhi, a former MP from Patiala, appealed to the protesting teacher to end his fast-unto-death and climb down the tower. Dr Gandhi said the struggle for their rights should continue, but nothing was more important than his health. “I appeal to the teacher to come down given his deteriorating health condition. The government should immediately initiate talks and bring him down at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/union-expresses-solidarity-with-protesting-teacher-in-patiala-275148
28-06-2021||---||Garbage piles up in Patiala as workers continue protest||Patiala, June 27Garbage is piling up in the city as more than 400 contractual cleanliness workers of the Municipal Corporation continue their protest. The workers include sewer men and garbage collectors.Garbage has piled up at places adjacent to the MRF centre near the Mayor’s house, the Leela Bhawan market and other places. Residents of many areas, including Ward No. 40 and 47, have complained of the non-lifting of garbage.The workers have been protesting outside the fire brigade office for more than four days. They are pressing for regularisation of their services at the earliest.Sunil, leader of the cleanliness workers, said: “The contractual workers have been working at meagre amounts. The state government should regularise their services. More than 400 contractual workers are holding protests while only regular workers of the MC are performing duties.”Workers in some areas burnt the copies of notifications released by the Local Government Department regarding the decision on regularisation of services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/garbage-piles-up-in-patiala-as-workers-continue-protest-275146
28-06-2021||---||11 villages 100% vaccinated in Patiala district||Patiala, June 27Amid a poor response to vaccination from residents, 11 villages today achieved a target of 100 per cent inoculation in the district.Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, said the district administration had decided to start inoculation at villages having the vaccine coverage of 40 per cent or above. “Our teams have started not only inoculation, but also efforts to instil a sense of positivity among the rural population to remove various misconceptions they have in their minds,” said Amit.The 11 villages that have achieved 100 per cent vaccination include Khokh, Mungo and Wazidri in Bhadson, Sainserwal, Theri, Shekhupura, Rasolpura Jora in Kauli (Patiala), Dudhan Sadhan in Dudhan Sadhan, Rampur Dugal in Patran, Ajit Nagar and Talwandi Kothe in Samana block.He added that these 100 per cent immunised villages would inspire the other villages to follow suit to avoid the onslaught of the possible third wave of Covid.He claimed they would definitely meet a target of 100 per cent coverage of all rural population of 18 plus age within the scheduled time of one and a half months.The administration is said to have decided to choose 10 villages per week in each block to reach 100 per cent vaccination there.The target was to cover around 60 villages in seven rural blocks of the district within a week. However, only 11 villages have achieved the target of 100 per cent inoculation so far.Health teams are working along with other departments, including the Rural Development and Panchayat Department, Revenue Department, Department of Cooperation and the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, to make the district fully vaccinated.Applauding the dedication of the health teams, Kumar Amit said from ASHA to ANMs and other paramedics, all were doing a lot to keep the district safe from the clutches of the Covid-19 pandemic. He hoped that the doctors, who were leading the teams, would definitely make the district 100 per cent vaccinated within the stipulated time.Villages that have set an exampleThe 11 villages that have achieved 100 per cent vaccination include Khokh, Mungo and Wazidri in Bhadson, Sainserwal, Theri, Shekhupura, Rasolpura Jora in Kauli (Patiala), Dudhan Sadhan in Dudhan Sadhan, Rampur Dugal in Patran, Ajit Nagar and Talwandi Kothe in Samana block. Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, claimed they would definitely meet a target of 100 per cent coverage of all rural population of 18 plus age within the scheduled time of one and a half months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/11-villages-100-vaccinated-in-patiala-district-275144
28-06-2021||---||Women suspects in animal cruelty case in Patiala yet to be arrested||Patiala, June 27The Patiala police have failed to make any arrest in the shocking incident of two women dragging a dog while tethering it to their scooter.A case has been registered under Section 429 of the IPC and Section 11 (1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.In a video clip, the suspects were seen tying a dog to their scooter and dragging it along in the Century Enclave area of the city on June 20. When a member of a Patiala-based NGO raised the alarm, the suspects reportedly left the dog on the spot and fled away.Unfortunately, the dog died on June 24 from injuries. The NGO – Chopaya Jeev Rakha Foundation – filed a complaint with the police. The video of the incident is already doing the rounds on the social media.Sushma Singh Rathore, founder, Chopaya Jeev Rakha Foundation, said: “This is a shocking incident. We have already pressed our volunteers into service for identifying both women. Prize money has also been announced for helping in apprehending the suspects.”Meanwhile, SHO Gurpreet Bhinder said: “We have registered the case. The investigations are underway. We are trying to identify the owner of the vehicle. Besides, teams are searching for the suspects in the area where the incident took place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/women-suspects-in-animal-cruelty-case-in-patiala-yet-to-be-arrested-275044
