29-06-2021||Patiala||Non-permanent PRTC and PUNBUS employees go on strike in Patiala, commuters at receiving end||Demanding regularisation, hundreds of contractual and outsourced employees of state owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways (PUNBUS) are holding a sit-in protest, here in Patiala.The protesters have blocked the Fountain roundabout by erecting tents there. Consequently, the traffic movement in the city has already been paralyzed.Meanwhile, the police, as a precautionary measure, had to block all the roads leading to Fountain roundabout, which added to the woes of the commuters.Notably, the contractual employees were on three-day strike for their unmet demands. The protesters threatened that they would march toward the Chief Minister’s residence, if they were not heard.Kamal Kumar, union leader, PUNBUS contractual union, said, “We are demanding regularisation of thousands of the workers of PRTC and PUNBUS, who have been working on contract basis for over a decade now.”Kumar also demanded that the government should introduce around 1,000 buses in both the organisations, PRTC and PUNBUS, for the convenience of the people of Punjab.Another protester said, “Drivers and conductors are working day and night to earn revenue for the government. However, when we ask for regularisation of jobs, the government says they (the government) have no money. However, they have got money for multiple pensions to MLAs and MPs, who are already well off.”The protesters demanded a panel meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.“We will not hesitate to break the barricades around the CM residence, if the government fails to fulfil our demands,” said the protesters.Meanwhile, the travellers in the state were at the receiving end because around 50 per cent of the buses remained off road during the three day strike which started on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/non-permanent-prtc-and-punbus-employees-go-on-strike-in-patiala-commuters-at-receiving-end-275788
29-06-2021||---||Patiala: Health Dept to take help of police in Covid-19 sampling||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 28In view of residents’ opposition to Covid sampling in many areas, the Health Department has decided to take police personnel along while going for sampling.The officials concerned said residents of Ekta Nagar, where the first case of Delta Plus variant was found, showed resistance to Covid sampling during a surveillance exercise. The department was conducting a survey there to identify symptomatic patients.Though around 300 houses in the area have been surveyed, the health officials couldn’t collect even a single sample there so far. It was learnt that residents had refused for Covid sampling.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said: “Our teams asked residents to come forward for sampling. However, no one obliged. Now, we have decided to take the police with us for sampling.”He said a resident of Ekta Nagar was found positive at the PGI, Chandigarh, and they had requested the doctors there to send the patient’s sample for genome sequencing. “We have taken the samples of the members of the sole Delta Plus positive patient’s family. However, it is important to take samples of other residents in the area as well. We want to know if it was an isolated case or not.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-health-dept-to-take-help-of-police-in-covid-19-sampling-275719
29-06-2021||---||Dispose of trash properly, Patiala Mayor urges city residents||Tribune News servicePatiala, June 28As garbage is piling up in the city, Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma has exhorted people to discard garbage as per norms, and stated that only 10 per cent residents were not following the laid down procedure.The Mayor held a drive in the city at the market adjacent to a garbage pile in a bid to educate the residents about the proper disposal of garbage.He said the corporation was spending crores of rupees on waste management in the city but the effort was suffering due to the negligence on the part of only 10 per cent of the city’s population.This is while the city is again witnessing the piles of garbage at various places, partially due to the the protest of contractual cleanliness workers’ which is going on for the past one week. Over 400 contractual workers have stopped all work related to cleanliness.The Mayor said people should adhere to the norms and dispose of garbage properly. He said the people would be slapped a minimum fine of Rs1,000 for negligent behaviour and discarding garbage in the open. “We are going to implement a number of other such norms as well,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dispose-of-trash-properly-patiala-mayor-urges-city-residents-275721
29-06-2021||---||Punjabi University to start 5-year integrated courses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 28Punjabi University has decided to begin various undergraduate five-year integrated courses at its various faculties on the campus. The university has authorised the Vice-Chancellor (VC) to start and run the courses which will be cleared at a meeting of the syndicate. The courses will be started in the upcoming academic session.The officials concerned said today that the university had decided to run five-year integrated courses on the campus on the lines of those being run at various IITs and IISER among others. “These will help the students get a variety of courses and better teaching. It will also bring us more students,” they said.These courses will be run in faculties of social sciences, languages, life sciences, physical sciences, business management, commerce, data sciences, computer science and application. A course in BTech mathematics will also be launched.The students who opt for the five-year integrated course in languages will be able to opt for Punjabi, English, Urdu and other languages.Dr BS Sandhu, Dean, Academics, said: “We have decided to offer seats ranging from 100 to 180 for the integrated courses. The students who opt for courses in life sciences will be able to opt for biology, botany, human biology, pharmacy, bio-technology in the 4th year. Similarly, options will be available for other students under various other faculty heads”.He said the students who opt for the five-year integrated course will not have to re-enrol after the 3rd year. Their seats will be secure. Meanwhile, the other remaining seats of master courses at the departments will be filled from outside as previously prevalent. The students will attend classes at different departments as per their curriculum.Dr Sandhu said the students would be required to pay from Rs25,000 to Rs30,000 fee per semester for the courses. This would help provide new courses for the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-start-5-year-integrated-courses-275722
29-06-2021||---||Government Medical College, Patiala, holds webinar on Covid-19||Patiala, June 28The department of surgery, Government Medical College, here organised a webinar, “Covid Pandemic - does it have a silver lining?”. Dr K Jagadeesan, transplant surgeon and chairman of KJ Hospital, Chennai, talked about his new invention: “KJs Covid tracker”.According to him, the new invention can ascertain whether a person has Covid or not when a suspected patient touches the device.He said leucopenia, lymphopenia and eosinopenia, along with a rise in temperature and pulse rate, and low oxygen saturation were seen in Covid patients. An additional parameter that is noted by the machine, which was crucial for diagnosis, was the nano or Zeta potential that was measured from the skin. “Zeta potential is much lower in Covid-infected patients. By collecting all these data non-invasively, one could come to a conclusion whether the patient is affected or not,” said Dr Jagadeesan.He has been asked to make this gadget for use at airports.Dr Ashwani, Head of Surgery Department, said: “The preliminary study on this tracker shows promising results. Dr Jagadeesan has agreed to donate his invention to us for use and further research in the college.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/government-medical-college-patiala-holds-webinar-on-covid-19-275723
29-06-2021||---||Finally, Patiala police catch up with women who dragged dog||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 28Two women, who were accused of dragging a dog after tethering it to their scooter, were arrested by the police today. The suspects have been identified as Chanchal and Sonia, residents of the Adarsh Nagar area near Ablowal village in Patiala. Both suspects were immediately released on bail.‘It had turned violent’The two women, who are known to each other, revealed that the dog had turned violent. They claimed that it had attacked a kid at their house.— Gurpreet Bhinder, SHO, Civil Lines, PatialaGurpreet Bhinder, SHO, Civil Lines, said they had impounded the scooter used by the suspects. “The two women, who are known to each other, revealed that the dog had turned violent. They claimed that it had attacked a kid at their house,” the SHO said.Bhinder revealed that the women were taking the dog to the Bhakhra canal when they were stopped by some activist.Asked about a report of the suspects changing the colour of the scooter to evade identification, Bhinder said, “We have impounded the vehicle. I don’t see any change in the scooter. However, we will again verify.”Meanwhile, Sushma Singh Rathore, founder, Chopaya Jeev Rakha Foundation, said, “Our volunteers traced the suspects and called the police. We will ensure that the suspects get stringent punishment.”The police said during questioning, the women revealed that the dog was a pet and they were taking it near Bhakra canal to unleash it there.Rishabh Sharma, an advocate, has extended free legal aid to the NGO, which played an instrumental role in apprehending the suspects, who booked under the preventing cruelty to animals Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/finally-patiala-police-catch-up-with-women-who-dragged-dog-275665
29-06-2021||Patiala||Patiala district administration interfering in land row: SGPC||SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur today visited a property allegedly belonging to the Khalsa College Trust near Railway Crossing 24 and claimed the police and district administration were interfering in SGPC’s attempts at keeping possession of the land.She said the trust owned 110 bighas and Mata Sahib Kaur Girls’ Khalsa College was constructed over 25 bighas. Some people had acquired a portion of the remaining land and started construction of plots, she claimed. “The administration and police are interfering in the matter and are not allowing us to keep possession of the land,” she said.SDM Charanjit Singh said: “We are only maintaining law and order. Those who have documents of ownership should show these to us.” Meanwhile, on forced conversions in Kashmir, the SGPC chief said people should stick to the religion they were born in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-administration-interfering-in-land-row-sgpc-275669
29-06-2021||Patiala||Staff on protest, Punjab Public Service Commission defers exams||Protests by state government employees of district administrative offices, PPSC and others have forced the postponement of the commission’s exam for hiring engineers slated for June 28, 29 and 30.The Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) was supposed to hold the joint competitive examination for 82 posts of junior engineer (mechanical) for water resources, water resources management, development corporation and municipal councils on June 29. Similarly, the exam for a total of 48 posts of JE (electrical) for various departments was to be held on June 29.In a June 25 notification, the PPSC said the exams would now be conducted on July 3 and 4. This came after the government officials started a protest on June 23 against the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission in the state.Meanwhile, officials of the Punjab Personnel Department today held a meeting to resolve the concerns of the protesters. Ravinder Singh, president, PPSC Employees’ Front, said the government had asked employees to present to them with the pay scale that should be implemented. “As such another meeting will be held on July 1.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/staff-on-protest-punjab-public-service-commission-defers-exams-275496
