30-06-2021||---||Diarrhoea outbreak leaves 20 ill at Pehar Kalan village in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 29A diarrhoea outbreak at Pehar Kalan village in Kallon Majra block of the district has left more than 20 persons ill, reportedly due to the consumption of contaminated water. Three patients were said to have been hospitalised.The water supply to the village has been halted for the next few days. The residents are being provided water through vehicles.Health officials have collected seven water samples and four stool samples from the affected area.Dr Divjot Singh, District Epidemiologist, said they had surveyed around 234 households in the village. He said: “We have started a health camp at the village where symptomatic treatment is being given to villagers. Our teams have provided chlorine tablets and ORS packets to them.”It was learnt that an outbreak was detected during the pulse polio drive in the district when some residents complained of diarrhoea symptoms. A team from the Health Department, led by a state programme officer, visited the village today.Dr Gagandeep Singh, state nodal officer, said: “The situation is under control now. However, our teams will carry on screening. There were many illegal water connections in the village, which may have led to mixing of sewage with the water supply. Besides, there could be leakage in the sewer line being laid in the area.”Officials said cases of diarrhoea were also reported from the adjoining village of Pehar Khurd.Meanwhile, Sohan Singh, Junior Engineer, Department of Water Supply, said: “There was some issue with the RO system of the overhead water tank for the past six days. The workers are on the job. The issue will be resolved soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/diarrhoea-outbreak-leaves-20-ill-at-pehar-kalan-village-in-patiala-276086
30-06-2021||Karam Prakash||101 days on, teacher atop tower in Patiala fails to move govt||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 29Various political parties, including that in power, are so busy preparing for the coming state elections that they couldn’t see the plight of 36-year-old Surinder Pal who has completed 101 days atop a 260-foot mobile tower. He has been on an indefinite fast since June 20.Surinder, who is from a poor Dalit family, is nearly unconscious and has refused to climb down until his demands are met. His demands include preference to ETT, TET applicants over BEd aspirants in the recruitment of 2,364 posts of ETT teacher in the Education Department.Initial visits to the protest site by the leaders of some Opposition parties were seemingly for photo-ops because none could sustain his or her support to the protesting teachers.The unemployed teachers’ protest near Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse at Siswan in Mohali couldn’t draw his attention towards Surinder.Deepak Kamboj, who met the teacher on Tuesday, said he seemed to have decided to sacrifice his life for the cause. It is unfortunate that an unemployed youth had to climb atop a mobile tower, where one needed binoculars to see him, and couldn’t grab the attention of the government. “He was very sick but refused to climb down. The government should immediately intervene,” he said.‘He was very sick’Deepak Kamboj, who met the teacher atop the mobile tower on Tuesday, said he seemed to have decided to sacrifice his life for a cause. It is unfortunate that an unemployed youth had to climb atop a mobile tower, where one needed binoculars to see him, and couldn’t grab the attention of the government. “He was very sick but refused to climb down. The government should immediately intervene,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/101-days-on-teacher-atop-tower-in-patiala-fails-to-move-govt-276101
30-06-2021||---||Two months on, Patiala Central Jail fugitives still at large||Patiala, June 29Two months after three convicts escaped from the Patiala Central Jail early in the morning on April 28, two of them are still evading arrest. The police are still groping in the dark trying to know the whereabouts of the two. The third inmate, Inderjeet Singh Dhiana of Ranipur village in Kapurthala, was arrested on May 6.The two fugitives are Sher Singh of Vanike village in Amritsar and Jaspreet Singh Noopi of Dhadi village in Roopnagar.Sher Singh was deported from the United Kingdom to serve 22 years in a drugs case. “He was in Patiala jail for over two years,” said a senior police official.The three had escaped due to laxity on the part of jail officials. All three were lodged in the Koratine barracks. Following initial probe, Additional DGP (Prisons) PK Sinha had ordered the suspension of assistant jail superintendents Tarlochan Singh and Kuldip Singh and warder Sant Singh on the basis of an inquiry report.“The trio managed to make a hole in the cell wall and later scaled the other two walls, without being noticed,” jail sources said.“We came to know about the escape in the morning. During the change of guard, one of the guards noticed the hole in the cell wall,” they added.“Raids are on to nab the accused trio and we have intimated police stations in Punjab and neighbouring states,” said a seniorpolice official.A week after their escape from the Central Jail, the police managed to arrest Inderjeet Singh on May 6 from his village where he had gone to borrow money from a friend. How three convicts pulled it offThe three convicts, of whom one was arrested on May 6, had escaped due to laxity on the part of jail officials. “The trio managed to make a hole in the cell wall and later scaled the other two walls, without being noticed,” jail sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-months-on-patiala-central-jail-fugitives-still-at-large-276109
30-06-2021||Patiala||PSEB junior engineers defer agitation||Council for Junior Engineers (PSEB) has decided to defer its ongoing agitation (from June 25 to July 6) for the next 15 days following assurances given by the PSPCL management at a meeting. The employees had boycotted stores and ME labs, and kept their mobile phones switched off.The meeting between the council and the management was chaired by Chairman-cum-Managing Director of PSPCL A Venu Prasad. State president of the council Paramjit Singh Khattra, general secretary Davinder Singh were present.Davinder Singh said the PSPCL management had agreed to resolve the initial pay issue of power junior engineers. “The council leadership cautioned the management that in case the latter failed to honour the assurances as per the given time line, the power junior engineers will be compelled to revive its deferred agitation,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pseb-junior-engineers-defer-agitation-276115
30-06-2021||Patiala||Commuters hassled as PRTC, Punjab Roadways contract staff protest||Demanding regularisation, hundreds of contractual and outsourced employees of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways (PUNBUS) held a sit-in here today. Commuters in the state were at the receiving end as around 50 per cent of the buses remained off road during the strike which started on Monday.Protesters blocked the Fountain Chowk by erecting tents. Consequently, the traffic movement in the city was paralysed. The police, as a precautionary measure, had to block all roads leading to the roundabout. The contractual employees were on a three-day strike over their unmet demands.PUNBUS Contractual Employees’ Union leader Kamal Kumar said: “We are demanding regularisation of thousands of employees of PRTC and PUNBUS, who have been working on contract for over a decade now.”After protesting at the roundabout, the protesters marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence. However, protesters were stopped by heavy police force near YPS roundabout. The protesters then staged a sit-in at the roundabout for an hour. Protesters called off the stir after a written assurance of meeting with the Transport Minister, Principal Secretary (Transport) and OSD to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/commuters-hassled-as-prtc-punjab-roadways-contract-staff-protest-275913
