01-04-2021||Patiala||Fortuner accident: Death toll rises to three||The death toll in the accident that took place on Holi in Patiala has now risen to three. While a 65-year-old ex-serviceman died on the day of the accident, a 2-year-old toddler breathed his last on Tuesday evening. Officials said a 16-year-old boy, Paramvir Singh Attri, also breathed his last while undergoing treatment at PGI, Chandigarh. His body has been brought to Patiala for postmortem.The boy, who attended DAV school, was standing on the sidewalk at the Thapar institute-Bhadson road chowk in protest against the three agricultural laws when the allegedly speeding car hit him and two others. He was a resident of Inderpura village here on the Patiala-Nabha road. He was taken to a private hospital in the city from where doctors referred him to PGI Chandigarh on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the Patiala police said the accused excise and taxation inspector Pritpal Singh has been discharged from the hospital where he was undergoing treatment. Tripuri police station SHO, Harry Boparai said, “Pritpal Singh has been arrested. He will be produced in a court in the afternoon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fortuner-accident-death-toll-rises-to-three-233166
01-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala Fortuner accident: Of trauma inflicted on victims, their kin||The accident on the day of Holi, in which a Fortuner car allegedly rammed into six people, has affected many a life and family.Besides a 65-year-old and a two-year-old who lost their lives during treatment, two other youths are undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh.The accident has affected expectant mother Renu, one of the victims, adversely. Her family members said she would soon be referred to the PGI now. She lost her son, Ansh (2), on Wednesday after he battled for his life at the PGI for two days. Vishal, one of her family members, said: “They are shifting her to the PGI, Chandigarh. However, her brother, Rahul, is already undergoing treatment there and we are unsatisfied with the hospital’s care.”“Ansh died at the PGI yesterday. He was cremated today. Meanwhile, Rahul, Renu’s brother, is not being taken care of at the Chandigarh hospital. They now want to shift her also to the same place. We are against such decisions.”He said the family wanted that the patients should be treated at a private hospital in Patiala at the government’s expanse. “We will hold a protest against the police outside the Tripuri police station tomorrow,” he said. He added: “We are a poor family. Yesterday, people were visiting us to know what had happened. Today, no one came to see our family’s condition,” he said.The woman’s family informed that she had suffered leg and head injuries. While her six-year-old daughter suffered a broken leg, her brother Rahul was in a critical condition at the PGI, they claimed.Renu’s mother said: “Her brother Rahul was married a year ago and lost his child at birth only a month ago. Both her husband and father are daily-wagers in Chandigarh,” she added.Meanwhile, the family members of a 26-year-old Thapar institute employee, Gurpreet Singh, who was also injured in the accident, said he had been operated upon and was recuperating at a private hospital. He worked as a centre store operator for the past few years and was yet to be married.Kulwant, one of the Gurpreet’s relatives, said the man was recuperating at a private hospital here. He added that another victim, Paramvir Singh, a 16-year-old school boy, had also been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-fortuner-accident-of-trauma-inflicted-on-victims-their-kin-232923
01-04-2021||Patiala||Speedy justice is all we want: Victim’s kin||Denying the proposal for compensation, the family of a 65-year-old ex-serviceman, who was allegedly mowed down by a speeding Fortuner on Monday while protesting with farmers, is demanding speedy justice.Kin of the deceased, Inderjeet Singh, said the suspect, an excise inspector, should be awarded exemplary punishment for “killing” two people.The Fortuner had also hit two cars and a bike while mowing down Inderjeet Singh, who was protesting at Thapar University Chowk against three Agri bills. Two persons, including a child, have already died and a few others are battling for life.Talking to The Tribune, Harinder Singh, son of Inderjeet, said the suspect had ruined multiple families and should be given exemplary punishment. “We want speedy justice and nothing else. It is very disheartening and shameful that a clique is out to save the suspect.”He said his father was very concerned about the ongoing farmers’ agitation. He said Inderjeet Singh would come at Thapar Chowk for two hours every day and protest in support of the farmers.Finally, inconsolable Harinder Singh said the suspect should immediately be arrested and put behind the bars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/speedy-justice-is-all-we-want-victims-kin-232926
01-04-2021||Patiala||Drug dealer’s property attached||Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said today that the police have launched a special drive to freeze the assets of drug smugglers.Under the campaign, movable and immovable property of an alleged drug dealer, Ashok Kumar, and his wife, Davinder Kumari, of Patran has been attached after obtaining an order from the competent authority. They were booked in June 2020 under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. Their property is worth Rs1.28 crore.Duggal said a case was registered against Ashok Kumar and Davinder Kumari and 1,170 drug pills were seized from them. The duo had allegedly laundered land and property at various places by smuggling drugs.Duggal said assets worth crores of rupees had already been attached by the Patiala police in several cases. He said the special drive against fugitives and drug smugglers would continue and no illegal trader and drug smuggler would escape police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/drug-dealers-property-attached-232927
01-04-2021||Patiala||Teachers to oppose appointments on vacant seats at varsity||Teachers of Punjabi University today decided to oppose any new appointments on posts relinquished by them to oppose the pending promotions on the campus.The teachers’ elected body, PUTA, along with the non-teaching elected representatives held a press conference and said the state government was trying to dismantle the university to help the newly universities flourish.The three elected associations of the university held a joint press conference. PUTA president Dr Nishan Singh Deol said they condemned the undue delay in resolving issues pertaining to the employees. He said the non-attendance of the acting Vice-Chancellor at the university was the major reason behind the delay.“The university is in the need for a regular Vice-Chancellor. Also, the state government should release an additional one-time grant of Rs300 crore to the university.He said: “The resignation of over 40 teachers from their additional administrative posts puts a big question mark on the working style of the current Vice-Chancellor. In such a case, the VC should resign on moral grounds.”Dr Avneet Pal Singh, PUTA secretary, said teachers unanimously decided to reject the 20-point checklist issued by the VC. “The general house also unanimously passed a resolution to oppose the new team to be appointed by the Vice-Chancellor to replace the resigning teachers,” he said.Gurinder Pal Singh, the president of the A-class officers’ association, said injustice was happening to every category of employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teachers-to-oppose-appointments-on-vacant-seats-at-varsity-232928
01-04-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib. March 31||National association holds protest against closure of schools||Members of the National Affiliated Schools’ Association (NASA) today protested in front of the DC office against the decision of the state government to close schools in the state.They raised slogans such as “Dekho Punjab sarkar da dastoor khule theke band school”. They submitted a memorandum to the DC in this regard.Addressing the gathering, Nirmal Singh Reona, state president of the NASA, said it was unfortunate that the state government had ordered to close the schools on the pretext of spike in Covid cases.He asked the government whether Covid was just prevalent in schools and not at malls, restaurants, wine shops, pubs, political rallies, kissan rallies and other social and religious gatherings.He said if parents were affected with Covid, how the children could stay safe? He said 1.5 lakh buses, its drivers, conductors, five lakh teachers, clerical staff, owners and other education-related businesses would be affected. He urged the government not to destroy all these sections and to do away the orders to close the schools down.He assured the government that they would follow all Covid protocols and take precautions such as vaccination of the school staff, clerical staff, drivers, management and others. He warned that if the government did not concede their demand, they would be forced to launch an indefinite agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/national-association-holds-protest-against-closure-of-schools-232929
01-04-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||State-wise panels to support principals||To enhance the quality of teacher education programmes in the state, the Principals’ Association of Colleges of Education (PACE) has set up committees for all states.The objectives of the PACE is to build capacities among teacher educators, make the college principals aware of regulations of the governing bodies (NCTE) to run TEPs effectively, promote research and to design the quality curriculum activities, said Dr Deepali Singla, member of the state committee and the Principal of Pine Grove College of Education.She said the PACE had formed its committee in Punjab with renowned principals from colleges affiliated with Punjabi University, Patiala, Panjab University, Chandigarh, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.She said the prime role of the PACE was to achieve the objectives envisioned by the Central committee. She said the committees would support and provide assistance to the principals of education colleges to run their institutes effectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/state-wise-panels-to-support-principals-232931
