02-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Another victim succumbs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 1The death toll in the accident that took place on the day of Holi has now risen to three.While the 65-year-old ex-serviceman died on the day of the accident, a two-year-old breathed his last on Tuesday evening. The 16-year-old boy, Paramvir Singh Attri, today succumbed while undergoing treatment at the PGI.The 16-year-old, a resident of Inderpura village on the Patiala-Nabha road, was a student of Class X at DAV School in the city. He is survived by his mother and father and a younger sister. On the fateful day, he was taken to Government Rajindra Hospital and then shifted to a private hospital in the city from where doctors referred him to the PGI on Wednesday.The boy succumbed to his injuries on Thursday morning.His uncle Jaswinder Singh said: “Paramvir was a sincere boy. We belong to a family of farmers. He and other youngsters inspired us to hold protests regularly.”“We are distraught and want the strictest punishment for the driver of the vehicle. Many lives have been lost, but the Centre is not adhering to our demands. They should repeal the laws,” he added.Ajaib Singh Tiwana, a retired lecturer at a college in Dakala, said they had been holding protests at the site during the evening hours for the past three months. He said he and his wife were standing adjacent to the young boy when the accident took place.Meanwhile, officials at the mortuary of Government Rajindra Hospital said: “A post-mortem examination was conducted and the body was handed over to the family for cremation in the evening today.”The police said the accused, Excise And Taxation Inspector Pritpal Singh, has been discharged from the hospital where he was undergoing treatment. Tripuri police station SHO Harry Boparai said: “Pritpal Singh has been arrested. He was produced in a local court and sent to judicial custody.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/another-victim-succumbs-233526
02-04-2021||---||University gets new Registrar||Patiala, April 1Punjabi University’s acting Vice-Chancellor (VC) Ravneet Kaur has appointed Dr Varinder Kumar Kaushik, professor, Department of Punjab School of Law, as the university registrar for a year.The move comes after over 40 university senior functionaries went on a resignation spree as a mark of protest over pending promotions.Sources said the VC today reached the university campus, accompanied by the police, including Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit and Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal.She was later met by protesting students of a political party demanding the opening of the university for classes. The students also opposed the police force on the campus.University professors, who had recently relinquished their posts, said they had received calls from the university administration, seeking resignation letters.Meanwhile, the VC said: “The Registrar was appointed today. Apart from this, we will hold a meeting with key functionaries for taking further steps. Also, we have decided to hold a meeting of the finance committee and the Syndicate coming Monday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/university-gets-new-registrar-233527
02-04-2021||---||Non-AC bus rides now free for women||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, April 1Free bus travel facility for women in the state government buses was launched in the district here today.Gurpreet Singh GP, Bassi Pathana MLA, along with Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill and PRTC Director Subhash Sood, flagged off a PRTC bus carrying women passengers from Fatehgarh Sahib to Ropar. The women passengers expressed gratitude to the state government for the facility.Gurpreet Singh GP said all women, irrespective of their financial status, would be able to travel for free at all non-AC buses just by showing an identity card. He termed the scheme as another initiative by the government for the welfare and development of women.Subhash Sood said the state government had initiated various steps for women empowerment. He said 50 per cent reservation for women in the civic polls was a daring step.He said besides this, various other steps had been taken for the welfare of the women. He said the PRTC would work towards the safety of women in buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/non-ac-bus-rides-now-free-for-women-233528
02-04-2021||Patiala||DMW produces record cars||The Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) has achieved the highest-ever production level of new electric locomotives and diesel electric tower cars (DETCs). Officials said despite pandemic restrictions, the DMW produced a record number of 53 WAP-7 passenger locos, 3 WAG-9HC freight locos, 77 DETCs (diesel electric tower cars) and one WAG-10 converted electric loco during the financial year.The DMW supplied 144 motorised bogies and 122 motorised wheel sets to the Zonal Railways. Officials said the DMW achieved a total production output of Rs1,735 crore during the year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dmw-produces-record-cars-233529
02-04-2021||Aman Sood||ASI’s night party costs him dear||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 1Flouting all Covid restrictions, a Punjab police official held a party to celebrate his son’s wedding that continued till late night yesterday.The ASI has now been suspended by the district SSP and faces a departmental probe, though he has evaded an FIR till now.According to eye witnesses, ASI Darshan Singh, posted with the Model Town police post, was holding a function to celebrate his son’s wedding at his house in Century Enclave.“Despite curfew hours and a cap on maximum guests, the party continued till late at night. They had blocked an entire lane by erecting a tent. The catering staff, the DJ and guests left the venue after 11.30 pm, causing much inconvenience,” claimed area residents.Sources said more than 24 policemen and administrative officials were part of the party. “Many cops from the district and outside the city were part of the party where music was being played till late at night, troubling area residents,” said an area resident.When The Tribune team visited the spot, following repeated requests by residents, loud music could be heard as far as 500 metres away, with tents erected on the road opposite to the house of the cop. Many guests were seen at the venue around 10 pm, almost an hour after the curfew imposition. Many other guests were seen openly drinking in their cars parked around the venue. Warning of several more tough measures and restrictions, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced a two-hour extension in the night curfew in the state's nine districts worst hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Magistrate Kumar Amit had already imposed a night curfew on March 12 (from 11 pm to 5 am) till further orders. Darshan Singh could not be contacted for comments.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said he had suspended ASI, who was on a 10-day leave for his son's wedding. "We will not tolerate such indiscipline when we are trying to set things in order in view of the rising Covid cases. I have called for an explanation from him too," said Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/asis-night-party-costs-him-dear-233391
02-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi poet Kulwant Grewal passes away; 'Tera ambran ch naa likhya' among his prominent works||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 1Professor Kulwant Singh Grewal, famous as the people's poet and a Shiromani Punjabi awardee, breathed his last at a hospital in Patiala on Thursday. He was 81.Having written several books, including 'Tera ambran ch naa likhya' that he published at the age of 60 and 'Putt daryawan de', the former Director of Punjabi Development at Punjabi University here was much loved for his poerty that resonated with the general folk.One of his most loved works of poetry remembered by his contemporaries includes "Dil tutde hawawan de, boond boond tarse gaye asin putt daryawan de" that he wrote in 1957, said Dr Harjinder Walia, former Punjabi University Head of Department of Journalism and the Director, IAS studies.He said Professor Grewal was a known Sikh scholar and a member of 'Bhootwara', a scholars' group in Patiala city that included the likes of Dr Dalip Kaur Tiwana, Satinder Singh Noor, among others.Hailing from Sakrodi village in Bhawanigarh, he shifted to Patiala with his father, who worked at the palace of the Maharaja of Patiala. The cremation took place in Patiala on Thursday afternoon.Some of the lines from his poetry include: "Panchhi udd gaye shama de,  Mudhh aithe nahiyo lagne Mele daryawan de."The state government had conferred Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji Achievers award upon Professor Kulwant Singh Grewal on the occasion of 550th birthday of Guru Nanak Dev in November 2019. Professor Kulwant Singh was born in 1941. A language scholar in Bengali from the Jadavpur University, Calcutta, he translated Guru Granth Sahib in Bangla. He authored eight books in English, Punjabi, Urdu and Hindi. Among many of his accomplishments, he has been awarded the Dhaliwal Award in poetry. He was also been honoured by the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), Sri Darbar Sahib, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-poet-kulwant-grewal-passes-away-tera-ambran-ch-naa-likhya-among-his-prominent-works-233143
