03-04-2021||Patiala||Covid deaths rose four times at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital in March||With 113 fatalities reported in March, the Government Rajindra Hospital has recorded a four-fold increase in Covid deaths as compared to February, when 23 patients succumbed to the deadly virus here.Of the 113 deaths in March, around 55 per cent i.e. 62 patients were aged above 60 years. The hospital authorities said 67 Covid deaths were referral cases from other districts. Notably, the Rajindra Hospital caters to around seven districts of the state.57 more die, 2,903 fresh casesOver the last couple of days, average Covid fatalities at the hospital are increasing by the day as it has already been recording eight deaths per day. The average deaths in March were four.Meanwhile, the hospital authorities claimed that patients were reaching there at a very late stage that reduced their chances of survival. In wake of mounting deaths, health experts said it was merely a misconception that the second wave was not as deadly as the first one. The average daily positive cases have already breached the first wave count while the death tally would also follow the same trend in coming days, they added.Dr RPS Sibia, head of the medicine department, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “This time, the number of serious patients is quite high. At present, 62 patients are in the ICU.” He said people were still not visiting hospitals for testing. “I urged the public to rush to the health centres as soon as the first symptom appears,” Dr Sibia added.Meanwhile, Dr DS Bhullar, nodal officer, dead body management committee, Rajindra Hospital, said, “The way people are showing laxity towards the Covid norms, more deaths are expected in coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-deaths-rose-four-times-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-in-march-233891
03-04-2021||---||With 313 cases, Patiala dist sees highest single-day spike||Patiala, April 2In the highest single-day spike since the Covid outbreak, Patiala today reported 313 positive cases. This has raised an alarm for the Health Department and citizens.Earlier, the highest single-day cases (298) had been reported in September last year. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 2,638. Besides, the district reported six Covid deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 598.Of 313 positive cases, only 56 were the contacts of positive patients and 257 were reported from hospital OPDs afresh.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said Patiala city had reported 149 cases, while Rajpura reported 66, 20 were from Kallon Majra, 20 from Kauli, 19 from Nabha and 10 from Shutrana. Besides, nine positive cases were from Dudhan Sadhan.According to the Health Department, March has been the worst month for Patiala on the Covid front. As many as 5,272 persons had tested positive in March.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “The cases are expected to rise in the coming few days because the virus has mutated and became more infectious. In the wake of rapid surge, people should follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour and eligible beneficiaries should come forward for the vaccination.”Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the positivity rate in the district had been around 10 per cent. “In August last year, the positivity was recorded around 11 per cent which has been the highest so far. Currently, the district is witnessing a similar trend and heading towards the peak.”Sources in the Health Department said the government was planning to impose weekend lockdown in the wake of rising cases. However, there would be no changes in the timings of the ongoing night curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/with-313-cases-patiala-dist-sees-highest-single-day-spike-233913
03-04-2021||Patiala||Job fairs for 15,000 posts to be held in Patiala||The seventh mega job fairs will be organised under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ and ‘Karobar’ mission of the government this month.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-cum-CEO District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise Bureau, Preeti Yadav, said the eligible candidates for more than 15,000 posts would be interviewed by various companies at the job fairs to be held in Patiala.On venue of job fairs, Yadav said the job fair would be organised on April 6 at Ripudaman College, Nabha, and the BDPO office in Ghanour on April 8. Job fairs will also be organised at Public College, Samana, on April 16, Patel Memorial College, Rajpura, on April 20, Government Mohindra College on April 22, Government ITI Boys on April 23 and Government Girls College on April 27. Additional Deputy Commissioner said reputed companies more would provide employment opportunities to the youth.She appealed to the candidates aspiring to participate in the job fairs to register on the portal — www.pgrkam.com. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/job-fairs-for-15-000-posts-to-be-held-in-patiala-233914
03-04-2021||---||Scholar dwells on religious ties at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 2Dr Marcus Braybrooke, a scholar in the field of interfaith studies from Oxford, England, discussed the teachings of Sikh Gurus and his spiritual journey during a lecture organised at Punjabi University here.Braybrooke, sharing his experience from study on different religions, said there was an urgent need for increasing c-operation among people of different faiths. “We need to reject all forms of racism, sexism and discrimination of every kind,” he said. He said strengthening religious ties was the need of the hour.Presiding over the lecture, Dr Dharam Singh, former editor-in-chief, Encyclopaedia of Sikhism, referred to the universal elements of Sikhism and emphasised on the need for taking the message of the Gurus to a wider audience. “The Sikh message is highly relevant to many of the challenges facing humankind today,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/scholar-dwells-on-religious-ties-at-punjabi-university-233915
03-04-2021||---||Patiala: Farmers protest at BJP campaign site in Tripuri area||Patiala, April 2Gurtej Singh Dhillon, former chairman of the Nabha Improvement Trust, was met with a protest by farmer unions when he reached the Tripuri area in the city to campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections today.Though the state executive member of the BJP left the site moments before the farmers reached the spot, he expressed resentment over the farmers’ protest.Gurtej Singh Dhillon said he was campaigning for the upcoming Assembly elections in the area. “The ticket from the constituency will be given by the party parliamentary board but I have made claims for it within the party. I went to market places yesterday and today as well and met people for about two to three hours. I had left the spot when representatives of farmer unions reached there and released statements against me. This was unwarranted”, he added.“We will open a suvidha centre from where we will provide various door-to-door services to people,” he added.Meanwhile, Avtar Singh Korjiwala of the Krantikari Kisan Union said they had received an information that Dhillon had come to the city and was talking to people informing them that he was supposed to be BJP’s candidate from Patiala rural constituency. “We reached the spot but by then, he had left the place in a hurry. Farmers associated with the BKU Ugrahan had also reached the spot,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-farmers-protest-at-bjp-campaign-site-in-tripuri-area-233919
03-04-2021||---||Officials burn effigies of VC, Registrar at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 2A day after Punjabi University acting Vice-Chancellor (VC) Ravneet Kaur allocated the charge of the Registrar’s office to Prof Varinder Kumar Kaushik, teaching and non-teaching officials today burned an effigy of the VC and the newly appointed Registrar on the campus.Teaching officials said the protest being carried out by the teaching and non-teaching fraternity would continue in the same manner.Class-A, B and C officials of the university said the administrative officials were delaying their demands. They said the state government should appoint the new VC at the earliest.The association leaders said they were stern on their demands — issuing of promotion letters to staff, increment in salary of employees on an ad hoc and work charge basis, promoting ad hoc workers to regular basis and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/officials-burn-effigies-of-vc-registrar-at-punjabi-university-233925
03-04-2021||---||Bassi Pathana: Woman commits suicide, in-laws booked||Surinder BhardwajFatehgarh Sahib, March 30A married woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself with a ceiling fan at her in-laws’ house in Bassi Pathana today.The deceased has been identified as Rajni Rani. On the complaint of the parents of the deceased, the victim’s mother-in-law and brother-in-law have been booked.Bassi Pathana SHO Manpreet Singh Deol said Balwinder Singh, victim’s father and a resident of Gobindgarh village, said his daughter was married to Baljinder Singh of Bassi Pathana four years ago and the couple had a two-and-a-half-years old daughter.He alleged that soon after the marriage, Rajni’s mother-in-law Mandeep Kaur and her brother-in-law Lovepreet Singh started harassing her and kept taunting her on one pretext or the other. He said his daughter called him several times and kept informing about the taunts and ill-treatment meted out to her.He said that on March 28, she called him again and told that she was fed up and requested him to take her from the in-laws house. Howver, he told his daughter to stay quiet. He said after some time, his wife Kamaljeet Kaur told him that Rajni’s in-laws had called to inform that she had hanged herself with a ceiling fan.The in-laws took Rajni to the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital for treatment, but she died there.The Station House Officer said the police have registered a case against both accused — Mandeep Kaur and Lovepreet Singh — under various sections on the basis of the statement of the deceased father and they would be arrested soon. The body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bassi-pathana-woman-commits-suicide-in-laws-booked-232567
