06-04-2021||Patiala||NIS Patiala turns COVID hotspot as 9 more test positive; tally rises to 35||Nine people — including national-level boxers, coaches and support staff — tested positive for coronavirus at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) on Tuesday morning.Those who have tested positive include national boxing coaches Khimanand Belwal and Narjeet Singh and boxers Kavinder Singh Bisht and Ananta.With this development, 35 people have already tested positive for Coronavirus at NIS Patiala.Notably, 26 national-level athletes, coaches and support staff had tested positive for coronavirus at the institute last week.Ironically, the Health Department has not declared NIS as a containment zone — despite the high number of positive cases in the institute.National campers and coaches were said to be disregarding the COVID norms at the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nis-patiala-turns-covid-hotspot-as-9-more-test-positive-tally-rises-to-35-235391
06-04-2021||Patiala||Patients of pvt hospitals can get remdesivir for free now||The Health Department today said remdesivir, a costly drug prescribed by private hospitals, will be provided free of cost at government facilities.A patient will have to show the prescription slip of the private hospital concerned to get the drug from any government facility, the department added.Notably, remdesivir is an anti-viral drug that is used in treatment of coronavirus patients. It has come to the fore that remdesivir injection was being sold at private chemist shops for Rs3,000 to Rs5,000. Each serious Covid patient was given at least four to five doses of Remdesivir injection, said experts.The Health Department said Covid patients admitted to private hospitals could avail of the life-saving drug from the Community Health Centre (CHC), Model Town, Patiala, by showing prescription slip of the private hospital concerned. In Rajpura town of the district, this facility would be provided at the Civil Hospital itself.Remdesivir injection is already provided free of cost in the state-run hospitals.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Earlier, we had limited stock of the life saving vaccine. Therefore, we could not provide it to patients admitted in private hospitals. Now, we have enough stock of remdesivir injection. Therefore, we have extended this facility to patients of private hospitals too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patients-of-pvt-hospitals-can-get-remdesivir-for-free-now-235199
06-04-2021||Patiala||Man arrested on charge of stabbing youth to death||A 19-year-old youth was today allegedly stabbed to death in the Jutti Bazar area. The police have arrested the accused, who committed the crime.The police said the victim was identified as 19-year-old Sandeep Kumar. He worked as a motor mechanic, the police added. The accused was identified as Inder, the police said. Inder had an old enmity with the victim, the police added. Inder allegedly stabbed victim to death today morning, the police said.The Kotwali police arrested the accused and registered a case under Section 302, IPC, against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-stabbing-youth-to-death-235200
06-04-2021||Patiala||Regularise services, demands civic body sweepers’ union||The sweepers’ union of the Municipal Corporation has written to local Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur demanding regularisation of their jobs.In a letter union members stated that they served the city and worked during peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. They demanded that jobs of outsourced employees of the MC be regularised. They also demanded that services of 30 daily wage cleanliness workers of the corporation be regularised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/regularise-services-demands-civic-body-sweepers-union-235202
06-04-2021||Patiala||DC urges religious institutions to motivate residents for vaccination||Seeking cooperation from religious organisations and public representatives, Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit today urged them to motivate residents to get vaccinated against Covid in wake of latter’s hesitancy towards inoculation.“To make vaccine available at doorsteps, the district administration has started a series of outreach camps to expedite the vaccination drive under which more than 2,000 people have been jabbed by mobile teams at 17 places in Patiala district today,” the DC said.The DC accompanied by Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal and Civil Surgeon Satinder Singh visited outreach camps at the Municipal Corporation office, Ward No. 48, and at New Officer Colony, Ward No. 35, in the afternoon today.He urged councillors of these wards – Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi and Santosh Rani – to motivate maximum eligible persons from their areas for vaccination at these camps so that the battle against Covid could be won.“In order to promote the Covid vaccination campaign in Patiala district, the administration is going to organise mega vaccination camps in Patiala, Rajpura and Nabha on April 9 in which eligible people will be vaccinated,” the DC added.He appealed to residents of the district not to take the second Covid wave lightly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dc-urges-religious-institutions-to-motivate-residents-for-vaccination-235203
06-04-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University passes Rs 342-crore annual Budget||Punjabi University today passed the Budget of Rs342.35 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal. At meetings of the finance committee and the Syndicate, held today, the university cleared the expenditure estimates of Rs472.26 crore. The university authorities said they would fall short of Rs129.91 crore by the end of this financial year.Till December 2020, the university spent Rs475.99 crore against its income of Rs286 crore in the previous financial year. As per calculated estimates, the university fell short of Rs189 crore in the previous financial year, Rs119 crore in 2019-20 and Rs82.04 crore during 2018-19.The university expects Rs117.70 crore from the state government in the form of grants, will get Rs1.50 crore from the Centre Government, along with Rs1.75 crore as non-UGC grant for the research projects. It is expected that the UGC grant for the university will be Rs1.66 crore.At the same time, university’s contingent expenditure is estimated at Rs97.40 crore out of its overall expenditure of Rs472.26 crore. The university will spend Rs11.52 crore on development of the Punjabi language.Meanwhile, the university has also decided to withdraw the increment inpayment to guest faculty teachers. The university had raised their payment to Rs750 per hour.The university at its finance committee meeting decided that an academic review panel will assess workload of teachers at respective colleges, departments and campuses through physical verification and present its findings at the next meeting to be held on May 15.Officials, who were present at the meeting, said Syndicate also decided to extend services of various employees, whose extension of contracts was pending.“Syndicate has approved appointments of Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill as Dean, academic affairs, and Dr Varinder Kumar Kaushik as university Registrar,” officials added.“The university now aims to reduce its overdraft within six years. A detailed proposal regarding this has been discussed at the meeting today,” officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-passes-rs-342-crore-annual-budget-235204
06-04-2021||Patiala||Prof Sandhu is Registrar of open university||Prof Dharam Singh Sandhu has been appointed registrar of Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Patiala. Prof Sandhu is MSc, MPhil and PhD in Geography.He has been in the teaching field since 1988 when he was first appointed as an assistant professor. He was working as principal at the SCD Government College, Ludhiana, since 2013. He was felicitated with a state award for his contribution to the field of education in August 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/prof-sandhu-is-registrar-of-open-university-235205
06-04-2021||Patiala||Varsity teaching, non-teaching staff end their protest||All is now well at Punjabi University. The university teaching and non-teaching employees, who submitted mass resignations from their posts over pending promotions, ended their protest in the afternoon today.While talking to The Tribune, university employees said they held a meeting with the university Vice-Chancellor (VC) in the afternoon in which the latter agreed to discuss pending promotions at the upcoming Syndicate meeting.The Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) president, Dr Nishan Singh Deol, said, “The VC has also decided to forego the 20-point checklist prepared by her office to decide whether to discuss pending promotions at the Syndicate meeting or not.”“The VC has also appealed to the teaching staff to come back on duty,” he added.The non-teaching officials of the university also ended their protest after the VC assured them to discuss their pending promotions and other issues at the upcoming Syndicate meeting.The university had yet to respond on the matter when the news was filed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsity-teaching-non-teaching-staff-end-their-protest-235206
06-04-2021||Patiala||Unqualified Class IV employee conducts ECG tests at Model Town health centre||In appears a breach of trust, a person not from medical background was seen conducting ECG tests at a health centre in the city. The said person, a Class IV employee, has been entrusted a highly sensitive task of ECG tests (a test that detects heart abnormalities) at the Community Health Centre (CHC), one of the important government health facility.When The Tribune team visited the CHC at Model Town, its members found that the said employee not only conducted tests, but also read ECG reports and even guided patients for the line of treatment. As per rules, the test is to be conducted by an ECG technician, while report is to be interpreted by a doctor.Meantime, a doctor, posted at the Model Town CHC, told The Tribune team: “He (Class IV employee) has been conducting ECG tests for years altogether. Several people have complained against him, but no action has been taken so far.”During investigation by The Tribune it came to the fore that in medical examination of newly recruited employees, ECG test is one of the requirements. Taking advantage of this urgency the said employee demands money for conducting normal ECG test.A Patiala resident, who was selected as Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) in the PSPCL, on the condition of anonymity, said, “He (Class IV employee) gave me an ECG report and informed me: ‘Your ECG is not normal’. Later, he asked me to pay Rs300 to correct it.”Dr Prince Sodhi, SMO, Model Town, said, “We don’t have an ECG technician. Therefore, he only assists a staff nurse. He cannot read ECG report. We have a doctor to read the report.”The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “I will ask for a report from the SMO about this employee. I will not tolerate this. Action will be taken against him if he is caught taking money.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/unqualified-class-iv-employee-conducts-ecg-tests-at-model-town-health-centre-235207
