07-04-2021||---||Nagra inaugurates sub-tehsil building in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, April 6Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra inaugurated the new building of the sub-tehsil set up by the state government at Chanarthal Kalan today.He said it was a matter of proud that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh amended the state Acts to ensure the development of the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency.He said the sub-tehsil would cater to the need of adjoining 55 villages. He said earlier, residents of these villages had to come to Fatehgarh Sahib for any type of revenue work and now, all revenue related works would be done on their doorsteps.The MLA said the development projects worth Rs400 crore had been initiated in the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency under the Capt. Amarinder Singh’s government. He said all roads falling under the constituency had been widened and repaired. He said the development works had been initiated in the urban and rural sectors. He said Fatehgarh Sahib would be developed as a model constituency.Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill called upon people to rise above the petty politics for the development of their respective villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nagra-inaugurates-sub-tehsil-building-in-fatehgarh-sahib-235763
07-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala Civil Surgeon orders inquiry||The Patiala Civil Surgeon today ordered an inquiry into an anomaly wherein a Class IV employee was reportedly found conducting an ECG test at the Community Health Centre (CHC), Model Town, Patiala.The Civil Surgeon said he had asked the Model Town Senior Medical Officer to submit a report on the incident.The inquiry was ordered after The Tribune had highlighted the said issue. Dr Satinder Singh, Civil Surgeon, said: “I have directed the SMO to conduct a fair inquiry into the matter and submit the report. We cannot tolerate such negligence.”The said employee not only performs the test, but he reads ECG reports and even guides the patients for the line of treatment.Besides, the Patiala Civil Surgeon has also asked the SMO to hire an ECG technician on a contract basis. Dr Satinder Singh said: “We will hire an ECG technician on a contract basis so that only a professional person carries out the ECG tests.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-civil-surgeon-orders-inquiry-235762
07-04-2021||---||Punjabi University to pay off its debts in 6 years||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 6Punjabi University now aims at paying off its overdraft of Rs120 crore and loan worth Rs30 crore in six years.Officials said a proposal for the same had been accepted and would be brought to action. The university had previously formed a committee to decide on the matter.The loan amount would be paid off in installments. Officials said a meeting in this regard would be held on March 10. As per the proposal, the university will pay off Rs30.70 crore against FDRs in 36 equal installments, including interest. Officials said the amount would be paid off during 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24.An official said: “Students deposit their fee in October. Therefore, the university has also decided to reduce the overdraft amount by Rs10 crore each in the respective month of all three years.”Apart from this, the university will pay off the remaining amounts of overdraft in 2024-25, 2025-26 and 2026-27 in equal monthly installments of Rs2.50 crore — Rs30 crore every year.They said the university would also try to find other ways of reducing its liabilities if it fails to pay Rs10 crore every October. This includes conversion of overdraft into term-loan and added that the findings on the same would also be discussed in a meeting to be organised in October.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-pay-off-its-debts-in-6-years-235761
07-04-2021||---||Project to rehabilitate homeless||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 6The Patiala police have come up with an innovative project, Navjeevan, to rescue the destitute and homeless people with the active support of local NGOs.While inaugurating the project at the All-India Pingla Ashram, SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “The goal will be to reunite the destitute with their families and the loved ones.”“Apart from saving innocent lives, Navjeevan aims at accomplishing a number of goals, including preventing human and organ trafficking, reducing crime and improving the urban environment of the district in general and Patiala city in particular,” said Duggal.The SSP appealed to people, especially the youth, to come forward and take ownership of the project to make it a huge success by saving more and more lives.During the first day of the launch, a team of Umeed volunteers and policemen rescued eight destitute persons — one male and seven femalesWhile giving credit to the team, Duggal disclosed that Dr Simrat Kaur, SP Headquarters, and Manpreet Kaur, SHO, Women Police Station, had been on the forefront to execute the strategy for the rescue operations under the aegis of Navjeevan.Duggal thanked Baba Balbir Singh, founder of the old-age home and Pingal Ashram, Sanour Road, Patiala, and other volunteers for their contribution towards rehabilitating the needy. He thanked eminent citizens, including doctors, psychologists and lawyers, who are working with the Umeed support centre.Baba Balbir Singh, founder of the old-age care centre, said: “This is the first time a senior police official has visited the ashram, which is a matter of pride for us. We hope that with the help of the Police, we will try to carry out the noble cause more smoothly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/project-to-rehabilitate-homeless-235760
07-04-2021||---||At Nabha MC chief’s victory procession, norms go for toss||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 6Paying no heed to the Covid norms, the newly elected president of the Nabha Municipal Council took out a procession rally in the town today.Barely any supporters followed social distancing or wore a face mask during the victory procession on streets of Nabha. The Covid norms were being violated in the presence of the Patiala police that had recently initiated a drive to take the violators to the nearest health centre for testing.However, nothing of sorts happened today and no challan for the violations was issued. The president of the Nabha Municipal Council was not wearing a face mask himself.Meanwhile, Patiala Health officials said Nabha had seen a steep rise in the Covid cases over the past few days.On Covid violations, Rajesh Chibber, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Nabha, said: “We were there at the procession for security purposes. Moreover, we didn’t give any permission for the rally. They might have taken permission from the SDM.”On issuing challans to the violators, the DSP was answerless.Amid this chaos, Kala Ram Kansal, Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM), Nabha, said: “We have not received any complaint. However, I will look into the matter.”Rajneesh Mittal, president, Nabha Municipal Council, said: “We were in a festive mood. So, we might have lowered our masks. However, I will follow the Covid norms in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/at-nabha-mc-chiefs-victory-procession-norms-go-for-toss-235759
