08-04-2021||Patiala||'I don't want to continue my job', says Patiala doctor after being 'thrashed' by villagers for following COVID norms||'I don't want to continue my job', said a medical officer of Patiala Health Department after he was thrashed by villages for following the COVID norms. The medical officer—posted in Dhudhan Sadhan Block—was allegedly mercilessly beaten during a cremation ceremony of a COVID patient at Chahut village on Tuesday afternoon. "I am extremely, and if this is what I have to face while being on duty then I better call it a day", said the 39-year-old doctor.  Reportedly, the doctor could flee the cremation ground only after the intervention of some other people of the same village. The doctor added that he was "disappointed" that no action had been taken place so far, despite a complaint to his seniors.  Dr Kiran Verma, Senior Medical Officer, Dudhan Sadhan, said: “The officer was beaten after he (doctor) objected taking the photos of the dead corona positive patient because it was against the protocol. Our doctor was thrashed by the villagers. His body still has marks.”When questioned about filing a complaint to the concerned police station, Dr Kiran Walia answered: “I have verbally informed the Station House officer. He assured me of taking action.”Meantime, SHO Julkan, said that he was not aware of any such incident, however, he would take action if a complaint was made.Reportedly, the villagers were upset over the death of a 55-year-old, Charu Kaur, Covid patient.  When asked about taking up the matter with police, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “The SMO told me that he has already filed a complaint. This is shameful that doctors working in COVID are being beaten.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/i-dont-want-to-continue-my-job-says-patiala-doctor-after-being-thrashed-by-villagers-for-following-covid-norms-236375
08-04-2021||---||6 deaths, 325 more Covid cases surface in district||Patiala, April 7In a highest single day spike since the Covid outbreak last year, Patiala district today reported 325 positive cases, thereby, sending the alarm bells ringing for the Health Department and residents.Earlier, the highest single day count of 316 patients was reported on April 2 this year. With this development, the number of active cases in the district now stands at 2,480. Besides, the district reported six Covid deaths in the past 24 hours.Of the 325 positive cases, only 20 were the contacts of the past positive patients, while 185 were reported afresh.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said Patiala city had reported 184 positive cases, while Samana 27, Nabha 24, Kauli 23, Kallon Majra 18, Rajpura 13 and Bhadson 12. Besides, 10 persons tested Covid positive in Shutrana and seven each in Dhudhan Sadhan and Harapalpur, Dr Satinder Singh added.“The district is about to reach the peak of the second wave. As vaccination is the only solution to curb the spread, we will be holding mega vaccination camps,” Dr Satinder Singh said.Vaccination drive at YPSYadavindra Public School organised a vaccination drive against Covid- 19 on the campus here today. A team from Community Health Centre, Model Town, visited YPS School to vaccinate beneficiaries during the drive. More than 100 people, including YPS teachers, Class IV employees, their families and parents got vaccinated today on the school campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/6-deaths-325-more-covid-cases-surface-in-district-236163
08-04-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University clears backlog  of transcript applications||After a lapse of over two months, Punjabi University has finally started sending transcripts of students and other applicants after clearing the outstanding amount of courier service. Officials said the backlog of over 1,500 to 2,000 applications was cleared giving students a much needed relief.On March 23, it was reported in these columns that the pendency of transcripts was affecting careers and aspirations of students and those wanting to immigrate to foreign lands.Students had complained that their applications were hanging midway as the university had failed to send transcripts on time.University officials said the outstanding amount was released to the respective courier service provider after Vice-Chancellor (VC) Ravneet Kaur visited campus a few days ago."Students' applications have been pending since January 27. All the backlog has been cleared after the university released Rs15 lakh for the Transcripts Department to pay outstanding amount to DHL Courier Service," officials added. "Now, the university has signed a new contract with India Post and the process of sending transcripts has been fast-tracked," officials said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-clears-backlog-of-transcript-applications-236164
08-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Achieving vaccination target: ASHA workers to get Rs 10 per beneficiary||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 7To ramp up the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Health Department has already given daily and weekly targets of vaccine shots to each district. Henceforth, the health authorities in Patiala will have to inoculate 16,714 beneficiaries in a day and 1.17 lakh in a week.To achieve target the Health Department has already decided to give Rs10 to each ASHA worker for bringing one beneficiary for the vaccination.The aim of giving monetary benefit, health officials said, was to motivate ASHA workers so that they could convince beneficiaries for getting jabbed against Covid-19.It has been learnt that even smallest health centre has to inoculate at least 1,000 beneficiaries. However, experts said the said targets were not achievable because health workers were already burdened with collecting Covid testing samples.A medical officer, pleading anonymity, said, “In a day, we have to complete sampling and vaccination and visit OPDs. We are already overburdened with other work. These targets, set by the higher-ups, are unrealistic because they (people at the helm) are ignorant of ground realities.”Notably, Patiala district has been given an average daily target of 16,714. However, the Health Department could so far achieve the highest vaccination of 5,000 beneficiaries in a single day, which is almost one third of the given target.A medical officer, associated with the vaccination drive, said, “We are going to hold vaccination camps in wards, colonies and societies. We know it is risky and can lead to chaos because post vaccination observation will also be affected.”Meanwhile, health workers are of the view that other departments should also be involved in the vaccination drive.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “An incentive-based approach has been adopted to achieve the target. Otherwise, it will become difficult to achieve it because the task of sampling and managing Covid positive patients is already in hand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/achieving-vaccination-target-asha-workers-to-get-rs-10-per-beneficiary-236165
08-04-2021||Patiala||Alleging lawlessness, morcha protests outside CM’s residence||The BJP Mahila Morcha held a protest outside the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the city today. A scuffle was averted as the police intervened between Mahila Morcha activists and farmers, who have been holding a protest at the site for the past many days.Leaders of the BJP Mahila Morcha, who protested outside the Chief Minister’s residence, alleged that the state was reeling under lawlessness. Protesters said they wanted to give bangles to the Chief Minister and Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra at their residences. The protest march was led by Punjab district BJP Mahila Morcha president Madhu Fulara.Citing the attack and disrobing of the BJP MLA, Arun Narang, in Abohar, the protesters alleged that leaders of the party were being attacked in the state, which was done in the name of farmers’ protest.They also alleged that the state government led by the Congress had failed to deliver even on a single assurance given before elections.Meanwhile, farmers owing allegiance to the Kisan Road Sangharsh Committee, who are camping outside the CM residence for the past many days, attempted to stop leaders and workers of the BJP from holding a protest at the site.The BJP-led government at the Centre had passed agriculture bills that were against farming community, farmers said. As such, they would not allow the BJP Mahila Morcha to hold any protests at the site, farmers added. Police officials, who were present on the spot, intervened and managed to avert scuffle between farmers and morcha activists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/alleging-lawlessness-morcha-protests-outside-cms-residence-236166
08-04-2021||---||World Health Day celebrated at Gian Sagar Medical College||Patiala, April 7A function was organised to celebrate the World Health Day at Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital today.Dr AS Sekhon, Dean, Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, who was the chief guest on the occasion, said, “The World Health Day 2021 comes at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has undercut recent health gains, pushed more people into poverty and food insecurity, and amplified gender, social and health inequities.”“The World Health Day is observed annually to create awareness about health and wellbeing. It draws the attention of the people from all around the world to highlight important health issues. It is imperative to be prepared mentally, physically and financially for all kinds of uncertainties during these constantly evolving times,” he added.Dr Jasbir Kaur, Director, Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, said, “Each April 7 marks the celebration of the World Health Day. The theme for the World Health Day 2021 is “Building a fairer, healthier world for everyone.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/world-health-day-celebrated-at-gian-sagar-medical-college-236168
