09-04-2021||Patiala||University students burn copies of New Edu Policy||Students of Punjabi University today held a protest on the campus against the New Education Policy and the state government’s decision to close educational institutions in view of Covid-19.Students associated with the AISF, SFI, DSO and AIRSA held the protest. They said orders were contradictory to the interests of students. “The government under the garb of Covid-19 wants to sell off institutions to private players,” they said.They said online education was affecting the minds of students. “At the same time, political parties are taking out processions with thousands of people. The government offices, along with liquor shops, are also open.”They said they would strengthen their protest if the government did not take back its decision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/university-students-burn-copies-of-new-edu-policy-236720
09-04-2021||---||2 nabbed for snatchings at gunpoint; pistol, gold seized||Patiala, April 8With the arrest of two, the Patiala police today claimed to have solved recent snatching incidents in the city.They would allegedly target residents on roads and loot them. The police suspect the involvement of the accused in around 24 more such cases in the recent past.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the two rode a bike across the city and targeted residents at gunpoint in the past one month. “Following a tip-off, the police conducted an operation near Chaura village on April 6 and the two suspects, who were riding a motorcycle, were arrested. They were identified as Jaswant Singh Goldy, a resident of Jalandhar, and Manpreet Singh, alias Ladi, of Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Nagar Urban Estate, Patiala,” he added.The police said during the search of Jaswant Singh, a pistol and two live rounds were seized. During the investigation, 94-gm gold jewellery worth Rs5 lakh was also found.“Jaswant Singh was earlier arrested in 2013, along with two accomplices — Prabhdeep Singh Moti and Manpreet Singh. About 30 incidents of snatching were traced in different cities of Punjab, including the blind murder case in Ludhiana. He was arrested in these cases and was lodged in the Patiala Jail, where he met Manpreet Singh, who was in jail for kidnapping and rape charges,” said Duggal.After being released from the jail, they started meeting each other in 2018 and later, they started committing snatchings in different areas of Patiala and Rajpura.“About 24 incidents have been reported in Patiala district since 2018, which are being investigated. Already five incidents of theft and loot have been traced. Goldy is a professional criminal, against whom a total of 30 cases of snatching, theft and murder have been registered in different districts of Punjab,” said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-nabbed-for-snatchings-at-gunpoint-pistol-gold-seized-236721
09-04-2021||---||Include Urban Estate in water supply project, say residents||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 8Residents of Urban Estate (Phase 1 to 4) are now demanding that their area be included under the canal water supply scheme. The residents have raised the demand with the Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra.In a letter written to the minister, the residents said the project for the canal water supply scheme for Patiala city was approved, but Urban Estate (phase 1 to 4) were excluded from it. A letter written by OP Garg, secretary, Patiala Consumers and Telephone Subscribers Forum, said: “Consumers of Urban Estate have approached the forum. This was an injustice to people of the area… We, therefore, request you to kindly look into the genuine demands of the residents of your constituency and get the areas included in the canal water supply scheme at the earliest.”Meanwhile, the work on the canal water supply project worth Rs342 crore is underway. It is to be executed in 36 months — by October 2023Garg said: “We got to know about the project later. Thereafter, we have been writing to officials.”Meanwhile, as part of the project, 21 underground service reservoirs of over 40,000-gallon capacity will be built at Lakkar Mandi, Tej Bagh Colony and other places. The project will also include overhead service reservoirs to be built across the city.Officials said the work of the construction of a boundary wall for the project has already been started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/include-urban-estate-in-water-supply-project-say-residents-236722
09-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Development authority mulls FIRs against defaulting colonisers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 8The Patiala Development Authority (PDA) has now decided to take action against colonisers, who developed residential and commercial colonies after the cut-off date of April 20, 2018, as per the regularisation policy.Sources said they could either register FIRs against the colonisers or seal the registration of plots in those colonies, as per the provisions of the PRTPD Act.The PDA had started sending notices to colonisers in March on the basis of internal inquiries under Sections 87 and 88 of the PRTPD Act. The sources said 22 notices had been sent for various colonies, of which the allotted time to respond was nearing completion.Officials said the PDA had sent 14-15 notices over a month ago. “The office has received written responses from over seven of them. These will be dealt with later on the basis of their replies. Meanwhile, the office has decided to take immediate action against those who did not respond to the notices,” an official said.They said the office was mulling the registration of FIRs against the defaulters. “They may seal the registrations of plots in such colonies or disconnect their electricity connections,” said officials.Isha Singhal, estate officer of the PDA, said: “We had sent notices to over 22 colonisers. A file regarding the notices and replies has been submitted to the higher-ups for approval. I will be able to share the exact information only after it gets approved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/development-authority-mulls-firs-against-defaulting-colonisers-236724
