10-04-2021||Patiala||Encroachments on Banna road in Patiala removed||Workers of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today removed encroachments from the Banna road of Chhoti Nadi in the city with the help of the police. Civic body officials also issued chalans to owners of various vehicles and confiscated three tractor-trailers during the anti-encroachment drive.Inspectors of the Corporation today said there were various encroachments on the Banna road. Residents of the area were also involved in crushing stones at the site, they added.“We have removed encroachments from the Banna road various times in the past too, but violators again occupy the stretch. On an average, 20 to 50 tractor-trailers are usually parked on the road every day, which leads to frequent traffic jams,” said land branch inspectors.“The road witnesses heavy traffic movement. Many accidents have taken place on the road due to encroachments,” they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/encroachments-on-banna-road-in-patiala-removed-237151
10-04-2021||Patiala||Tehsildar’s office says certificate was issued to another individual||A committee constituted by Punjabi University to probe the ‘fake’ certificate scam on the campus has stated that one of the certificates of other backward classes (OBC) submitted in 2014 by an assistant professor to secure a job does not match with the government records.Officials in a letter pointed out that the certificate was instead issued to another individual while the teacher at the ECE Department rubbished their statement.The university is probing submission of seven alleged fake certificates by applicants in 2011. The inquiry into the matter, along with 14 other probes, including the recruitment of teachers without NET, wrongful purchase of answer booklets and software bought for the examination branch is pending since they came to light years ago.In a letter to the Vice-Chancellor, which is in possession of The Tribune, the three-member committee, including the Dean (Academics), Registrar and Dr BS Sandhu, a physics professor, stated that the certificate submitted by Dipti Bansal did not match with the records of the tehsildar’s office.“The university had sought response on validity of the certificate obtained from the tehsildar’s office at Dera Bassi. The latter responded that the certificate submitted by the applicant to the university was instead issued by the office to Sandeep Kumar of Malan village,” the committee added.Thereafter, the university has now sought reply from the assistant professor on the same issue within two days. The committee said in the wake no response from assistant professor further action would be initiated as per the available records.When contacted, Asst Prof Dipti Bansal while rejecting the claims in the committee report said, “I did receive the certificate from tehsildar’s office in 2014. It is genuine.”“I visited the tehsildar’s office and documents are being re-checked. I am also in touch with the university office to remove any doubts regarding the certificate,” she added.The committee has further decided to ask five other assistant professors to submit certificates of their family income at the time of recruitment. These five applicants have already submitted backward class certificates to the university. Meanwhile, when contacted, the Dean (Academics), Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill, who is heading the committee, said, “The university has formed a committee to probe the matter. An inquiry is going on.”He confirmed that the committee had written to five other assistant professors to submit records of their family income. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/tehsildars-office-says-certificate-was-issued-to-another-individual-237150
10-04-2021||---||Central team visits Patiala||Patiala, April 9In the wake of mounting cases of Covid-19 in the state, the Central Government designated two-member team of health experts visited the city to take stock of the situation today.Dr Vikas Suri, an expert from the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and Dr Vikas Janardhan, an expert from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Rajahmundry, took stock of the isolation facilities, the containment area and vaccination sites in the city.It has been learnt that the central health team had first visited the vaccination site at Punjabi University. Thereafter, the team inspected isolation facilities at Government Rajindra Hospital and the VRDL testing lab at Government Medical College (GMC).Besides, the central team, along with the Patiala Deputy Commissioner and Civil Surgeon, visited Mohindra Complex, a micro-containment zone in the city.Sources informed that the team was reportedly dissatisfied with sampling in the micro-containment zone. The team said tests of all households in the micro-containment should have been conducted till now. However, health officials told the team that some residents were showing hesitant to undergo test for the Covid-19.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the team had also inquired about contact tracing, home isolation and Covid sampling.“The team of experts inspected our preparedness in all the areas of fight against Covid. The team also inquired about sampling figures,” he added.Both team members, however, refused to comment about their observations on preparedness to tackle pandemic in the city. The team is expected to visit other subdivisions of the district tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/central-team-visits-patiala-237149
10-04-2021||---||200 get jabbed at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 9A vaccination camp was held at Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre in Punjabi University today.The university authorities said 200 persons above 45 years were vaccinated at the camp. University officials, including Dean (Academic affairs), Registrar, Patiala Deputy Commissioner, ADC (D) and others attended the camp.Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill, Dean (Academics), said, “People should be alert about the spread of the coronavirus. Punjabi University employees and residents, who are above 45 years, must get vaccinated against virus.”The Patiala Deputy Commissioner, Kumar Amit, said, “Vaccination is critical to contain the Covid spread. It’s the only way to stop the spike in positive cases.”Meanwhile, a vaccination drive was initiated at the DMW office as well. Officials said employees and their family members aged 45 years and above participated in the drive.The Principal Chief Administrative Officer, SN Dubey, said, “Early vaccination of residents will help in reducing the transmission of virus, morbidity and mortality.”Officials said 1,500 doses of vaccine had arrived at DMW Hospital, which would cover employees, healthcare workers, the RPF staff and non-railway persons. “Approximately 170 doses of the vaccine are given daily,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/200-get-jabbed-at-punjabi-university-237148
10-04-2021||Patiala||4 booked for assaulting doctor in Patiala village||The Patiala Police on Friday booked four relatives of a deceased Covid patient for assaulting a medical officer.The police said they had booked four unidentified relatives of the deceased under Sections 353, 186, 148, 149, 323 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. A medical officer posted in the Dhudhan Sadhan block was allegedly beaten up by the relatives of the Covid deceased during the cremation at Chahut village on Tuesday.Julkan SHO Pardeep Singh Bajwa said: “We have registered a case on the complaint of SMO Dudhan Sadhan. We will identify the accused after recording the statement of the medical officer who was thrashed. As he is still traumatised, he did not come to the police station.”Meanwhile, Dr Kiran Verma, SMO, Dudhan Sadhan, said it was a shameful incident and strict action was warranted. “Our doctor is still in fear and reluctant to talk to anyone. We want strict action against the accused so that such incidents are not repeated.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-booked-for-assaulting-doctor-in-patiala-village-236948
10-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala: Short on ‘Fateh’ kits, dept recycles oximeters||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 9Amid a shortage of ‘Fateh’ kits, health officials have reportedly started asking Covid survivors to return the oximeters provided to them.Notably, the pulse oximeter is one of many items in the ‘Fateh’ kit, which is being provided to patients under home isolation. The Health Department, owing to the ongoing shortage, is said to be recycling the pulse oximeter.A Covid survivor said an ANM of the Jujaar Nagar health centre had come to his residence to take the oximeter. He said, “I have already returned the oximeter to the nearest health centre. However, it is not good thing to recycle a medical device that has already been used by a positive patient.”However, health officials said there was no harm in recycling the equipment. They said they properly sanitised the oximeters before providing them to other patients.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said there was a shortage of the device due to a sudden surge in cases. However, they had now received sufficient kits. “There is no harm in recycling oximeters after sanitisation. We have to recycle whenever there is some delay in procuring kits from the head office in Chandigarh. We try to make sure that everyone gets a pulse oximeter to monitor the oxygen level,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-short-on-fateh-kits-dept-recycles-oximeters-236950
