11-04-2021||---||Patiala police recover 11 trucks or wheat brought from outside state for sale in Punjab||Patiala, April 11In collaboration with Market Committee, Patiala Police are analysing the crop produce that is coming from other states to Patiala.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal told that as the harvesting season for the wheat crop has begun, regarding which the directions for the safeguarding of crop markets and crop produce have been given to all Deputy Superintendents of Police of all Sub-Divisions and SHOs.Information have been received that few miscreants have been supplying and selling wheat produce procured from other states in the markets of Punjab.In this regard, Palwinder Singh Cheema, PPS, SP-traffic, have been appointed as the nodal officer to supervise the checkpoints that are to be set up in the jurisdiction of all the police stations and regular checking is to be conducted so as no one could bring the wheat produce procured from other states to Punjab for the purpose of selling it in Punjab Markets.Duggal also told that in due course of this checking under the supervision of Jaswinder Singh Tiwana, PPS, DSP Ghanour, SHO Shambhu along with his team has identified 11 trucks that were bringing wheat from other states and bill books from these trucks have been sent to Market Committee for verification. Further investigation will be carried out as per the reports received from the Market Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-police-recover-11-trucks-or-wheat-brought-from-outside-state-for-sale-in-punjab-237721
11-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala police cane-charge teachers; many detained||Once again Patiala Police cane-charged B.Ed-TET pass unemployed teachers when they tried to force their way to the chief minister’s residence, here on Sunday afternoon.During a faceoff between police and protesting teachers, many protesters are said to have been detained.Notably, protesting teachers had already announced to gherao the CM’s residence. However, when teachers were marching towards the CM house, police cane-charged and detained the teachers near Polo Ground 100 metres away from the CM residence.Now, the unemployed teachers have blocked the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway near Passiana.Meanwhile, one protesting teacher jumped into Bhakhra canal and was rescued by divers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-police-cane-charge-teachers-many-detained-237697
11-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala district and session judge tests positive for COVID-19||Patiala district and session judge Rajinder Aggarwal tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday morning. Health officials informed that session judge would be home quarantined.Sources in the health department revealed that Rajinder Aggarwal was asymptomatic.Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the district and session judge had attended a couple of events on Saturday, wherein, Justice Rajan Gupta, judge Punjab and Haryana High Court, Patiala Deputy Commissioner, Patiala SSP and other top brass were present.The district and session judge on Saturday had also attended the National Lok Adalat at the district courts.Confirming the development, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the judge had mild fever. He said, “He (Rajinder Aggarwal) is fine. He will be home isolated.”When asked about close contacts of Rajinder Aggarwal, Dr Satinder said that he would ask everyone who came in contact with Rajinder Aggarwal to get tested after five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-and-session-judge-tests-positive-for-covid-19-237673
11-04-2021||---||Patiala district 43 die of Covid in 10 days||Patiala, April 10Amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, mounting death toll is becoming a cause of concern for the Health Department and people at large in the district. In fact the second wave, experts said, was seemed equally fatal as the first one given the surging number of coronavirus deaths.  The new strain was more potent than earlier one, experts added. In just 10 days, the district witnessed around 43 deaths due to Covid. The Covid-related death count in March was 76. With four deaths today, the total count in the district stands at 633 since the pandemic outbreak last year. Majority of deaths due to Covid could have been avoided if patients had reached health centres well in time, said experts. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said many Covid patients, who died during treatment, had reported at late stage. “Still, people are reporting at late stage. Only when Covid symptoms aggravate, people turn up at health centres.”The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said the vulnerable age group of above 60 was the worst hit in the second wave too. “Like in the first wave, majority of deaths are in the above 60 age group. Besides, maximum casualties have been reported in patients between 45 to 60 years with comorbid conditions.”Meanwhile, Patiala district reported 266 positive cases, thereby, taking the total positive count since the pandemic outbreak last year to 24,858. At present, there are 2,483 active cases in the district. Of 266 Covid cases, only 46 are contacts of the past positive patients while 233 are fresh. Dr Satinder said Patiala city reported 138 cases, Dudhan Sadhan 20, Kauli 19 and Kallon Majra, Bhadson and Nabha 17 each. Besides, 13 Covid case were reported from Samana, 12 from Rajpura, seven from Shutrana and six from Harpalpur, Dr Satinder added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-43-die-of-covid-in-10-days-237516
11-04-2021||---||Eatery owners among 12 booked for night curfew violation||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 10The police today booked around dozen persons for the violation of night curfew. Majority of night curfew violators were shop or dhabha owners, who were running their eateries beyond 9 pm. Notably, night curfew has been imposed in the district from 9 pm to 5 am.No check on liquor vendsA liquor vend was found brazenly selling liquor on the Bhadson road even after 9 pm. Similarly, a new liquor shop near the Chief Minister’s residence was also open until late night hours. Those, who violated orders of the district magistrate, were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.  Two eatery owners, identified as Ravinder Singh and Pitambar, kept their restaurants on the Bhadson road open during the curfew hours. The police also booked a person for keeping his confectionery shop, near railway crossing No. 23, open beyond the prescribed time limit. In Passiana, one person was booked for strolling outside his house during the night curfew. In the Tripuri area, four people, including dhaba owners, were booked for dining and keeping eateries open during the curfew hours. A few liquor vends were also open during the night curfew in the district. However, no one has been booked in this regard so far. A Tribune Team found a liquor vend brazenly selling liquor on the Bhadson road even after 9 pm. Similarly, a new liquor shop near the Chief Minister’s residence was also open until late night hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/eatery-owners-among-12-booked-for-night-curfew-violation-237517
11-04-2021||---||Outsiders’ entry banned on NIS campus||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 10Concerned over the rising cases of coronavirus, the Health Department today banned the entry of outsiders at National Institute of Sports (NIS). The decision came after six people tested Covid positive on the NIS campus. The new cases were reported from the residential area on the campus, which prompted the Health Department to take decision. With six more persons contracting virus, the count of Covid cases already reported on the NIS campus has risen to 49. The District Epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said they had extended the containment area from hostels to some residential area on the NIS campus. “Positive cases are detected every time we collect samples for Covid testing. Therefore, we have directed the NIS authorities to ban the entry of outsiders on the NIS campus until containment ends,” Dr Sumeet added.Notably, the NIS is an elite training centre. Around 26 national players, coaches and support staff had already tested positive last week.Though, the Health Department has announced restriction on the movement, however, most security staff, including in-charge, continue to reside outside the NIS campus and commute to and fro from the institute regularly.Besides, many clerical staff of the NIS administration also resides outside campus.It was necessary decision to slowdown the Covid spread on the NIS campus, which had already turned a hotspot, Dr Sumeet said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/outsiders-entry-banned-on-nis-campus-237518
11-04-2021||---||High Court Judge inaugurates de-stress centre at District Courts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge and Administrative Judge, Patiala Sessions Division, Justice Rajan Gupta, today inaugurated the new de-stress centre at District Courts here today. District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority CJM Parminder Kaur and other judicial officers were also present on the occasion.While talking about the de-stress centre for judicial officers (Judges) as an experiment Justice Gupta said, “This centre will help Judges to be stress free during their day to day court engagements. Nowadays officers in every organisation have to work for a long time. If they spend their time in such centres their work efficiency will improve.”“The centre set up on the sixth floor of the District Courts has indoor sports activities like table tennis, chess and carom board to relieve judicial officers from stress after a busy day,” Justice Gupta added. Inaugurating the Covid vaccination camp at the District Courts today, Justice Gupta said, “Every eligible person should be vaccinated against Covid to prevent the spread of the disease. Use of masks, sanitisation of hands and adherence to social distancing should also be ensured.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/high-court-judge-inaugurates-de-stress-centre-at-district-courts-237519
