12-04-2021||---||Pending civil works irk residents||Patiala, April 11The ongoing civil works in Patiala city have become a matter of inconvenience for residents. While the work on the heritage street has been going on for over five months, residents have been complaining of prolonged delay in the laying of sewerage pipes and other works.The Peeli Sadak in Ragho Majra is one of the roads where market associations and residents complain of various problems.The Municipal Corporation is carrying out the work of laying sewerage lines in various parts of the city. Residents said the MC officials assured them that the work would be completed in 15 days, but the work still stands pending even after two months.A shopkeeper adjacent to the Hanuman temple in the city said: “Shops in the area are facing huge losses due to the delay in work. Two works — one of the heritage street and the other of laying sewerage pipes — are going on at the same spot in our area. This has left the shopkeepers out of work while the constant digging and ongoing work has left people coughing due to sand.”A garment shop owner on Peeli Sadak said: “The civil work of laying sewerage pipes is going on for the past two months. Initially, they said it would be completed in 15 days.” He said a few days ago, a child fell into a pit dug out for laying a sewerage pipe. “A number of officials reached the site to oversee the work. Now also, the road work is pending and will take a long time to complete. Our business has already been affected.”Roshan Lal, a resident near a private school adjacent to Ragho Majra, said: “The MC had started the work of laying sewerage pipes in our area over two months ago. The work is nearing completion, but they have not yet lifted the debris. Excessive dirt gathers in the whole area due to pending works.”On the ongoing work of sewerage pipes, Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “The inner city works are quite intricate as the streets are small. People have also taken illegal connections.”On the alleged delay in work, she said the corporation has made a work chart. “We have completed 53 works out of the total in the past one and a half months. The pending works will be completed in a month or so. Obviously, residents face issues, but we are trying to complete the work properly at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pending-civil-works-irk-residents-238030
12-04-2021||---||Education Secy goes door to door, meets parents||Patiala, April 11To give a push to the ongoing enrolment drive for government schools, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar went door to door at Saidkheri village here today.Krishan Kumar himself distributed pamphlets among villagers, highlighting the achievements, quality education, and other facilities available in government schools.A massive enrollment drive is underway in the state. Before going door to door, the Education Secretary, using the public address system of the local Gurdwara Sahib, made an appeal to residents to get their wards admitted to government schools.“There is a potential for enhancing the enrollment. Last year, about 15 per cent increase in enrollment was recorded in government schools. Following the confidence with which school teachers are highlighting the improved infrastructural and quality education facilities, a positive change in the public perception about government schools is abundantly visible. The further improvement in enrollment during the current academic year is seemingly inevitable,” said Krishan Kumar.The Secretary directed the school heads and teachers to do micro-planning such as procuring the lists of potential parents, along with phone numbers from their respective localities. He also asked them to sensitise parents about the facility of separate sections at schools for students, who are aspiring to opt for the English medium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/education-secy-goes-door-to-door-meets-parents-238031
12-04-2021||---||Written exam on April 25||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 11The written test for youngsters who wish to join the Indian Army on various posts will be held on April 25.Officials said those who cleared the physical test conducted earlier will now be able to take the test. They said the written test would be conducted at the Army Division Signal Regiment Ground opposite flying club on the Patiala-Sangrur road.Colonel RR Chandel said the admit cards were being issued to aspirants of Patiala, Sangrur, Mansa, Barnala and Fatehgarh Sahib.He said the test would be conducted in the open. The applicants are supposed to follow all guidelines pertaining to social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/written-exam-on-april-25-238032
12-04-2021||---||Panchayats pass resolutions against bailing out peddlers||Patiala, April 11Following an initiative by the Patiala police, all village panchayats and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the district have passed resolutions against furnishing bail bonds for drug peddlers.In response to a call given by the police, all panchayats and wards of the district have passed resolutions against the menace of drugs and pledged to refrain from helping the smugglers in any which way.Amanpreet Virk, sarpanch, Mirzapur, Patiala, thanked the Punjab Government for community engagement initiatives regarding drugs. “No one from my village will furnish bail bonds for any drug peddler. We have collectively decided not to approach anyone in support of anybody who sells or buys drugs in the village. We will furnish the information on drug peddling to the police whenever it comes to our notice,” said Amanpreet.Major Singh, sarpanch, Rakhra village also came forward, along with the elderly, and said: “If we want to save the youth of Punjab from the curse of drugs, everyone should join hands with the government and the local police in their efforts to curb the flow of narcotics in the area. We promise the government that no one from our village will support anyone found engaged in drug peddling.”Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “Resolutions have been passed by all panchayats/ councils in the district to extend full cooperation to the police and not assist drug smugglers in getting bail or give testimony in their favour.”“I extend my gratitude to each and everyone in over 1,200 panchayats/ councils in the district for extending support to us. With the help of the local community, our drive against drugs has been running smoothly. Recently, many drugs related POs were arrested with the help of the local youth and properties of the fugitives worth crores were attached.”The SSP said his team worked very hard for the past 10 days, especially all SHOs and village police officers, in conducting awareness in the area on the issue of narcotics. “I am sure, together we will be able to achieve great results in eliminating the demand as well as supply of drugs,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/panchayats-pass-resolutions-against-bailing-out-peddlers-238035
12-04-2021||---||8K get jab in dist||Patiala, April 11Amid the rising Covid cases, the vaccination drive seems to have gained momentum in the district with 8,464 persons, including 2,810 senior citizens, vaccinated today.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said more than 1.15 lakh persons had been vaccinated against Covid in the district till evening today.The Civil Surgeon visited the vaccination camp set up at Radha Soami Dera at Urban Estate, Rajpura Road, where 670 devotees were vaccinated.On camps to be held on Monday, Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said on Monday, the camps would be organised at the office of the PSPCL, Shakti Vihar, Cooperative Bank, Government Mohindra College, Urban Estate Community Centre, Phase 2, Vishal Paper Mill, Khusropur, Cooperative Society, Surastigarh, Bahmnna, Dandarala Dheedsan, Lung and Punjab Mandi Board, along with 20 villages of Nabha block, 15 of Patiala block, 29 of Shambhu Kalan, 18 each of Ghanour and Samana, 11 of Patran, 21 of Sanor, 21 villages of Bhunarheri and 20 villages of Rajpura.‘Official complains of misbehaviour’A health official on Sunday alleged that residents of Mardanheri village misbehaved with him during a vaccination camp.Sources said a team of health officials had gone for Covid vaccination to the village on Saturday. After vaccinating around 100 beneficiaries, when the team was about to leave, the villagers, led by the sarpanch, requested them to extend the timings for the vaccination, but the team didn’t oblige. As soon as the Community Health Officer (CHO) started winding up the camp, it led to a verbal altercation. The CHO told the SMO that the sarpanch had misbehaved with him after he refused to extend the timings of the camp from stipulated 5 pm.Dr Kiran Verma, SMO, Dudhan Sadhan, said: “There were no beneficiaries left, therefore, the team started to wrap up. However, villagers said that they were calling more beneficiaries for vaccination. Such incidents should not happen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/8k-get-jab-in-dist-238039
12-04-2021||---||Judge tests +ve for Covid||Patiala, April 11Patiala District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal tested positive for Covid today.Health officials said Aggarwal would be quarantined at home.Sources in the Health Department said Judge Rajinder Aggarwal was symptomatic.Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the District and Sessions Judge had attended a couple of events on Saturday, wherein, Justice Rajan Gupta, Judge Punjab and Haryana High Court, Patiala Deputy Commissioner, Patiala SSP and other top brass were present.The District and Session Judge also attended the National Lok Adalat at the district courts yesterday.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the judge had mild fever. He said: “He (Rajinder Aggarwal) is fine. He will be home isolated.”On contact tracing, Dr Satinder said he would ask everyone who came in contact with Rajinder Aggarwal to get tested after five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/judge-tests-ve-for-covid-238042
12-04-2021||---||Furniture shop gutted||Patiala, April 11A furniture shop at the Sanauri Adda in Patiala city was gutted in fire on the intervening night of April 10 and 11. While no loss of life was reported, fire officials said they were able to control the fire in time.Rajinder Singh, a sub-fire official with the Fire Department, said they were informed about the incident at 1.50 am. “A fire brigade was sent from the Bhera road while another came from the focal point area. It was a wooden furniture shop. It took us nearly two hours to douse the flames.”He said the shops adjacent to it were also furniture shops. “With two fire brigades pressed into service, we were able to stop the fire from spreading to adjacent shops. Till now, the cause of the fire is unknown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/furniture-shop-gutted-238044
12-04-2021||Patiala||11 trucks with other states’ wheat seized in Patiala||A Patiala Police team today confiscated 11 trucks allegedly bringing wheat from other states to be sold at MSP in Punjab. In collaboration with the Market Committee, Patiala, the police are analysing the crop produce that is coming from other states to the district.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said directions for protecting crop markets and crop produce had been given to all DSPs and SHOs. A Ghanaur police team identified 11 trucks which were bringing wheat from other states. These trucks were sent to the Market Committee for verification. Further investigation would be carried out as per the Market Committee’s reports.“Information was received that a few miscreants had been supplying and selling wheat from other states in the markets of Punjab. Following this, a team was deputed to supervise the checkpoints to ensure that no one could bring the wheat from other states to Punjab for the purpose of selling it in the markets,” said the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/11-trucks-with-other-states-wheat-seized-in-patiala-237798
12-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Jobless teachers jump into canal in Patiala, rescued||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 11Demanding jobs, two unemployed ETT pass teachers jumped into the Bhakra canal near the Passiana police station this afternoon. They were, however, rescued by divers soon after.The teachers were staging a sit-in on the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway when the incident occurred.Prem Singh Chandumajra, SAD leaderYouth Forced to take such stepsThe youth have been forced to take such steps because they see a dark future ahead. Instead of addressing their concerns, the government is thrashing them.The ETT and TET pass teachers said the government should immediately advertise 10,000 fresh posts for their cadre and bar BEd graduates from applying for the posts.Sandeep Sama, union leader, said: “We have been protesting for months in Patiala and Sangrur, but the government had not paid heed to our demands. Qualified youths of Punjab are jumping into canals for jobs, while the Chief Minister is bragging about giving jobs to youngsters.”The teachers lifted their protest in the evening after an assurance in writing of a meeting with Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and Secretary to Chief Minister MP Singh.Earlier, the police cane-charged BEd and TET unemployed teachers who, in a separate protest under the banner of the Sanjha Berozegar Morcha, tried to march towards the Chief Minister’s residence.During the face-off between the police and teachers, several protesters were detained.Some protesters also suffered injuries in the clash, it was learnt.The teachers had already announced a gherao of the CM’s residence. The police cane-charged and detained them near the Polo Ground, 100 metres from the CM’s residence.DSP Yogesh Sharma said: “Our men also suffered injuries in the clash. We will file an FIR under relevant sections. The detained protesters were released after a meeting was fixed between them and the Patiala MP.”Cops’ action reprehensible: AAPThe AAP condemned the cane-charge by the police, calling it reprehensible. AAP Barnala MLA and Youth Wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said CM Capt Amarinder Singh, who had made tall promises to the youth before the elections, was now raining batons on them for demanding their rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jobless-teachers-jump-into-canal-in-patiala-rescued-237761
