14-04-2021||Patiala||Car catches fire in Patiala, passengers escape unhurt||A car caught fire at the flyover over railway crossing 22 in Patiala on Tuesday night. Onlookers said no one got injured as those in the vehicle escaped unhurt.The incident took place when a Volkswagen Polo released a sudden spark on the road between 8 PM and 9 PM. The incident also caused a traffic jam on the road as vehicles from both sides of the flyover was blocked.Soon, police officials and a fire-tender reached the spot to disperse the crowd and douse the flames.A police official who reached the spot said they had started investigating the matter. He said as per a preliminary report, one of the car's tyres sparked and engulfed the whole car in flames. "All occupants of the car escaped unhurt", he pointed out.Later, videos of the incident also went viral on the internet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/car-catches-fire-in-patiala-passengers-escape-unhurt-238970
14-04-2021||Aman Sood||Torture of Lakha Sidhana’s cousin: Take action, Patiala cops write to Delhi Police||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 13A day after the Delhi Police denied that gangster-turned-social activist Lakha Sidhana’s cousin Gurdeep Singh Mundi Sidhana was “tortured”, the latter, in his statement to the Patiala police, has alleged illegal detention. Following this, the Patiala police wrote to their Delhi counterparts “for necessary action” in this regard.Shameful that Delhi Police is allowed to torture Punjabis in our domain and territory: Navjot SidhuIn a statement before a team of police officials of the Urban Estate police station, Patiala, on Monday, Mundi alleged physical torture and abduction by the special cell of the Delhi Police while he was on his way to Punjabi University on April 8 with his friend Gurpreet Singh. Gurdeep said they were presented before a senior police officer of the cell before being “let off” on April 9, a day before he got admitted to a Bathinda hospital.Allegations baseless: special cell DCPDelhi special cell DCP Sanjeev Yadav said they had been conducting raids to nab Lakha Sidhana and there was no reason to physically torture anyone. “For us, Lakha is one of the hundreds already arrested and wanted in the Delhi violence case. No one other than his cousin has alleged torture,” Yadav added.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal told The Tribune: “As for now, we have written to the Delhi Police following the statement and medico-legal report. These are being shared with the DCP, special cell, Delhi Police, for necessary action at their end. Mundi’s statement is with us.”Sources, however, said the Patiala police were neither informed nor taken into confidence about the Delhi Police operation in and around Patiala. “Bathinda and Punjab Police came to know about the alleged picking up of Gurdeep Singh from the authorities at the Civil Hospital, Bathinda, and from media reports,” said a top official.SKM gives clean chit to Lakha Sidhana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/torture-of-lakha-sidhanas-cousin-take-action-patiala-cops-write-to-delhi-police-238707
14-04-2021||Patiala||Record digital payments this year: PSPCL||During financial year 2020-21, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has collected around Rs 19,630 crore digitally from 143 lakh online transactions.Due to a number of easy-to-use digital platforms offered by the PSPCL, more than 75 per cent collection is being received digitally. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said the digital payment facility was started in 2008 in Punjab for electricity bills. In 2017, Punjab envisioned the digital evolution for the ease of the citizens of the state and started the facilities of electricity bill payments through enhanced, innovative and citizen-friendly digital modes in a big way.Prasad said to encourage more consumers to move to digital modes with least financial costs, the PSPCL had undertaken awareness campaigns about digital modes and offers.“From just around Rs 2,000 crore from 43 lakh digital transactions during 2016-17, we have now received around Rs 19,630 crore from 143 lakh digital transactions in 2020-21,” said the CMD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/record-digital-payments-this-year-pspcl-238725
14-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala sees five deaths, 288 cases||The district continues to report higher number of Covid cases. A total of 288 people tested positive on Tuesday, taking the tally to 25,663. Five people died of Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 646.Among the 288 fresh cases, only 18 were contacts of infected patients, while 270 were reported from elsewhere afresh. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said 185 cases were reported from Patiala city, 21 from Kauli, 17 from Bhadson, 16 from Rajpura, 12 from Dudhan Sadhan, nine from Kallon Majra and eight from Samana.Meanwhile, a two-member team, deployed by the Central Government to oversee the Covid-19 measures, visited the Bhadson block on Tuesday. During the visit, the team inspected Covid sampling site and visited a vaccination camp at Lang village in the block. Thereafter, the Central team, along with Patiala Health officials, went to the containment area in the National Institute of Sports (NIS). The team, during its visit to the NIS, inspected the isolation facility.Amid the rising cases, Patiala Civil Surgeon made an appeal to residents to get vaccinated at the nearest health centre. He said: “Eligible beneficiaries should get vaccinated at the earliest. Besides, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is also necessary to check the spread.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-sees-five-deaths-288-cases-238793
14-04-2021||Patiala||Health Dept allows weekly off to its frontline workers||To maintain the psychological well-being of frontline workers, the Patiala Health Department has now allowed its employees to avail of “one” weekly off. Experts believe that given the workload, mental stress has already plagued the health workers.The Health Department, in a message to Senior Medical Officers (SMOs), said they should give one rest day to the employees to avoid burnout.The announcement is said to have come after a majority of the foot soldiers - due to the work load, especially massive vaccination drive – expressed resentment to continue their jobs.It has been learnt that employees were not happy with the department because no extra incentives had been given during this unprecedented time, even for outreach vaccination camps.Health employees said they were overburdened as they had to handle vaccination, testing and contact tracing simultaneously. Besides, they had to manage regular work apart from coronavirus.A healthcare worker said: “Targets for vaccination or Covid testing are very high and unrealistic. We are just exhausting ourselves without community participation.”Health officials said working round the clock was taking a toll on their mental health and they would soon face burnout.A medical officer said: “Even when we reach our home, we have to continuously look into the Covid-related issues on phone. Sometimes, we don’t even get proper sleep.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “It was important to take care of mental health of our workers during this unprecedented time. I have asked the authorities concerned to give some rest to employees as they are working 24x7. Besides, we are planning to give an incentive of Rs100 to each vaccinator daily.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-dept-allows-weekly-off-to-its-frontline-workers-238794
14-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala's Sheesh Mahal Lake to be rejuvenated soon||The historic Sheesh Mahal Lake in the city will be rejuvenated soon. Officials said they had issued tenders for the installation of drain pipes for water supply.The iconic lake will be provided water supply from Hansali, which is providing water to Gurdwara Dukhniwaran.The officials said the government had passed an estimate of Rs37 lakh for the project.“Contractors interested in the work have also applied for the tenders,” said an XEN of the Drainage Department.The Drainage Department will carry out the work of connecting the Sheesh Mahal Lake to Hansali.XEN Ramandeep Singh said: “A pipeline will be laid from the rainy nullah up to the Sheesh Mahal Lake. We have already sought permission from the NIS to lay underground water pipelines.”Water is provided to the sarovars of Gurdwara Moti Bagh Sahib and Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahibfrom Hansali, which is a rainy nullah. It also provides water to the recently rejuvenated Rajindra Lake, Patiala.Officials said the work was expected to be completed in a period of six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-sheesh-mahal-lake-to-be-rejuvenated-soon-238795
14-04-2021||Patiala||Farmers threaten protest over relief for road accident victims||Farmers associated with various organisations have threatened to hold a protest outside the district administrative complex here over the apathetic attitude of the administration towards the family members of those who died in an accident on March 29 at the Thapar institute-Bhadson road chowk.The protesters led by Ajaib Singh Tiwana, a retired lecturer, alleged that despite being assured of assistance, the administration failed to provide any relief to the victims’ families and those who were injured in the accident.“The Deputy Commissioner had assured us of providing financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the family members of the deceased, along with Rs 2.5 lakh assistance for those who were injured in the accident. However, nothing has been done yet,” said one of the protesters.The farmers are also demanding that the site of the accident be re-christened ‘Kisan Shaheed Yadgari Chowk’.The protesters also accused the police officials present at the accident site of “negligence” and demanded action against them.“We will hold a march and a protest outside the District Administrative Complex on April 19,” the protesters informed, adding that they would again hold protest at the chowk from April 19.SDM Patiala Charanjit Singh said, “The farmers had approached us and assurance of assistance upon approval of the state government was given to them. The matter has been sent to the Chief Minister’s office and a response is awaited. The money will be disbursed when it is received.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-threaten-protest-over-relief-for-road-accident-victims-238796
