15-04-2021||Patiala||Family members of erstwhile electricity board employees stage protest; climb atop water tank||Family members of erstwhile employees of the electricity board, who lost their lives on duty, staged a protest on Thursday near Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh's residence in Patiala.Their families climbed atop an overhead water tank near an Ayurvedic research centre, and demanded jobs from the PSPCL. Those who climbed atop the water tank included elderly women, and others were present with children.The families said that they want a policy devised by the state government which would provide jobs to families who lost their members during duty.They "threatened to intensify their protest" in case their demands were unfulfilled.This protest took place when the city is already facing several protests.Two teachers, associated with ETT and TET pass teachers' association, have already been protesting atop another overhead water tank in the city.Farmers, under the banner Zameen Kisan Sangharsh Committee, have been protesting at YPS Chowk for the last 21 days. This has left police personnel positioned at the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/family-members-of-erstwhile-electricity-board-employees-stage-protest-climb-atop-water-tank-239483
15-04-2021||---||Law university Patiala without regular registrar for over two years||Patiala, April 14More than two years after giving charge of the registrar’s office to a teaching faculty member on temporary basis, Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) is yet to get a regular incumbent for the post.On the other hand, a search committee constituted for finding an appropriate candidate for the post of university Vice-Chancellor (VC) is already on the job.At present, the university is led by two appointees, who have been given additional charge for the top two posts for running day to day affairs of the institution.A student pointed said, “Dr Naresh Kumar Vats was appointed as interim registrar from January 2019 upon directions of the university Chancellor’s office till further orders. He continues to execute the powers of the office even after more than two years.”Another student said, “The RGNUL Act does not have any provisions for appointing a registrar on interim level. The university should have made efforts for the regular appointment.”As per the RGNUL Act, “Registrar shall be a whole time officer of the university and shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the recommendation of the selection committee constituted by the executive council and headed by the Vice-Chancellor on such terms and conditions of service, as it may specify, subject to the provisions of statutes and regulations.”When contacted, Dr Anand Pawar, officiating Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, said he did not have supporting documents with him to comment on the issue at the moment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/law-university-patiala-without-regular-registrar-for-over-two-years-239319
15-04-2021||---||Efforts on to bring protesters down from BSNL tower, says Patiala Deputy Commissioner||Patiala, April 14The Patiala Deputy Commissioner, Kumar Amit, today said the district administration was making all possible efforts to bring the two ETT/TET pass unemployed teachers, who were sitting atop the BSNL tower, down.On behalf of the district administration, the Patiala SDM, Charanjit Singh, SP (Traffic) Palwinder Singh Cheema and DSP (City I) Yogesh Sharma were continuously in touch with both protesters sitting atop BSNL tower, the DC added.“Our endeavour is to sort out their issue by taking up the matter with the Education Department and exploring other avenues for the safety of these people,” the Deputy Commissioner added.The Deputy Commissioner, who was accompanied by SSP Vikramjeet Duggal, also visited the tower site and interacted with both protesters over phone. He appealed to them to get down from the tower in the larger interest of their families.The Deputy Commissioner reiterated that the district administration was making strenuous efforts for their safety. The state government was sympathetically considering the matter and appropriate action would be taken on genuine demands of protesters within the legal framework, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/efforts-on-to-bring-protesters-down-from-bsnl-tower-says-patiala-deputy-commissioner-239295
15-04-2021||---||Students dwell upon teachings, life of Dr Ambedkar on his birth anniversary||Patiala, April 14To pay homage on his birth anniversary, students enacted a play on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar on the Punjabi University campus here today.Lakhwinder Singh of the Punjab Student Union (PSU) said, “We organised such events at various places throughout the state today. Such programmes were held in Jalandhar, Moga, Sangrur and Ropar.”Students enacted the play, ‘Sherni da dudh’, which was based on the education system of the country. The play focused on misuse of Dr Ambedkar’s ideology by political parties for their own benefit. The play ended with the message of using education to thwart casteism in society.Gurmukh Singh of the Zameen Parapti Sangharsh Committee said people must read about life of Dr Ambedkar to understand his ideology. “The people of the country have gained a lot from his works. But, his life is presented to us after twisting and turning the facts as per people’s political ideology. We need to fight casteism on both social and financial levels for the benefit of society,” he added.Students also held a discussion, question and answer session on the occasion. They discussed a lecture delivered by Dr Ambedkar in which he said, “I will keep on fighting for the right of the downtrodden people in villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-dwell-upon-teachings-life-of-dr-ambedkar-on-his-birth-anniversary-239293
15-04-2021||---||Car catches fire on railway flyover in Patiala, occupants unhurt||Patiala, April 14A car caught fire at the flyover on railway crossing No. 22 in the city yesterday night. Onlookers said no one was injured in the incident as car occupants managed to escape in time.The incident took place when there was sudden spark in a Volkswagen Polo, which was crossing the flyover. The incident led to a traffic jam as the road on both sides of the flyover was blocked by vehicles.Police officials and a fire tenders reached the spot and managed to disburse the crowd and douse the flames.A police official said they were investigating the matter. As per preliminary report, there was a spark in one of the car tyres and soon the whole vehicle was engulfed in flames, he added. All occupants of the car escaped unhurt, he said.Later, videos of the incident also went viral on the social media.Fire at open area behind NISFire engulfed the open area behind National Institute of Sports (NIS) in the afternoon today. Three fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. Fire officials said they received information regarding the fire from residents living nearby.“We received a call in the afternoon after which fire tenders were rushed to the spot. As per preliminary report, fire could have erupted due to a spark in electricity wires passing through the area. Nothing concrete has been established till now,” said a sub-fire officer.Fire officials said no one was hurt in the incident.However, the fire yet again raged at the spot behind the NIS in late evening today. Fireman Jagseer Singh said, “We have received a call about fire at the same spot. A fire tender has been sent to douse the flames.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/car-catches-fire-on-railway-flyover-in-patiala-occupants-unhurt-239291
15-04-2021||---||Six succumb to Covid, 338 test positive in Patiala district||Patiala, April 14Given the record number of positives cases, the second Covid wave is evidently more infectious than the first one. The district today reported 338 corona cases. This is the second highest spike in a single day.With this, Patiala district has already reported 3,593 positive cases in April. The district had reported 5,272 positive cases last month.The Health Department said the second wave was more infectious than the first one because the virus had already mutated.District epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said it was clear from the spread of infection that the second Covid wave was more infectious as compared to the first.“The rate at which, the number of positive cases are increasing confirms that the second wave is more infectious. During contact tracing of positive cases, it has come to the fore that a single positive patient has infected more people in the second wave as compared to the first,” he added.In some cases, entire families tested positive, which was not the case in the first wave, he said.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Highest positive cases have been reported in March since the outbreak of the pandemic. The way Covid is spiking, positive cases may be higher in April. The second wave is more infectious. However, it may be less fatal if people report to nearest health centre in time.”Besides, six people died of Covid during the past 24 hours. This has taken the Covid toll in the district to 652 since the pandemic outbreak.Of the 338 positive cases detected today, only 21 were contacts of the past positive patients, while 317 were reported from elsewhere.Patiala city had reported 176 cases, while Rajpura 39, Nabha 32, Kallon Majra 21, Harpalpur 20, and Bhadson and Samana 14 each, Dr Satinder added. Besides, 10 positive cases were reported from Shutrana and seven from Kauli, Dr Satinder said.Health officials said the positivity rate in the district was around 10 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/six-succumb-to-covid-338-test-positive-in-patiala-district-239287
