17-04-2021||Patiala||COVID-19: Fully-vaccinated Patiala doctor infected for 2nd time in a month||A fully-vaccinated doctor from Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital has been infected by COVID-19 for the second time in a month, sources said from the hospital said—a development that could possibly pose challenge to a vaccination drive that’s already met with a degree of scepticism over the vaccine’s efficacy.The doctor, whose identity we’re withholding because she hasn’t consented to being named, tested positive a second time in a month on Friday, the sources said. She received her second dose in February.She had previously tested positive on March 20 and recovered fully from that bout, even resuming work, the sources said. But when she began showing symptoms again, she got herself tested and was found to be re-infected, the sources said.Health experts say while re-infection isn’t unheard of, especially given how the virus continues to mutate, the instance does raise questions over how effective the vaccines are in preventing the disease.Dr Sachin Kaushal, nodal officer of the isolation ward of Government Rajindra Hospital, said: “Given the cases of re-infection, it seems that a new strain of the coronavirus has already spread. However, mutation needs to be studied thoroughly”.Still, they say that the vaccine could help prevent infections from turning fatal.Dr Sumeet Singh, the district epidemiologist, said the district health department had recorded only 12 cases of COVID-19 re-infection.“People could test positive for the coronavirus even after both doses, but it will be less severe,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-fully-vaccinated-patiala-doctor-infected-for-2nd-time-in-a-month-240438
17-04-2021||---||Punjabi University sans regular VC for months||Patiala, April 16Functioning without a regular Vice-Chancellor (VC) for many months, Punjabi University working has been affected.The university is dependent on newly appointed Dean, Academic Affairs, and the Registrar to manage it on the academic and administrative fronts.Ravneet Kaur, IAS officer, executed a number of works on the campus after former Vice-Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman resigned on November 18 citing personal reasons, but several tasks still remain pending, including promotion of various faculty members.The long awaited action on various probe reports into alleged scams is another matter that did not reach a conclusion.Associate Professor Damanjeet Kaur, who awaits promotion, said: “The pending promotions have a long-lasting affect on the university academics. Assistant and associate professors awaiting promotions are unable to involve more scholars into research leading to a loss for such students and the university.”Dr Prabhleen Singh, an A-class officer on the campus, said: “Day-to-day operations of the university have been pending for a long time now. Many employees have applied for deputation but all those have been stalled due to the unavailability of the Vice-Chancellor.”He said the university had been allocating non-teaching posts of the Registrar, Dean Colleges, Dean Student Welfare, Controller Examinations and others to faculty members which led to politics among them while they were unable to justify the work owing to their hectic academic tasks. “Functioning of the university needs to be properly streamlined by a regularly appointed VC.”PUTA president Dr Nishan Singh Deol said: “A regular VC should be appointed to manage all day-to-day works. Even salaries have been pending for months.”Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill, Dean Academics, said: “We are carrying out the works properly as per the directions of the acting VC and there are no lapses. The government is on the task and should provide a VC with integrity and insight.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-sans-regular-vc-for-months-240302
17-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University to streamline workload||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 16Punjabi University has decided to streamline the workload for its teaching faculty.The Office of the Dean Academics wrote to various heads and principals of neighbourhood campuses, regional centres and constituent colleges, demanding the details of workload as per a given format to make provisions for the same in the university Budget.The development has not gone down well with university’s contractual teachers. This is after the university was directed by the state government to submit the details of the allocation of workload to its teachers due to high honorarium provided by the university last year.Rs10-crore expenseDr Pushpinder Singh Gill, Dean Academic Affairs, said the university incurred an expenditure of Rs10 crore in honorarium for the teaching workload in the 2020-21 financial year after which the matter came under the scanner of the state government.Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill, Dean Academic Affairs, said the university incurred an expenditure of Rs10 crore in honorarium for the teaching workload in the 2020-21 financial year after which the matter came under the scanner of the state government.He said: “We are streamlining the workload as per the protocol. The university is supposed to approve on the workload for the teaching faculty as per the given process in a Syndicate meeting after it is cleared by the academic review committee. We will then present it to the state government by May 15.”Meanwhile, the contractual teachers of the university expressed fears that their workload, along with that of lecture-based teachers, will be reduced leaving them with less or no work.Dr Lovedeep Sharma of the Punjabi University Contractual Teachers’ Association (PUCTA) said: “With workload allocated as per the university’s directions, the contractual and lecture-based teachers will be without work. Also, the university aims at involving senior and junior research Fellows (SRF and JRF) in direct teaching contrary to the UGC rules. They can be involved in tutorials, laboratory work and field work only. This is while the contractual and lecture-based teachers are more experienced than them.”Responding to the same, Dean Academic Affairs, Dr Pushpinder Singh Gill, said the university did not aim at firing people in the process. “This is aimed at streamlining the process of issuing workload first to most experienced professors, associate professors, assistant professors, followed by to SRF, JRF, contractual teachers and lecture-based teachers in the end as the university’s regular teachers have remained without proper work in the past.”He said earlier, the university spent Rs82 lakh on honorarium which escalated to Rs10 crore in 2020-21 paid on the basis of workload allocation done by principals and heads of constituent and regional centres.On the contractual teachers’ concern regarding the violation of the UGC rules, he said: “The terms are devised as per the RUSA guidelines.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-streamline-workload-240301
17-04-2021||---||Officials of Punjabi varsity threaten protest||Patiala, April 16The Punjabi University Joint Action Committee (JAC) formed by teaching and non-teaching officials and pensioners of the university have yet again threatened to begin protests over their demands, including salaries, pensions, grants for the university and other matters.The representatives of the Joint Action Committee said today that they had sent various representations to the state government over grants and other issues, but to no avail.They said: “The state government has not made any efforts to pull the Punjabi University out of the financial slump. It has also not given Rs90 crore to the university despite announcing it in the state’s Budget.”They said the state government had also not increased the university’s monthly grant and pointed out that they had not received their pensions and salaries for March.The representatives said they had decided to begin a protest on the campus from Monday afternoon. “Along with our other demands, we want that the university should have a regular Vice-Chancellor,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/officials-of-punjabi-varsity-threaten-protest-240300
17-04-2021||---||Anti-dengue activities begin in Patiala||Patiala, April 16Amid the surge in Covid cases, the fear of vector-borne diseases is already haunting the Health Department.To prevent the spread of diseases, the Patiala Health Department today kicked off anti-dengue activities. The health officials, during the “Friday dry day” campaign, detected dengue larvae at six places. It was immediately destroyed by the Health Department.Urging the resident to take necessary precautions, the Patiala Health Department said the disease could prove fatal if residents showed a lackadaisical attitude towards dengue.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the dengue season had already arrived. So, they had to start anti-dengue activities as proactive action, said he.What is ‘Friday dry day’‘Friday dry day’ is a mass awareness drive against dengue wherein health teams go door to door in the high-risk areas. They instruct city residents to clean all sorts of water containers at least on Friday. Under the drive, health officials challan house owners if dengue larvae are found in their houses.Awareness drives were being carried out in the district to apprise people of preventive measures, said health officials. “Amid Covid, residents should take precautions against dengue too. People should clean discarded items, including pots, tyres, utensils and other water containers once a week.”Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said community participation was a must to control the dengue spread. “It takes 5-7 days for dengue larvae to breed on clean stagnant water. Therefore, people should clean all water containers at least once a week. If residents do not dry out water at their houses, it will be difficult to curb the breeding of mosquitoes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/anti-dengue-activities-begin-in-patiala-240299
17-04-2021||---||Patiala residents being ‘fleeced’ for parking on roadside||Patiala, April 16Parking of vehicles on the roadside is costing residents dear in Patiala despite the fact that the Municipal Corporation has not allocated the space to contractors for the collection of parking fee.The “contractor” on Bhera Road, adjacent to the AC market, is fleecing visitors by charging Rs30 per vehicle.Vehicles parked on roadsides are being made to pay the parking fee. The sources from the Municipal Corporation alleged the “contractors” are functioning unabated in connivance with local leaders.When The Tribune correspondent visited one of the sites, a fee collector asked for Rs30 for parking and handed over a slip.Meanwhile, residents have already expressed dissent over fleecing after they were charged the same amount.One of the visitor to such a spot wrote on Twitter: “In an expensive city like Chandigharh, parking costs Rs10 or Rs15, but in Patiala, the rate is Rs30 as levied by anonymous contractors. There is no company name, just a self-published slip printed with the help of political stakeholders.”The MC sources said: “The parking scam is being run under cover provided by local leaders. The Municipal Corporation should take note of the issue.”Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “The parking areas on roads come under the ambit of the MC, but we have not given any contract for the collection of the parking fee. I will look into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-residents-being-fleeced-for-parking-on-roadside-240298
17-04-2021||Patiala||Drugs and sacrilege cases: People feeling cheated, says Navjot Singh Sidhu||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu today said the state government had cheated the people of Punjab by “failing to meet the two prime demands of strict action against drug kingpins and punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib”.Hard-hitting posers to own govtAccusing his own government of defending the main accused, who were at the top of the hierarchy when the Bargari sacrilege took place and innocent men lost their lives, Sidhu said the system had failed us. “Despite prima facie evidence following the Justice Ranjit Singh Commission report, the Punjab Government called a special session but failed to nail the culprits. Even after four years of the government, the FIR in the case does not name the accused cops or the then Chief Minister,” Sidhu said, adding: “I will speak my mind as no Sikh would tolerate this. No one can fool us.”“When those involved in the crime have been identified, why is there no action? Why is there no chargesheet?” he asked at his ancestral residence in Patiala.“The FIR is the foundation of any case. But here, there is no foundation. You may hire top lawyers, what can they do? How will you build the case?” Sidhu asked.“There is not even a single name from the top in the FIRs, be it drugs or Bargari case, despite evidence and the commission’s report. It was a government-appointed commission and SIT to probe the Bargari sacrilege issue,” said Sidhu.On the issue of botched-up probe in the drugs nexus, Sidhu again blamed the state government. “The report by the Special Task Force formed by the government in 2017 under a senior IPS officer brought from outside the state is yet to be made public and kingpins yet to be named,” said Sidhu. “Why is the government silent on the findings of the report? Despite it being with the government, why is there no action against anyone? Even the officer was later shifted,” Sidhu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/drugs-and-sacrilege-cases-people-feeling-cheated-says-navjot-singh-sidhu-240049
17-04-2021||Patiala||Farmers block Patiala's YPS Chowk, seek hike in land relief||Farmers under the banner of the Zameen Kisan Sangharsh Committee blocked the YPS Chowk on Friday and demanded a hike in compensation for their land acquired for the Delhi-Katra expressway.They have been protesting adjacent to the chowk for the last 22 days. The stir has left the road connecting YPS Chowk and Shaheed Major Manwindra Singh Chowk from the front of the Chief Minister’s residence blocked ever since.SP Varun Sharma, DSP Yogesh Sharma and other police officials reached the spot to ensure law and order. The police also blocked all exits from the chowk with vehicles and force. In the evening, protesters were called by the Deputy Commissioner for a meeting along with the SSP and the SDM to find a solution to the matter. The blockade was finally lifted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-block-patialas-yps-chowk-seek-hike-in-land-relief-240058
17-04-2021||Patiala||Year on, construction workers await relief||Even after a year, hundreds of construction workers in the state haven’t received financial assistance, which was meant to fight the financial onslaught of the Covid-induced lockdown. The aid was announced for registered construction workers last year. Workers have been running from pillar to post to get the aid as the department has failed to transfer the due amount to their bank accounts.The state government had announced two installments of Rs 3,000 to allay the economic impact of the lockdown. The Tribune found that around hundreds of workers in the home district of the CM – the ex officio chairman of the Punjab Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board – have not received the amount. Local dealing officials claimed they had sent multiple reminders to the state Labour Department in this regard.Ranjit Kaur of Thuhi village said, “The government has failed to protect the construction workers from financial burden of the lockdown. I wrote to the Nabha Labour Inspector in July, but I have not received any amount till now.”Vijay Walia, an activist fighting for the construction workers, said, “The CM, who is the chairman of the labour board, should have checked whether the grants have reached genuine beneficiaries or not.”VK Janjua, Principal Secretary, Labour Department, said, “A majority of the workers have already received the amount. I will ask officials concerned to immediately transfer the amount to the workers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/year-on-construction-workers-await-relief-240095
