19-04-2021||Our Correspondent||11 devotees hurt as bus going from Patiala to Golden Temple turns turtle in Sahnewal||Sahnewal, April 18Eleven devotees of the total 60 travelling in a bus, going from Patiala to Golden Temple in Amritsar, were injured as the bus turned turtle when a canter trying to overtake the former took a sudden steep cut on the National Highway 1 near here late last evening.Two more buses, following the bus of the devotees, hit the latter vehicle. However, passengers of the two buses escaped unhurt.The bus carrying devotees started from Patiala at around 8 pm on Saturday night. As the bus approached Sahnewal at around 11 pm, a canter while overtaking the bus took a steep turn after which the driver of the bus lost control over it and the bus turned turtle. The injured have been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana.Confusion was witnessed at the spot after the accident as the police had a tough time to manage the traffic. Investigating officer Harpal Singh said statements of the injured were yet to be taken on the basis of which the future course of action would be decided. The devotees, especially women and children, who escaped unhurt, were in a state of trauma. They were brought to Gurdwara Reru Sahib here by Kaar Sewa Jatha where they were provided langar before continuation of their journey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/11-devotees-hurt-as-bus-going-from-patiala-to-golden-temple-turns-turtle-in-sahnewal-240960
19-04-2021||---||Unauthorised hospitals admit Covid patients||Patiala, April 18Amid the rapid surge of infection and prevailing apprehensions about Covid care in government hospitals, several private hospitals and clinics, which don’t have authorisation, are admitting suspected Covid patients. Hefty amounts being chargedPrivate Covid-dedicated hospitals are said to have been charging hefty amounts ranging from Rs5 to Rs10 lakh per patient. Moreover, many hospitals do not admit serious patients just to avoid bad name in case of death.It has been learnt that these private hospitals and clinics are admitting patients on the basis of clinical observation and don’t conduct the Covid tests, thereby posing a risk to the hospitalised patients with other ailments. Sources said conducting the Covid tests might invite action by the Health Department.The matter came to the fore when a patient sought approval from the Health Department to get shifted from the dedicated Covid hospital to an unauthorised Covid hospital.“They do not conduct the Covid tests because it may leak information to the department. Without conducting RT-PCR tests, they tell patients that they are positive merely on the basis of chest reports or some symptoms,” said a health official.Meantime, following the sudden increasing in the number of Covid patients, many private hospitals have already applied for authorisation to admit corona patients.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said: “We have received many applications from private hospitals. However, approval will be given to hospitals after inspection. “The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said: “The list of Covid-authorised private hospitals is repeatedly shared by both the Health department and the district administration. We are going to take action against unauthorised private hospitals and clinics soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/unauthorised-hospitals-admit-covid-patients-241068
19-04-2021||Karam Prakash||100% disabled Patiala youth gets a mere Rs 750 per month||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 18Twentyone-year-old Gursewak Singh, who is 100% disabled, is at the receiving end of the years-old “faulty” policy of the government to provide financial assistance to the disabled.Father spends Rs1K per week on Gursewak’s catheterGursewak’s father, Krishan Singh, who is a goat herder, has to spend Rs1,000 per week to change the urinary catheter of the bed-ridden youth.According to the existing policy, a financial help of Rs750 is provided to disabled persons, irrespective of the degree of disability. Whoever is disabled 50 per cent and above will get the same amount. Experts believe that financial help should be given to a beneficiary as per the degree of disability.Gursewak, whose upper and lower limbs were completely paralysed in a road accident in 2018, is fully dependent on his mother for personal care.The youth, who belongs to a poor family, is entitled to get only Rs750 per month as financial assistance from the government despite having been disabled 100 per cent.He is finding it difficult to get the due treatment. Besides, his father, Krishan Singh, who is a goat herder, has to spend Rs1,000 per week to change the urinary catheter of bed-ridden Gursewak.Gursewak wants to get treatment from New Delhi. However, he doesn’t have money at all. “I want to walk again and fulfil my dream to get into the Indian Army. But, we don’t have money to get even a balanced diet, as advised by the doctors.”He said the government should revise the existing policy and base it on the degree of disability. “Many people who have disabilities only in one of the parts of the body get the same financial help while people like me, who can’t drink water by themselves, also get the same amount.” Meantime, it has been learnt that Gursewak is yet to get his pension.Varinder Tiwana, District Social Security Officer, said: “The case has been approved and Gursewak will get financial help of Rs750 this month. There are no categories in the scheme based on the degree of disability. However, the government has already announced that it will increase the amount of financial assistance from Rs750 to Rs1500 per month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/100-disabled-patiala-youth-gets-a-mere-rs-750-per-month-241069
19-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Farmers apply for DBT, many still prefer payments through arhtiyas||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 18Though many farmers here have applied for direct payment, they prefer involvement of arhtiyas (commission agents) in payments for the procurement of their grain at markets. Many of them do not know the nitty-gritty of the newly introduced payment system. They are also facing issues of slow lifting of grain and unavailability of gunny bags among others.5.11 lakh mt of wheat procured in distOfficials in the district administration said on Sunday that 5.11 lakh metric tonnes of wheat grain had been procured in the district. In a press note, the administration has said all produce coming to 424 mandis is being procured in time. It added, “The administration is also taking care of sanitisation in the mandis.”A small farmer from Tana village of Fatehgarh Sahib, which is situated nearby the new grain market here, said the new system of payment is beneficial to farmers. “Sanu bahuta nahi pata”, he quips, adding that the government’s decisions are all in favour of people. The farmer owns 5 acres.But all farmers who reach the grain market do not have the same opinion.Bhagwan Singh of Jhambo Kheri of Patiala was inconclusive. “There are benefits as well as disadvantages of the new system. Most farmers understand, but some might use the opportunity to avoid paying the commission agents their outstanding amounts from the previous procurements or loans. The latter might not get paid in time,” he said.Meanwhile, Kewal Singh of Jassowal village has also applied for DBT (direct benefit transfer). He said: “We have applied for direct payment but feel the arhtiyas should be taken care of. They are known as private ATMs of farmers and the relationship built on trust that is there since years should continue.”Amarjit Singh of Assomajra village is also uncertain about the new payment system though he has applied for it online. But he has more issues also to discuss. “We brought the crop here but the ‘bardana’ (gunny-bags) was not initially available. The administration needs to make prior arrangements.”Harminder Singh of Lachkani village has also been waiting for ‘bardana’. “We brought some produce earlier also. But I have been awaiting gunny bags for days now,” he says. “The commission agent system was beneficial for the farmer and arhtiya both. We have applied under the new payment system but only time will tell how things turn out,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-apply-for-dbt-many-still-prefer-payments-through-arhtiyas-241070
19-04-2021||Patiala||Mishap at Thapar University Chowk: Kin of victims get cheques||Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur today handed over cheques of ex-gratia grant worth Rs 18 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the families of the victims who were killed and injured in an accident that took place on March 29 at Thapar University Chowk here. The victims were expressing solidarity by protesting against the Centre’s anti-farm laws.Reiterating the firm commitment of Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Government, the MP said the Punjab Government would always stand with the families of the protesting farmers who had lost their lives on the borders of Delhi by extending them all possible help.She shared her condolences with the families of the three victims who had lost their lives in the accident and also handed over cheques for Rs5 lakh each to the families of 66-year-old Inderjit Singh, a resident of Ranjit Nagar here; 16-year-old Paramvir Singh, a resident of Inderpura; and two-year-old Yash, a resident of Ekta Nagar. She also gave a cheques for Rs 1 lakh each to Gurpreet Singh of Ranjit Nagar, Rahul of Bharat Nagar and Renu Bala of Ekta Nagar who were injured in the accident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mishap-at-thapar-university-chowk-kin-of-victims-get-cheques-241071
19-04-2021||Aman Sood||Sidhu couple sets political circles abuzz in Capt Amarinder Singh’s bastion||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 18After being away from Patiala for over a decade, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, along with his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu, has suddenly become active with recent press conferences and political functions in the bastion of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.From opening an office to criticising the state government, the Sidhu couple is fast emerging as the talk of the town. Though openly local Congress leaders have been staying away from their events, insiders claim many are in touch with them.Sidhu, however, claims his “focus is not to make any political gains, but to highlight the injustice for the victims of drugs and Bargari issues”. Meanwhile his wife and former Amritsar (East) MLA is often seen meeting party workers at her husband’s ancestral house in Yadavindra Colony. Off late, she has been taking keen interest in the two Vidhan Sabha segments of Patiala (rural) and Sanaur constituencies.“Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra is an elected MLA from Patiala (rural) and is projecting his son as his political successor. However, the recent opening of an office by Navjot Kaur in Sanaur, is seen as a move to counter Congress leader Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann, who lost the last polls,” say political observers.Also read: Sources say local Congress leaders have been meeting the Sidhu couple primarily highlighting “corruption in the Municipal Corporation and the role of handpicked leaders in mining and illegal liquor trade”.Officially being the state president of women wing of Jat Maha Sabha in Punjab, Navjot Kaur Sidhu is using the platform to open offices and holding meetings with the youth leaders.Patiala District Congress, president (urban) KK Malhotra states that the Congress in Patiala is united under Preneet Kaur and he is unaware of any Congress leaders holding meetings with the Sidhu couple. “We are united under our MP Preneet Kaur”, he stated.Recently Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had taken potshots at Congress government over the “botched-up probe” into 2015 sacrilege cases and the drugs menace.Holds political functions, press meetsWhile Navjot Singh Sidhu is holding press conferences and political functions in the bastion of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu is taking keen interest in the two Vidhan Sabha segments of Patiala (rural) and Sanaur constituencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sidhu-couple-sets-political-circles-abuzz-in-capt-amarinder-singhs-bastion-240926
19-04-2021||Patiala||3 centenarians face of Patiala Covid vaccine drive||Amid the ongoing vaccination drive, three centenarians have emerged as an inspiration for the youth in Patiala.Jattan Kaur (105) of Biradwal village, Sita Devi (104) of Kalyan and Najar Singh (104) of Rakhra village have become the face of the drive after being inoculated on Sunday.Jattan, along with her grandson, went to the special outreach camp organised at her village in Nabha subdivision for the vaccination. Her son Baldev Singh said the courage shown by his mother was exemplary. Najar said everyone should support the government’s efforts to strengthen the fight against the virus by getting vaccinated.DC Kumar Amit said these bravehearts had set an example for others. “We are visiting every nook and corner of the district to vaccinate all eligible persons,” he said, adding that vaccination was effective in reducing mortality rate. He said they were being helped by panchayats, ward councillors and religious organisations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-centenarians-face-of-patiala-covid-vaccine-drive-240921
