21-04-2021||---||Patiala district logs highest single-day spike||Patiala, April 20In the highest single-day spike since the outbreak last year, Patiala district today reported 424 positive cases of coronavirus. The total count of positive cases has risen to 28,155 since the pandemic broke out last year.The tally of active cases has now risen to 2,885. Besides, seven persons have died of the infection over the past 24 hours taking the death toll to 688. Of 424 positive cases, only 42 were the contacts of positive patients.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said Patiala city had reported 283 cases while Dudhan Sadhan logged 26, Nabha 20, Shutrana 21, Samana 17 and Bhadson 16. Besides, 14 positive cases were reported from Kauli and 10 from Rajpura.Meanwhile, SOS Children’s Village, a shelter home at Rajpura, has been declared a micro-containment zone after 12 children tested positive for Covid. The Senior Medical Officer, Rajpura, said 130 persons, including staff and children, were tested. “We have tested everyone at the SOS village once. However, we will again test the inmates in a day or two.”Meantime, power colony on the Badungar road had been declared a micro-containment zone after eight positive cases surfaced in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-logs-highest-single-day-spike-242049
21-04-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala Police take up community engagement exercise||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Responding positively to a call given by the district police through local VPOs (village police officers) and SHOs, as many as 398 panchayats and 70 ward councils have passed resolutions to join hands with the district administration in their fight against Covid. The resolutions particularly mentioned the Covid-appropriate behaviour, particularly the wearing of mask and maintaining social distance.Divulging the details of the community-engagement initiative taken up under ‘Mission Fateh’, Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the Patiala police have started involving the local community, youth, village elders and civil society organisations to reach out to the masses, seeking their support in fight against Covid.“Cases are rising exponentially each day, and we cannot do without the public support. In Patiala only, we are seeing over 300 new Covid cases almost every day. As the community comes forward to assist us in the implementation of the latest government guidelines, it becomes easy for us to focus on the other aspects related to Covid as well as law and order,” said the SSP.Karam Singh, councillor of Ward 5, Sanour, observed: “This new initiative by the Punjab Police will help contain the spread of the virus by dissemination of information on Covid-appropriate behaviour. We have passed a resolution in the presence of all panchayat members and village elders that no one in the village will come out without mask. We will see that no one comes to the village without mask. We have enough masks at our disposal to distribute so that no one flouts the mask-related norm in the village,” he said.While extending his gratitude to the people of the district for coming up in a big way to assist the local police in containing the virus, the SSP said: “It is certainly an overwhelming response with so many panchayats taking up this cause, passing hundreds of resolutions in just two days. We are sure the remaining panchayats and ward councils will take a clue from them and will respond to our call.”The SSP appealed everyone to stick to the latest Covid guidelines issued by the Punjab Government. He warned of strict action against violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-police-take-up-community-engagement-exercise-242050
21-04-2021||---||Three armed men barge into paint store at Sirhind Road, Patiala, rob owner of Rs 25K||Patiala, April 20Three armed men barged into a paint store on the busy Sirhind road here this afternoon and robbed its owner of Rs25,000. The police are conducting raids to arrest the robbers.According to the police, the three men entered Barnala Paint Store and one of them tried to shoot its owner, but the weapon misfired. “According to the video footage obtained from the CCTV camera installed at the shop, the robbers threatened the shop owner and one of them took away Rs25,000 from the cash counter,” said the police.The police said they were investigating the matter. Though the pistol looks like a toy, they are not ruling out the use of a countrymade weapon that misfired. “The robbers came on foot and the CCTV cameras installed nearby are being checked,” said DSP Saurab Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-armed-men-barge-into-paint-store-at-sirhind-road-patiala-rob-owner-of-rs-25k-242051
21-04-2021||---||Health officials distribute masks among bus passengers||Patiala, April 20Amid the rising positive cases, health officials today distributed masks to bus passengers. Officials, led by Mass Media Officer Krishan Kumar, educated passengers on the Covid norms such as wearing masks, washing hands regularly and keeping social distance.During the awareness drive, the health officials found that many passengers were not wearing masks. Krishan Kumar said they appealed the passengers to undergo corona test if they had any symptoms such as fever, cough, cold, chest pain, difficulty in breathing etc.He said: “Besides, the passengers were motivated for vaccination. We are going all out to appeal people to follow the Covid guidelines and avoid unnecessary travel.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-officials-distribute-masks-among-bus-passengers-242052
21-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Teachers’ union chief sets example by enrolling his daughter in govt school||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Setting an example, a government schoolteacher and president of a teachers’ union has enrolled his daughter in a government school. Earlier, she was studying in a private school.Vikram Dev, state president of the Democratic Teachers Front, said every government employee should admit his or her wards to government schools.Vikram Dev yesterday enrolled her daughter in Government Girls Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, Model Town, in Class VIII.He said being a union leader, he should practice what he preached. “If I don’t trust government schools who else will. I believe that every person, who gets salary from the state government, should enrol his or her wards in a government school. Politicians and IAS officers should also follow suit. “Dev clarified that instead of forcing the decision on her, he rather convinced her. “My daughter, who had been studying only in private schools so far, is convinced that government school teachers are more qualified than their counterparts in private schools,” he said.Meanwhile, Anhad, the daughter of Vikram Dev, said: “All facilities available in private schools are very much there in government schools. Besides, teachers are highly qualified and experienced.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teachers-union-chief-sets-example-by-enrolling-his-daughter-in-govt-school-242053
21-04-2021||Patiala||Parking staff fleece visitors at Mini-Sectt, Patiala||Visitors to the parking lot at Block C and D of the District Administrative complex here are allegedly being charged double the parking fee. While the rates displayed at the site read Rs 5 and Rs 10 for every motorised two-wheeler and car, respectively, staff were seen charging double the amounts.A youth collecting the parking fee claimed the rates displayed on the wall were more than four years old. “The rates have been revised. These rates mentioned on the wall were applicable years ago,” he claimed.Another visitor said: “They claim they have paid a high amount for getting the contract, hence the high rates.”Meanwhile, SDM Charanjit Singh said: “I will get it checked and take action as per requirement.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/parking-staff-fleece-visitors-at-mini-sectt-patiala-242054
21-04-2021||Aman Sood||Rain hits wheat procurement, lifting||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Uncertain weather conditions have further added to the miseries of wheat farmers, who are still awaiting the lifting of their procured produce due to the shortage of gunny bags. At present, there is a glut-like situation in the grain markets of the district.Farmers said rain at regular intervals had further hampered the lifting and procurement of wheat in the grain markets.Last week too, the yield had suffered damage due to wind and rain and now a wet spell had further hampered the procurement process.“Wheat has been lying in the open due to the shortage of gunny bags, and now when the use of old bags has been allowed, intermittent showers have added to the moisture content,” said Balbir Singh, a farmer from Samana.Farmers at the Patiala grain market demanded that the state government should assess the losses and provide compensation accordingly. “Not only the standing crop has suffered damage, but the produce kept or stored in the open will be spoiled due to rain. Now, it will be difficult to harvest the crop with a combine. Besides, prolonged drying may lead to the shattering of grain. Also, there is a fear of fungus and discolouration of grain,” said farmers.“Tough measures make it all the more difficult for us to sell our produce in the market as procurement agencies are particular about the wheat stock they buy”, they added.Meanwhile, procurement agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) have asked the farmers to bring produce to grain markets with moisture content not beyond 12 per cent. The advisory has been issued to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing at the grain markets to contain the spread of Covid-19.Harshdeep Singh from Bhadson in Patiala district said rain had flattened nearly half of his crop that was yet to be harvested. “Rain at this stage of the harvesting season is a cause of concern. Farmers are already facing a lot of difficulties in harvesting and selling their produce in the wake of the Covid outbreak,” he said.Reviewing the procurement process at a meeting with the District Food and Civil Supplies Controller, district managers of procurement agencies, district marketing and enforcement officer, arhtiyas and farmers, Rajpura MLA Hardyal Singh Kamboj and Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit asked them to expedite wheat procurement and arrange gunny bags immediately as per the latest guidelines of the state government.Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit directed the district managers of the procurement agencies to immediately procure the wheat of the farmers who had reached the grain markets. “The Chief Minister is personally monitoring the entire procurement process,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rain-hits-wheat-procurement-lifting-241803
21-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||IISER physicist Prof Arvind is Punjabi University VC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20The Punjab Government has appointed Professor Arvind of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali (IISER), the new Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala.Reviving and rebuilding the university by adding fresh courses to bring it on a par with international institutions remains on top of Professor Arvind’s agenda.Professor Arvind has been serving as a physics professor at the Mohali institute since March 3, 2010. He is a known theoretical quantum physicist working on science education, science communication and developing science paedagogy in Punjabi and is credited with over 100 technical and non-technical publications, including ‘True experimental reconstruction of quantum states and processes via convex optimisation’ published this year.Professor Arvind said the university needed to recover and move forward. “On the academic front, my vision is to restore the old glory of the institution and build on those areas. I plan to bring in new disciplines, including liberal arts education, five-year integrated courses and data sciences, to put it on a par with international institutions. I will like to revamp the course work and course structure as well,” he said.On the financial crisis faced by the university, he said there was a need to work on curtailing expenditure, do redeployment and re-training of manpower. “The university’s academic culture has declined. I think those on the campus are awaiting restoration of good culture,” he said.Professor Arvind is the national coordinator of theme-1 (photonics) of the National Multi-Institutional Networked Programme on Quantum Enabled Science and Technology (QuST) launched by the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, in 2018. He is also a member of the DPR drafting committee for the National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications (NMQTA).Earlier, he had worked at the Physics Department of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, as special faculty from 2002-2004.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/iiser-physicist-prof-arvind-is-punjabi-university-vc-241812
21-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital sees 15 fatalities in 24 hours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 20Fifteen persons died of Covid at Government Rajindra Hospital here over the past 24 hours. As many as 175 persons have died of Covid at the hospital in April.The authorities said 194 persons had been receiving treatment in the isolation wing of the hospital of which 175 were positive, while the test reports of 19 were awaited. As many as 113 persons had died of Covid at the hospital last month.Dr Sachin Kaushal, nodal officer, isolation wing, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “Sixteen persons died at the isolation ward over the past 24 hours. Of 16, one was a suspected Covid patient, who tested negative. Patients are reaching hospital at late stage. A majority of the cases were referrals from other districts.” He added that a majority of patients had died within 48 hours of admission.Officials revealed that of 5,757 positive cases, 1,109 had died at the hospital since the outbreak of the disease last year. The mortality rate at the hospital hovers around 20 per cent which was alarming, said experts.It has been learned that the hospital mortuary is running short of space following the sudden rise in Covid deaths.Meanwhile, the body of a Covid suspect at the hospital mortuary was allowed in the car of the family members. Officials at the mortuary said though the deceased was admitted at the isolation ward, his report came negative. They said the family members of the deceased could take the body if the report was negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-rajindra-hospital-sees-15-fatalities-in-24-hours-241818
21-04-2021||Patiala||Theoretical Physicist Prof Arvind appointed Punjabi Varsity Vice Chancellor||The state government has appointed Professor Arvind of Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali (IISER) as the new Vice Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala.The professor now aims to revive and rebuild the university by adding courses in an attempt to put it at par with international institutions.Professor Arvind has been working as professor, Physics, at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali. He is a well-known theoretical quantum physicist working on science education, science communication and developing science pedagogy in Punjabi and is credited with over 100 technical and non-technical publications, including ‘True experimental reconstruction of quantum states and processes via convex optimisation’ published this year.Talking to The Tribune, he said the university needs to be recovered, reconstructed and moved forward. “From the academic front, my vision is to go back to the old glory of the institute when it was doing well, and build on those areas. I want to bring in new disciplines including liberal arts education, 5-year integrated courses and data sciences to put it at par with international institutions. I would like to revamp the course work and course structure as well,” he said.He added that on the front of financial crises, they might work on curtailing expenditure, do some redeployment and re-training in terms of manpower issues.“The university’s academic culture has declined. I think those on the campus are waiting for a good culture to restart,” he said.Professor Arvind is the National Coordinator of Theme-1 (Photonics) of the National Multi-Institutional Networked Programme on Quantum Enabled Science and Technology (QuST) launched by the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi in 2018.He is also a member of the DPR drafting committee for the National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications (NMQTA).The professor has been working at the IISER, Mohali since March 3, 2010. Before this, he was an associate professor at the same institute from 2007. He has also worked at the Physics Department of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh as a special faculty from 2002-2004.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/theoretical%C2%A0physicist-prof-arvind-appointed-punjabi-varsity-vice-chancellor-241753
