24-04-2021||---||Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital reports 18 Covid deaths in 24 hours||Patiala, April 24Amid the rising Covid cases in the state, Patiala's Government Rajindra Hospital reported 18 Covid deaths in the past 24 hours.With this, the total Covid death count at the hospital has risen to 1,163. The hospital authorities said the caseload at the hospital had increased over the past 72 hours. Consequently, authorities had to open another floor at eight-storey MCH building—a dedicated Covid ward of Rajindra hospital.Currently, 253 patients are being treated at the hospital. Of these, six are on ventilator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-rajindra-hospital-reports-18-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-243527
24-04-2021||---||Patiala dist Covid situation continues to be grim||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 23Covid situation in Patiala continues to be grim as the district today reported 522 positive cases. This is the highest single-day spike of positive cases since the pandemic outbreak last year.Divisional Commissioner reviews arrangementsAmid the rising positive cases, Divisional Commissioner Chander Gaind reviewed the Covid-related arrangements and vaccination in the district. During his first meeting with officials of the District Administration, Health and the Government Medical College, Gaind took stock of the situation. After the meeting, he claimed that the district had adequate Level-2 and Level-3 facilities besides sufficient number of vacant beds, medical oxygen, ventilator-equipped beds. ‘All other arrangements, including stock of essential medicines, are in place while the vaccination campaign is in full swing, said Gaind. He said 480 Level-2 beds were made available at government hospitals including.The number of active cases in the district has risen to 3,365. Besides, the district reported six deaths, taking the Covid death count to 705.Reacting to the rising positive cases, the Patiala Civil Surgeon said the situation was alarming.“The Covid situation has turned alarming in the district as the positive cases continue to shoot up. Currently, there is no shortage of Covid beds. However, the hospital will be overloaded if the situation remains the same,” said Dr Satinder Singh.Of 552 positive cases reported today, around 45 were the contacts of previous patients.The Civil Surgeon said Patiala city had reported 326 cases, Rajpura 58, Bhadson 27, Nabha 24 and Kauli 22. Besides, 16 positive cases were reported from Harapalpur, 14 from Shutrana, 12 from Dudhan Sadhan and eight from Samana.Meanwhile, many private Covid-dedicated hospitals have been asked by the Health Department to increase their bed strength, said sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-dist-covid-situation-continues-to-be-grim-243300
24-04-2021||---||Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal dismisses six cops on disciplinary grounds||Patiala, April 23Taking strict action, SSP Vikramjeet Duggal today dismissed six police personnel on disciplinary grounds.The SSP said he ordered their dismissal from duty after the completion of departmental enquiries initiated against them. These six police officials were absent from their duty.Those who have been dismissed are Harpreet Kaur, Satwinder Singh, Yushinder Sharma, Rajesh Kumar, Jaspreet Singh, Meena Ram. The SSP had dismissed seven police personnel last month.Duggal said: “Indiscipline will not be tolerated in the police force and offenders will be punished according to police rules and laws.”Drug peddler held with 2.6-kg opiumThe police have nabbed a drug peddler, Surinder Singh, alias Sunny, and confiscated 2.6 Kg of opium. The SSP said Surinder told the police that he, along with his accomplice, Kailashpati Saho, who had absconded, was into opium peddling.Both suspects have been booked under section of 18/61/85 of the NDPS ACT. The police teams are conducting raids to arrest Kailashpati Saho.Meanwhile, the SSP said a thorough investigation was being carried out in the case to find out the source of the opium and to whom the contraband was to be delivered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-ssp-vikramjeet-duggal-dismisses-six-cops-on-disciplinary-grounds-243305
24-04-2021||---||PUCTA takes out march on campus||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 23The Punjabi University Contractual Teachers Association (PUCTA) today held a protest outside the office of Dean, Academic Affairs, against the decision of the university to allocate workload to SRF and JRF candidates. The university has also extended the contract of the teachers for only one month, which, according to the teachers, should be increased to six months at a time.The matter of workload allocation sparked protests on the campus when the university directed principals and heads of the neighbourhood colleges and constituent colleges to submit details of allocation of workload as per a devised pattern. The same was not well received by contractual and lecture-based teachers who believed they would be ousted. The contractual teachers were also joined in by students and other regular teachers of the university in highlighting their demands.The university’s contractual teachers today take out a protest march on the campus. They said they were apprehensive that the university wanted to allocate work to the SRF and JRF candidates, instead of the contractual teachers in order to relieve them. They said the university had also not released their salaries of the past three months.Dr Lovedeep Singh, PUCTA president, said: “The university is daily releasing orders which are mounting pressure on the teachers.”He said the university today released orders that the contracts of the contractual teachers were being extended for merely 22 days. “This is against the process earlier undertaken by the university in which the contracts were renewed for six months in a stretch,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pucta-takes-out-march-on-campus-243307
24-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala farmers protest tardy purchase||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 23Farmers today held a protest and blocked a connecting road to Ghanaur near the Chappar grain market over the slow procurement of wheat. They vowed to continue their protest until the process was expedited.Slow procurement and lifting — despite the government’s claims of smooth and hassle-free process — has created a glut of wheat at many grain markets of the district. As per the district administration, 61.24 per cent of the total procured wheat has been lifted so far. A total of 9,361 MT of wheat was lifted on Friday.Jasdev Singh Nugi, a farmer, said: “The procurement of wheat at the Chappar Grain market has been severely hit due to lack of gunny bags. Consequently, farmers have to spend nights at the market. We will continue to protest until procurement is expedited.”Notably, two procurement agencies, Markfed and PUNSUP, are, reportedly, facing a shortage of gunny bags which has affected the procurement process in some grain markets. District Food and Supply Controller Harsharanjit Singh Brar, however, said: “We have now enough bags as the government has allowed to reuse old gunny bags.”Farmers also said rain had added moisture to wheat that was lying in open at the grain markets. However, the district administration claimed they had provided the enough tarpaulins to keep the grains dry.  Govt presenting wrong figures: SAD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-farmers-protest-tardy-purchase-243343
