25-04-2021||Ravneet Singh||Key matters await new Pbi varsity VC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 24As the new Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University, Prof Arvind, is expected to join office any day, a number of challenges await his arrival, including decisions to be made with respect to various pending matters and the prevailing politics among the teaching and non-teaching staff on the campus.While teachers are holding protests to press for their demands, insiders say: “The teachers on the campus are divided in factions. They hold protests to pressurise the authorities in order to avail themselves of various benefits, including getting posts meant for non-teaching officials. The non-teaching officials, on the other hand, await allocation of charge.”The PUTA president, Dr Nishan Singh Deol, said: “The teachers on the campus are all united and they are excited that the government has deputed a talented Vice-Chancellor. Also, the teachers had recently resigned from their posts in protest which shows there are no such interests.”A non-teaching class-A official said: “The university has been allocating non-teaching posts to teaching staff for a long time. The deserving non-teaching members are left out despite the fact that the posts of registrar, finance officer, director planning and monitoring, controller of examinations and others are meant to be allocated to non-teaching officials.”He added: “If allocated as per the protocol, it will put an end to the growing politics on the campus.”Meanwhile, the teaching fraternity has their own expectations.“Many teachers at the university are awaiting promotions. The new Vice-Chancellor is expected to complete the long-pending process of promotion in the interest of teachers and students who wish to begin research work. The teachers have to protest for the fulfilment of these demands. Also, with his arrival, the university should get allocation of more funds for research work,” a teaching official said.The university has also been sitting on various probes pending for years. While investigations have been completed in relation to various purchases and recruitments, there has been no action with respect to the alleged scams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/key-matters-await-new-pbi-varsity-vc-243764
25-04-2021||---||Only 4 ICU beds vacant at Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, April 24Amid the rising cases of Covid, Government Rajindra Hospital is fast running out of L-3 (ICU) Covid beds.According to the authorities, as of now, only four L-3 beds are vacant at the Covid ward of the hospital. Of a total of 120, 116 beds were already occupied till this evening.Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, is one of the four facilities in the government sector that has L-3 beds in Punjab.Surbhi Malik, in-charge of the ward, Rajindra Hospital, said they had already extended L-3 beds from 120 to 150. “By tomorrow, L-3 beds will be increased to 150. In the meantime, the Punjab Government has ordered deputing 19 specialists at Rajindra Hospital for better Covid care at the hospital.”On Saturday, the district reported 438 positive cases, thereby, taking the total count to 30,016 since the outbreak last year. With this development, the tally of active cases rose to 3,443. Besides, the district reported seven Covid deaths today, taking the death count in the district to 712.Of the 438 positive cases today, around 25 were the contacts of the already positive patients, while 413 were reported afresh.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said that Patiala city had reported 271 cases, while Nabha: 27, 25 each were reported from Rajpura and Samana, 22 from Kauli, and 16 from Dudhan Sadhan. Besides, 14 positive cases were from Kallon Majra, 10 Shutrana, and eight from Harpalpur.7 succumb to virusOn Saturday, Patiala district reported 438 positive cases, taking the total case count to 30,016 since the outbreak last year. With this development, the tally of active cases rose to 3,443. Besides, the district reported seven Covid deaths, taking the toll to 712.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/only-4-icu-beds-vacant-at-rajindra-hospital-243770
25-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Gynae department sets an example||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 24Amid the unprecedented Covid times, the gynaecology department of Government Rajindra Hospital today achieved a rare feat of completing 100 caesarean deliveries of Covid patients without any complications.Notably, caesarean delivery (C-section) is a surgical procedure and doing the same under the looming fear of the infection is a rare achievement, say experts. A majority of the staff of the department has been infected with Covid at least once since the beginning of the pandemic.Dr Parneet Kaur, head of the department, said it was a tough task for her. However, the entire staff helped her to achieve this feat. Sources said beside 100 C-section deliveries, around 75 normal deliveries of Covid patients were also done at the hospital.Talking about the difficulties faced in the C-section delivery of positive patients, she explained that PPE kits, which they had to wear during the process, made it a little difficult, especially in summers. “In the winter season, PPE kits were not much of an issue. However, wearing a PPE Kit for 1.5 hours or more during a delivery is very difficult. We have to keep ourselves hydrated all along to complete a delivery,” she said.She, however, said no non-Covid patient suffered at the department all this while.Meanwhile, Dr Harman Singh Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Rajindra Hospital, said the hospital was catering to around seven districts of the state. “We did conduct the highest number of deliveries of Covid patients in the state. We have the best possible facilities at the hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/gynae-department-sets-an-example-243771
25-04-2021||---||Robbery cracked, three arrested||Patiala, April 24Four days after three armed men barged into a paint store on the busy Sirhind road and robbed its owner of Rs25,000 at gunpoint, the police claimed to have arrested the trio.The police said all three are in their mid-twenties. The suspects have been identified as Sunny, Ashwini Kumar and Roshan Mandal from Sukhram Colony. The police have seized the weapon and the money from their possession.According to City DSP Saurabh Jindal, the three suspects entered Barnala Paint Store on April 20 and one of them tried to shoot its owner, but misfired. “According to the video footage obtained from a CCTV camera installed at the shop, the robbers threatened the shop owner and one of them took away Rs25,000 from the cash counter,” said the police.The three are daily wagers and planned the crime to extract easy money. “We are trying to find if they were involved in similar crimes earlier as well,” said Jindal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/robbery-cracked-three-arrested-243772
25-04-2021||---||18 die in 24 hrs at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, April 24Amid mounting Covid cases in the state, the Government Rajindra Hospital here reported 18 deaths due to the infection over the past 24 hours.The authorities said a majority of the victims were referred from other districts. With this, the death count at the hospital has risen to 1,163 since the outbreak last year.Most of the deaths are said to have taken place during the night and, therefore, might be a case of investigation. However, the hospital authorities said as the majority of seriously ill patients arrived during the night, they died within a few hours of admission.Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, said they had enough oxygen supply for Covid patients. “We have adequate supply of oxygen at the hospital. Besides, we have our own oxygen plant for uninterrupted supply.”Meanwhile, in the wake of a spike in the caseload over the past 72 hours, the authorities have converted the 8th floor of the MCH building into a dedicated Covid ward of the Rajindra hospital.Currently, as many as 253 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Of these, six are on ventilator support. Dr Rekhi urged patients to visit hospital well in time to ensure maximum lives could be saved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/18-die-in-24-hrs-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-243729
