26-04-2021||---||Police crack elderly woman’s murder||Patiala, April 25Five days after a 65-year-old woman was found murdered at Vikas Colony here with tape wrapped around her face, the police today claimed to have cracked the murder case in less than 96 hours.Kamlesh Singla, wife of the late Narinder Singla, an advocate, was found murdered at her house in Vikas Colony five days ago with packing tape wrapped around her face and hands. The perpetrators of the crime had fled with valuables, jewellery and cash, leaving the woman with the packing tape wrapped around her face, which led to her death.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “The way trespassing was planned and executed indicated that the attackers knew their way around the house. An SIT was constituted to investigate the murder. The key accused, namely Vikram, who is a resident Pathana Wala Mohalla, Sanour, worked as a munshi with Harry Singla (an advocate and son of the deceased). He hatched a conspiracy along with his associates, Amrinder and Gagandeep, who belong to Lalauchi and Sanour, respectively, to eliminate the woman and loot the valuables worth Rs40 lakh. Vikram had been associated with the family for more than five years and had access to the house. His motive was to loot the valuables.”Appreciating the investigation done by the SIT, led by Varun Sharma, SP City Patiala; Harmit Singh Hundal, SP Investigation; Krishan Kumar Panthey, DSP Investigation; and Jaswinder Singh Tiwana, DSP Ghanour; the SSP said members worked hard to crack the case.“The entire stolen valuables have been recovered from the possession of the accused. A motorcycle used in the crime, which belongs to Amrinder, has also been recovered,” said the SSP.Key accused worked with victim’s sonThe key accused, namely Vikram, who is a resident Pathana Wala Mohalla, Sanour, worked as a munshi with Harry Singla (an advocate and son of the deceased). He hatched a conspiracy along with his associates, Amrinder and Gagandeep, who belong to Lalauchi and Sanour, respectively, to eliminate the woman and loot the valuables worth Rs 40 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/police-crack-elderly-womans-murder-244315
26-04-2021||---||Patiala witnesses complete shutdown||Patiala, April 25Markets wore a deserted look as movement in the city was almost negligible today. Residents remained indoors as per the state government’s directions to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. The Sunday market, which is usually abuzz with shoppers and vendors at Choti Baradari, was also vacant.Meanwhile, 20 deaths from Patiala and elsewhere have been reported at the Government Rajindra Hospital due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours while the number of positive cases continues to rise.While only delivery boys delivered food items from restaurants and other eating joints to homes, dining remained suspended throughout the day.The Leela Bhawan market, Choti Baradari area, AC market, Tripuri area among other places witnessed nearly no movement all day long. Similarly, the malls also remained shut while the police officials maintained order and patrolled areas of the city. As such, roads and streets all wore a deserted look. A few liquor shops though continued to sell liquor through holes made on the front shutters. A liquor vend situated near the Sheranwala Gate was seen selling liquor from two small holes made in the shutter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-witnesses-complete-shutdown-244316
26-04-2021||---||Patiala residents booked for defying night curfew||Patiala, April 25Residents of the city continue to defy the night curfew orders. The police have registered cases for violation of the orders under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the IPC.Police officials said today that they had registered 26 cases against identified and unidentified persons under Section 188 of the IPC at the police stations of Kotwali, Tripuri, Anaj Mandi, Sadar Patiala, Julka, Sanaur, Sadar Nabha and others.They have also registered a case at Kotwali Nabha against eight identified persons, including three women, and some unidentified persons for trespassing, assaulting or using criminal force against a woman, and other sections of the IPC. They said as per the complainant, Neetu Sharma of Nabha, the suspects entered her house on Friday after 8 pm and beat her up and her family members. She claimed that the altercation took place over parking of a vehicle outside the house.The police have registered a case against Sandeep Sharma, Manisha, Sudha, Seema, Mandeep, Sandeep, Rishi, Kapil and some unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-residents-booked-for-defying-night-curfew-244317
26-04-2021||---||Teachers, health workers stage protest at Patiala's YPS chowk||Patiala, April 25While business in markets, work in offices and commute in the city remained suspended as per the government orders given in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, various teacher unions today held a protest to press for their demands. The teachers took out a protest march followed by a sit-in at the YPS chowk.The protesters started their protest from the Baradari gardens and held a march until the YPS chowk. Though fewer than 200, the protesters failed to ensure social distancing, most of them were not wearing masks or following norms as per the guidelines of the Health Department.The protesters included BEd and TET-pass teachers, 873 DPE union teachers, 646 PTI teachers, members of the Art and Craft Teachers’ Union and multipurpose health workers.The police blocked them at the YPS chowk. Police officials, including SP Varun Sharma, along with DSP Saurav Jindal and DSP Yogesh Sharma, were present at the site.Officials in the district administration said they had arranged the teachers’ meetings with Education Secretary Krishan Kumar and minister Vijay Inder Singla on May 6. The multipurpose health workers would meet Principal Secretary (Health) Husan Lal and minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on May 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teachers-health-workers-stage-protest-at-patialas-yps-chowk-244318
