27-04-2021||Patiala||No oxygen shortage in Patiala: DC||Amid the rising Covid cases, a team, comprising Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, SSP Vikramjeet Duggal and the ADC (D)-cum-Nodal Officer, visited a plant of medical oxygen today.At the plant, Jallan Cryogenic, Rajpura, oxygen is generated, stored and transported in liquid form.‘We are getting oxygen as per allocation’Asked about the allegations of oxygen diversion by a Chadigarh-based oxygen supplier, Preeti Yadav, ADC (D), said: “We are getting oxygen as per allocation by the government. And no demand is unmet – until now. We are working to ensure continuous and uninterrupted supply to all hospitals and minimise leakages.”The oxygen manufacturer informed the team that all oxygen at the plant was being used for medical purposes only, and it catered to the districts of Patiala, Sangrur and Barnala. Besides, it supplied medical oxygen to Sohana and the Gian Sagar hospital in Banur.The manufacturer claimed that the plant had a capacity to produce 700 to 800 oxygen cylinders each day.The Deputy Commissioner said the district administration would ensure uninterrupted power supply to the plant so as to make it work day and night.He said an official had been deputed to monitor transport of oxygen from the plant.Kumar Amit said a special team was keeping a watch on the supply/allocation and availability of medical oxygen in the district.Preeti Yadav, ADC (D), has been appointed nodal officer for a smooth supply of medical oxygen to hospitals.Stressing the Covid testing, the DC said people should come forward on their own for testing. The district administration, in coordination with health authorities, had ramped up vaccination.He categorically denied any sort of shortage of oxygen at Rajindra or any other hospital in the district.When asked about the allegations of oxygen diversion by a Chadigarh-based oxygen supplier, Dr Preeti Yadav said: “We are getting oxygen as per allocation by the government. And no demand is unmet – until now. We are working to ensure continuous and uninterrupted supply to all hospitals and minimise leakages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-oxygen-shortage-in-patiala-dc-244685
27-04-2021||Patiala||Will work on development of Punjabi, says Prof Arvind||The new Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Punjabi University, Prof Arvind, today joined the office and held a number of meetings. During a meeting with mediapersons, the VC said his office will look into the shortage of teachers in various departments and other issues.He said the university would work on the development of Punjabi language by including technology and advancements. The VC also held a meeting with members of the Joint Action Committee (JAC), who have been protesting for more grants to the university, timely disbursal of salaries and other matters on the campus. Committee members said the VC assured them of timely and just action on the matters. “Thereafter, we have decided to put an end to the protests,” they said.Meanwhile, Prof Arvind told the media that in order to further the cause of Punjabi language and literature, he aims at bringing in the programmes of artificial intelligence, machine learning and data sciences to the campus. “We will bring programmes to the university with help of various partners on international and national level. It is expected to bring resources to the university as well.”He said the university would find appropriate measures in context of the problems being faced by students. It was pointed out in the meeting that students who came from far-off places for minor works were harassed over prolonged delay in the execution of small matters. He said such a situation should not occur in the university. He said the university would find ways, including creation of a new office for the pending works and developing a means to monitor the process of the examination branch electronically.He said the university had started a process of shutting down a number of courses on the campus. “The matter has not yet been cleared in the academic council of the university. We will review all courses before any such decision is finalised,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/will-work-on-development-of-punjabi-says-prof-arvind-244686
27-04-2021||Patiala||A few Covid beds left in private hospitals||Amid increasing hospitalisation, private hospitals in the district are running short of Covid beds. A majority of private hospitals, which have been allowed to admit Covid patients, are said to have only a few L2 beds at present.Of 34 L2 beds at Vardhman Hospital, only five are vacant. Rahat Medicare, Columbia Asia, Sadbhavna and Prime Hospital have already exhausted their L2 bed capacity. Of 29 such beds at Amar Hospitals, only two are left.Information regarding bed availability is being provided by the district administration on its website.With regard to L3 (ICU) beds, Columbia Asia, Sadhbhavna, Balaji and Neelam Hospital have none vacant.The Health Department said they had asked the private hospitals to increase the bed strength. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder, said: “More hospitals have been given approval for admission of Covid patients after thorough inspection. We are doing what we can to provide beds to everyone.”440 more test positiveThe Civil Surgeon said the district today reported 440 positive cases, taking the count to 30,933 cases since the pandemic outbreak last year. Besides, the active caseload rose to 3,080. Of 440 positive cases, Patiala city logged 225, Rajpura, 39 Rajpura 66, Shutrana 26 and Kauli 23. Besides, 19 positive cases were from Kallon Majra, 17 from Samana, 15 from Dudhan Sadhan, 12 from Bhadson and eight from Harapalpur.Besides, the district reported 14 Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 740.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/a-few-covid-beds-left-in-private-hospitals-244687
27-04-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala hospital sees 31 deaths in 24 hrs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 26Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital reported 31 deaths due to the pandemic over the past 24 hours. With this development, the total toll at the hospital rose to 1,221 since the outbreak of the disease last year. This is the highest number of Covid deaths at the hospital since the deadly virus emerged.Of the 31 patients, 14 were from Patiala, six from Mohali, four Sangrur, two Ludhiana and one each from Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, SBS Nagar, Ropar and Mansa.Sources said the maximum deaths — 13 — were reported from the ICU of the Covid ward at the hospital. Doctors said 19 Covid patients died within 24 hours of the admission while nine passed away within 48 hours.50 Critical patients admitted in 2 daysWe admitted 50 patients in the past two days. Most of the deaths were witnessed within 48 hours of the admission. People were coming to the hospital in a critical condition. —Surbhi Malik, in charge, Covid isolation wardCurrently, around 300 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.Meanwhile, Surbhi Malik, in charge, Covid Isolation Ward, Rajindra hospital, said, “We admitted 50 patients in the past two days. A majority of deaths were witnessed within 48 hours of the admission.”She said the people were coming to the hospital in a critical condition.Surbhi said the proportion of moderately sick patients was much higher than those in “very sick” and “critical” condition in the previous wave. “It is reverse now. The level three patients (very sick and critical) are more in number this time.” The hospital had all necessary equipment and facilities, including specialist doctors and ventilators, she pointed out.She said as per the data collected from inside the hospital, the people who had taken two doses of vaccine were hardly among the critical patients. “This suggests that the vaccination goes a long way in reducing mortality and extreme sickness,” she said.Following the rising deaths, the mortuary that has the capacity of 14 bodies is running out of space.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “We have enough space at the mortuary. Apart from 14 chambers, we have one more room where more bodies can be kept.”30 Army men to Assist medicsThe Patiala district administration has started utilising the services of the Army. In all, 30 Army men on Monday joined duty and will help manage bodies in addition to looking after the sick. “Thirty Army men will help paramedics look after Covid patients at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala," said DC Kumar Amit while reviewing the arrangements. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-hospital-sees-31-deaths-in-24-hrs-244564
27-04-2021||Patiala||Patiala's Rajindra Hospital reports 31 Covid deaths in 24 hours, mortuary runs out of space||The mortuary of Government Rajindra Hospital in Patiala is running out of space as the hospital reported 31 covid deaths over the past 24 hours.Hospital authorities said that that the toll includes three patients, who died at the isolation ward, whose COVID test results were awaited.This is the highest number of COVID deaths at Rajindra Hospital since the emergence of the deadly disease.Following the rising deaths at the hospital, a mortuary that has the capacity of 16 bodies, is running out of space.Sources said that the maximum number of deaths, 13, were reported at the fifth floor (ICU ward) of the eight-story COVID ward of the hospital.With this development, the total death count at the hospital rose above 1,200 since the outbreak last year.Currently, around 259 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital.Surbhi Malik, in-charge, COVID isolation, Rajindra Hospital, said, “We have had 50 admissions of people in the last two days. Also, the majority of deaths were witnessed in their first 48 hours of admission.”She added that the people were coming in very sick.She said the proportion of moderately sick patients was much higher than those in very sick and critical condition in the previous wave. “It is in reverse now. The level three patients (very sick and critical) are much more in number this time.”This is while the hospital has all necessary equipment and facilities for the patients including specialist doctors and ventilators, she pointed out.She said as per data collected from inside the hospital a few days ago, there was hardly anybody among the sickest patients who was already vaccinated.This suggests that getting two doses of vaccination goes a long way in reducing mortality, she said.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said, “We have enough space at mortuary. Apart from 14 chambers, we have one more room which has air conditioners (AC), wherein, more dead bodies can be accommodated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-rajindra-hospital-reports-31-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-mortuary-runs-out-of-space-244447
