28-04-2021||Patiala||3 convicts escape Patiala central jail; one was deported from UK to serve sentence||Three convicts escaped from Patiala central jail early on Wednesday morning, according to sources.The three had escaped following laxity on part of jail officials. All three were lodged in the Koratine barrack which houses cells for inmates. The police were investigating how they managed to scale a 10-feet inner wall and then the outer wall which is over 12 feet in height.“The trio managed to make a hole in the cell wall and later managed to scale the other two walls, without being noticed,” sources inside the jail said. “We came to know about the escape in the morning during change of guard one of the jail guards noticed the hole in the cell wall,” they added. The missing convicts include Sher Singh Son of Vanike village in Amritsar, Inderjeet Singh Dhiana of Ranipur village Komboa in Kapurthala and Jaspreet Singh Noopi of Dhadi village in Roopnagar. Sher Singh was deported from the United Kingdom to serve a sentence in a drugs case, in which he was sentenced to 22 years behind bars. “He was in Patiala jail for over two years," said a senior police official. “There is a hole which they made through the wall of their cell, not the outer wall. We are searching the jail premises as well”, said a senior official. Patiala police have started a probe in the matter. “Raids are on to nab the accused trio and we have intimated our local police stations”, said Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-convicts-escape-patiala-central-jail-one-was-deported-from-uk-to-serve-sentence-245384
28-04-2021||---||Addl curbs imposed to check Covid spread||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 27Imposing additional restrictions to the existing curbs announced by the authorities concerned to contain the Covid spread in Patiala, District Magistrate Kumar Amit has ordered the closure of all shops, including those in malls and multiplexes, by 5 pm every day with home delivery allowed up to 9 pm.Activities exemptedChemist stores and shops dealing in the supply of essential goods such as milk, dairy products, vegetables and fruits. In the manufacturing industry, the movement of employees/labour and vehicles carrying them is allowed. However, the industry concerned shall issue them requisite permission for the purpose.Similarly, the timings of night curfew have been revised from the existing 8 pm to 5 am to 6 pm to 5 am on all days, prohibiting all non-essential activities. The weekend curfew now has been extended from Saturday 5 am to Monday 5 am, barring all essential activities. All private offices, including service industry, are allowed to ‘work from home’ only.“However, the following activities shall be exempted from Covid restrictions subject to the observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour by all concerned: Chemist stores and shops dealing in the supply of essential goods such as milk, dairy products, vegetables, fruits etc. In the manufacturing industry, the movement of employees/labour and vehicles carrying them is allowed. However, the industry concerned shall issue them requisite permission for the purpose.“The to-and-fro movement of passengers travelling via air, trains, buses etc; construction activities in both urban and rural areas; agricultural activities, including procurement; animal husbandry, veterinary services, e-commerce and the movement of all goods and vaccination outreach camps would continue while adhering to athe Covid precautions and protocols,” read the orders.Besides, all directives of the MHA/state government, including keeping social distance of a minimum of 6 feet (do gaj ki doori), regulating crowds in markets and public transport and wearing of masks and prohibition of spitting in public places are to be strictly observed. Any violation of these guidelines shall be punishable under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/addl-curbs-imposed-to-check-covid-spread-245209
28-04-2021||---||3rd accused held in murder case||Patiala, April 27A week after a 65-year-old woman was found murdered at Vikas Colony here with tape wrapped around her face, the police today arrested the third accused involved in the murder. He had allegedly fled to Mumbai and was arrested near Rajpura while returning to the city.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said: “Gagandeep Singh’s hideouts were raided and he had fled to Mumbai after the incident. Yesterday, he was arrested near the Gagan chowk, Rajpura”.Kamlesh Singla, wife of the late Narinder Singla, an advocate, was found murdered at her house in Vikas Colony five days ago with packing tape wrapped around her face and hands. The perpetrators of the crime had fled with valuables, jewellery and cash, leaving the woman with the tape wrapped around her face, which led to her death.Vikram, who is a resident Pathana Wala Mohalla, Sanour, and worked as a munshi with Harry Singla, an advocate and son of the deceased, was the mastermind. “He hatched a conspiracy along with his accomplices, Amrinder and Gagandeep, who belong to Lalauchi and Sanour, respectively, to eliminate the woman and loot the valuables worth Rs40 lakh. With Gagagndeep’s arrest, all accused in the murder case have been arrested,” Duggal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3rd-accused-held-in-murder-case-245210
28-04-2021||---||Organisers of function booked for violating Covid guidelines||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 27The police have booked the organisers of an inaugural function, which was attended by around 300 people, including the Patiala Mayor, for the violation of Covid norms.Charges pressed by policeThe police have booked Dr Saurabh Jain, owner of Vardhman Hospital; Manoj Goel, owner of Goel Tent House; and Rana, owner of Rana Caterers. They have been booked under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Disaster Management Act. Besides, the Epidemic Diseases Act has also been slapped on the accused.The event was held on Sunday on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti to start a community kitchen offering food at Rs10.The police have booked Dr Saurabh Jain, owner of Vardhman Hospital; Manoj Goel, owner of Goel Tent House; and Rana, owner of Rana Caterers. They have been booked under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Disaster Management Act. Besides, the Epidemic Diseases Act has also been slapped on the accused.The police, in the FIR, have said Saurabh Jain had organised an inaugural function of a community kitchen on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti. The function was attended by around 200-300 people which was a violation of the government orders. Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma had also attended the function. Meanwhile, Dr Saurabh Jain, while interacting with the media, said: “I was being targeted because of the political pressure. I am being stopped from doing social service.”Meanwhile, Rauni Singh, SHO, said: “We have booked only the organisers. Once arrests are made, we will take further action. “When asked about the Mayor, he said: “All public representatives should adhere to the Covid norms laid down by the government.” The SHO denied any political pressure.Meanwhile, the Mayor said: “It was a religious event held on the occasion of Mahavir Jayanti. I paid tributes and came back immediately. When I attended the event, there were only a few people present there and all were following norms. Currently, there is no ban on religious events.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/organisers-of-function-booked-for-violating-covid-guidelines-245212
28-04-2021||---||NHM workers seek regular jobs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 27Demanding regular jobs, hundreds of frontline workers, employed under the National Health Mission (NHM), Punjab, held a protest at the Civil Surgeon’s office today. The protesters raised slogans against the Punjab Chief Minister for failing to give them regular job.The protesters also took out a march in the city. They blocked traffic at the bus stand roundabout for a while before they were dispersed by the police.Simranjeet Kaur, a protester, said they were being paid very less compared to regular employees doing the same job. “When it comes to awards, the minister took the credit and ignored our efforts during the pandemic. It is high time that the government should recognise our efforts and put us on regular service.”The frontline workers said they would boycott vaccination drive from May 1.Amarjeet Singh, union leader, said: “Many employees are already on the verge of retirement. It is unfortunate that the government did not regularise them. It is injustice towards thousands of NHM workers who have been working overtime during the pandemic on such low wages.”Vaccination and sampling were affected at some places due to their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nhm-workers-seek-regular-jobs-245213
28-04-2021||Karam Prakash||ETT teachers atop mobile tower develop skin condition||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 27The two ETT teachers, who have been protesting atop a mobile tower for about 38 days, have developed a skin condition. The health of both teachers is said to have been deteriorating. The teachers, in a video message, said their skin had turned dead due to the lack of proper food.Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Surinder Pal, one of the protesting teachers, said: “Our health is deteriorating. Come what may, we will not climb down until the government hands us appointment letters.”Another teacher, Harjeet Mansa, said: “We will not come down until our demands are met.” The teachers said they (teachers) had eaten food provided by the district administration last week. Since then, they had not eaten anything, they said.Meanwhile, experts said changes in the skin of the two teachers might be a result of emaciation (extreme weight loss and unnatural thinness due to a loss of subcutaneous fat). The doctors said it could also be due to a lack of nutrients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ett-teachers-atop-mobile-tower-develop-skin-condition-245214
