29-04-2021||---||Surgeries performed on Covid patients||Patiala, April 28Doctors of the Government Rajindra Hospital here have performed successful surgeries on two Covid patients who were in urgent need of surgery.The Medical Superintendent, Dr Harnam Singh Rekhi, in charge of Surgery Unit 4, said Lakhvir Singh, a resident of Rajpura, was diagnosed with acute appendicitis and underwent surgery in Emergency Ward.Similarly, Gurpreet Singh , who was referred from Adesh Hospital in Bathinda with a ruptured organ, was also successfully operated at the hospital.He said the operative team, led by Dr Gagandeep Singh, Senior Resident, operated both patients back to back taking all necessary precautions.He said the condition of both patients was improving post surgery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/surgeries-performed-on-covid-patients-245849
29-04-2021||---||Civic body issues challans, yet violations continue||Patiala, April 28Municipal Corporation’s step of issuing challans to residents for non-segregation of waste, including the bio-medical waste, has generated a lukewarm response from residents. Fewer challans is said to be one of the reasons for tepid response.Officials of the MC said they had tasked their employees to segregate waste while picking it from all locations but the work was affected due to a lack of cooperation on the part of residents.The MC had started issuing challans to residents for non-segregation of garbage in December last year. An official said: “We have been issuing challans to residents since then, but the response to their garbage segregation move was lukewarm. We are facing a lack of cooperation by residents.”The MC has nearly 1,000 sanitation workers. “All of them are tasked with the segregation of waste while picking it from separate locations. We have nearly 5 lakh residents. It is a challenge for the workers to fulfil the task if the generators do not segregate waste themselves”, said Corporation Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas.He added: “We are segregating masks from the waste throughout the city. The workers are also picking them up from roads. These used masks are then sent to a private company for their management.”The workers said the rules of solid waste management provided for a fine ranging from Rs200 to Rs5,000. “This is a meagre amount for most residents,” one said.Dr Sumeet, District Epidemiologist, said: “In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, people should spray disinfectant on the bio-medical waste to prevent the spread of virus. That is effective as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/civic-body-issues-challans-yet-violations-continue-245848
29-04-2021||---||Gurdwara cancels religious programmes||Patiala, April 28Internal committee of Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib has decided not to hold the annual nagar kirtan in view of the rising cases of Covid-19. The committee has also decided to cancel religious programmes scheduled to be held on the night of April 30 and May 1.After a meeting today, the members of the committee said they had dropped the plans of holding the annual nagar kirtan to mark the 400th birth anniversary of the Ninth Guru.“The number of cases of Covid-19 has increased and we feel people should follow the guidelines. In line of the same, we have decided not to hold the nagar kirtan which is taken out from Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib to Gurdwara Moti Bagh Sahib. Also, the religious programmes which were scheduled to be held on the night of April 30 and May 1 have now been cancelled. Only the programmes supposed to be organised during daytime will be held,” manager of the gurdwara Karnail Singh Nabha said.The members said the religious programmes to be held at Gurdwara Moti Bagh on April 29 will also be held in an indicative manner, and appealed residents to not gather in crowds in view of the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/gurdwara-cancels-religious-programmes-245847
29-04-2021||---||Covid surge continues, Patiala records 581 cases||Patiala, April 28The district today recorded the highest single-day spike of 581 Covid cases. The number of active cases in the district rose to 3,666.Besides, 10 persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death count to 754 since the pandemic outbreak last year.Of 581 cases, the city reported 324 cases, Rajpura 89, Nabha 38, Kauli 31, Kallon Majra and Dudhan Sadhan 22 cases each. Shutrana reported 21 positive cases, Harpalpur 15, Bhadson 10 and Samana logged nine cases.It was learnt that private hospitals in the city are running short of Covid beds. As per the district administration, 89 per cent of the L2 beds have been occupied. Of the 216 L2 beds in 11 Covid-dedicated private hospitals, 192 are occupied. As to the ICU beds, no bed is vacant in the private hospitals.The Health department claimed that efforts were being made to increase the Covid bed strength in the private hospitals.Meanwhile, the isolation wing of the Government Rajindra Hospital continues to report the high number of Covid deaths. According to the hospital authorities, 23 Covid patients, including 10 patients from Patiala district, had died at the hospital in the past 24 hours. The count of deaths due to Covid at the hospital stands at 1,281.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-surge-continues-patiala-records-581-cases-245845
29-04-2021||Karam Parkash||Patiala sans Covaxin, has limited Covishield stock||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 28Amid the government’s push for vaccination, the stock of Covaxin is running dry while that of Covishield is very limited.It was learnt that many health centres today had a depleted vaccine pool. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had around 4,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine today and left with not a single dose of Covaxin. He said: “We got 4,000 doses of Covishield on Wednesday. However, we didn’t get any fresh supply of Covaxin.”The district had an average daily consumption of around 5,000 vaccines. However, last week, it was the vaccination of around 7,000 beneficiaries per day.Owing to the shortage, some centres were left with only 10-15 shots. When asked about the vaccine shortage at health centres situated in remote areas, Civil Surgeon replied: “Some centres have very less consumption, especially in rural areas where vaccine hesitancy still persists.” ‘Goof-up’ in second dose||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-sans-covaxin-has-limited-covishield-stock-245844
