30-04-2021||Patiala||576 test positive in Patiala||At 576, the district today registered the second highest number of Covid cases today. The number is merely five less than 581 cases recorded in the city yesterday.Meanwhile, the number of deaths at Government Rajindra hospital reached 31, which comprise cases from the district and outside.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “Out of 4,428 reports received in the district, 576 have been found positive thus bringing the total cases in the district to 32,569. The toll in the district has also risen to 765 as the district recorded deaths of 11 Covid patients.”Officials said, “As of now, the total number of Covid cases recorded in the district has reached 32,569 while 295 people have recovered from the disease. At present, there are 3,936 active cases.”Of the total Covid positive cases, the highest number of 325 was recorded from Patiala followed by 35 each from Rajpura and Samana, 31 from Dudan Sadhan and others from around the district, officials added.Meanwhile, 4,418 people were administered vaccine against coronavirus in the district. “People should get both shots of the vaccine as per the mentioned time frame and directed by the Health Department,” Dr Satinder added.The district nodal officer, Dr Sumit Singh, said many positive cases were recorded from a religious shrine near Old Mehar Singh Colony in Patiala and Dalima Vihar of Rajpura. Micro-containment zones were established in the affected areas, he added.When contacted, Surabhi Malik, in-charge, Covid-19 isolation at the Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “The hospital has recorded 31 deaths today. This includes deaths of persons from the district and outside.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/576-test-positive-in-patiala-246012
30-04-2021||Patiala||Covid-related waste piles up in Patiala||The quantity of Covid-19 related hazardous waste generated in households and other places has increased manifold in the city. Officials in the Municipal Corporation (MC) said the quantity was earlier 50 kg till February, but now the city generated 150 to 200 kg Covid-related waste daily.The Corporation apart from signing a contract with a private company for collection and incineration of the waste has deputed its sanitary inspectors at various cremation grounds to manage waste.Officials in the MC said, “The city mainly generates wet and dry waste, which includes paper, cardboard, food items, glass and other such material. Waste, including sanitary napkins, batteries, pesticides and paints, fall in the hazardous category, which, as per the solid waste management rules, is to be kept and treated separately.”“With the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the quantity of hazardous waste has increased. Earlier until February, we were receiving nearly 50 kg Covid-19 related hazardous waste. But it has tripled, rather quadrupled, in over the last month,” Municipal Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said while adding that, “Such waste is separated from other hazardous material normally produced in the city.”“Covid-19 related hazardous waste includes face masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and bags in which dead bodies are carried from hospitals to cremation grounds,” he added.“The quantity of such has increased. We have taken steps to manage such type of waste,” he said.“Quantity of hazardous waste has increased because many people have started wearing and discarding masks while the use of protective kits and bags for carrying dead bodies to cremation grounds has also increased,” he added.“The Municipal Corporation has signed a contract with a private company from Ludhiana to properly pick and manage hazardous waste. The firm will collect waste from the city and incinerate it at its centres. We are ensuring that all such waste is collected from the city, including from cremation grounds, so that it does not mix with other garbage,” said officials of the MC.“The Corporation has deputed four sanitary inspectors at different cremation grounds along with a vehicle and two cleanliness workers each. The waste is given to the private company, which is carries it away from the city and incinerated,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-related-waste-piles-up-in-patiala-246014
30-04-2021||Patiala||Adhyapak morcha protests ‘privatisation’ of schools in state||The Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, a teachers’ unions in the state, today held a protest in the city. They alleged that the Centre Government was aiming at privatising all government schools of the state as part of the new education policy.The state government was taking steps as part of its ‘complex school’ agenda, which aimed to reduce the employee strength and privatise schools, teachers said. They held a protest outside the district education office here in the city.“The Education Department has started the process of merging primary, middle and high schools with selective senior secondary schools. Besides, various other measures have been taken, including closing regional education officers’ offices and in-service training centres and reducing the employee count at district education training institutions among others, which is a step towards privatisation,” teachers added.“The state government should stop victimisation of teachers and PTIs, who have been shifted to BPEO offices. They should be sent back to their schools,” teachers said. “The state government should open all schools that have been closed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Required facilities must be provided for smooth and proper running of schools,” teachers added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/adhyapak-morcha-protests-privatisation-of-schools-in-state-246017
30-04-2021||Patiala||Land acquisition: Farmers to hold tractor rally in Patiala today||Hundreds of farmers reached city today to protest against the state government over acquisition of their land on low compensation. Farmers, who have been protesting at the YPS chowk for over a month, will hold a tractor rally in the city tomorrow.Farmers said, “We have been protesting here for over a month, but the government has failed to listen to our demands. This is while the surge of Covid cases is at its highest.”Jagjit Singh Galoli, president of the local unit of the Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “Today, farmers from nine districts reached the site with their tractor-trailers. Tomorrow, farmers from five other districts will arrive here in the morning.”“Farmers have decided to hold a protest march in the whole city. We will drive our tractor-trailer throughout the city. Over 1,500 tractor-trailers will take part in the rally,” he added. “Farmers will attempt to reach the CM’s residence. If the police stop us we will break barricades to reach the site,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/land-acquisition-farmers-to-hold-tractor-rally-in-patiala-today-246028
