01-05-2020||City||Dombivli rail overbridge dismantled in record time of 15 days||Dombivli rail overbridge has been dismantled in 15 days, said Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC). The work to repair the 39-year-old bridge will start soon.Civic officials said the process would have taken around three months if lockdown was not in place. “The shutdown of railway services helped us complete the work without mega blocks. The construction of the new bridge will begin soon,” said an official. KDMC and Central Railway started dismantling the bridge on April 17 and completed it by April 30.“The repair of the rail overbridge will be undertaken by Central Railway, while the desk-slab work of the bridge will be carried out by the KDMC,” added the official. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi has directed the officials to complete the repair work of the rail overbridge and the underpass at Rajaji street within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dombivli-rail-overbridge-dismantled-in-record-time-of-15-days/story-8IIWgkjxgFhjALfb6EKz8N.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Post Covid-19: Shared mobility services to undergo changes||Shared mobility services, who were gaining traction in the city, will now take precautionary measures and adopt changes post-Covid world.Shuttl, a startup that runs an app-based bus aggregator service said that in order to adhere to social distancing norms, they have started numbering the seats in the buses.“Earlier, you could occupy any seat, but to ensure there is no proximity, we will provide seat numbers to commuters before-hand,” said Vishwas Singh, vice-president, Shuttl in a webinar organised by the World Resources Institute on new responses to Covid-19 lockdown, on Thursday.Yulu bikes, an e-bike service will continue its new model of Yulu Prive developed during the lockdown. Unlike shared mobility, the new model allows its customers to keep the bike with them for 15-90 days, in order to avoid sanitation issues. “We will regularly undertake sanitation of all bikes. The app will also show commuters when was the bike last sanitised before they choose to use it,” said Rajat Rawat, senior lead for government and corporate relations, Yulu.The micro-mobility services are active in delivering essentials during the lockdown period, Rawat said.The participants also stressed the need for government regulations on the operation of transport and not look at new mobility services at par with traditional services. Chand Tulal Mazumdar, public policy- India and South Asia, Uber said, “We have started a new vertical to look at the future of mobility. We will continue to look at tech-based solutions to provide safer travel.” She also said that the company’s UberPool services were suspended before the lockdown to ensure commuters’ safety.While there have been talks on people shifting to personal transport in the post-Covid-19 world for safer travel, the panellists said that there will be a section that won’t have the wherewithal to do that. “People will be left with lesser disposable income at hand post the pandemic. There will be a segment, which will need safer public transport services,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/post-covid-19-shared-mobility-services-to-undergo-changes/story-eC3GifqfR9QjXFaMmufjlJ.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Woman scientist on Covid-19 testing duty turns positive in Varanasi||A woman scientist, 35, posted at Covid-19 testing lab in Varanasi tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.With this fresh case, Varanasi toll jumped to 61. Eight of them have been cured, one died and 52 are under treatment.Varanasi now has 25 corona hotspots.“The scientist was posted at Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at the department of microbiology, Banaras Hindu University (BHU). According to initial information, she suffered infection from her home in Bagh Bariyar Singh locality of Varanasi’s Chetganj area,” said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma.“A member of her family was infected with fever a few days back. At present, he and other members of her family are fine. But, she developed fever like symptoms two days back. Thereafter, as per protocol of the testing lab, her sample was taken,” said Sharma.Sample of all other persons who work in the laboratory was also taken. Her report came positive while all other members of laboratory tested negative.Sharma said that Bagh Bariyar Singh is being made 25th corona hotspot. Sampling of all the members of her family will be done and be sent for the testing. At the same time screening of all the people in buffer zone around the hotspot area will be done. Testing of the symptomatic people living in buffer zone will also be done.DM said the BHU’s laboratory in which the woman scientist worked was testing samples from 13 districts, including Varanasi, Jaunpur, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Bhadohi among others. After this case, the laboratory will be closed for three days and it would be sanitized thoroughly. The samples from 13 districts will not be taken at the laboratory.He said that department of health has made alternative arrangements for testing of corona samples for 13 districts. For Varanasi and Chandauli, Lucknow’s King George Medical University has been fixed for the testing of the corona samples. In coming three days, the samples of Varanasi and Chandauli will be sent to the KGMU.Sharma said that after three days, the testing will be done by a new team of doctors and staff recently undergoing training for the same. All the staff of the laboratory has been put in home quarantine.According to a well placed source in BHU, around 10 members team worked in the laboratory.District administrative officials and senior officials of the BHU administration spoke to the woman scientist and encouraged her to keep her morale high. All of them praised her for working continuously for these many days.“Entire district is with her. All will pray that she get well soon and return home healthy,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/woman-scientist-on-covid-19-testing-duty-turns-positive-in-varanasi/story-ao3MKTOXhVE4W6vDd5aTDO.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Close contacts of Covid-19 patient were not tested for 48 hours’||Residents of a slum pocket in Govandi alleged that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s health team of M-East ward did not test symptomatic high-risk contacts of a Covid-19 patient for 48 hours.Four of the six locals, who helped the patient reach Rajawadi Hospital on March 24, had tested positive. The residents are alleging that the cry for help of these four locals was ignored by the civic body for 48 hours as no help was offered until these locals got themselves tested and were found positive.On March 24, a senior citizen from Panchsheel Chawl of Limun Baugh area had collapsed in her house as she was diabetic and was declared dead due to the virus at the Rajawadi Hospital two days later. The locals who helped her reach the hospital approached the BMC to get themselves tested as they were among the high-risk contacts. After waiting for more than a day and with no response from the health department, the six people looked for a nearby health camp and got themselves tested. They were found positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and were quarantined soon after.Shrushti Salve, a resident of the Panchsheel Chawl said, “We are appalled by the BMC’s handling of the health crisis in our area. Our slum is densely populated and we use common toilets, and yet the BMC took five days to set up a health camp in the area. The senior citizen died on Sunday and the health camp in the area was set up on Friday. Meanwhile, the four people developed some symptoms and had to get themselves tested. This is a serious lapse.”Denying their allegations, the BMC said that all arrangements of fever camps, screenings of people and sanitisation of the area is being done on a regular basis. Sudhanshu Dwivedi,assistant commissioner of M-east ward, said, “The health camps and screening of people are already in place. We cannot test asymptomatic people for a couple of days which is as per the guidelines. There are 12 health camps in the entire ward. We are scaling up the facilities and doing our best to contain the spread of the virus. Also, we are sanitising common toilets on a daily basis and we are managing all of this with limited manpower.”The residents further said that the family members of the senior citizen, who died due to Covid-19, were not tested until yesterday. They alleged that the family members were not called by the BMC for the tests and that they voluntarily got themself tested. Their reports are yet to come. Shankar Patil, another resident of the area, said, “Some of the family members have some symptoms since few days and were only tested on Friday when the health camp in our area was set up. The BMC did not take this seriously at first which has led to so many people getting infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/close-contacts-of-covid-19-patient-were-not-tested-for-48-hours/story-0Phh2y1XQIdKmGJBR2tmVN.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC looks for hotels to house its front-line team members||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday has issued circular directing ward officers of all 24 wards in the city to identify hotels for accommodation of the front-line staff workers. The BMC, in the circular, has said that several front-line staff members including doctors, medical staff and all those involved in emergency work related to Covid-19, stay far off from their workplace, and are facing problems while travelling.The circular states that it cannot be ruled out that the front-line staff workers could get exposed to the virus while travelling daily to work and back home. All 24 wards have now been directed to prepare a list of hotels in their areas and book them for front-line staff workers. A rate slab has been issued, wherein, the BMC will spend anywhere between ₹500 to ₹2,000 for a room in several hotels including five-star hotels. Each room will accommodate a maximum of two officers.In a statement issued on Friday, the BMC said, “We had provided accommodation to several of our staff members in Taj Hotel after the hotel had approached us offering their services for free. However, it was decided to pay a minimal amount for the occupancy of the accommodation facilities to Taj Group, that was accepted by them without any conditions. Similarly, now we have decided to identify hotels for all front-line staff members, throughout the city, on the same lines.”The circular issued by the BMC has allowed the ward officers to identify such rooms in five stars, four-star, three-star and non-star hotels, for which the rate card has been decided. As per the card ₹2,000 per room with two persons in a five-star hotel, ₹1,500 for a four-star hotel, ₹1,000 for three hotels, and ₹500 for non-star hotel, will be spent.The statement added, “Due to lockdown, local train services are shut and several of our front-line staff members are coming from far off places, and for this, a lot of is spent on transportation. Hence, we have decided to provide accommodation for them.”According to BMC officials, this will ensure the safe distance of front-line staff workers from their respective family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-looks-for-hotels-to-house-its-front-line-team-members/story-SAHBALXunEHeHAK7RTQa3L.html
01-05-2020||City||HC wants list of hospitals where outstation patients can be treated||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court directed the Centre and the Delhi government to provide a list of hospitals where hundreds of outstation patients could receive treatment for ailments other than Covid-19, free of cost, according to their eligibility, after a plea was filed alleging that these patients are stranded and not getting proper treatment.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Yogesh Khanna issued notice to the Centre, the Delhi government and DUSIB on the plea by one Karan Seth who had contended that due to the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, AIIMS stands converted into an exclusive facility to treat Covid-19 patients. Consequently, these outstation patients are not being provided treatment at AIIMS any longer.The plea filed through advocate Darpan Wadhwa said that the patients are not being provided treatment free of charge at AIIMS or alternatively at any of the government hospitals. He also showed photographs to the court stating that the outstation patients have been housed in the shelters opposite AIIMS where the social distancing norms are not being followed.He submitted that many of these patients are suffering from serious ailments such as cancer, and their natural immunity is low, and some of these patients run the risk of contracting the Covid-19 Virus, if they continue to live in such conditions.Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel, Anupam Shrivastava, told the court that the occupants of the shelters in the process of being shifted to Gargi School Building, which is stated to be located in Green Park Extension. It is also disclosed that as against the capacity of 568 persons in 11 such tents, 255 persons were being sheltered. He also assured the court that the issue of sanitation would be taken care of before shifting the patients and their attendants.Appearing for AIIMS, its counsel told the court that the main facility of the hospital is not exclusive for corona patients and other patients are being treated. He also stated that about 10 days back, a team of doctors from the AIIMS have visited the shelters and identified those patients who required hospitalisation, and two such patients were admitted in the departments of AIIMS.Following this, the court sought a status report in this regard. It also asked the authorities to give a list of the hospitals and posted the matter for further hearing on May 8.It asked the petitioner to prepare a list of patients in respect of whom the present petition has been preferred while highlighting that the list should include their name, age, particular ailment that they are suffering from and their medical ID cards issued during treatment by the government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-wants-list-of-hospitals-where-outstation-patients-can-be-treated/story-CrsmxvrDjJg2GWds9z6v4N.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi launches ‘one nation, one card’, announces Rs 300 cr aid for labourers||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched the ‘one nation, one card scheme’ for distribution of food grains to nearly 18 crore labourers. The scheme provides for national portability of ration cards.He also announced the second installment of sustenance allowance of Rs 1000 each to nearly 30 lakh labourers. He said a total of Rs 300 crore would be disbursed as sustenance allowance to labourers/workers.The announcements were made on the occasion of International Labour Day or May Day.Under the ‘one nation, one card’ scheme, the labourers/workers will be able to get food grains from ration shops by mentioning the number on their ration cards. The chief minister said district magistrates were asked to issue ration cards to labourers/workers not having them.Food grains were being made available to 18 crore labourers/workers in two phases, he said. He also said free distribution of food grains was done to antyodaya card holders, MNREGA workers, and daily wage earners registered with the urban development department.The chief minister said his government was committed to providing social security to workers.UP, 16 STATES’ BENEFICIARIES CAN GET RATION FROM ANY PDS SHOPThe chief minister’s announcements came on a day on which Uttar Pradesh joined the ‘one nation, one card’ initiative along with 16 other states. Under the scheme, UP residents, who reside in any of these 16 states, can source ration under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from any public distribution shop there.Similarly, residents of any of the 16 states, staying in UP, can buy their ration from any of the PDS shops situated anywhere in UP.The 16 states that UP entered into national portability with are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, MP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana, Bihar, Punjab, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh and Dadar-Nagar Haveli.“We have joined the ‘one nation, one card’ initiative with 16 states to help migrant workers get PDS quota where they are,” food and civil supplies commissioner Manish Chauhan said, adding, “Ration cards are linked to Aadhaar and they can get the food grain of their quota by mentioning the ration card number.” However, this facility will be available only on ration cards that have been active for the last six months.“From today, normal food grain (wheat and rice) distribution also began for May cycle with the Antyodaya card holders and labourers to get the ration free of cost. We will begin free distribution of 5 kg rice per member from May 15 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana,” Chauhan said. The free rice distribution was made on April 15 also.Chauhan said that home delivery of food grain was being made to physically challenged beneficiaries residing under the Covid-19 containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-launches-one-nation-one-card-announces-rs-300-cr-aid-for-labourers/story-GsQ3ZAnKKj0k4BG30z1K1O.html
01-05-2020||City||Ambala borders tightened as administration issues fresh restrictions||The Ambala district administration has enforced the curbs more strictly by restricting cross-border movement across all the borders with effect from Saturday.In an order issued by district magistrate (DM) Ashok Kumar Sharma on Friday, the administration banned the movement for any additional purposes (other than those exempted) without seeking permission and also asked people moving in and out of the district to make accommodation arrangements in order to avoid daily cross-border transit.“The persons working in Ambala will have to make living arrangements for themselves in the city itself while the residents of Ambala working in places outside the territory will have to pursue similar accommodation arrangements so as to preclude any cross-border transit,” said DM Sharma. In his order, Sharma said, “If cross-border transit becomes unavoidable, people will either have to install and use Aarogya Setu app or go through thermal scanning and symptomatic screening at border check-posts. “Symptomatic persons will be tested through the rapid testing facility. The conditions will also be applied to persons involved in exempted services,” the order said.“Further, the persons falling under a few exempted services and who undertake cross-border transit in and out of Ambala every day will be mandatorily quarantined in locations designated by the DM during the entire time from his return to Ambala till next travel back out of Ambala,” the order read, adding that the violators of the order will also be booked under relevant sections of law. The fresh restrictions have come at a time when the Ambala has not yet reached a stage of 14 days without a positive case and is surrounded by two Punjab hotspots: Patiala district and Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village that has recorded a maximum number of positive cases. As of now, there are two positive cases in the district, both undergoing treatment in Chandigarh. On Thursday, the administration also banned the residential entry of any outside person from other districts or states to the Ambala district.The order issued on Thursday read, “…in exercise of the powers given under Section 34 (c) of the Disaster Management Act-2005, the district authority prohibits the residential entry of people coming from other states and districts without giving proper permission of sub-divisional magistrate concerned or station house officer of thanas concerned and the Ambala civil surgeon.DM Sharma said, “Both the orders issued in consecutive days shall remain valid as both are for different purposes. The latest order is for people travelling to-and-fro from Ambala, while the Thursday’s order is for those who are coming to stay in the district.”“We have already banned the entry of farmers coming from Punjab to sell their crops in mandis of Ambala,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-borders-tightened-as-administration-issues-fresh-restrictions/story-0mLH0eaEME6SKK5kNZU07K.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Polls for 9 council seats on May 21: ECI looks at modalities||Even as the Election Commission (EC) is tapping all options to conduct the May 21 polls to the nine seats of the legislative Council, which could facilitate the election of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislature, the ruling parties are in favour of electing the members unopposed, to avoid the cumbersome activities of polls amid lockdown restrictions and other precautions that would be needed.After the ECI on Friday announced the schedule for the elections, the state poll body started deliberations on the steps to be taken. The seats had fallen vacant on April 24 after the ECI postponed the elections in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.“We have at least two weeks to decide the modalities to hold the elections, following the norms of the lockdown by avoiding crowding. The ECI has directed the government to appoint special officers for compliance of the lockdown norms, besides which we could even think of holding the polls at the divisional or collector offices, instead of making 288 MLAs travel to Vidhan Bhavan. The discussion will be held in due course with the ECI,” said an official.Baldev Singh, chief electoral officer, Maharashtra, said the decision over the modalities will be taken soon.The Bharatiya Janata Party, with support from its smaller allies and independents, has 114 MLAs and can get four seats elected to the council against the three seats they held among the vacant seats. Three ruling parties –Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress- forming Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has the combined strength of 169, including the support of their smaller allies and independents. The three ruling parties can go for five seats, one seat less than they held in the nine seats vacated last week.According to a leader from the Congress, the elections are likely to be held unopposed in the given situation and with the numbers with each of the parties.“It has been the tradition that whenever there is a big leader in the fray, the elections are held unopposed. Besides, the opposition has the exact number (114 MLAs) to get four seats elected, while the three ruling parties are short of at least five votes, if they decide to fight unitedly. Instead of indulging in a tug-of-war for additional numbers and inviting the threat of cross-voting, the ruling parties are likely to contest five candidates and avoid the elections,” he said. The required quota of votes per seat in the council election is 28.81 votes.“The NCP and Congress had two sitting MLCs each, while the Sena one in the nine seats. On the basis of their individual strength, the Sena can demand two seats as they have 58 MLAs required to elect two MLCs. Secondly, the Sena would want their leader and deputy chairman in the legislative council Neelam Gorhe to be reelected to the upper house, apart from Thackeray. In such a scenario, the Congress will have to compromise on one seat,” said a NCP leader.BJP’s Smita Wagh, Arun Adsad and Prithviraj Deshmukh retired on April 24, while NCP’s Hemant Takle, Anand Thakur and Kiran Pawaskar were among the nine MLCs to retire. The Congress’s Haribhau Rathod and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi (who joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls after resigning from the party) too had retired. Gorhe was the only Sena MLC to retire on April 24. The BJP is not expected to repeat its retired MLCs and may field Chandrakant Raghuvanshi along with some of its senior leaders who lost in the Assembly polls. The NCP is expected to repeat Hemant Takle, while the Congress may go for fresh faces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/polls-for-9-council-seats-on-may-21-eci-looks-at-modalities/story-ye2Xhp6VxAHMslyWoWBN5J.html
01-05-2020||City||PUDA law officer’s appointment as OSD to local bodies minister sparks row||The Punjab local bodies department’s decision, in the middle of the covid-19 pandemic, to appoint Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA) senior law officer Abhijit Kumar, on deputation, in the state water supply and sewerage board has sparked a row. Sources claimed that the move was aimed to ensure that Kumar, already working as an officer on special duty (OSD) to the local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra since June 2019, can get his pending salary for the past eight months. PUDA had refused to pay the salary, saying Kumar had gone on deputation on his own.“As per norms, an OSD is appointed with the minister and not with department. PUDA, Kumar’s parent department, refused to pay his salary, saying that he had gone on deputation on his own. Now, without calling any applications from the department and without finance department permission, the local bodies secretary has issued fresh orders appointing Abhijit as senior law officer at sewerage board, which is against rules,” said a source, adding, “He will continue to work as OSD, all this has been done to draw his salary against the post of the law officer.” The source added that Kumar had not even completed his probation period as senior law officer, thus he can’t be taken on same post. Kumar, a resident of Patiala, is a voter of constituency of Mohindra, and is considered close to him. On January 10, 2020, PUDA chief administrator Dharampal Gupta had even withdrawn Kumar’s deputation with Mohindra by saying, “His services are needed in PUDA.” Mohindra took up the matter with PUDA minister in-charge Sukh Sarkaria, who restored Kumar as OSD to the minister, but still did not allow salary from PUDA. The first order for Kumar’s appointment as OSD was issued by the then local bodies secretary A Venu Prasad on June 14, 2019. In July, Mohindra had written a demi-official letter to Sarkaria, seeking that Kumar’s salary be charged from a vacant post of law officer at Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority. PUDA, however, did not accede to this.When contacted, Kumar admitted that PUDA had once cancelled his appointment as OSD and that his salary had not been released. “Yes, the cancellation orders were issued in January. I didn’t join back as such orders were not conveyed to me. Later, the order was withdrawn,” he added.On his appointment on deputation in the sewerage board, he said “I am not authorised to comment.”Local government secretary-cum-chief executive officer (CEO) of the sewerage board Ajoy Kumar Sharma said, “Yes, the local government department has issued orders to appoint Abhijit Kumar as senior law officer on deputation. We will put it up before the next meeting of the board for approval.” On pointed queries on ambiguities related to the appointment, Sharma said, “I am just following orders that the local bodies department has issued.” Additional chief secretary Sanjay Kumar could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/puda-law-officer-s-appointment-as-osd-to-local-bodies-minister-sparks-row/story-Mz2TqofvxH2xotEjx2Yw2L.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Are BJP and Shiv Sena witnessing a thaw in relations?||Is there a thaw in the relations between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray?With the PM and the Union Home minister stepping in to bail Thackeray out of the impending constitutional crisis, there is speculation that the relations between the former allies may improve. It is learnt that the option to seek permission from the Election Commission of India to hold the polls for the nine Vidhan Parishad seats postponed due to Covid-19 came from the BJP’s top brass in Delhi. Thackeray had called PM Modi on Wednesday and Union Home minister Amit Shah a day later to discuss the issue and seek their co-operation. With the Election Commission giving a go-ahead to conduct the polls, Thackeray once elected to the Upper House will get the entire term of six years as opposed to just two months of tenure he would have got if he was appointed under the Governor’s quota. The two vacant seats under the Governor’s quota have only two months of tenure remaining.“The suggestion to get the EC to hold the polls was given to the CM by the BJP’s leadership from Delhi as a better option than to get nominated through the Governor’s quota and again seek a permanent solution after two months. The CM reached out to both of them,” said a Sena leader.A former BJP minister said this meant the party leadership was willing to look ahead. “At the end of the day, the Sena has been bailed out by our PM. We are willing to look ahead. One can’t rule out future alliances at any stage.”Not everyone within both the BJP and the Shiv Sena camps are, however, willing to believe that this is a sign that frayed relations are set to improve. The former allies broke ties after Thackeray alleging betrayal (on the BJP’s part to split the CM’s post with the Sena) tied up with former rivals, the Congress and NCP, and formed the government in Maharashtra. The Sena leaders said their party would wait for Thackeray to get elected before commenting on whether the BJP-Sena relations have turned a corner. “There is no denying that in this case, they have co-operated with us. But we have not got much help from the Centre in tackling the coronavirus in the past two months. There have also been attempts to tarnish the Thackeray government as ineffectual when the contrary is true. There may be an attempt to stall the election by moving a petition in the court against the elections as well,” said a Sena leader. Former CM and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis welcomed the governor’s recommendation on Thursday and tweeted: “We are sure that the ECI in consultation with Ministry of Home Affairs will take decision to conduct election ASAP. This will prevent Maharashtra from going into instability in the testing times of corona outbreak and will also uphold the values of our Constitution.”State BJP president Chandrakant Patil also put out a similar tweet. A senior BJP leader and former minister however said, “It may be too early to arrive at any conclusion. This is not the right time to play politics as public perception will go against us. This does not mean all is well or that will be in the forseeable future.”Political analyst Surendra Jondhale also said: “The Centre may not have wanted chaos at this stage. It would have reflected badly and turned perception against them, especially as Thackeray has gained some popularity. The entire episode reflects badly on the Governor who seemed to have bypassed his statutory responsibility. He waited for two weeks to give any response and then gave the task to the ECI after party top brass blessed the move.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/are-bjp-and-shiv-sena-witnessing-a-thaw-in-relations/story-85mshHfKrJzRHZmDBAmMcI.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC stays MD/MS counselling in Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed counselling for admissions to postgraduate medical courses in Haryana.The HC bench of justice RK Jain and justice Jaswant Singh passed the order on the plea of Dr Vikram Pal and others, who had approached the high court challenging the April 15 notification on the procedure for admission to MD/MS courses with details about reservation in various categories. The counselling for 156 seats was scheduled to be held on May 4 and May 5. They had argued that the reservation in any case could not go beyond 50% as laid down by the Supreme Court in Indra Sawhney case in 1992. The HC was told that reservation went up to 87% as per the notification put out by the Haryana government. A response from the state has been sought by May 6.The government had reasoned that 25% seats for institutional preference and 5% seats for the physically handicapped as well as 10% for the economic weaker section category should not be counted and if these categories are excluded, the reservation does not cross the cap of 50%.However, the bench observed that their response does not substantiate the argument as petitioners had demonstrated that out of the total 156 seats, the open category seats have got reduced to 31 only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-stays-md-ms-counselling-in-haryana/story-2RW4NNVUEm8TbpdTTt82SN.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Leopard trapped in supply pipeline rescued||A leopard that was spotted on the outskirts of Lucknow inside a water supply pipeline on Thursday was rescued and brought to Lucknow Zoo during the wee hours on Friday.Zoo director RK Singh said, “It is a male of about five years and its condition is stable but is still under observation.”“The leopard was first spotted inside the supply pipeline of about 4-5 feet circumference near Nurpur Behta village under Sushant Golf City police station area by the locals, after which the forest department was informed,” said Mohit Kumar, a local who first to spotted the animal.Zoo director said the staff took about 10 hours to rescue it. “The animal went inside the cage put up by the forest staff at around 5 am. It is now at the zoo hospital because it sustained some injury near the left eye during the rescue operation as police and forest staff used an iron rod to make the animal move from one side of the pipeline towards the cage,” he said.After it went inside the cage, a weight lifting crane was used to shift the cage to a truck. On reaching the zoo, doctors examined the animal and found it fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-leopard-trapped-in-supply-pipeline-rescued/story-cM6eYpSZM4ZoCJCOgavjUO.html
01-05-2020||City||20 new cases takes Navi Mumbai tally to 250||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 20 new cases on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases in the city to 250. Fifteen of the new cases are either APMC traders or related to them or the market. Two police constables, a 39-year-old doctor from Nerul and a pregnant woman have also tested positive.There are 66 containment zones in the city.Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We will penalise those who violate lockdown. Those not wearing masks will have to pay a fine of ₹200 and those who spit will be fined ₹1,000. Shop keepers who do not maintain social distancing in their establishments will be fined ₹2,000.”He added, “If the violation is repeated, the fine will be double and criminal case can also be filed.”Panvel City Municipal Corporation reported 12 new cases on Friday. The total Covid cases in Panvel region is 81.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-new-cases-takes-navi-mumbai-tally-to-250/story-QCI4vs8SDPjAzdJ7WFd5EM.html
01-05-2020||City||Food supply director finds procurement operations in Mohali satisfactory||Taking stock of procurement operations in Mohali during the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season (RMS), food supply director Anindita Mitra interacted with representatives of all the purchase agencies and other stakeholders, including arthiyas, and found procurement smooth in the district.She also looked into the implementation of the curfew-pass system, village-wise arrival of wheat in the assigned mandis and adherence to the Covid-19 protocol and found it satisfactory. Mitra said, “As per the feedback received, the pass system has been very successful in the district. It has helped in maintaining social distancing protocol and in preventing glut in mandis.” Taking about payments to farmers, she said that 100% online payments directly into the accounts of farmers were reported by the arthiyas in the district. She added that the department refrained from cash transactions and made online payments directly into the farmers’ accounts to prevent economic exploitation and below minimum support price payments to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/food-supply-director-finds-procurement-operations-in-mohali-satisfactory/story-QpCyBYmZ8dEUvFvpuFkKEN.html
01-05-2020||City||Haryana dy CM, ex-agri minister step in to help 2 Dadri youths stuck in Tamil Nadu||After two broke Dadri youths stuck in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli appealed the Haryana government to help them in getting food, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala came to their rescue.Chautala spoke to the Tamil Nadu government and ensured arrangements for food and their return.The youths – Ajay Kumar of Dadri’s Bhandwa village and Sachin of Surajgarh, had gone to Tiruchirappalli for industrial training ahead of the imposition of the nationwide lockdown.Both Ajay and Sachin had shared a video in which they urged chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Chautala to make arrangements for food and their return home.Chautala said that after seeing the video, he contacted the Tamil Nadu government, following which the local administration there provided food to both the youths.“The Tamil Nadu government officials assured to approve movement pass of the youths and we are in touch with the authorities there,” said Chautala.In a generous act, former state agriculture minister and senior BJP leader O P Dhankar have transferred ₹20,000 in the bank accounts of the stranded youths and assured them of providing more help, if needed.After receiving food and money, the youths thanked the deputy CM and Dhankar in two separate videos for extending their help to them.Meanwhile, CM Khattar said the government would bring back its 22 retired army men stuck in Kerala.The retired army personnel had posted a video on Friday asking the state government for their return. “We have been stranded in Kannaur since our retirement from the Army on March 31,” the personnel had said in the video message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-dy-cm-ex-agri-minister-step-in-to-help-2-dadri-youths-stuck-in-tamil-nadu/story-6JfZWtiIvfCQHfbFgBVO1M.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||GSB mandal offers ₹1-K aid to devotees||Goud Saraswat Brahmin (GSB) Seva Mandal, King’s Circle, the richest Ganpati mandal in the city, has started a new scheme to help needy devotees during the Covid-19 lockdown.On Thursday, trustees of the mandal announced the Covid-19 Sankatmukth aarthik sahakar scheme, wherein those in need will be provided with ₹1,000. The procedure to apply for the financial aid started on April 30.“We have a record of the devotees who have earlier made any kind of donation to the mandal, be it ₹11 or ₹100. Those who have given donations are eligible to apply for the scheme,” said RG Bhatt, trustee of the mandal. People from the committee who are in touch with the donors will inform them about the scheme and the announcement has also been published on social media.“We are a trust and in difficult times, it is our duty to help devotees of Bappa who have always believed in him as a wish-fulfilling idol,” said Bhatt.The mandal had earlier provided financial help of ₹5,000 each to 800 people from the community. “Ganpati mandals have so far donated an amount worth ₹35 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Fund. The GSB mandal at Wadala is also providing food packets to the needy,” said Naresh Dahibhavkar, Brihanmumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Samanvay Samiti (BSGSS), the umbrella body of all Ganpati mandals in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gsb-mandal-offers-1-k-aid-to-devotees/story-Ma5gIjwE6R3RBuZvECqkiN.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Workers departure in conflict with intent to resume economic activity in Haryana||The mass movement of stranded migrant labourers to their homes may not pose an immediate challenge to the enterprise, but remains a cause of concern for the industrial establishments in Haryana.Entrepreneurs and industry captains in the state believe that the central government’s decision to facilitate the passage of migrant labourers to their homes is in conflict with the decision to allow industrial and commercial establishments to resume economic activity. Industrial associations hope that labourers would come back to work after reuniting with their families.Panipat-based exporter Amit Goel said he couldn’t comprehend the government’s decision to allow migrant labourers to move back to their native places at this time when it wants to revive the economy.“The government should facilitate maximum permissions to run the factories, thus enabling almost all labourers to get work. They can stay and earn at their current places till the situation normalises completely,” Goel said.Chairman of Haryana chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mohit Jain said the situation warranted framing of policies which facilitated retaining the migrant workforce. “There are no jobs in their home states. It’s not prudent to send them back as they will become a burden back home. If they are helped to stay back and work, it would give them economic stimulus and restore their purchase power,” Jain said.Gurgaon Industrial Association president Jagan Nath Mangla said the impact of loss of labour will be only realised once the industries start working at full capacity. “Even Maruti Suzuki India Limited has not started manufacturing activity till now. Till the time supply chain is restored from end to end and showrooms open, the production of goods will remain suspended. The loss of migrant labourers won’t hurt the industry instantly, but we are concerned about long-term effects,’’ Mangla said.P K Jain, a former chairman of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that present situation is driven by confusion. “A pandora’s box has been opened. How will the production chain run if there are no workers available? Then those who are looking for jobs are confused because of this exodus rhetoric,” Jain said.Gurugram-based auto parts manufacturer Yogesh Munjal said the loss of migrant labour may cause some short-term problems for the enterprise. “I think once they go home, they will be more inclined to come back as there are no jobs back home,” Munjal said.DEEMED APPROVALS FOR INC IN 14 DISTRICTSMeanwhile, in an effort to ease resumption of industrial activity, the Haryana government on Friday allowed deemed approval for industrial establishments in 14 districts. To be eligible for deemed approval, the industrial establishments will have to make self-declarations for complying with the standard operating protocols (SoPs) provided by the Union home ministry.Industrial units in 14 districts – Ambala, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar – will get immediate self-generated approvals within moments of application being submitted on the SARAL portal, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/workers-departure-in-conflict-with-intent-to-resume-economic-activity-in-haryana/story-IPYzqveN1T9q31ZovlWUkL.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||State calls off annual waterhole census for the first time in 3 decades||The Maharashtra forest department has decided to cancel the annual waterhole wildlife census this year across all national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The census was scheduled to take place on May 7.The waterhole census is a citizen-science conservation exercise focusing on close interaction with nature and it is the first time in 30 years that it has been called off, said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra forest department. “Even if it is done with just our staff, at least two persons would be required to stay at each location across all sanctuaries, increasing the risks during the current Covid-19 scenario. As far as scientific inference, we are not dependent on this exercise for wildlife estimation,” said Kakodkar.Since it is easier to spot animals during the full moon in summer, the census is conducted annually on Buddha Poornima when forest officers and volunteers keep vigil on waterholes atop machans (platform erected on a tree or at a height from the ground). Last year, 591 animals, including leopard and deer, were spotted at Mumbai’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) by 85 volunteers and 80 forest staff.Tourism activities across all 49 wildlife sanctuaries including tiger reserves, six national parks as well as protected forests in Maharashtra have been stopped until further announcement, said Kakodkar. “All bookings stand cancelled. Due to this, animals have been occupying areas, including those dominated by humans where they are not normally seen,” he said.TADOBA ONLINE SAFARI GETS 20,000 DAILY VIEWS DURING LOCKDOWN The forest department has been uploading daily digital tours of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur (at www.mytadoba.org) during the lockdown. “The medium has got over 11,600 subscribers and has been getting 20,000-plus views per day since the third week of April. The idea is to provide a glimpse of the wonders of this reserve that citizens may be missing out on, but have still access to from the comfort of their homes during the difficulty of the lockdown,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-calls-off-annual-waterhole-census-for-the-first-time-in-3-decades/story-meZz3XtpFtP7rVq3Zp6pUL.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Interest benefit scheme to support MSME approved by Haryana cabinet||The Haryana cabinet has approved a scheme to support MSME and help these units pay wages to employees and retain them. The scheme will remain in force for three months after its notification. Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, TVSN Prasad said that as per the Haryana MSME revival interest benefit scheme, all MSME units as on or before March 15 will be eligible for 100% interest benefit on loans availed for payment of wages to employees. This interest benefit will also be available on other expenses up to Rs 20,000 per employee for six months, Prasad said.The interest benefit will be calculated at the rate of maximum 8% per annum or actual interest rate charged by the bank / financial institution on term loan/ working capital loan, whichever is lower. To avail the benefits of this scheme, the industrial unit should have been in commercial production for at least 80% of days between February 1 and March 15, 2020. The unit should have filed industrial entrepreneur or Udyog Aadhaar memorandum after coming into commercial production. It should obtain or have obtained term loan or working capital loan from a bank or financial institution during the lockdown period within one month from the date of getting permission to restart or till June 30, whichever is later.In case a similar incentive is extended by the central government to the MSME units, then only incremental benefit will be provided to the units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/interest-benefit-scheme-to-support-msme-approved-by-haryana-cabinet/story-c8C4fQKqNZIjbBmnA9TrqN.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Government intervention needed for labourers to live with dignity, say experts||As migrant workers continue to be the worst-hit owing to the Covid-19 lockdown, the call for re-imagining migrant lives post the pandemic grew louder on May 1, International Labour Day. Various organisations working with migrant communities demanded immediate measures to address questions regarding the livelihood of the workers.“Sending them back home is not addressing the problem. It is a band-aid solution,” said Roshni Nuggehalli, executive director at Mumbai-based NGO Yuva. “The government has to work with the unions and organisations to plan both, short-term and long-term solutions that will help the migrant population live with dignity,” she said.Aajeevika Bureau, an organisation that works in the states of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Gujarat, chartered a pathway for migrant-inclusive urban governance that can be adopted by the government. In its report ‘Unlocking the Urban: Re-imagining Migrant Lives in Cities Post Covid-19’ released on Friday, it stressed on various measures, including enumeration of migrant settlements, legislation to fix employer responsibility, and migrant inclusive public health care.Divya Varma from Aajeevika Bureau, in a webinar on Friday, said, “Migrant communities are left unenumerated, which excludes them from urban planning as their settlements are not recognised. Plus, there is a sedentary bias as they migrants cannot claim domicile.” The organisation stated that post-Covid-19, one can expect migrants to be forced to work for even lower wages and in more exploitative conditions in urban areas.Sitaram Shelar, from the organisation Pani Haq Samiti, which has been demanding universal access to clean water, said, “Providing universal social security and legislating minimum wages is a must for them to live with dignity. Another major demand that we have been talking about is providing some sort of shelter or a habitation centre for the migrants, who live in deplorable conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/government-intervention-needed-for-labourers-to-live-with-dignity-say-experts/story-oIPp1YAwC0lSYO70pfp2GP.html
01-05-2020||City||Gurugram: Smaller units can run operations, says Haryana govt||Gurugram: The Haryana government’s latest direction on Thursday to resume industrial operations across the state had paved the way for smaller units, which have less than 10 workers, and those which have workers on the project site or at factory premises, to function across the state. The government also said that out of the total of 22 districts, permission to large business units in 14 districts that are in the green zone can be obtained at the click of a button through the government’s Saral portal. However, for the remaining eight districts of the state, including Gurugram, permission to operate large units would have to be sought from the district administration.“For industries, commercial establishments and construction projects employing less than 10 workers in any of the 22 districts of the state, there is no need to seek permission from the state government and these units may resume operations subject to social distancing norms and other requirements, mentioned in MHA (ministry of home affairs) guidelines”, said a government notification issued Thursday.Permissions in eight districts -- including Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh, Sonipat and Panipat -- would be based on the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases identified in a block, zone or town; if the number reaches 10, the permission to operate will cease, said a government spokesperson on Friday.Also, business units in all 22 districts of the state having labour on site would be allowed to operate, with all the workers present in their premises, as per standard operating procedure (SOP), the order said.TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary, Haryana, who drafted the revised guidelines for industrial and commercial establishments, issued after a cabinet meeting on Thursday in continuation of the previous guidelines of April 19, said: “In a district like Gurugram, which is a sensitive zone in light of Covid-19, the administration has to assess block-wise cases. In case in any block, 10 coronavirus cases have come up in the last 28 days, all permissions will be withdrawn from industries. This is a clear guideline and the district administration has to assess this.”The decision to grant permissions on the basis of block-wise assessment has, however, left business and industry owners dejected as they were hoping that change of Gurugram’s status from red to orange zone will bear positive results and eliminate the need for permissions. Though owners welcomed the decision of the government to let run smaller units without added permissions, they said there was no clarity on how the workers will travel to work and from and who will issue passes for them.Giving some hope, VS Kundu, chief executive officer, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, who is also the monitoring official for Covid-19 in the district, said that they will facilitate permissions to industries faster in line with the directions of the state government. “We will try to accelerate the process so that industry and business owners can resume operations, as it is crucial for the workforce to earn their livelihood,” he said, adding that an additional option will be soon made on the Saral portal for permissions to industrial units. City-based industrialists, however, said they want more clarity from the government on whether industrial units below 10 persons can resume operations without the intervention of the administration or not. They also want the government to clear the confusion among industry owners who said they want “proper and clearer” guidelines for a sensitive district like Gurugram.“Though Udyog Vihar comes in Gurugram block which has Covid-19 cases, not a single case was found in this industrial township. The parameter of 10 cases in a block is harsh; we will have to shut down our industries and send back all workers and then wait for directions from the government,” said Sanjiv Puri, a garment export business owner.A group of industry owners, who called on officials of the department of industries and commerce (DIC) in the city, also said that they did not get any definite answers regarding resumption of industrial units.“Although we were told that companies with less than 10 workers can start operations, it is not clear who will issue passes. There is a need for more clarity on the issue,” said Deepak Maini, chairman, Industrial Development Association, Sector 37.Industrialists also said that with the Delhi border sealed and strict curbs on movement, it is difficult for even those workers who have valid passes to reach Udyog Vihar or units in Manesar. “We have sought clarifications from the government regarding the status of industry in the city in light of this notification,” said JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association.They say the guidelines issued by the government have also unnerved them as if businesses do not resume operations within seven days of permission, the permit will be withdrawn and the firm will be sealed.Ashok Kohli, president of Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar, said, “This is a very confusing guideline. We do not know if these guidelines allow us to resume operations or are asking us to wait for the Covid-19 virus to subside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-smaller-units-can-run-operations-says-haryana-govt/story-ynCA7IYCUuNHhRx9h2MkvJ.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Migrants on the move, industry in Punjab stares at fresh trouble||Ravaged by the six-week long national lockdown, the industrial units in Punjab have been struggling to rev up after the Centre eased the restrictions to reduce economic pain.Of the 2.52 lakh registered industrial units in the state, only 4,188 (1.65%) have resumed production with limited capacity so far and several others are working on getting permissions to reopen.But they are now headed for more trouble as lakhs of migrant workers, who have kept the industrial engine in the state running for decades, are preparing to return home to be with their families.The first clear indication of exodus of migrants, who have been without work for weeks and exhausted their meagre savings, was given by none other than chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh who on Thursday indicated that 10 lakh workers, including 7 lakh from Ludhiana alone, would need transport to go back to their home states. A majority of these workers are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand.The spectre of mass movement of migrants has left the industry shell- shocked.PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry mentor RS Sachdeva said that entire industry, including those units which have reopened to manufacture essential goods or provide such services, would be hit severely.“There is contradiction in what the government is saying and doing. They are telling industry to reopen and then seek special trains to send workers to their homes,” he said.In the state’s industrial hub of Ludhiana, it is being seen as a further setback to the cycle, hosiery and auto parts industry. “Units manufacturing bicycles, which are around 4,500 in number, will start operating from Monday. We will be functioning with 50% labour as per government guidelines. We are already battling financial crunch and now fear that the labour that was available will also go away. The decision is certainly not to our benefit,” said DS Chawla, president, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA).For the labour-intensive hosiery industry with 15,000 knitwear manufacturing firms (small and medium-scale) across Ludhiana, the months of May and June are the peak season when they manufacture stuff for winters. “Once the labourers go away, they will not return any sooner. It will be a matter of survival for us and the government should have thought before taking such a decision,” said Vinod Thapar, chairman, Ludhiana Knitwear Club.But not everyone feels this way as restrictions are not likely to be removed fully and factories will not be allowed to work full steam until the virus spread is stemmed.Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Patiala, home to 50% of the registered industrial units in Punjab, have been classified as red zones where limited activities and relaxations have been allowed by the Centre with strict restrictions.Rahul Ahuja, chairman, CII Punjab, said industry would be hit but not much. “There are many who are planning to reopen. I think 65% industrial units will restart operations in coming weeks. Therefore, it does not make sense for workers to go back. Also, it is unhealthy to travel in present situation. The returnees from Nanded are a case in point,” said the industry leader. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), and an auto parts manufacturer, said there would not be much impact on auto parts industry as market was shut. “Even if we start manufacturing, we have 50% labour and a number of factory owners are finding it difficult to pay wages to the labour,” he said.The state authorities are hopeful of getting the industries back on track sooner than later. Industries director Sibin C said industry was apprehensive about workers going back but all-out efforts were being made to facilitate resumption of industrial activities as per the norms. “If they do not start operations and give them work and wages, we cannot keep workers here. There will be labour unrest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrants-on-the-move-industry-in-punjab-stares-at-fresh-trouble/story-cDzsxnb2Ba9COkdJrOWqJJ.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh Covid cases in new areas giving Chandigarh administration nightmares||Early containment measures of the administration appear to have failed ever since the coronavirus started entering new territories in Chandigarh.Since April 25, positive cases have been reported in the densely populated Mauli Jagran, Ram Darbar and Sector 52, areas that were earlier Covid-free. As these cases were linked to the infected health workers at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, the health authorities had claimed that the situation in these localities was well under-control.A major cause of worry for the administration, however, was the discovery of fresh cases in erstwhile unaffected area of Sector 15 and resurgence of a new case in Sector 38 (where earlier two cases were reported but were cured) that have no links to the existing Covid patients.For instance, a 79-year-old lady who stays with her husband in the B block of Sector 38 had no travel history, and the couple stayed mostly indoors. Her case came to light when a neighbour took her to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 on April 27 after she developed mild symptoms. Since then, 13 of her family contacts and 222 community contacts are being intensely monitored.“The situation in the area is under control, but the positive case of an old lady who hadn’t been going out much even for buying essentials is a sign of worry. It may be indicative of the fact that the virus is somewhere in the community, which needs to be identified at the earliest,” said an official involved in contact tracing, seeking anonymity.PANIC GRIPS SECTOR 15Considered one of the safest areas, panic has now gripped Sector 15 after a 67-year-old resident of Block A was found positive early Friday morning.While the UT officials in the media bulletin claimed that the source of infection was being investigated, a close family member of the patient told the Hindustan Times that the man had no travel history. He had only been going out occasionally to buy essentials from the market, the family member said, on the condition of anonymity.The Sector-15 man was admitted in the emergency ward of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Thursday 4pm after he complained of chest pain. He was later shifted to the advanced cardiac centre, where he was sampled and later, tested positive, said the kin.Surinder Sharma, president of Sector-15 resident welfare society, said, “After the case (came to light), the police blocked two-three lanes around the infected person’s house and MC vehicles sanitised the area. But my appeal to the UT is that they should conduct intense screening and testing, otherwise the situation may spin out of control here,” he said.19 AREAS UNDER WATCHTo begin with, the virus in Chandigarh was restricted to only a few areas like Sectors 19 and 21. The cases reported here were mostly the primary contacts of the girl who returned from the UK in mid-March, the city’s first positive case. But the virus gradually spread its wings in as many as 19 areas (see box).As of now, there are no active cases in sectors 19 (2), 21 (5), 29 (1) and 35 (1), but the biggest concern for the administration is the Bapu Dham Colony, where the number of infected cases has crossed 37, followed by 16 cases in Sector 30B.Another slum area, Kachi Colony in Dhanas, appears relatively safer now. After one positive case of a PGIMER health worker reported on April 18, no fresh case has emerged here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-covid-cases-in-new-areas-giving-chandigarh-administration-nightmares/story-umMOLbf8OsCqOmCLVyyO2I.html
01-05-2020||City||Covid-19 effect: NHAI projects take a hit as Delhi-Gurugram border sealed||Gurugram: As the Haryana government sealed the Delhi-Gurugram border on Friday morning to contain the Covid-19 spread, several projects of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the city have taken a hit. Officials of the NHAI contractor for Ambience Mall underpass project said that as they are working close to the Delhi-Gurgaon border, the restrictions have slowed down the pace at which the work had resumed on April 24. RK Contractor, which has the contract for Ambience Mall underpass and Shankar Chowk elevated U-turn, said that its site office is located at Sirhaul toll on the Delhi-Gurgaon the expressway and it is not able to take machinery from one part of Sirhaul to the other (Ambience Mall) side. Kunal Garg, project manager, RK Contractor, said, “We have a construction site at Sirhaul toll where there are machines. With the border restrictions in place, how are we supposed to take the material and machines from the construction site to the other side where Ambience Mall underpass is being constructed?” With the lockdown in place, the only U-turn below the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway back to Gurgaon at Rajokri was closed by the police in March itself. Taking machines and labourers from the site office to the construction site has become a big issue for the contractor. “Before the lockdown, our workers would take a U-turn below Rajokri towards the construction site, now this has stopped,” added Garg. Similarly, contractor for the Sohna elevated road, between Badshahpur and GD Goenka University in Sohna, faced difficulty in procuring machine parts for one of their vehicles on Friday. Kuldeep Rajvanshi, project director, HG Infrastructure, NHAI’s contractor for the project, said, “There is a cutting machine which broke down and the parts are available in Delhi. Now, with the Delhi-Gurgaon border sealed, we are not able to procure the parts. This eventually has hit our work.” NHAI officials in Gurugram said that contractors can show the working permission to the police for their movement. However, it is up to the police whether to allow them to cross the border, they said. The Gurugram police said they are following district administration orders issued on Thursday evening restricting the movement of vehicles on the border with Delhi. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), who has been deployed at Sirhaul toll plaza, said, “We are following the orders by the district administration that only essential services will be allowed beyond the Delhi-Gurugram border and other movement will be restricted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-effect-nhai-projects-take-a-hit-as-delhi-gurugram-border-sealed/story-EaFR4OtDavyeSJw4rbbqWL.html
01-05-2020||City||MCG’s 2020-21 budget: 10-fold jump in funds for environment||Gurugram: In its budget for 2020-21 fiscal, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has made a three-fold increase in the allocation of funds for operation and maintenance of sewerage and drainage lines in the city. Also, the civic body has approved a budgetary allocation of Rs 102 crore for environment-related works this financial year against Rs 10 crore last fiscal. On Thursday, the House of MCG passed the budget unanimously during a special meeting that took place via video conference due to the Covid-19 lockdown. However, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, additional commissioner Mahabir Prasad, mayor Madhu Azad, and deputy mayor Sunita Yadav were present at the MCG’s sector office during the meeting.As per the budget document, a copy of which is with HT, the MCG has reserved Rs 150 crore for sewerage and drainage for 2020-21 fiscal as against Rs 50 crore last fiscal. Under roads, garbage collection and solid waste management categories, the MCG has reserved almost double the funds this fiscal. For roads, the civic body has more than doubled the funds from Rs 100 crore to Rs 210 crore. In the garbage collection and solid waste management (SWM) category, the MCG has reserved Rs 200 crore against Rs 111 crore last fiscal. “We are looking to upgrade the existing roads, sewerage, and stormwater drains. Rather than building new ones, the existing infrastructure will see an uplift. Under the garbage collection and SWM category, new initiates though will be undertaken to provide more comprehensive coverage of the city,” an MCG official privy to the matter said. On April 1, HT had reported that the MCG, in its budget, was expected to increase significantly the funds for environment-related works and water supply. In the approved budget, under the environment category, MCG has reserved Rs 102 crore this fiscal against Rs 10 crore last fiscal, while it has reserved Rs 90 crore for the water supply against Rs 30 crore last fiscal.Most of the funds under the environment category were reserved for establishing a new recreational area using sustainable items such as the project undertaken by the MCG at the Badshahpur drain corridor. For water supply, the civic agency has tripled its funds to improve water supply network in the city.“Each field of work was separately analysed with respect to the funds, which were spent on it last fiscal, the existing need or requirements to develop it further and subsequently funds were allocated for it. The overall aim is to ensure each sub-category of services the MCG offers is of the highest possible quality,” said Singh, the MCG commissioner.The MCG has approved an expenditure of Rs 2,276 crore for the current financial year as against Rs 2,150 crore last fiscal. The revenue generation has been estimated at Rs 4,604 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal. Last fiscal, it was Rs 2,605 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-s-2020-21-budget-10-fold-jump-in-funds-for-environment/story-8bIWxiwJuwrS2gII76QpgP.html
01-05-2020||City||Panvel civic body to prepare list of migrant workers||The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has asked all circle officers to collect details about migrant workers so it could take steps to send them home.Jamir Lengrekar, deputy commissioner of PCMC, said, “A format has been made wherein details such as mobile number, address and their state have to be filled. We have asked the circle officers to collect the information and get the list ready soon.”Many migrant workers from other states who have come to Panvel for work want to return home. Many are without jobs and wanted to return to their hometown as soon as the lockdown was imposed.Sumit Kumar from Ballia in Uttar Pradesh said, “I used to work at a construction site in Panvel. After the lockdown, I do not have money or food. I am happy that the government has decided to send us home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-civic-body-to-prepare-list-of-migrant-workers/story-cmNZ01eT43h3yxY15CkJaN.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC to test symptomatic corporators involved in food distribution work||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to test corporators displaying Covid-19 symptoms, who are involved in food distribution to the needy.According to the decision by the BMC taken on Friday, those corporators who are involved in food distribution and relief work amid the Covid-19 lockdown will be tested for the coronavirus if they display any symptoms. If required, the civic body will also test the corporators’ family members.The decision was taken following the death of a BMC official who was involved in food distribution work in Dharavi. Post this, several BMC officials who were involved in the work were tested for Covid-19.However, the BMC decided to also test symptomatic corporators considering they are working on behalf of the BMC and are involved in food distribution and relief work.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We are screening all frontline staffers like policemen, security staff, drivers, etc. Corporators also are part of the same. Through screening, if anyone is found symptomatic, we can always conduct tests on such corporators.”According to BMC officials, family members of the corporators will only be tested if the corporator tests positive.“A corporator can also be tested in case he had gone to some area to distribute food, and if a large number of citizens from that area get infected after the visit. In this case, the corporator also becomes a high-risk contact, and will be screened along with family members,” said a BMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-test-symptomatic-corporators-involved-in-food-distribution-work/story-2jfw3qSGva43CMVzIAuwqI.html
01-05-2020||City||GB Nagar admin chalks out plan to send stranded students to hometowns; more Covid-19 beds to be set up||Noida: The district administration of Gautam Budh Nagar is making arrangements for travel of stranded students from different parts of Uttar Pradesh and other states of the country, in order to help them reach their hometowns. According to officials, there are hundreds of stranded students in various educational institutes of Gautam Budh Nagar.The district administration is circulating an online form for students to fill in their details and apply for the permission to go back to their hometowns.The move has been taken on the orders of the UP government, the officials said. “As per the orders of the state government, we have initiated measures to identify stranded students and to send them back to their hometowns. All the required arrangements will be made for such students to reach homes safely. We have circulated the online form for students to apply. Once we receive all the applications, we will be able to identify the exact number of students who need to go back,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar. Police commissioner Alok Singh took a meeting with officials concerned to ensure that the medical screening of all the students who need to go back should be done properly. Meanwhile, the state government has directed to increase the number of Covid-19 care beds in Gautam Budh Nagar. The health department officials in Lucknow have given their estimation of number of beds that can be increased at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30, and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida.As per the list of the state health department, Sharda Hospital can have 400 Covid-19 care beds while currently, it has 200. GIMS has a capacity of 150 such beds and it has around 25-30 right now. The paediatric hospital can have a capacity of 50 beds and it has already achieved the number, the health department said. The district health department has also roped in the ESIC Model Hospital in Noida to use it as a Covid-19 hospital, but it will be used only if the situation demands, the officials said, adding that similar tie-ups have been done with Kailash Hospital and Jaypee Hospital in Noida.“We have got the idea about increasing the number of beds at the three Covid-19 hospitals from the state government officials. We are doing an audit to finalise the number of beds, which will be increased in each hospital. Currently, we have around 300 isolation beds ready in the district and there is no scarcity of beds. We have also roped in other private hospitals to make arrangement, if the situation arises,” the DM added.Meanwhile, senior officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar administration said on Friday that the lockdown restrictions will not be eased in the district and further decisions will be made as per the directions of the state government as the countrywide lockdown in red zones has been extended by two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-admin-chalks-out-plan-to-send-stranded-students-to-hometowns-more-covid-19-beds-to-be-set-up/story-eSrY0jHhBpDHcHt749Z4DN.html
01-05-2020||City||Last rites of Covid positive woman performed amid strict precautions, five more cases emerge||Ghaziabad: The last rites of the 60-year-old Covid-19 positive woman, who succumbed to her medical conditions on Thursday, was performed by her son on Friday afternoon amid strict precautions directed by the district health department. Officials said that it was the first instance in Ghaziabad when a Covid-19 patient died, though she didn’t die due to the deadly virus. “The woman’s son at the Hindon cremation ground was asked to perform last rites in a PPE kit. The formalities to get the body from the hospital and taking it back to the cremation ground took time. But it was the first such case for us and we were taking up every documentation and precaution. Besides our officials, only three members from the family were present,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Meanwhile, the district on Friday reported five more Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 71. So far, 44 patients have been discharged from different hospitals after being cured, the officials said.The woman, who died on Thursday, was admitted to Yashoda Hospital on the morning of April 29 and her Covid-19 samples were taken the same day. A day later, she succumbed to heart stroke a few hours after her test results confirmed her positive for Covid-19.“She had comorbid conditions and high sugar levels. We had put her on ventilator support, but she succumbed. The cause of her death was heart stroke, but she was also found positive for Covid-19. The area where the patient was admitted has been shut for 72 hours and all sanitization procedures have been taken up,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital.Meanwhile, the victim’s son said he now faces an uphill task to protect his family as he has two little daughters -- one four-month-old and another six-year-old.“My mother had come in from our native town of Tundla in December as my wife was expecting a baby in January. Then, my daughter was born and my mother stayed with us. She never went out but contracted the Coronavirus infection. My biggest worry is about securing my family now, and we would request the health department to make us stay in home isolation. Otherwise, I have called up two other relatives who will be with my family in case I am sent to a quarantine facility,” he said.The family stays in the Vijay Nagar’s Sector 12 area.Govind Yadav, president of the RWA, said that the area was not sealed or sanitized till Friday afternoon.“There were about 8-10 persons who had helped bring down the woman to the ambulance from the second-floor flat in the building. All these persons, including her family members, need to be tested at the earliest,” he added.The CMO said that he will try that the family stays in home isolation while following social distancing norms.“There are other rituals which the family has to perform after the death. So, we will consider letting them in home isolation, but with strict isolation. Tests of all those, including local residents, who came in contact with the woman will be conducted soon. The sanitization procedures have been taken up,” Dr Gupta said.On Friday, Ghaziabad reported five new positive cases, the officials said.“The five patients include a head constable of Delhi Police from Vaishali, a woman from Vasundhara, a man from Raj Nagar Extension, a quarantined patient, and another man who is a government employee. In all, our active cases stood at 27,” CMO added.According to the district administration officials, on Friday, they de-sealed eight epicentre areas -- SCC Sapphire high-rise in Raj Nagar Extension, Gyan Khand I (Indirapuram), Shipra Sun City (Indirapuram), Sector 2B at Vasundhara, Shalimar Garden Extension 2, Sector 6 at Vaishali, Oxy Home high-rise at Bhopra, and Khatu Shyam Colony at Duhai. Currently, there are a total of 17 hot spots in the district -- 15 in red zone, and two in orange zone, the officials said. The district magistrate on Friday also gave directions to the health department to increase the number of sampling.“We have directed for door-to-door mandatory sampling of persons who have symptoms and living in hot spots/epicentre areas. Such areas should also have random sampling. Contact tracing is to be enhanced as we are already getting police surveillance support. Sampling from community areas should also be taken up on daily basis,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/last-rites-of-covid-positive-woman-performed-amid-strict-precautions-five-more-cases-emerge/story-CGQq6SbSJ5L7wRXxwQGUCJ.html
01-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad moves to Orange zone, officials want more focus on sampling and speedy testing||Even as the Union ministry of health moved Ghaziabad district from the highly restrictive Red Zone (hot spot) to the comparatively relaxed Orange Zone, district health department officials said that the situation is dynamic and can change in case more cases come up. The officials said that the rate of testing should be sped up in order to check the exact number of cases present in the district.On Friday, Ghaziabad reported five fresh cases, taking the total to 71.According to the central government guidelines, districts with high load of coronavirus cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are classified under the Red Zone. On Friday, while extending the lockdown that started on March 25 for two more weeks, the Union ministry of home affairs said that the state government could demarcate additional areas as Red or Orange Zones, but could not lower the classification as noted by the Centre.According to a communication from the Union health secretary, Preeti Sudan, to all the chief secretaries of states and Union Territories, all the states will have to delineate the containment areas and buffer zones in the identified Red and Orange zones and notify the same.According to the list, the state of Uttar Pradesh has 19 Red zones, 36 Orange and 20 Green Zones including Gautam Budh Nagar under Red zone and Ghaziabad now moving to the Orange zone.“Ghaziabad moving to Orange Zone is still a temporary phase and we need to focus more on sampling and speedy testing. We have the capacity to take up about 400-500 samples per day with the help of 40 lab technicians with us. But testing needs to speed up as we are getting test reports in 2-3 days from Meerut and there is also long delay in getting reports from Noida. We have reports which are pending since April 21,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta, said.According to official records till Friday, the Ghaziabad district has a list of 3012 samples sent for testing while about 484 were pending. On the other hand Noida has sent 3618 samples till Friday.“The focus should be on tracing more cases to get the exact picture so that proper surveillance and containment can be taken up,” Gupta said.To move to the Green Zone (with no cases), Ghaziabad will have to keep the momentum it is on, while at the same time increasing sampling, surveillance and containment.“Ghaziabad moving to Orange Zone is a dynamic situation and it can change if more cases come in. The labs were limited when coronavirus outbreak happened and now more testing labs are added. If test pendency is more than a week then the purpose of sampling gets defeated. The state government is making efforts to increase testing. We also need to curb floating population and lot will also depend on nearby areas like Delhi,” said Dr AK Paliwal - state program manager from National Health Mission (UP).On April 15, the Union health ministry designated districts as Red, Orange or Green zones based on cumulative cases reported and also their doubling rate.According to the latest list, the districts have been designated across the various zones by broad-basing the criteria.“The classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance etc. The doubling of positive cases in Ghaziabad is estimated to be in two weeks which is higher than the national average of about 11.2 days at present. The district’s peak was reached when cases related to Tablighi Jamaat came to light. Since then we have 2-3 cases coming in,” Dr Paliwal added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that he was awaiting directions from the state government after the Centre on Friday evening decided to extend ongoing countrywide lockdown for two more weeks.“The district moving from Red Zone to Orange Zone is a thin line. But we are focussed on getting more samples tested. Our patients who got discharged from hospitals is more than the total number of active cases. We are also putting curbs and checks on inter-city movement of commuters in order to prevent medically acquired infection. Our efforts are on and we are trying our best to move to Green zone,” Pandey added.The Ministry officials in their communication added that for district having one or more municipal-corporations, the areas under these bodies and other areas of the districts may be treated as separate units.“If one or more of these units have reported no cases for last 21 days, they can be considered as one level lower in zonal classification, in case the district is in Red/Orange Zone. District authorities should, however, exercise due caution in such areas so that these areas remain free from Covid-19 cases,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-moves-to-orange-zone-officials-want-more-focus-on-sampling-and-speedy-testing/story-89LnHpbjKjIHiVvxh5jU7M.html
01-05-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: Jobless migrant labourers start cleaning works in Sector P-3||GREATER NOIDA: A group of migrant labourers, who are dependent on others for food after being rendered jobless due to the Covid-19 lockdown, have started cleaning footpaths, pruning trees and other similar works in Sector P-3, as they think taking ration from the residents for free is not ethical.About 1,100 families are living in plotted houses in Sector P-3, and 400 unfinished houses, most of them in dilapidated condition, are lying vacant. In some vacant houses, about 500 daily wagers from states such as West Bengal, eastern UP, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are staying, said office bearers of the Sector P-3 residents’ welfare association (RWA). Since the lockdown started, the RWA has been providing dry ration to the labourers. After a month of staying jobless, these labourers decided to work for the residential area.“We have not faced any problem here as people of this society provided ration to us. The only problem is that we are not getting work due to the lockdown. We thought if the society is providing us food for free, then we must give them back. And we started cleaning lanes and footpaths, and the weeding work in the area,” said Babu Lal, a daily wager from Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh.Parshuram, another labourer from Chhattisgarh who goes by first name only, said, “After staying indoors for more than a month, we feel happy while working in the sector. Taking ration for free was neither ethical nor good for our self-respect,” said the labourer. In the beginning, only eight labourers started the cleaning works. But now, 15 labourers are engaged in the job, and more want to join them, the RWA said.“After this group started work, many others are also coming to work. It is good to see that labourers think of self- respect. As they work, we have made sure that they follow social distancing rules so that they stay safe from Covid- 19 risk,” said Manoj Bhati, president of Sector P-3 RWA.Greater Noida has at least 60,000 estimated migrant labourers, who are rendered jobless and depending upon the authority for food.“This is a good thing that labourers do not want to take food for free. During this time of Covid-19 pandemic, such acts give hope for our society,” said Alok Singh, a social activist and founder member of Active Citizen Team of Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-jobless-migrant-labourers-start-cleaning-works-in-sector-p-3/story-Y0nQL5mDi9mpXMvLQ3oLYI.html
01-05-2020||City||Bizman cheated of ₹2 lakh after placing order for masks||A 29-year-old businessman was cheated of ₹2 lakh when he placed an order for 20,000 masks through a Haryana-based company.Vikas Bhoir from Kopar Khairane supplies masks for laboratories and healthcare workers. He advertised his requirement for 20,000 masks on an online portal for traders and manufacturers and also posted it on the social media.“On April 23, a man identifying himself as Nikhil Sharma from Haryana contacted Bhoir and said he works with a company called SR Enterprises that manufactures masks. After Bhoir cross-checked the details of the company and found it to be genuine, he placed an order for masks worth ₹2 lakh,” said an officer from Kopar Khairane police station.According to his complaint, Bhoir paid ₹25,000 advance. Sharma told him on Monday that the masks have been couriered but the company will not release the consignment without full payment. Bhoir made the remaining payment and was promised delivery the same day.The police said Sharma gave the ‘driver’s’ phone number to the complainant. The ‘driver’ claimed that he is completing formalities with the Santacruz police.An hour later, when Bhoir called them for the delay, he found both numbers switched off. Realising he had been cheated, Bhoir filed a case against Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bizman-cheated-of-2-lakh-after-placing-order-for-masks/story-cGB38mAb2Y879zB22nkiXN.html
01-05-2020||City||Covid-19 positive woman dies while undergoing treatment for renal failure, 20 contacts traced||PUNE A 80-year-old Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive woman from Haveli taluka died at Sassoon hospital on Thursday after a private hospital was treating her for renal failure as she did not show any symptoms related to Covid-19. A local officer on condition of anonymity said, “We have contact traced about 20 people who might have come in contact with the woman and we are inquiring more details from the hospital. The lady is said to be about 80-years-old.”The woman was a resident of Kavadi Malwad at Hadapsar was suffering from bilateral pneumonia and obstructive uropathy since April 26 and was referred by a private hospital and was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 29 and died due to Covid-19 on April 30, at 11.45 am. The swab report came on Friday early morning which tested Covid-19 positive, said officials.Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad confirmed the incident and said, “We have instructed tracking of comorbid symptoms along with Covid-19 symptoms. We request for more cooperation from private hospitals. They should either report to us on idsp.mkcl.org or call us on 1800 233 4130 to inform us.”“Multipurpose Health Workers (MPW) have been allotted to hospitals to assist them in such cases. We will be conducting a second-round survey of all inpatient and outpatients in all hospitals and get them tested,” he said. The woman was last surveyed by Asha workers on April 26 and she was advised to be home quarantined due to her comorbid condition. On April 27 she complained of renal issues, and therefore she was admitted to a private hospital in Hadapsar. The hospital treated her like a patient of renal failure as she was showing no symptoms of Covid-19. As her conditions did not show improvement to the line of treatment, she was referred to Naidu Hospital for further tests. Naidu hospital further referred her to Sasson Hospital where her reports came positive for Covid-19 after her death on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-woman-dies-while-undergoing-treatment-for-renal-failure-20-contacts-traced/story-gvaXu5tARD3JQvSSoGRBQL.html
01-05-2020||City||Two booked for selling liquor after Dera Bassi MLA shares video||Two men were booked for selling liquor amid the curfew after Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma shared a video on social media.The accused, Ranjit Singh and Sonu, work at liquor vend in the Dera Bassi market.“I had been receiving complaints of liquor being sold despite curfew orders. When I reached the spot, I found people standing in a queue and liquor being sold at higher rates,” said Sharma.Police impounded the sale proceeds from the liquor vend, which have yet to be counted.“We have sought a report from the excise department on the liquor stocked. It is an authorised liquor vend,” said Satinder Singh, SHO, Dera Bassi station.A case under the Excise Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-booked-for-selling-liquor-after-dera-bassi-mla-shares-video/story-WZ8BnNKwoLdCCnVvDbBpDN.html
01-05-2020||City||Two youths thrashed as father protests lockdown rules violation in Ambala||Two youths were allegedly thrashed by a mob in Ambala on Friday after their father protested crowding near their house.Complainant Surendra Kumar, a resident of Vijay Nagar in Ambala, told police that he protested crowding next to his house and informed police.“Ten minutes after the police left, around 20 people, including the men who were dispelled by the police, came and started thrashing us. My sons, Vipin and Varinder, were injured. Vipin was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, from the civil hospital,” said Kumar.In-charge of Baldev Nagar police station said, “An FIR was registered under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against eight identified accused and others. We are investigating the matter and are yet to arrest them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-youths-thrashed-as-father-protests-lockdown-rules-violation-in-ambala/story-mOuYbmjgDrKpa3xZvlcBoK.html
01-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 7 new Covid cases||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded seven new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the city’s total to 169. An eight-year-old girl from Dombivli is among the new cases.“A 44-year-old nurse, who works in a government hospital in Mumbai, is among those who tested positive. Those who had come in contact with Covid patients have been quarantined,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Four patients, including a seven-year-old girl, were discharged on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-7-new-covid-cases/story-UsOB1hBmh3OHsQbFmPlJbO.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Education department seeks explanation from 15 schools over fee collection in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh district education officer (DEO) has sought explanation from 15 schools after complaints regarding fee collection were filed against these schools. This comes days after the Independent School Association (ISA) wrote to the UT education department to let them collect fee as they won’t be able to meet the financial obligations, including payment of salaries. However, when the education department asked schools to display their balance sheet online, none of the schools complied with the directions. Following the complaints of the parents’ association, the education department on April 24 had passed an order directing all the unaided private schools to ensure that income and expenditure accounts and balance sheets are uploaded on their websites by April 30, 2020, under the provisions of the Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016. However, even as the extended deadline of April 30 has passed, none of the unaided private schools have uploaded their balance sheets until now. DEO Alka Mehta said, “After the complaints were received, we asked the respective schools for an explanation. Most of them said that it was a technical glitch and the schools that had asked for fee, rolled back their previous orders.” “Since the fee collection was rolled back, we did not issue a show cause notice to any school and no further action was taken,” she added.Regarding uploading of balance sheets online, Mehta said, “Majority schools allege that they do not have access to any accountant during the lockdown while other schools have simply not replied. No school has so far displayed its balance sheet online. I will send them a reminder soon.”The education department in April had deferred payment of tuition fees for the 2020-21 sessions in government and private schools. It said that the dates will be announced later and a month’s time will be given for payment. However, the private schools at their wits’ end over the directive to delay collection of school fee, had written to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore demanding that the education department either withdraw the directive on delayed fees payment or pay salaries of all private school employees of Chandigarh as well as Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/education-department-seeks-explanation-from-15-schools-over-fee-collection-in-chandigarh/story-Wk2ilPYTjUDqA0IeGKvmRO.html
01-05-2020||City||2 Covid patients among 3 booked for violating curfew in Mohali hotspot||Police on Thursday booked three residents of Jawaharpur – a coronavirus hotspot in Mohali district — for getting together to have drinks in the village in violation of the curfew.The accused, Sukhjinder Singh, Rakesh Dhiman and Karamjit Singh, were admitted to a hospital after they fell sick on Sunday. Rakesh and Karamjit had tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday and isolated at the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, while Sukhjinder had tested negative and was quarantined. The case was registered on the statement of Sukhjinder who told the health told the health authorities during contact tracing that Rakesh had brought the liquor from his house.The trio has been booked under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Dera Bassi police station.The village has so far reported 46 positive cases of which 17 have got cured.3 OF FAMILY BOOKED FOR THREATENING COPIn a separate case, police booked a man, his wife and son for abusing and threatening a policeman on duty in Mubarikpur village of Dear Bassi. Head constable Malkiat Singh in his complaint said the accused, Jagtar Singh, was not wearing a mask and several people had gathered around his rehri to purchase vegetables. Malkiat said when he asked people to maintain social distancing, the accused started arguing with him and threatened him. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 186, 506 of the IPC was registered at the Dera Bassi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-covid-patients-among-3-booked-for-violating-curfew-in-mohali-hotspot/story-wrwndionhwRZQx3Jk8IEUI.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||CM discusses technology use and provisional degrees with universities||The Delhi government has asked all state-run universities to proactively use technology to minimise academic loss due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday held a review meeting with the vice-chancellors (VCs) of seven universities, including Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi Technological University (DTU), Ambedkar University and National Law University, through video conferencing. The director of IIIT was also present in the meeting.During the meeting, Kejriwal and Sisodia discussed three key issues — pending exams, admission for the next session and placements of final-year students — with the VCs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cm-discusses-technology-use-and-provisional-degrees-with-universities/story-c2TCXkQgoFhguUC0pWAjkM.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cautiously optimistic Haryana farmers say local workers available in plenty||Even the hardy Haryana farmers lavishly admire the paddy transplantation skills of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh labourers.For example, five labourers from Eastern India can transplant paddy in one acre in a day. It is this back-breaking capacity to work from dawn and beyond dusk of the migrant labourers that used to be at the core of paddy transplantation across 32 lakh acre in the state.But this year, Haryana farmers may have to manage the show largely with the local labourers if the Bihar and UP workforce that is still staying back decides to rush home due to the fear of coronavirus before paddy transplantation begins on June 15.“We will take a call on this issue one month later as by that time, picture will be clear. Paddy transplantation picks up momentum in the first week of July. By then, hopefully, the situation might improve,” Jai Parkash Dalal, agriculture minister, said.“Let’s remember that there was shortage of labourers during the wheat harvesting, which is a much bigger operation. It has been managed very well. Paddy transplantation labour is different that comes in middle of June. Koi naa koi intjaam karenge (We will arrange something).”Paddy is largely grown in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Ambala, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Sonepat , Hisar, Rohtak, Faridabad and Palwal districts.The paddy growers admit that absence of labourers from Bihar and UP will cause problems, but it will not hamper the activity completely as local landless labourers and daily wage earners are available in abundance due to lockdown.“It is too early to start worrying if labourers will come or not,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer from Karnal’s Indri. He quipped, “Earlier, people were worried how wheat will be harvested. There was no labour shortage as local workers were out of job and they played a crucial role in manual harvesting and management of wheat chaff.”Endorsing Nirmal’s views, Raj Kumar of Kurukshetra’s Ladwa said, “There was no shortage of labour due to lockdown during wheat harvesting. This year, we paid ₹1,600 per acre for the management of wheat chaff against ₹1,800 paid last year.”However, a leading paddy grower, Mahavir of Tohana in Fatehabad, disagreed. “In my region, labourers from Bihar are not available. We will face serious issues. They are expert in transplanting paddy,” Mahavir, who owns 22-acre land, said. However, according to Balbir Singh of Fatehabad’s Daulatpur village, local labourers cannot match paddy sowing skills of those from Bihar and UP.Most of the farmers HT talked to said labour shortage was not as serious an issue as it appeared. “Local labour is available in plenty,” was the common refrain of the farmers.They said large number of migrant labourers, who come for the harvesting of sugarcane, are still staying back. Also, local landless workers, who are jobless due to lockdown, could play a bigger role the paddy transplantation. “We don’t depend entirely on the migrant labourers for the paddy transplantation. Local brick-kiln workers also do the job in our area,” said Jagmal Kamboj, a farmer from Ratangarh village in Yamunanagar. And, an elderly farmer, Prithvi Chand of Yunispur village of Karnal district, agreed. “If labourers from Bihar are unable to come, the out-of-job local labourers are available in plenty. Haven’t we harvested wheat?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cautiously-optimistic-haryana-farmers-say-local-workers-available-in-plenty/story-smtxxkFQ5Qjz4iZ5u9CjjL.html
01-05-2020||City||18 new cases, including two with Nanded link, take Hry’s tally to 357||With 18 new cases, including two having Nanded link, the Covid-19 tally jumped to 357 in Haryana on Friday.While eight positive cases were added to the state’s tally from Faridabad, four came from Jhajjar, three from Gurugram, two from Sirsa and one from Sonepat.The new Faridabad cases include three women. Stating that six of the new cases were family contacts of already infected persons, senior doctors said other cases were related to Faridabad residents who had recently returned from Mathura and Delhi.10 TEST POSITIVE IN JHAJJARJhajjar witnessed 10 fresh corona cases on Friday, though the health department bulletin mentioned only four. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said the new patients include three vegetable vendors from Bahadurgarh and Jhajjar mandis, who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi; three contacts of the vegetable sellers from Bahadurgarh and the husband of a nurse. Sonepat health officials said a man was found positive who was working in Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and has been admitted to BPS medical college. 2 NANDED PILGRIMS FOUND INFECTED IN SIRSATwo pilgrims, both in their early 60s, who had returned from Nanded in Maharashtra tested positive in Sirsa, local CMO said. “18 people who had returned from Nanded on April 28 to Dabwali were sent to a quarantine facility of whom, a man and a woman have tested positive.”SHAHBAD SUGARMILL OPS STOPPEDA 52-year-old employee of cooperative sugarmill in Kurukshetra’s Shahbad tested positive for coronavirus, forcing the authorities to shut the operations at the mill.The employee, who was working as the chemist, was also suffering with asthma and had gone for a routine check up at PGI, Chandigarh, on Thursday and turned out to be infected the next day, Shahbad SMO Rupinder Singh Saini said. Kurukshetra CMO Sukhbir Singh said 15 of his contacts have been quarantined and their samples will be sent for testing. About 650 employees of the mill will also be examined. 241 DISCHARGED SO FARMeanwhile, with six patients getting discharged on Friday, the number of cured people swelled to 241. Now, there are 112 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-new-cases-including-two-with-nanded-link-take-hry-s-tally-to-357/story-IWG1X3SFoNaNljKkMjpubI.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||WHEAT NORM RELAXATION: Amarinder urges Paswan to withdraw ‘unjustified’ value cut||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday wrote to Union minister of consumer affairs and public distribution Ram Vilas Paswan, seeking immediate withdrawal of the “unjustified” value cut imposed on wheat growers in lieu of relaxation in procurement norms due to luster loss and shrivelled grain.The CM had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 28, seeking a review of the decision to safeguard the interests of state farmers.Demanding Paswan’s prompt intervention to re-examine the issue to protect the farmers’ income, Amarinder said the imposition of a value cut on the earnings of the farmers for reasons beyond their control is unjustified.Amarinder apprised the Union minister about two important demands raised by the state government during an earlier discussion with him – the relaxation in wheat procurement norms for shrivelled grain/lustre loss and the release of administrative and arhtiya charges, which had been acceded by the ministry.He said the issue of relaxation in norms for wheat without value cut had not been addressed so far. “These cuts are completely unreasonable since there were unseasonal (spells of) rain in the state in March, and the farmers were unable to take preventive measures for saving the wheat crop as a result of lockdown across the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wheat-norm-relaxation-amarinder-urges-paswan-to-withdraw-unjustified-value-cut/story-uiCCNoEsjry8pwFF6q2ZDJ.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Not the right time to score brownie points, Punjab CM to opposition||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday appealed to opposition parties not to trigger panic among people by spreading misinformation about the covid-19 pandemic. “There was no mismanagement of the crisis or widespread infection in the state, as is being project by the SAD and the AAP. Most cases were those coming from the other states,” the CM said, in an address to the state’s residents. He added that people should not worry about the sudden spike in numbers that could be expected over the next few days as more people return to their homes from other states.“Of 100 new cases reported, only seven are related to local infection, while 93 were Punjabis who had come from outside the state,” he said, adding that all political parties must realise that this was not the time to score brownie points, as the situation was akin to a war. “It is a war for Punjab and its people. Wars can only be fought and won unitedly. As Punjab is going through a difficult time, there is a need for all to work together to save the state and its people.”While clarifying that every person returning to the state would be kept in institutional quarantine as a preventive measure, he appealed to the people not to be afraid of it. “It is just a means to ensure that the returnees do not spread the infection among their families, neighbours or others,” he said. On the return of people of other states stranded in Punjab, he said the states concerned would have to make arrangements or the Centre would have to arrange special trains, given the large numbers involved.He added relaxation during the curfew/lockdown would start falling in place as deputy commissioners finalised plans for area-wise opening of select shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-the-right-time-to-score-brownie-points-punjab-cm-to-opposition/story-AjhR9CaS1EmmgyaQrVxHlO.html
01-05-2020||City||Hazur Sahib, Langar Sahib gurdwaras in Nanded shut||The holy Takht Hazur Sahib Sachkhand Gurdwara and Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Nanded in Maharashtra were sealed on Friday after a batch of pilgrims who left from here to Punjab were found infected with the coronavirus during tests conducted in the northern state, officials said.The number of Covid-19 patients in this batch that left from Nanded to Punjab stands at 148 as on Friday, an official said.“The gurdwara and langar (community kitchen) have been closed from Friday,” he said.Superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa said: “District and civic officials reached the gurdwara on Friday morning and directed that it be closed and the langar service be stopped.” Wadhwa added that the batch of pilgrims who left from here to Punjab had been tested at the local government hospital for the virus and none showed any symptoms.The pilgrims had made halts at Indore, one of the country’s worst coronavirus-affected cities, Bhilwara and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, and Bathinda in Punjab en route, gurdwara functionaries said.Baba Balwinder Singh of Langar Sahib said there are some 175 people from different states in the complex at the moment and no one is allowed to go out or come in due to the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hazur-sahib-langar-sahib-gurdwaras-in-nanded-shut/story-SMOWnSoJ8qDudMUBDW0gKM.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Thane records highest single-day spike with 34 new Covid-19 cases||A 70-year-old man, a Covid-19 patient, died on Friday, taking the total number of coronavirus deaths in Thane to 12.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said, “He was a resident of Vartak Nagar and was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa on Thursday. He had several comorbidities. The total deaths in the city are 12.”On Friday, Thane recorded the highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases for the second consecutive day after Thursday’s 31 cases. With 34 new cases, the total number of cases in the city is 344.The increase is in the slum areas, which TMC has attributed to random sampling.Malvi said, “We have undertaken preventive measures in CP Taloa area of Wagale Estate. Fever patients were screened and random testings were done, so the number of cases here has increased.”Rate of recovery is good: TMCThane Municipal Corporation has claimed that the rate of recovery is 20% more than the rate of infection in the city. Malvi said, “Sixty-nine patients have recovered so far. The rate of recovery is 20% more than the rate of infection. This is due to the isolation of infected persons in hospitals and quarantine institutions.”Free treatment for poor at Horizon Hospital TMC has said that those having yellow and orange ration cards will get free treatment under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Scheme at Horizon Prime Hospital in Ghodbunder.Malvi said, “The poor will get quality treatment with free nutritious food and other facilities. People can contact 022-68556855 and 86575 08101 for more details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-34-new-cases/story-uhAy0m9OQwq901RhbDLviP.html
01-05-2020||City||Seal Covid-19 clusters, open other zones to kick start economic activity, say Chandigarh residents||Put the onus on people to follow safety measuresChandigarh is a city of educated people who have followed the lockdown religiously for their safety. Social distancing and hygiene practices have already become a norm. Declaring the entire city as a containment zone when many sectors haven’t reported a single case has caused lot of resentment and disappointment. Each sector can be considered a separate unit and allowed to start functioning independently because each has its own market. The affected sectors can be sealed and disinfected regularly till zero cases are reported.Dr Priya Mahajan, ChandigarhChain of infection has to be brokenYes, sensitive pockets and areas should be identified and included under containment zone. We are well past the stipulated period to break the chain of infection. People should continue with all the precautions and social distancing. Violators including VVIPs should be dealt with strongly and booked under relevant provisions.Rajeev WaliaPublic inconveniencedIt’s not fair to declare Chandigarh as a containment zone. Only small, affected zones can be marked as such. It causes great inconvenience to the public, particularly daily wagers, small vendors and private salaried class.TBS BediServices, businesses should openThe least the administration can do is seal the most affected areas. In the others services and businesses should be allowed to operate with all precautions and less staff. Kamal SahniOne size does not fit allIt is not prudent to declare the entire Chandigarh UT a containment zone as one size does not fit all. Nonetheless, the blame for lapses leading to it lies squarely on overconfidence and casual approach of citizens in apprehending the nature and gravity of the pandemic. It is cruel to ban all activities alike in all areas. Prime minister Narendra Modi has aptly stressed the need to strengthen the economy while continuing with the fight against Covid-19. Collective wisdom of the Union government with wide feedback from far and near, will guide the graded lockdown exit for restarting services and businesses depending on the intensity of the disease or its eradication, in different areas and sectors in due course of time. Success of the mission depends on that of citizens’ agenda of strict self-regulation vis-a-vis adopting social distancing and personal protection. The onus lies on one and all to help end this period of trial and tribulations sooner than later.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaExtend ban on large gatheringsDeclaring a city is a containment zone means increasing frustration levels of the residents. By now the people are very aware of the restrictions and safety measures to be adopted to prevent Covid-19 so the government should relax all the norms in the city and restart semi-essential services. However, sector wise curfew should be extended and public spaces such as marriage palaces and restaurants should be closed. Delivery of essential and non-essential items, including food, should also be allowed. Special restrictions should continue in the villages and colonies which have a very large number of Covid-19 cases.Avinash GoyalSanitise buildings, limit number of workersChandigarh is the capital of Punjab and Haryana, so to declare it a containment zone would not only halt its growth but also that of the two states. The city should be opened up slowly and carefully. First of all, special guidelines should be initiated for the safety of both the consumer and the producer. There should be limits on the number of workers employed in certain departments and shops. Markings should be done on the floors of all working areas to facilitate social distancing. Proper and regular sanitation of all public places should be done before lifting of restrictions. Even factories producing non-essential items and shops selling them should be allowed to function, to ensure that people’s financial status stabilises. Only those people who have self-isolated for a month should be allowed to work.Naunihal Singh GillEase restrictions, obey ordersIt is too early to think about easing restrictions, but declaring the entire city as a containment zone will not serve any purpose. Rather, the administration and the health department should carry on upgrading the infrastructure to face unwanted situations. Nevertheless, it’s the duty of the civilians to obey the advisories to keep Covid-19 at bay. We should also keep in mind that vaccines for treating the disease have not been developed, so avoiding infections is the best option.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliRestart businesses in phasesSealing of pockets of infection seems to be a good option. Businesses should be opened in phases depending on their nature and necessity. Small and medium scale businesses and shopkeepers should be allowed to open in the first phase. Initially, there should be rebate on cess, taxes and fixed charges from the administration. Manufacturing units should also be opened after taking appropriate precautionary measures with proper social distancing norms followed by the citizens. Those found violating norms should be named and shamed publicly.Madhur SharmaRole of citizens crucialThe number of hotspots in the city indicates that the Covid-19 patient count is not very high. The areas where cases have been reported have also been swiftly contained by the authorities. However, now the role of citizens is a principal concern. The time has come when everybody has to give up their regular habits to efficienty execute their services, mode of operation of businesses, public dealings and commuting, by maintaining social distancing at every level. We should also keep ourselves updated on the latest news, authenticated articles, and be responsible when it comes to social media use. Dev Raj Veer Singh, MohaliSave daily wagersIn order to save daily wagers it is essential that the city be divided into three to four zones according to police station or sub-divisional magistrate jurisdictions and the most affected ones remain closed with commercial activities allowed in others by following precautionary measures.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhContinue working from homeAt this juncture it seems almost impossible to remove Chandigarh from the containment zone list. People of the city are more concerned about their health instead of their businesses and work. The best option seems to be working from home. Opening up businesses won’t make sense as around 80% of the raw material is obtained from factories located in other areas.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhMonitor colonies on peripheryEconomic activities cannot be postponed any more in spite of the Covid-19 threat. Educated citizens of Chandigarh are following the norms of the lockdown. They have donated money even beyond their capacity to coronavirus funds. The colonies on the periphery need close monitoring and testing lest they become virus hubs like Delhi. Strict action should be taken against the violators of restrictions. Let shops dealing in both the essential goods and sundry items remain open for three to four hours.Usha Verma, ChandigarhComplete lockdown will destroy economyCovid-19 is a disease that most of us, including experts, don’t understand. So declaring Chandigarh a containment zone is not based on scientific facts. In countries like Germany and India the death rate is low. So for a very small minority we are keeping everyone in lockdown. A good positive is that many asymptomatic people have the virus despite remaining healthy. They should be tested with the virus strain identified and used to build ‘herd immunity.’ Complete lockdown will slowly destroy the economy. The daily wage earners are suffering already. So we need to start opening up businesses and services gradually and keep the elderly, those with underlying conditions and the ailing protected. Farming and industries have to be started. S Michael DurairajBlanket restrictions counterproductiveWe have learnt a lot about the Covid-19 pandemic and realised that there are a number of factors responsible for the lower fatality rates in our country, which includes higher level of immunity, genetic reasons, food habits, BCG vaccination etc. A large percentage of people have been found asymptomatic even after getting infected. In my opinion blanket restrictions at this stage will only prove counterproductive, especially for the economy of the country. People are now fully sensitised to the problem and can live with Covid-19 by following basic precautions. The government also issued revised guidelines not to seal the whole building but the only floor where Covid-19 cases had been detected. Similarly, infected patients will also be categorized and those with mild symptoms allowed to quarantine at home. Considering all of this, there appears to be no need to declare all of Chandigarh as a containment zone.Paramjeet Singh, ZirakpurLift curfew, impose Section 144Chandigarh has had a very sharp surge of cases in last few days. We see no respite from the lockdown. But here are some suggestions to keep Covid-19 cases under check while allowing economic activities to resume. The city should be divided in zones and sectors adjacent to areas with a high rate of infections should be in the orange zone. Curfew should be lifted in other zones and section 144of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), prohibiting the assembly of four or more people in an area. to be imposed instead. The Industrial Area has seen no case so far, economic activities should resume there with one-fourth of work force. Non essential shops should open for restricted hours and public movement for restricted hours allowed . Noor Malhotra, ChandigarhResidents should act with utmost restraintSafeguarding lives against Covid-19 is a priority, therefore, declaring Chandigarh a containment zone is prudent. However, the effectiveness of this crucial curb would depend on each citizen taking full responsibility to strictly follow the Chandigarh administration’s orders concerning lockdown/curfew. Residents should act with utmost restraint to stay back home and follow adequate standard of personal hygiene. Services and businesses should be started in a phased manner so that social distancing is maintained and people protected. Improvements for the next phase should be introduced on the basis of the feedback of the previous one(s). The police and volunteers should keep a strict watch on service providers, businessmen and the public to ensure that all advisories are followed.Dr SS Bhatti, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seal-covid-19-clusters-open-other-zones-to-kick-start-economic-activity-say-chandigarh-residents/story-2g1LcsIJ8fd2JvIxgx6dMP.html
01-05-2020||City||Farmers in Punjab worried as labour shortage casts a shadow over paddy transplantation||Paddy transplantation, scheduled to begin in Punjab on June 20, is heading for a possible crisis due to labour shortage. The state farmers need at least 12.5 lakh labour heads to sow paddy over 75 lakh acres over a month.Amid the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has hinted that 10 lakh migrant workers would go back to their home states in the coming days leaving behind a big void.The state government tried to retain them by setting special camps, but only 2,300 migrant labourers turned up to stay in these camps. After a bumper yield of wheat this year, Jarnail Singh of Bathinda’s Naruana village is worried about the availability of labour for paddy transplantation. He owns five-acre land and was planning to take three more acres on lease. But the pandemic has marred his expansion plan. “Workers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had been sowing paddy for me for several years, but they are out of access now,” he said.Joginder Singh Ugrahan, president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), said there is a widespread anxiety among the growers regarding availability of farm labour. He also demanded permission to start sowing as early as June 1 to grant paddy growers a wider time window to complete sowing by mid-July.Gurdeep Singh a farmer from Bajak village of Bathinda, demanded inter-district movement of labourers. “I have nine acres to sow non-basmati rice varieties, but non-availability of workers will land me in big crisis. The adjoining district of Muktsar has a group of Punjabi labourers trained in paddy sowing. The district authorities should relax restrictions to allow movement of such workers,” he adds.MECHANISED SOWINGHowever, the government is now looking at mechanised sowing as an alternative to the manual plantation. Secretary (agriculture) Kahan Singh Pannu expressed the hope that paddy sowing in the state would shift from the labour-intensive transplantation to the mechanized sowing this season.Referring to the trials conducted by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) during the past five years on direct seeding rice (DSR) varieties, Pannu said sowing is done with machines and it has shown encouraging results.He added that the government is offering 40% subsidy on DSR machines. “The number of machines may not be sufficient to sow paddy across the state, but it would set a new trend,” he said. “The yield of DSR varieties and paddy transplanted on fields with puddle of water during the trials has been the same. In fact, the new method is beneficial to farmers as it needs less irrigation,” he said, while adding that they would issue an advisory in this regard to the farmers.“We still have 50 days left with us. Hopefully, we would deal with the issue,” he said.Talking to HT, PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon said, “Now is the time to move away from traditional methods of paddy transplantation. We have made a prototype of a machine for DSR. More such machines could be manufactured and supplied to farmers.”Dhillon said the machines manufactured during these days may not cater to the entire state, but they would mark the beginning of a good start for paddy sowing. He advocated use of happy seeders and zero-till drills for paddy sowing. EXPANSION OF COTTON, BASMATI, MAIZE TO CUT PADDY AREAPannu said the agriculture department has planned to increase the area under basmati, cotton and maize so as to reduce the area under paddy.He said cotton would be grown over 12.25 lakh acres this season as compared to last season’s 9.5 lakh acres. Similarly, the area under maize crop will increase from 4 lakh acres to 7.35 lakh acres and that of basmati from 16 lakh acres to 18.35 lakh acres. “This will reduce the area under paddy by at least 8.5 lakh acres. Accordingly, the requirement for labour will also be less.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-in-punjab-worried-as-labour-shortage-casts-a-shadow-over-paddy-transplantation/story-28ZKMthAxmYwvGG6LMnZFK.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Central varsities’ students traumatised by protests and violence, now stress over uncertain future||Shruty Yadav, a final-year undergraduate student of Jamia Millia Islamia, is worried not just about the Covid-19 pandemic, but also about finishing her assignments without having “much clue about her future”.“We are flooded with assignments and are still not very clear on what the university plans to do about our final year exams. We’ve heard exams will take place in July and, yet, we are being asked to do multiple assignments in every paper unlike previous terms,” she said.Yadav is among thousands of final-year students across the three central universities in the national capital who are uncertain about their future course of action. “I don’t even know why I filled the application form for further education and why we are giving money to colleges. There is little clarity on anything,” she says from her home town in Bihar.Yadav also pointed out that students are also dealing with the “stressful environment” at home during the lockdown. “Our families are also stressed because of their work. It is a difficult situation to be in or explain to them that we are using our laptops and phones for studies and not leisure,” she said.For students of Jamia Millia Islamia and Jawaharlal Nehru University, the academic crisis this year has been more severe as these varsities were shut for months due to strikes and protests.Last year, JNU students began an indefinite strike from November to protest against the proposed hostel fee hike which they said would push marginalised students out of the system. The three-month-long agitation came to an end in January. Jamia, on the other hand, was shut after protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the varsity took a violent turn on December 15 last year. At both universities, students were only able to attend classes for a few weeks before the Covid-19 lockdown was announced in March, leading to suspension of classes again.Shairik Sengupta, a final-year postgraduate student of JNU, said, “In the past six months, we have only had regular classes during February and a couple of weeks in March. After students returned to classrooms following the hostel fee hike protest, we thought we had the entire semester to make up. Instead, the Covid-19 crisis happened and we had to switch to online learning almost overnight. Students did not sign up for this.”The MSc student also said this is the first time that he is going through a teaching-learning process, which is completely online. “We have been unable to prepare for competitive exams since it is not easy to navigate through online learning so quickly. Many students may not even opt for their PhDs this year since there is very little resource to prepare for the interview or tests,” he said.Poor internet connectivity or the complete lack of it has added to the woes of students. “Many students did not take books back home. They do not have easy access to e-resources. In addition to this, they have to study for their final year while battling the trauma of being attacked inside their own university,” said Akhtarista Ansari, a final-year undergraduate student at Jamia, while referring to the December 15 incident when police had entered the campus, allegedly to nab miscreants.The 19-year-old added that the recent arrests of Jamia students in connection with the northeast Delhi riots have left many stressed. “Students are randomly being called for interrogation. There is an atmosphere of fear and concern. How are we expected to study and submit our assignments amid all this?” she said. Last month, at least two Jamia student activists were charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Jamia media coordinator Ahmad Azeem said, “We have formed a mental health committee and have made helpline numbers available for students in case they need any help.” Similar initiatives have been launched by DU and JNU as well. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said the varsity had put up videos and helpline numbers on their Covid-19 portal for stress management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/central-varsities-students-traumatised-by-protests-and-violence-now-stress-over-uncertain-future/story-UiTAWXTd98QeB6mwuHJhPO.html
01-05-2020||City||Woman labourer dies following gas cylinder blast in Ludhiana||ludhiana@hindustantimes.comA 30-year-old migrant labourer, Sonia, reportedly died following a gas cylinder blast in the Neechi Mangli area (Focal Point phase 8) on Friday morning. The reason behind the incident is yet uncertain, but it is suspected that the cylinder exploded while Sonia was cooking food around 6am. Her body was burnt badly and her face was also disfigured. Police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and the body has been kept in the mortuary of the civil hospital while the police are looking for her family members. Getting information from residents, fire brigade personnel reached the spot and doused the flames in 15-20 minutes. Goods and material kept in the quarter perished in the fire. In-charge of the Ishwar Colony police post Surjit Singh said, “Sonia had been living alone in a quarter, situated on the top floor of a factory for the past two years and died following a gas cylinder blast on Friday morning. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the civil hospital and the police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The police are looking for family members of the deceased.” CAR CATCHES FIRE, NO CASUALTYA Honda City car caught fire at the traffic lights near the Hero Bakery Chowk, Pakhowal Road, on Friday afternoon. As per information, two people, including a woman, were travelling in the car, when the fire broke out. Both came out safely with the help of traffic marshals present on the spot. A video of the incident also went viral on social networks showing the car completely damaged. A firefighter, Armaan, said they received an alert around 2:10 pm and a fire tender was rushed to the spot. No casualty was reported from the spot as the occupants came out safely. The fire was doused in around 20 minutes, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-labourer-dies-following-gas-cylinder-blast-in-ludhiana/story-2so1d5QEL6IsC4wx7R266M.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Mayurdhwaj Apartments de-contained; no new case reported in 28 days||The Delhi government on Friday de-contained Mayurdhwaj Apartments in IP Extension, Patparganj, in east district after no new Covid-19 case was reported from the society in the last 28 days, bringing down the total number of containment zones to 96. The gated society, which has 105 flats, was declared a containment zone on April 3—after a resident was brought dead to the Shanti Mukund Hospital, was tested for Covid-19 and his sample tested positive. The deceased person was on dialysis and used to visit the hospital periodically.“Four weeks after being sealed under operation Shield, Mayurdhwaj Apartment in East Delhi is being de-contained. No new cases found. Congratulations to the health team and all residents,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Twitter. District administration officials said they had conducted repeated surveys and health checkups of all 303 residents in the society and their tests came out negative. “Active surveillance of the area and vicinity was done by the CDMO (East) for 28 days. No new cases emerged, hence Mayurdhwaj Apartment was de-contained as part of scaling down process,” district magistrate east Arun Kumar Mishra said.In his de-containment order, Mishra said that medical authorities shall continue follow up operations and the usual lockdown restrictions will remain in place.The HT, on Tuesday, had reported that Mayurdhwaj Apartments could be one of the four containment zones which could be de-contained by May 3 as fresh cases of Covid-19 had not surfaced. On Thursday, the Delhi government had scaled down restrictions in three containment zones—Shahjahanabad Society in Dwarka, Vardhman Apartment in Mayur Vihar-1 and a sealed lane in E-block of East of Kailash—after no new Covid-19 cases were reported in any of these areas in 28 days. Earlier last week, the Delhi government has de-contained Mansara Apartment in Vasundhara Enclave. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mayurdhwaj-apartments-de-contained-no-new-case-reported-in-28-days/story-0YkNTsmmwceTDYgzuDnauK.html
01-05-2020||City||KDMC to feed strays during lockdown||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) is taking steps to ensure strays do not go hungry during lockdown. It has collaborated with Vet Society for Animal Welfare and Rural Development to ensure that stray dogs are fed. It has asked the civic health department to feed the dogs, who usually got food from hotels and residents.“We have provided food through community kitchen to those deprived. We are also ensuring that stray dogs in the city are fed. We do not want people to step out to feed strays. We will provide stray dogs food,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner. Local residents and animal lovers can get in touch with KDMC health department if they see strays who need to be fed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-to-feed-strays-during-lockdown/story-ujD7uFL1kUlzYMGxLMIndJ.html
01-05-2020||City||Covid-19: NHM worker tests positive in Amritsar, accuses hospital authorities of not treating him||A 22-year-old worker of the National Health Mission (NHM), who was assigned duty of transporting blood and throat swab samples of the Nanded-returnees to the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Amritsar, was tested positive for Coivd-19 on Friday. He has alleged that he is not being given proper treatment at GMCH, Amritsar.“Many pilgrims have returned from Takht Huzur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra. And all of them are being tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar. We had taken samples of health workers who were collecting samples of the pilgrims or have come in contact with them. The 22 year old has been tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. He may have been infected from the Nanded pilgrims,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore, adding that they will test all health workers and administration staff who have come in contact of Nanded-pilgrims.“Health workers are given personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for collecting samples of people as any person can infect the medical staff. Meanwhile, samples of his father, mother and wife have also been collected,” Dr Kishore added.The NHM worker, who was working as a lab technician at the health centre in Lopoke in district, shot a video from the isolation ward of GMCH and circulated it on the social media. The NHM worker said, “The health department had collected my samples as a precautionary measure on Thursday and told me on Friday that I am tested positive for Covid-19. They admitted me in the isolation ward but no one is giving me any treatment.”While sharing his video on Twitter, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia said, “With 6% mortality rate, which is the highest in country, the video exposes the condition in state in treating and handling Covid-19 cases. Captain saab, are we waiting for a disaster to happen?”Meanwhile, a staff nurse, who was present on duty in the isolation ward of GMCH, alleged that the 22-year-old patient spat on her. “He spat on a staff nurse after which we made him understand that he needs to calm down. Sympathising with his condition, we have decided not to lodge an FIR against him,” said additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal.Medical superintendent of GMCH, Dr Raman Sharma, said, “There is no specialised treatment for Covid-19 patients. Only the symptoms are treated. The patient is asymptomatic. Our doctors and nurses are available 24 -hours in the isolation ward and are taking care of every patient. The NHM worker is aggressive and was panicky on hearing that he has tested positive of the disease. I personally met him and he is stable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-nhm-worker-tests-positive-in-amritsar-accuses-hospital-authorities-of-not-treating-him/story-KKZ1cSi0FdeCjBPvIyuqzK.html
01-05-2020||City||Migrant workers in J&K urge government to run special trains to send them home||Terming the lockdown as the ‘toughest phase of their impoverished lives’, migrant workers in Jammu and Kashmir urged the government to run special trains to send them back to their home districts.Migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, who are largely into construction and allied sectors migrated to the Union territory for a living.On Labour Day, the lockdown entered 41st day.“We are facing immense hardships due to the lockdown since construction activities have not started. As a result, we are deprived of our daily earnings,” said Krishan Lal, a migrant worker from Bilaspur in Chattisgarh.“Around 20 days ago, a few officials had distributed ration to us and afterward did not bother to enquire about us,” said Babita, Lal’s wife.Another labourer Raju said, “We are neither getting dry ration nor any work. And, we cannot go back to our homes. We request the government to send us back.”Raju said that the government should run special trains to send stranded migrant workers back to their homes. “Though the government is trying to help us by providing dry ration and ₹1,000 a month, it is not sufficient to sustain this lockdown. This is the toughest phase of our lives,” he added.An official said that the government was trying to help the migrant workers with dry ration but there was a huge demand.“Even the first phase has not completed yet as they are a scattered population but we are still trying to reach out to them,” he said.On Thursday, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor approved a relief package of ₹350 crore for people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown that included construction workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-in-j-k-urge-government-to-run-special-trains-to-send-them-home/story-64Tsvzf9l4LdB9av5QSBUO.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||3 policemen suspended for lying to evade duty amid Covid-19 outbreak||Three Delhi police constables, who were on duty at Shastri Park metro police station, were suspended on Thursday after they allegedly lied that they had come in contact with a policeman who had tested positive for Covid-19 and therefore should be sent into home quarantine.Senior officers said, once caught, the constables confessed that they were scared of catching the infection while on duty and therefore made the excuse to evade duty amid the pandemic. Their suspension is yet to be revoked, police said.A senior officer said that on Wednesday, the three constables had informed the east district control room that they had worked closely with a sub-inspector, who allegedly later tested positive for the virus. “When officials from the control room checked with their police station in Shastri Park, it was found that they were lying and that they had cooked up the story. The matter was then reported to senior officers,” said a police officer, who did not wish to be named.Deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar Singh said when the three constables were caught lying, they said they were apprehensive about going to field duty amid the virus outbreak. “As a disciplinary action, they were all suspended from their duties. Their suspension is yet to be revoked,” the DCP said.Meanwhile, four more Delhi police personnel tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the total number of infected policemen to 40. Two of them - a head constable and a constable — are members of Delhi Police’s crime branch, which is probing Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad and his associates in connection with the religious congregation in a six-storey building in the Nizamuddin area in March, in violation of government orders. The policemen were sent to isolation and are under treatment. Their family members have been asked to quarantine themselves at home, said a senior officer who did not wish to be named.The two others, both constables, who were also tested positive on Friday are from Khajoori Khas police station. The two men were living in the police station barracks with four other constables from the reserve force. The police are now getting the other four also tested for coronavirus. On Thursday, a Delhi Police sub-inspector from Amar Colony police station — whose duty was at Okhla Mandi — had also tested positive for Covid-19.Of the total 38 police personnel infected with the virus so far, five have already recovered and have been discharged from quarantine facilities they were admitted to.The five discharged policemen include three constables from the Chandni Mahal police station, one assistant sub-inspector (ASI) from the traffic police unit and his batchmate, who was deployed at the AIIMS Trauma Centre police post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-policemen-suspended-for-lying-to-evade-duty-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-Eks0XbiI1Aw76yo7Pr4dxJ.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Cramped quarantine facilities for health care staff give rise to fear of Covid-19 spread||A day after the Delhi government released its home isolation guidelines, many health care workers’ unions have expressed concerns over doctors and nurses in several Covid-designated hospitals being quarantined in hostel facilities where these isolation rules are difficult to follow. Joint Federation of Nurses, a collective of nurses working in Delhi-NCR, on Friday wrote to the Delhi government, highlighting the problems of shared bathrooms and common utensils in hostel facilities, making it difficult for health care professionals, who are either tested positive of the virus or are awaiting their results, to maintain isolation.“We have asked the health department to move health care workers who have either been diagnosed with Covid-19 or are awaiting test results, to be moved to alternative accommodations where they can follow quarantine rules and not risk infecting others,” said Mini Joseph, joint secretary of the union.Joseph said several health care professionals working in high-risk departments are being accommodated in hostels even during their quarantine period. With many doctors, nurses and lab workers being tested positive for the contagious disease in the national capital, the fear of health care workers infecting others is increasing, she said.So far, 293 healthcare professionals in Delhi have tested positive for Covid-19. The guidelines released by the Delhi government on Thursday said that if a person is tested positive for the disease, they can be home quarantined, provided they have the “requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation”. Many doctors and nurses working in Covid-19 designated hospitals have pointed out that common bathrooms and utensils in hostels defeat the entire purpose of quarantine. They asked that even those in who are in quarantine and yet to confirm positive should be given isolated quarters till they receive their results.A resident doctor in Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital, who completed her quarantine last week, said every corridor in the hospital comprises between 10 and 12 rooms and has a common washroom.“I had to step out in desperation because there was no other way. Thankfully, my results returned negative, but I could have infected several others with me because there was no other option. One doctor in the hostel was tested positive and was shifted to the hospital after the results came, but till then the doctor was here with all the other residents,” she said, on the condition of anonymity.A senior Delhi government official said that ‘home isolation’ is being allowed only on a case-to-case basis after examining whether the patient can fulfil the prerequisite conditions of self-isolation in their residence.“If a health care professional is tested positive and resides in a hostel then we will shift them to hospitals. Their health and care is important to us. And the issue of alternative accommodation for those in quarantine is being taken up with hospital administrations,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cramped-quarantine-facilities-for-health-care-staff-gives-rise-to-fear-of-covid-19-spread/story-itp22keyxjGZQpP8tvRM9K.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Universities deliberate on implementing UGC’s exam recommendations||A day after higher education regulator University Grants Commission (UGC) listed its recommendations to mitigate the academic crisis due to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, three central universities in the capital—Delhi University, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), and Jamia Millia Islamia—began deliberations on how to implement them in their institutions.While Jamia and JNU have decided upon a tentative arrangement for conducting their semester or annual examinations, Delhi University (DU)—which has over 90 colleges affiliated to it—is yet to come out with a plan. The UGC, while providing a basic framework, has allowed universities to modify and adapt the recommendations as per their need.Jamia’s media coordinator Ahmad Azeem said, “The university has decided to hold the examination of our final-year students as per UGC recommendation during July 1-15. The exams will be conducted at the varsity while following proper social distancing measures. However, if the situation demands, we are also ready to hold the exams online. For the intermediate students, who will spend another year or semester at the varsity, we will mark them on multiple internal assessments.” HT had earlier reported how the varsity was asking its students to submit five 20-mark online assessments and pick the best of three among them for their final score. JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar on Thursday said that the administration has forwarded the UGC guidelines to all its schools and centres. “The schools and centres have decided to follow a suitable model relevant to their specific needs so that students can complete their academic requirements without delay,” he said.Last week, JNU had already allowed all its schools and special centres to hold midterm and semester examination via the mode of their choice. Of 13 schools, five decided to go for the online mode. The rest will hold offline exams after the lockdown. The School of Environment Studies started conducting its midterm exams online this week.Members of the DU’s task force—constituted to look into the academic situation during the pandemic—held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the implementation of UGC recommendations. “The UGC recommendations are well thought out, keeping the current scenario in mind wherein nothing is certain. We have already extended our teaching session till May 15 and will work on the new academic calendar as well. So far, the focus is on exams and admissions, and we will make a decision soon after fulfilling necessary statutory requirements,” Payal Mago, joint dean of colleges and a member of the task force, said.Several principals of DU colleges have also expressed concern about conducting the academic sessions since the upcoming ones will also see an increase in the number of seats for the 10% reservation for candidates belonging to Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category. The university had planned to increase its intake by 25% to facilitate the quota in two phases: 10% during the 2019-20 academic session and 15% for the 2020-21 session. Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said, “The entire trajectory of the academic session needs to be redefined. Since we have to conduct classes keeping social distancing measures in mind, we have to devise ways to do so. The increase in seats after the implementation of the second phase of the EWS quota will make things more difficult. In my opinion, we could have an option for both online and offline classes with relaxation in attendance. Those willing to come to college, while following necessary precautions, should be allowed to do so. Mechanisms for those who cannot do so should be made. For instance, the university could come up with its own platform to conduct online classes.”AdmissionsThe onset of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to the Class 12 board exams conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) being postponed. A delay in the board exams means an immediate impact on the admission process of several universities.Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu college, said, “While we are hoping that the UGC put together a timeline considering the CBSE exams, the reality will only unfold in the days to come. If board exams don’t happen in the stipulated time, admissions can be pushed further. We are waiting for the university’s directions on the matter.”An official from the DU’s admission branch said the university had been contemplating this issue. “There are many factors to consider. For instance, with CBSE announcing that it won’t hold exams for languages, the marking is likely to be based on internal assessment, which is done by schools. A mechanism has to be put in place to ensure uniformity across the country. We are working on a tentative schedule and may open the admission portal for entrance-based courses towards mid-May. ”A senior university official from Jamia said the varsity already has a mechanism in place to allow provisional admission for students who do not get have their mark sheets at the time of admission. “The same is likely to be implemented for this period since our admissions are entrance-test based. Students can submit their mark sheets when they get them,” the official said.The JNU VC said the varsity will follow the UGC calendar for the admission process. The National Testing Agency, which conducts the JNU Entrance Exam (JNUEE), on Thursday extended the date of registration till May 15. Last year, the JNU Entrance Exam was held between May 27 and May 30, and the results were declared in the second week of June. “This year we are expected to hold the entrance exam in July so that the admission process can be completed by August as recommended by the UGC,” a JNU official said.Students’ Union Elections The students’ union election is an integral part of both JNU and DU. The elections are conducted in September every year. Last year, while JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) elections were held on September 7, Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU) polls were held on September 13. However, uncertainty looms over the students’ body elections this year due to the change in the academic calendar.DS Rawat, former Delhi University chief election officer, said that as per the Lyngdoh Committee Guidelines, the students’ union election shall be conducted six to eight weeks after the commencement of the academic session. “Normally the academic session begins in July and we conduct elections in September. But now when the academic session is set to begin in August for second and third-year students and in September for first-year students, the elections cannot be held before November,” he said.Officials in the JNU also cited the Lyngdoh Committee Recommendations and said that any decision about the students’ union election will be taken after consulting with the MHRD and the UGC. “The elections lead to huge gatherings. We do not know what the situation will be post-lockdown. Anything related to elections will only be decided after the beginning of the academic session,” a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/universities-deliberate-on-implementing-ugc-s-exam-recommendations/story-OuObs5SN52Q7zaTwOUmsaN.html
01-05-2020||City||Residents fast, pay tribute to labourers on May Day||For the first time, residents of Thane and Navi Mumbai had to celebrate Maharashtra Day and May Day indoors.On Friday, most residents celebrated Maharashtra Day and Labour Day by fasting throughout the day as a tribute to labourers and workers.“We posted messages on social media asking people to fast for a day, from sunrise to sunset on Friday, to show solidarity to the labour force on whom we rely on. We were amazed at the huge response we got from not only Maharashtra but across the country. This was an initiative by social activist Ulka Mahajan,” said Girish Salgaonkar, 37, a resident of Thane. Residents willingly joined the initiative which also aimed at lifting the spirits of those sitting at home during lockdown. “We are proud of the hard work of the labour force, who are tirelessly working for the safety of others,” said Gauri Sawant, 48, a resident of Ghansoli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-fast-pay-tribute-to-labourers-on-may-day/story-0yx7wDWMC46TwWhoaeXFrK.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab alleges Maha govt’s negligence after several Nanded returnees test positive||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh on Friday alleged negligence on part of Maharashtra government after several pilgrims who returned from Nanded in the state tested positive for Covid-19.“They were under the Maharashtra government’s observation. It was their duty to implement the Central government’s guidelines. Their samplings and testing should have been done there. Had they told us it was not being done, we would have sent teams for the same,” Singh told ANI here.As many as 76 people, who had returned from Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded, have tested positive for Covid-19. Around 300 Nanded returnees have been tested so far.Singh said that the teams would have been able to test the pilgrims and segregate them on the basis of the results to prevent further spread.“We would have brought them here in separate buses and kept the people who tested positive in isolation and the others in quarantine. We are now testing all the pilgrims. We will be able to control this situation within a few days,” Singh said.“We have not allowed anyone to go home. Those who came to Tarn Taran directly had come after crossing five to six states. They were not stopped on any border. After they entered Punjab, our government traced them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-alleges-maha-govt-s-negligence-after-several-nanded-returnees-test-positive/story-aoLCobkV8J8lLkHYI60muJ.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Families anxious as three differently-abled Kashmiri youths stranded in Mohali||The families of three hearing and speech impaired Kashmiris who are stranded in Mohali remain worried as they are uncertain about their return to the Valley due to the coronavirus curfew. The trio from South Kashmir had arrived in Mohali in February to pursue a three-month skill development programme under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana at the Mentor Skills India LLP in Mohali.Aquib Gull, 23, hails from Qazigund in Anantnag, Anamullah Rather, 24, is from Larkipora in Anantnag, and Basit Showkat, 19, is from South Kashmir’s Kulgam district. The families of the three have made several attempts but haven’t been able to find any way to bring them back.Showkat Ahmad Padder, father of Basit, said, “I am perturbed as I do not know when my son will be back home. As he cannot speak or hear, I contact him through video call every day to find out what he is doing.”“We had hired a vehicle to bring all three of them back, but we were not given permission for movement. It is hard for us and we await their evacuation from Mohali,” said Padder.Harminder Singh, who is the interpreter of the three stranded persons, said, “They came here in February to pursue a three-month course in customer relationship management (non-voice) and their exams were due on April 17. They are lodged in hostels at present, and we are providing them every help possible.”Umaisar Gull, brother of Aquib, said, “We have contacted the Mohali administration for their evacuation, and we are ready to quarantine them if they will be returned home.”Manager of JK House, Chandigarh, and liaison officer for students in the region, Dr Inderjot Singh, said, “I came to know about the situation only today, and I have contacted the institution as well. They are being provided all help and I will also get in touch with the authorities to send them back home.”Nasir Khuehami of the Jammu and Kashmir Students Association (JKSA) said, “We demand their immediate evacuation as they cannot even communicate. We have spoken to the government officials, too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/families-anxious-as-three-differently-abled-kashmiri-youths-stranded-in-mohali/story-8NXLa4wZ94Ff4bYtQgyNbP.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC seeks help from NGO workers to maintain water supply in G-North ward||In a bid to maintain regular water supply in Dadar, Dharavi and Mahim (G-North ward), the civic hydraulic department has roped 18 non-governmental organisation (NGO) workers and civic staffers from neighbouring G-South wards to help and maintain regular water supply in the ward.The civic body fears that the water supply in the region could be affected as 30 workers and civic water supply department have been quarantined after a junior engineer of the ward was tested Covid-19 positive.Water supply in the areas like 90 Feet Road, Matunga Labour Camp, Senapati Bapat Marg Junction, Kumbharwada and Dharavi could be affected. However civic officials claimed no water cuts will be imposed.On Friday, the civic hydraulic department of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has hired 18 NGO workers with a minimum daily wage of ₹450 per day to maintain water supply the ward.Ajay Rathore, chief engineer, hydraulics department of BMC, said, “The issue is only related to operations. We have enough water stock and there is no problem related to maintenance. Hence, with the help of the respective ward officer, we have decided to help from NGO workers to smoothen water supply.”Assistant commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said, “As we have limited staff, we decided to hire workers from private NGO’s on daily minimum wages. Initially, we have to train them.” He further told that all the quarantined staffers did not show any symptoms and hence there is need not to worry about them.Earlier on April 28, a junior engineer from the water supply department was tested positive. Around 30 workers from the same department who came in contact with junior engineer were quarantined on April 30. These 30 workers were deployed at 30 different locations in the region to open and close water pipeline valves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-seeks-help-from-ngo-workers-to-maintain-water-supply-in-g-north-ward/story-yMct3RFrmML6RBvFWAHvuO.html
01-05-2020||City||Ludhiana students, teachers attend online workshops amid lockdown||Twelve students of Arya College for Girls participated in a seven-day workshop on personality development conducted by department of youth welfare, Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh. The workshop, which was organised through Zoom application, concluded on Friday.Students got the opportunity to interact with resource persons from different universities and Punjabi actors, poets and singers. The workshop revolved around topics such as emotional intelligence, positive thinking, communication skills, art, literature, culture, leadership skills and physical fitness.Suksham Ahluwalia, in-charge girls’ section, said, “More such opportunities will be organised for the students to expand their horizons.”GGNKC ORGANISE FIVE-DAY INTERNATIONAL ONLINE WORKSHOPThe community college teachers of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Ludhiana, organised a five-day international online workshop on ‘Skill development through communication skills’ which concluded on Friday. The workshop, which started on April 27, was held under the guidance of SP Singh, president of Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council. It was conducted in collaboration with the department of communication skills and PG department of English.On the concluding day, the workshop opened with a discussion on ‘Enhancing communicative competence’ by Jyoti Singh from Regional Institute of English, Chandigarh. The valedictory session started with the introduction of the chief guest, followed by the welcome address by Asha Rani, nodal officer community college and assistant professor, department of computer science.The valedictory speech by Prof B S Punia, former vice-chancellor, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, Haryana, summed up the five-day workshop. He said, “Academicians need to explore the unexplored world of internet which has become the strongest weapon nowadays.”The resource persons were teachers of soft skills, personality development and communication skills, from India and Canada. Deepti Gupta, chairperson, department of English and cultural studies, PU, Chandigarh, was the chief guest of the inaugural session and JS Anand, professor emeritus, Institute of European Studies and Research, Belgrade, Serbia, was the guest of the honour.WEBINAR ORGANISED FOR COLLEGE STAFF AT SCD COLLEGEPost graduate department of Hindi and research centre, SCD Government College, Ludhiana, organised a webinar to take feedback from the faculty on ‘Higher education: challenges and road map during Covid-19’.The meeting was presided over by principal Dharam Singh Sandhu, who invited the teachers to share their experiences. As many as 60 teachers connected and discussed their first-hand experience of conducting classes via Zoom, Google Classroom and WhatsApp. They talked about the advantages and difficulties faced.Prof Ashwani Bhalla laid emphasis on devising ways through which students could be evaluated and assessed. He discussed the conduct of examinations for final year students through two modes - online and through internal assessment by the teacher. “Since the teacher knows the calibre of the student, she/he is the best judge of the student. The online method is not feasible as a large number of our students are either from rural areas or they belong to financially weaker sections of society. As such they do not have good access to strong internet connectivity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-students-teachers-attend-online-workshops-amid-lockdown/story-gp0HUfmcs6Atgb4ncHvQ7H.html
01-05-2020||City||Punjab ministers distribute food grain packets in Mohali villages||Punjab health minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu distributed 290 bags of wheat and pulses among 144 beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) at Balongi village in Kharar on Friday.A total of 87 quintals of wheat and 4.32 quintals of pulses were distributed. Sidhu said the state government will ensure that the underprivileged receive essential commodities amid lockdown. Meanwhile, the technical education and industrial training and cultural affairs minister Charanjit Singh Channi accompanied by the sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain also distributed wheat and pulses among the beneficiaries of the PMGKY at Batta village in Kharar. Three kilo pulses per card and wheat at the rate of 15 kg per member was distributed among 260 families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-ministers-distribute-food-grain-packets-in-mohali-villages/story-ofElQFFWIAjQusytGAljvM.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death case: CBI court dismisses IGP Zaidi’s bail plea||The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday dismissed the bail application of suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, an accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case.The case was heard via video conferencing where Zaidi appeared from inside Burial Jail.He had sought interim bail for 60 days citing medical reasons. He had also he might be at the risk of getting the infection inside the overcrowded jail where he has been lodged and stated that as per the Supreme Court orders to decongest jails in the wake of Covid-19, he should be granted interim bail.In April, Zaidi had pleaded he was suffering from hypertension and not keeping well otherwise, too. In view of the Covid-19, he had pleaded for bail saying he was susceptible to the infection.The Burail Jail superintendent filed the application via email to the district and sessions judge Paramjeet Singh. After a few days, Zaidi also filed the application in the Punjab and Haryana high court mentioning that he had filed an application in district court.Following this, the sessions judge marked the mail (application) to the CBI judge on April 28, and a notice was issued on the same day.On Friday, the HC adjourned the case till May 4, “allowing the district court to take the decision.” The arguments took place in the district court wherein public prosecutor KP Singh opposed the bail application.KP Singh argued: “The accused (Zaidi) has given different grounds of bail in the two applications. In the HC, he has given medical ground and in the CBI court, he has given an account of government’s order regarding de-congestion of jail in the wake of corona pandemic.”Opposing the application on the de-congestion of jail, Singh said that “the government’s order does not imply in cases involving charges under Section 302.” Opposing the medical ground, Singh argued “he has attached a medical certificate of 2017. There is no recent certificate, which shows any medical urgency.”After hearing the arguments, special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg dismissed the bail application moved by Zaidi.The custodial killing case is an offshoot of the rape and murder case of a 16-year-old school-girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district. Six men were initially arrested by Himachal police in the case, and one of them was later found dead at the Kotkhai police station.5 accused move interim bail applicationsCiting Covid-19 pandemic, five accused in Kotkhai custodial death case, who are lodged in Model Jail, Chandigarh have moved bail applications in the district court. The applications dated March 30 were submitted to the deputy superintendent, Model Jail, Chandigarh, who forwarded them to the district and sessions judge, and further to the additional district and sessions judge, CBI Chandigarh for taking necessary action.The case is now listed on May 4.The five undertrial prisoners who filed applications are former Kotkhai station house officer (SHO) Rajinder Singh, the investigating officer in the rape and murder case, head constables Surat Singh, Mohan Lal and Rafiq Ali and constable Ranjit Streta.Ranjeet said that his elderly parents are alone at home during difficult times like this. While Mohan Lal said that his wife is suffering from fibrosis and there is no one to look after her, so, he should be granted bail. Similar pleas were filed by others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-case-cbi-court-dismisses-igp-zaidi-s-bail-plea/story-M1VA9SR5Jn3b5N4EUW0BoM.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records zero road fatality in a month for first time in decade||The curfew set up in the city due to the Covid-19 outbreak has presented a silver lining. As per the data released by the UT traffic police, the month of April this year was the first month in at least a decade without a single fatal road accident reported.The total number of road fatalities in the year 2019 was 98. The number of fatalities till April 2019 was 23, which have come down to 13 this year for the same period. The April of 2019 itself had reported four fatal accidents.Till 2010, there wasn’t a single month without a fatal accident being reported in the city. No data was available for the last time when there were zero accidents in a month in the city.CHALLENGE WILL START AFTER LOCKDOWNDeputy inspector general of police (DIG, Traffic) Shashank Anand said the result wasn’t much cause for celebration and was along expected lines. “Due to the curfew there has hardly been any traffic on the roads and a large number of nakas have been set up. So fatal accidents were bound to come down,” he said, adding that the challenge will start when normal resumes.He added that the traffic police will push people to adopt cycling as a means of transportation after the restrictions were lifted: “Cycling will help maintain social distancing while reducing pollution and road fatalities. Even the World Health Organisation has recommended that people cycle to move around whilst Covid-19 is active.”Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Traffic East) Charanjit Singh Virk added that the same sensibility used to tackle Covid-19 should also be used towards road accidents as they also cause a huge loss of lives daily in India.‘USE POST-LOCKDOWN PERIOD TO ENCOURAGE CYCLING, USE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT’Road safety activist Harpreet Singh said the authorities should use this time to push people towards other modes of transport. “An odd-even format for vehicles can be started in the city after the lockdown, so that people can adopt public transport or cycling. We are being presented with a second chance to keep traffic congestion and pollution in the city from reaching the previous dangerous levels,” he said. A member of the UT Road Safety Council, Harman Sidhu, said after the curfew is lifted, a spike in accident cases may follow. “A large number of people are likely to come out on the streets and the authorities will have to be on their toes to prevent accidents. People should continue to ditch their cars and walk to their neighborhood grocery stores the way Le Corbusier intended,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-zero-road-fatality-in-a-month-for-first-time-in-decade/story-M3c1eC9P2PeS1ej5xNGbdL.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||1,020 take part in quiz organised by PU’s University Institute of Legal Studies||The criminal justice practicum cell of University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), Panjab University (PU), on Friday organised an online quiz session called “Quarantiz pro quo” for students of all the undergraduate and postgraduate courses studying in the institutions recognised by the University Grants Commission, New Delhi. Of 1,594 students who registered for the quiz, as many as 1,020 participated and completed the session in time. The main aim of the event was to keep students updated on the current affairs on general and legal matters during this unprecedented situation. Saurin Thakkar from National Law University, Gujarat, achieved the first position while Hariharan from CMR University, Bangalore, and Anmol Singla from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, shared the second position. The third position was jointly bagged by Harshit Bhimrajka from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Patiala, and Manuureet Singh from Army Institute of Law, Mohali.The position holders will be awarded with certificate of merit while the other top scorers will be awarded with certificate of appreciation after the lockdown is over. Meanwhile, all the participants will receive participation certificates via email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/1-020-take-part-in-quiz-organised-by-pu-s-university-institute-of-legal-studies/story-kjU5YVugmhg8iimblZrIJL.html
01-05-2020||City||Ludhiana fire brigade seeks testing of two fire fighters before re-inducting them into service||The district fire brigade department has sought that two fire fighters, who were home quarantined in mid April on suspicion, be tested for the Covid-19 before being pressed into the service.The two fire fighters, including a driver of a fire tender vehicle, were home quarantined after the fire brigade conducted a screening of fire fighters on April 15. The driver deputed at Sundar Nagar fire station had come in contact with an electrician of Amarpura area, which had reported positive cases in the past. Another fire fighter deployed at Gill road fire station was quarantined after a positive case was reported from his village. Assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Bhupinder Singh said both were advised to self-quarantine for 15 days after their circumstances were known. None of them had shown any symptom during screening, however, they were asked to quarantine themselves as a precautionary measure, he said.Fire station officer (FSO) Shritsi Nath Sharma said, “Before re-inducting them into the service, we want their samples be sent for testing as a precautionary step. We perform emergency services and fire fighters meet a large number of people when they move to douse a fire or sanitise streets. The objective is to ensure that they are not carrying the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-fire-brigade-seeks-testing-of-two-fire-fighters-before-re-inducting-them-into-service/story-IjZGztNIW0mmOz4gWZieJN.html
01-05-2020||City||J&K admn working to remove bottlenecks for hassle-free production & supply||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has been able to revive 55% to 60% industrial sector since April 20 and has started removing bottlenecks for hassle-free production and distribution of goods, which officials say may take some more time. Commissioner secretary, industries and commerce department, MK Dwivedi said, “We have been able to revive 55% to 60% industrial sector in J&K. However, there are some hurdles. Several units, which are being allowed to function, have their sale outlets in municipal limits that do not have the permission to open.”“For instance, if textile mills manufacture products where will their supplies go. There are manufacturers, who do business via wholesalers. These wholesalers are also in municipal limits,” he said.Dwivedi said movement passes for people working in these industries is another problem.“The district administrations have to give permissions but they are occupied in Covid mitigation efforts. In some cases, the permissions are getting delayed and as a result these units, which had to open on Friday, will now take three to four more days to start functioning,” he said.The UT has industrial estates in Pulwama, Srinagar, Budgam, Udhampur, Kathua, Jammu and Samba districts.“Also, the workforce is not readily available now and many of them want to go back to their native places,” he said.“We expect more relaxations in green zones post May 3. As of now, shops selling essential items in standalone zones are allowed. However, those selling non-essential items are not allowed to open. They can be regulated on alternate days but it will be the Centre’s call,” he said.“Shops selling non-essentials should be allowed to open in green zones on alternate days. It will create a demand and help the manufacturing sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-working-to-remove-bottlenecks-for-hassle-free-production-supply/story-WmLMNbgcxFpr7QnpiOWgtM.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||With extension in lockdown, students in dilemma over competitive exam dates||The city students who have been preparing for the competitive exams and had to appear for the Joint Entrance Examination (Mains and Advanced) and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance test (NEET), are in dilemma after the extension of lockdown till May 17.With uncertainty in exam dates, the engineering and medical aspirants are worried and concerned about how to take forward their preparation for the entrance exams that were scheduled to be held this year.Earlier due to Covid-19 pandemic, the JEE (Mains) exam that was scheduled to be held on April 5 was postponed. While, the JEE (Advanced) exam that was scheduled for May 17 has also been postponed and will be rescheduled after the JEE (Mains) exam. Also, the NEET exam for medical aspirants that was scheduled to be held on May 3 has also been postponed. “I am preparing for this JEE (Advanced) exam after I appeared for JEE (Mains) in January this year. I scored 99.89 percentile in JEE mains. I feel dejected as the JEE (Advanced) exam that was scheduled for May 17 has been postponed. Now, with not many options left, I am attempting the online test series and revising through reference books,” said Mukul Gupta, a non-medical student who has been taking coaching from a private institute.Meanwhile, there are some students who have also taken this lockdown positively. They say it’s an extended opportunity to prepare more thoroughly for exams. “As the exams have been postponed, I have got more time to revise and clear the concepts. The syllabus is vast, and I got the opportunity to attempt more test series and work on my weak areas,” 18-year-old medical aspirant Simridhi Manchanda said.“I am a little worried, but I know that I need to focus on revision than wasting time in thinking of the exam dates. I study 11 hours-a-day and take frequent breaks to relax as well,” a Class 12 student of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School said.‘Students should keep the momentum going’“Students need to stop worrying about the exam dates and keep the momentum going. We have advised students, who had completed the entire syllabus, to attempt regular tests and revise their notes time to time. They can participate in online test series. While those students, whose preparation was incomplete, have been advised to focus on chapter wise preparation and attempt part tests. They can attend crash courses, which cover chapter wise important topics. Later, they can take to full syllabus tests,” said Tejpreet Singh, co-founder and COO, Edusquare, a private coaching institute. Students should not panic and waste time thinking about stuff that’s not in their control, he added.Meanwhile, he also suggested that the National Testing Agency should cancel JEE (Advanced) altogether and use JEE (Mains) merit list for admissions to IITs also. This would save about 40 days in the admission cycle, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-extension-in-lockdown-students-in-dilemma-over-competitive-exam-dates/story-OUV7VQ8by5krcrVRkxTtbM.html
01-05-2020||City||Lack of facilities at govt quarantine facility triggers protest in Ludhiana||Government Mother Child Hospital on Chandigarh Road here turned into a protest site on Friday morning after the kin of Hazur Sahib pilgrims and Kota-returned students, who are quarantined at the facility, started raising slogans against the hospital authorities, alleging lack of facilities in the isolation ward.While sloganeering by some of the pilgrims and students was witnessed inside the hospital, their family members were seen protesting outside.They alleged that those who had tested negative for the disease were being kept in the same ward as the Covid-19 patients. “There is no food or water to drink. Toilets are all dirty and being used by both infected patients and others,” said the agitated kin.The inmates expressed their support for the protest by raising their hands from the windows of the ward. The students were shouting from inside asking their parents to take them home. The parents of the Kota-returnees, who have tested negative, demanded that they should be discharged and sent home.Witnessing commotion, Division No 7 police reached the spot and began pacifying the agitated relatives and quarantine inmates.Shimlapuri resident Parmod Kumar said his son Kishore had returned from Kota on April 27. “The very next day, the health department brought him to the hospital on the pretext of collecting his samples. Despite testing negative, he is not being discharged and made to share the washroom with Covid-19 patients,” said Parmod.Parents also alleged that their kids were not getting food on time. “Breakfast is not available in the morning, lunch is provided during evening, while dinner is given around 11pm and sometimes at midnight,” complained one of the parents.Those who live nearby said they often delivered food for their children at the hospital, but the same did not reach them at times.Another parent R K Singh told HT that his son Sipur said there was barely any arrangement for food and the toilets were unkempt.Senior medical officer (SMO) Amita Jain said she was incharge of the treatment of Covid-19 patients.When asked about the issue, joint MC commissioner Navraj Singh Brar admitted that they had faced some hiccups initially as nearly 100 inmates were rushed to the hospital. “But now everything has been streamlined. The food is prepared by Kalgidhar Gurdwara and is being served on time. Tea and water is also regularly served those in quarantine. There are a few troublemakers who are inciting others as they want to be shifted to a private facility. We have identified them and they would be shifted to another isolation centre,” said Brar adding that infected patients were being kept separate from others.Meanwhile, Youth Akali Dal district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha also accused the administration of failing to provide facilities to the Nanded-returned pilgrims.He shared several videos of weeping pilgrims, who returned on Thursday, urging the authorities to send them back to Nanded due to the lack of facilities.Recently, many videos were shared on the social media showing inmates arguing with the hospital staff for not providing masks. Pictures of overflowing bins and dirty washrooms at the hospital also made the rounds on the internet.HEAT TAKING TOLL ON DOCTORS’ HEALTHWearing a PPE kit and collecting samples under extreme heat is taking a toll on the Ludhiana civil hospital staff. On Thursday evening, a doctor who was collecting samples of pilgrims while standing in a kiosk at the civil hospital fell unconscious due to dehydration. It was alleged that there was no provision of water in the cubicle due to which the doctor had fainted.AIDS CONTROL WORKERS DEMAND SALARY HIKEDemanding salary hike and permanent jobs, total 750 members of Punjab AIDS Control Employees Welfare Association, who have been working on contract basis, staged a protest against the government on Friday. They said that for the past 20 years, they had been working on contract with meagre salaries. Association president Mahinder Pal said that besides carrying out de-addiction programmes they were also deployed in Covid-19 units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lack-of-facilities-at-govt-quarantine-facility-triggers-protest-in-ludhiana/story-UBLJPXrbJ8GN70uJMQJKtI.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Over 5,000 migrant labourers return to UP from Madhya Pradesh||Over 5,000 migrant labourers returned to Uttar Pradesh on Friday from Madhya Pradesh in 155 buses and their medical check-ups were being conducted, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. He said 5,259 labourers from Madhya Pradesh arrived in the state and 1,341 labourers belonging to MP were sent to their native place in 50 buses. Awasthi said 6,500 migrant labourers from Rajasthan and 1,500 from Uttarakhand will be returning to UP on Saturday. “The exchange of labourers with Madhya Pradesh has been completed. Their medica examination is being conducted again,” he said. Briefing reporters about a high-level meeting held by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Awasthi said so far around four lakh migrant workers have arrived from Delhi and 12,000 from Haryana. “This work is being done in a phased manner,” he said. In the meeting, Adityanath asked nodal officers to remain available on phone round-the-clock to ensure smooth return of migrant workers to the state. The UP chief minister wrote a letter to his counterparts in Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra on Thursday, asking for the details of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown imposed across the country to contain the spread of coronavirus, Awasthi said. Adityanath reviewed the arrangements made for quarantine of all those returning to the state and stressed that there should not be any laxity in their medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/over-5-000-migrant-labourers-return-to-up-from-madhya-pradesh/story-ioXtelGAb3A3FObfU7QZOO.html
01-05-2020||Bangalore||Wearing masks at public places compulsory in Bengaluru||Amid the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has made the wearing of face masks compulsory at public places and those who will violate the norm will have to pay a fine.“Wearing the facial mask to cover mouth and nose is compulsory at public places and in any working space with more than five people,” said BH Anil Kumar, Commissioner, BBMP.“Facial masks and gloves used by any of the households and commercial establishments should be properly handed over to waste collectors in covers or closed bags as part of sanitary waste,” added Kumar.Kumar further said that “spitting, urinating, littering and any kind of related public nuisance is banned and will be considered as a public offence.”“Those violating the order will have to pay Rs 1,000 on the first time and Rs 2,000 on the second and subsequent violation,” he added.The order has come into effect from April 30 midnight and will continue to remain in force until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/wearing-masks-at-public-places-compulsory-in-bengaluru/story-47uHzICVik4Un6KFZIGLiL.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Conduct RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 frontline warriors: Bombay HC directs governments||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday said that the Centre and the state government should now seriously consider conducting Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) rapid antibody tests on citizens, doctors, health workers and police personnel.Justice Manish Pitale said the governments should also consider undertaking rapid antibody tests as a matter of surveillance on citizens and residents of hotspot areas so that those infected by Sars-Cov-2 virus are identified and quarantined, thereby helping in the war against Covid-19 pandemic.The judge said the nationwide lockdown was imposed so as to break the chain and spread of Covid-19 and to ensure that community spread does not take place. “It appears that such lockdown was part of the strategy to ensure that Covid-19 does not spread rapidly and exponentially as found in certain countries,” said the court.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an NGO, Citizen Forum for Equality, seeking direction to the authorities to conduct RT-PCR tests on doctors and other health workers as well as police personnel attending Covid-19 treatment facilities, and a direction to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to immediately frame appropriate guidelines for conducting such tests.Advocate Tushar Mandlekar, who represented the NGO, also urged the court to direct the authorities to undertake rapid antibody tests on the residents of hot-spot areas so that persons infected with Covid-19 could be identified and quarantined at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/conduct-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19-frontline-warriors-bombay-hc-directs-governments/story-mQTGlSAoBQooPwqoGcl7BM.html
01-05-2020||City||Want to get back to work and serve people, says constable Prabhjot after beating the virus||For constable Prabhjot Singh, tragedy had struck when he was already fighting another battle. Hospitalised after being tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, the news of his senior, assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Anil Kumar Kohli’s death due to the infection came as a rude shock.Having been attached as a gunman in the ACP’s security detail, Prabhjot had been accompanying him everywhere. “We had been deployed at the vegetable market and used to work there from dawn to dusk until April 8 when ACP Kohli fell ill and had to taken to the hospital. After he tested positive, we were also sent into quarantine,” said Prabhjot Singh.“Handling the crowd at the vegetable market, especially at a time when people were already in panic due to the curfew, was a daunting task. There was a mad rush to hoard supplies and we had to be on our toes 24/7,” he says.“There were huge crowds at the mandi everyday. Our ACP had been attending meetings with several officials, traders, and people everyday. We have no idea from where he contracted the virus,” he says, adding that his senior served the people till the very end and he wants to follow in his footsteps and join duty as soon as possible. Discharged from the Ferozepur civil hospital on Thursday, constable Prabhjot Singh now has to undergo a 14-day home quarantine before he can resume duty. A diploma holder in electrical engineering Prabhjot Singh had joined the force in 2016. He was posted as a gunman with ACP Kohli, who had succumbed to Covid-19 infections on April 18. Before joining the ACP as his gunman, Prabhjot Singh had served at the Daresi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/want-to-get-back-to-work-and-serve-people-says-constable-prabhjot-after-beating-the-virus/story-moOlWKsN8daSxErAxBOk4I.html
01-05-2020||City||Lockdown blues: Chandigarh airport loses ₹10 crore in airline fee||Over a month of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has caused a loss of ₹10 crore to the Chandigarh international airport. The main revenue of the airport is generated under the aeronautical category, whereby the airport charges ₹800 per passenger from airlines. For instance: An airline flying to Delhi with 80% occupancy pays around ₹65,000 to airport per flight. Factor in the commercial revenue in the form of rent of retail shops, office space rents, car parking and advertisements, and the total revenue under both the categories comes to around ₹30 lakh per day. Before the lockdown, there were around 44 flights from the airport connected to major cities across the country and two international flights to Sharjah and Dubai. The daily footfall, both arrival and departure, was 7,000 passengers. All that has been affected ever since the lockdown began on March 24.LONG ROAD TO RECOVERYAirport chief executive officer (CEO) Ajay Kumar Bhardwaj said, “Due to the lockdown, we have majorly suffered a loss of ₹10 crore in aeronautical revenue till Friday. As far as rents under commercial revenue are concerned, the stakeholders are not in a position to pay now. We will defer it or give them some concession.” Bhardwaj said even after opening of the lockdown, it will take around six months to one year to normalise the operations and that they were expecting only 15-20 flights per day initially.On other hand, despite 24x7 operations becoming a reality from April 10 last year, no new international flight has been added in the summer schedule this year too.Vivek Nijhawan, in-flight caterer at the airport said, “As a vendor, we have invested huge sums in infrastructure and we were upgrading it further as per the demand of airlines. In the past one month we have suffered a loss of ₹50 lakh. We do not know what will happen in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-blues-chandigarh-airport-loses-10-crore-in-airline-fee/story-EpcU1Bnp0pAMwxr1eOMW4H.html
01-05-2020||City||HP govt to boost immunity of corona warriors, elderly with ayurvedic medicine||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday launched Madhuyastiadi Kashay (Kada), a proprietary Ayurvedic medicine prepared by the state Ayurveda department to enhance the immunity of the people in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking on the occasion, CM said that the Ayurvedic product would help in boosting immunity and added that it would be provided free of cost to frontline workers such as doctors, paramedical staff, police, senior citizens and all Covid-19 patients of the state.He said that this ayurvedic medicine will be provided free of cost to all the senior citizens of the state.CM said that providing Madhuyastiadi Kashay free of cost to frontline workers was a gesture of gratitude by the state government towards their selfless service. He said that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation during the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme had advised people to follow the guidelines of Ayush Ministry to enhance body immunity.He said that the state government would not only ensure free distribution of this preparation to the senior citizens but would also provide them all ayurvedic medicines free of cost.Ayurveda secretary GK Srivastava assured CM that the department would ensure adequate availability of this preparation to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-to-boost-immunity-of-corona-warriors-elderly-with-ayurvedic-medicine/story-Ity2KP9VZZS9CkliaQMWxL.html
01-05-2020||City||As Covid cases rise, Thane marks 88 containment zones||More than 88 spots in Thane have being declared as active containment zones after Covid cases crossed 300 on April 30. Thane had 101 cases till April 15, but the numbers tripled in the last 15 days. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has completely sealed Lokmanya Nagar and Kopri where the cases are increasing.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Till April 29, the city had 107 containment zones, of which, 18 have completed the containment period. There are 88 active containment zones across the city ---18 are in Lokmanya Nagar, 17 in Naupada-Kopri and 10 in Majiwada-Manpada ward.”The most number of Covid positive cases has been found at Mumbra, Lokmanya Nagar, Wagale Estate and Vartak Nagar.The spike began with several workers of a political party, who were distributing food among labourers, testing positive after a police officer was infected.A police officer requesting anonymity said, “This led to an increase in number of cases in Mumbra and Vartak Nagar areas. Another social worker in CP Talao tested positive and led to a second chain of infection in Wagale Estate slums. A funeral attended by around 70 people at Lokmanya Nagar triggered more Covid positive cases.”The number of containment zones in the city also increased from 20 on April 9 to 88 zones by April 29. Malvi said, “Around 387 people have been traced as high-risk contacts of those found positive so far.”People residing in areas declared as containment zones cannot go out. They will have to order essentials online or through helpline numbers provided by the TMC. The security guards of their building or the police will deliver groceries so that residents do not leave their homes. A 43-year-old resident of Kopri said, “Initially, we had problems getting milk and vegetables after our area was declared a containment zone. Later, we managed to get essentials home delivered through TMC helpline.”The Thane collector has not allowed any emergency or pre-monsoon construction activity in these zones.Out of the 310 positive cases in Thane till Thursday, 110 are women -- which is about 35% of the total cases. Most of these women are family members of the men who were found positive. There are very few women who are the index cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-cases-rise-thane-marks-88-containment-zones/story-gMPN4GX69sAxgmLzjFwDlO.html
01-05-2020||City||Don’t download fake Aarogya Setu app: Himachal Police||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Friday warned the general public to not download the Aarogya Setu app which was not developed by the government.Cyber Bureau superintendent of police Narvir Rathour said that it has been observed that fraudsters have devised malicious links on the fake name of the Aarogya Setu app as several spoofed apps are on the internet.He said that people may receive such app links via email, or through WhatsApp or Facebook projecting it as a genuine one. It has been explained that the malicious application during the course of its downloading asks the user to permit the use of the internet and installation of additional application packages, which eventually turn out to be mischievous links like “face.Apk, imo.Apk, normal.Apk, trueC.Apk, snap.Apk and viber.Apk”.After clicking these malicious link, a virus may enter into a user’s mobile phone, help hackers to track and monitor the content and activity on the device. The data in the device is then easily extracted and saved in a remote control server of the mischievous apps.The general public is advised to maintain caution while opening suspicious links over social media platforms and email/VoIP calls on their mobile handset and secure their phone with the latest security patches and anti-virus guard.People are advised to download the Aarogya Setu app only from authentic sources like https://Mygov.in or Apple or Android or IOS play store, he added.Police have advised that if any suspicious activity comes to one’s notice, may kindly be intimated to State Cyber Crime Police Station, Shimla through E-Mail i.e. cybercrcell-hp@nic.in, Cont. No. 0177-2620331.Aarogya Setu application developed by the Government of India helps people assess themselves on the risk of their catching the coronavirus infection. The app tries to determine the risk if one has been near a Covid-19 infected person (within six feet of distance) by scanning through a database of known cases across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-download-fake-aarogya-setu-app-himachal-police/story-ucWtuygcF9UIgp0YBuryfP.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Encroachers are moving into Aarey during lockdown’||Trees are being cut inside Aarey Milk Colony, Goregaon, during the lockdown period, an environment group told the Supreme Court (SC).On Thursday, city-based NGO Vanshakti, which had approached the court earlier for the protection of the 1,280 hectares Aarey, filed an interim application alleging illegal tree cutting, slum encroachments and fires in the area and peripheral eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). However, no responsive action was taken by state authorities. HT has a copy of the application filed against the Centre and various bodies of the Maharashtra government including the forest department and Aarey administration.“Despite the SC imposing a stay on tree cutting, illegal felling went on through the lockdown period. Repeated pleas to state bodies yielded no results. Faced with prolonged inaction we were forced to inform the court about brazen violations of previous orders,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.The application listed that close to 40 trees were illegally felled at unit 13 in Aarey on April 19. Two incidents of forest fires (on April 17 and 20) were reported from unit 8, close to State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) Camp, which falls within the Aarey ESZ. The amphitheatre situated close to New Zealand Hostel witnessed an increase in illegal slum settlements in areas surrounding both Aarey and Sanjay Gandhi National Park.“Anti-social elements are taking advantage of the lockdown situation. Any further continuation of such unchecked activity will cause irreparable damage to the ecology of Aarey,” read the application.While the Maharashtra forest department said they had no jurisdiction as the area was not a forest - it is mostly under the dairy development department - the Aarey administration confirmed that they had acted on some of the complaints.“We have written to the local police station to file a first-information-report (FIR) against unidentified persons responsible for tree felling at some units. The process is underway,” said Nathu Rathod, chief executive officer, Aarey. “Forest fires were reported from areas that do not fall under our purview. There are no cases of illegal encroachments but local residents had dumped debris on an arterial road between unit 13 and 16. We have cleared the debris and instructed our security staff to keep vigilance in the area,” Rathod said.Meanwhile, the afterword was out about the SC application, a group of 30 people barged into the house of a local teacher on Friday, who is a resident and one of the complainants, said Stalin. “A mob entered the premises of a citizen activist. The police did not provide any protection nor did they reach the person’s house despite repeated requests,” he said.The Aarey police said a non-cognisable offence was filed and they were investigating the case. Rathod said the quarrel had nothing to do with issues related to Aarey.Home to large biodiversity of flora and fauna, environmentalists have been campaigning for overall protection of Aarey for the past six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/encroachers-are-moving-into-aarey-during-lockdown/story-eu5ubryabdftmn2fc2oo1L.html
01-05-2020||City||Himachal appoints nodals officers for inter-state movement of stranded people||The Himachal Pradesh government has appointed principal secretary (revenue) Onkar Chand Sharma as the state nodal officer to facilitate movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students or others stranded both within and outside the state.In an order issued here on Friday, chief secretary Anil Khachi appointed Yunus, director tourism and civil aviation and managing director Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) as the joint nodal officer for the purpose.The government has also directed the department personnel to appoint adequate number of supporting officers to help and coordinate in movement of stranded people.Besides, the government has also designated eight officers to collect, collate and compile data pertaining to the request received for inter-state movement and formulate a comprehensive plan, devise protocol and facilitate movement by using public transport, private vehicles in consultation with officers of other states, UTs, district authorities, and labour and employment department.IAS officer Rajneesh has been appointed nodal officer for Haryana, New Delhi and National Capital Territory (NCT); Akshay Sood for Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh; GK Srivastava for UP, Uttarakhand, Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh.Manasi Sahay Thakur has been appointed nodal officer for Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Goa, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Puducherry; Lalit Jain for Punjab, Chandigarh and Mohali (tricity); Hemraj Berwa for Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.HAS officer Manmohan Singh is nodal officer for seven north-eastern states and Rohit Jamwal for West Bengal, Sikkim and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-appoints-nodals-officers-for-inter-state-movement-of-stranded-people/story-6KEm8g7X4vXzPKlm8ezljK.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||227 cops infected with Coronavirus in Maharashtra||As many as 227 police personnel including 30 officers have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra so far, 66 of them since Thursday, an official said here.Those who contracted the virus included reserve police personnel deployed for security duty in Malegaon, a coronavirus hotspot in Nashik district, he said.Of the 227 infected cops, 22 constables and eight officers have recovered. 172 constables and 22 officers are undergoing treatment at various hospitals, while three police officers, all from Mumbai, have died.The number of coronavirus cases has crossed 10,000 in the state.Police in the state are working almost round-the-clock to enforce lockdown to contain the pandemic, the official said.There have been 167 incidents of assault on police and 627 persons were arrested in these cases, he said.87,391 offences under section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order lawfully promulgated by a public servant) have been registered in the state and 17,632 persons have been arrested in these cases, the official said.The police also registered 1,240 cases of illegal transportation and seized more than 50,827 vehicles during the ongoing lockdown and collected a fine of Rs 3.10 crore, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/227-cops-infected-with-coronavirus-in-maharashtra/story-e8SDR9nBeFWcP0nrDbdOuO.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Pay minimum wages to workers unable to report to work due to lockdown: HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed industries employing daily wage earners to continue paying to those workers who are unable to report for work due to the national lockdown, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. The court has however held that if the workers fail to report for work in areas where lockdown is lifted, the industries will be at liberty to deduct wages.A single bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge while hearing a clutch of petitions challenging a March 23 notification by the ministry of Home Affairs, Union of India wherein section 10 (2) of the Disaster Management Act has been invoked. The section ensures that workers, including the migrants are paid their monthly wages by the employers taking into account the peculiar situation on account of Covid-19. The petitions further pray that though they are willing to offer work and workers are willing to work, due to the lockdown the units are shut or working at reduced pace. Hence the prayer for exemption of paying monthly wages for the period of restriction of manufacturing activities.However, after the union of India and the state informed the court that the Supreme Court was seized of a similar petition and the Kerala high court had stayed an order of the finance department to pay salaries in a deferred manner, the bench said that it was not inclined to interfere.Thereafter, the advocate for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners were willing to pay 50% of the gross wages or the minimum rates of wages prescribed under the Minimum Wages Act, whichever is higher. The court accepted the same and held, “It is clarified that since the State of Maharashtra has partially lifted the lock down recently in certain industrial areas in the State of Maharashtra, the workers would be expected to report for duties as per the shift schedules subject to adequate protection, from Corona Virus infections, by the employer.”The court also allowed managements to deduct wages of workers who voluntarily remained absent by following procedure laid down in Law while initiating such action. This would apply even to areas where there may not have been a lock down. Thus, saying the matter was posted for further hearing on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pay-minimum-wages-to-workers-unable-to-report-to-work-due-to-lockdown-hc/story-YVstbRKGQ734LimoWzzWIO.html
01-05-2020||City||‘Social distancing is fundamental to combat Covid-19’||As Jammu and Kashmir continues to witness a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, prominent pulmonologist Dr Javaid Malik, professor and head of department, chest medicine, SKIMS Medical College Bemina, in an interview with Mir Ehsan says the figures in Kashmir are not rising at an alarming rate and red zones in the UT can be converted into green zones if people follow standard operating procedures (SOP’s) and adopt preventive measures at community-level. Edited excerpts: Are Covid-19 figures in J&K, especially Kashmir, worrying? Considering the high infection rate and significant mortality associated with Covid-19, the figures are worrying. However, the figures in Kashmir, though significant, are not increasing at an alarming rate. The credit goes to people who have followed advisories issued by the authorities.The recovery and death ratio of patients in J&K is better than national average. What is the reason? Currently, our recovery rate may be higher than national average but it is too early to draw firm conclusions from the relatively small sample size that J&K has at present. As the pandemic advances we can get the comparative demographic data and nature of comorbidities from different states so as to derive statistical variables related to mortality difference, if any, between the states. J&K is conducting 1,000 to 1,500 testing daily. Do you think it is sufficient?Looking at the current trend of positive patients in J&K, I think this figure is decent. However, the case detection rate will be better if testing is enhanced. It will help in controlling the pandemic.Kashmir has 7 of the 8 deaths in J&K. Is this worrying and what is the reason? Kashmir region has more number of positive cases and hence more deaths. Also, most patients who have died in the Valley, so far, were above the age of 70 and had multiple comorbidities. What precautions should be taken by people? Social distancing is the fundamental principle of preventive strategy to combat this disease. It is also important that we observe proper coughing and sneezing etiquettes along with hand hygiene. Use of masks, alcohol-based sanitisers and avoiding public gathering are important. What is the status of patients? How are they responding to the treatment? Majority of admitted patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. They are mostly responding to the treatment. There are very few patients whose oxygen levels are critically low and require ventilator or high pressure oxygen. Any case which made you happy as a frontline worker while treating patients? Yes, there was a young man with severe respiratory failure and low oxygen level in the first week of April. He was discharged three days ago. His issues were compounded by superseded bacterial infection. His recovery was one of the happiest moments for me as a health worker. How can we turn red zone areas into green zones? This can be done by adhering to official advisories, isolation of positive cases and augmentation of contact tracing and testing. Also, preventive measures like social distancing, hand hygiene and coughing and sneezing etiquettes will help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-is-fundamental-to-combat-covid-19/story-eUyrk5eJtv9hx3jMI0Yc7K.html
01-05-2020||City||Vaishno Devi shrine, Raghunath temple witness big dip in offerings amid lockdown||Amid the ongoing curfew in the wake of Covid-19, the offerings at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi in Trikuta Hills of Reasi district and the ancient Raghunath Temple in Jammu city have fallen drastically.Since the Jammu and Kashmir administration ordered the closure of the Vaishno Devi shrine on March 18, it is said that the Board suffered a loss of around ₹20 crore.Owing to the closure of the temples, dismayed devotees are now relying on electronic mode to witness daily rituals at the cave shrine.Not being able to reach out to deities has led many to use technology to perform puja and other rituals.A senior official of the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine board said, “Puja and other rituals besides darshan of holy ‘pindis’ are relayed live twice a day for two hours each on MH One channel”“During Navratri festival, the base camp of Katra, on average, witnesses a footfall of 35,000 to 45,000 pilgrims in a day,” he said.“Irrespective of a peak or lean season, we used to get donations of around ₹45 lakh every day. We could not analyse the reason behind it but now everything has dried up because pilgrimage remains suspended since March 18 and it’s very depressing to see deserted Katra town, twin tracks and sanctum sanctorum,” he said.The shrine board has around 3,000 employees including 80 priests.“Obviously, there is a cash crunch because we run on donations and have no other source of income,” he added.For the first time in the history of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Yatra, no pilgrim has visited the holy cave shrine since March 18.During the nine-day long Navratri festival, the shrine had suffered a loss of ₹4.05 crore.Historic Raghunath Temple in the heart of Jammu city continues to wear a deserted look.Mubarak Singh, president of Dharmarth Trust that manages around 130 temples and shrines in Jammu and Kashmir, said, “We are not doing live webcasting but we do post arti and other rituals on Youtube and WhatAspp. The rituals are being performed by the pujaris twice a day.”“From all the temples we used to get around ₹45 lakh every month and our salary bill is over ₹35 lakh. Donations have ceased since the temple was closed down for devotees,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vaishno-devi-shrine-raghunath-temple-witness-big-dip-in-offerings-amid-lockdown/story-oRsc3uxp3u9MbeSfqFOrnM.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Speed up approval of functional RT-PCR machines: HC directs state, ICMR||The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the state government and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to ensure that Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machines are made available for Covid-19 tests at the earliest.Justice Manish Pitale, issued the direction after being informed that some RT-PCR machines in Vidarbha are not being used for Covid-19 tests as they are awaiting ICMR’s approval. The court was hearing a petition filed by Nagpur resident CH Sharma in 2000, raising concerns about the healthcare quality at the four government medical colleges in Vidarbha region.Sharma had complained that the colleges did not have enough medical seats for imparting education to students, lacked proper equipment for treatment and they lacked adequate staff, expert teachers and suffered from a paucity of funds.This year on March 18, he moved the HC again pointing out that the medical colleges were ill-equipped to handle the Covid-19 patients and create isolation facilities.During the course of hearing, the state’s counsel informed the court that at present RT-PCR test is only reliable in case of diagnosis of Covid-19 and rapid antibody test can at best be used for surveillance purposes. Assistant government pleader Dipak Thakare also said that the state has received 71,000 rapid antibody test kits for distribution in hot-spot areas, but the director of health services has issued instructions to all centres not to use the kits, as informed by ICMR. Distribution of the kits has been stopped from April 20.Assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar, however, maintained that the ICMR has not taken any decision to do away with rapid antibody tests and has merely asked not to use kits purchased from two particular Chinese manufacturers. He said the tests could certainly be undertaken for surveillance, although the best test for diagnosis of Covid-19 continues to be the RT-PCR swab test.Justice Pitale then directed the state authorities to make available RT-PCR tests for use and undertake rapid antibody tests for surveillance as suggested by ICMR. “This becomes all the more significant, considering that the results of the rapid antibody tests are said to be quick and hence of assistance to the state government in deciding its strategy to deal with areas where there is rapid spread of Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/speed-up-approval-of-functional-rt-pcr-machines-hc-directs-state-icmr/story-qQ4hhWSpkpGrM6YBp23rvM.html
01-05-2020||City||Muslim men help Hindu man’s kin conduct his funeral rites in north Kashmir’s Uri||Members of the Muslim community helped in performing the last rites of their Hindu neighbour in north Kashmir’s Uri town amid the nationwide lockdown.When 54-year-old Shekhar Kumar died in Lagama village of Uri on Thursday, and it was time to perform the last rites and the funeral, his family members realised that they needed help. That’s when they approached the Muslim community.Due to the lockdown, the relatives of the deceased could not reach the place for his funeral and no vehicle was available to carry the body to the cremation ground.When some Muslims residing in the neighbourhood came to know about it, they came forward to help the grief-stricken family.Deceased’s son Ghautam Kumar said that the Muslim community has always helped them in tough times. “It was not possible to perform my father’s last rites without their support,” he said.Abdul Majid Banday who helped Shekhar’s family conduct his last rites said, “We all will help each other, and caste, creed or religion should never come in the way.”Chairman of Uri municipal committee Bharat Kumar Sharma said that in times like this, it shows that humanity and kindness are the only things that matter at the end of the day.Over 300 pandit families living in Lagama village stayed back and didn’t migrate to date since the 90’s when the militancy was on peak and despite the turbulent days that the valley has seen.As most of the pandits live in Lagama village while the rest of them are settled in neighbouring Bandi and Dyari villages of Uri. These villages have six temples. Three are in Lagama, two in Bandi, and one in Dayar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muslim-men-help-hindu-man-s-kin-conduct-his-funeral-rites-in-north-kashmir-s-uri/story-4rnldRLYIIPrlanpZ7sqsI.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt school students make the grade with saksham exam||CHANDIGARH: When the learning levels of students from Classes 3 to 8 in Haryana government schools were tested in September under the ‘saksham ghoshna’ examination, the result was unimpressive.Five months on in February, the state government again held the exam. The authorities heaved a sigh of relief. “The result has been a huge success. The assessment of the students’ papers was done by a third party, “ Dr Rakesh Gupta, project director, chief ministers good governance associates (CMGGAs), said.“From next year, we have decided to assess students of Classes 9 and 10 also. English will be another subject of this exam.”TESTING COMPETENCEThe three-year-old ‘saksham’ Haryana programme is an initiative of the education department to assess and then improve the learning levels of government school students. The September exam was conducted on a random basis in 5,500 schools selected from 119 blocks of 22 districts.“In the September exam, no block was declared saksham. But in the February exam, 22 blocks from across 14 districts were assessed as saksham in all 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 grades,” a government spokesperson said.As per official data, just 64,793 students of third to middle standard opted for this exam in February. The largest number of 6,619 students of Hisar district sat in this exam, while Faridabad recorded the lowest attendance with 1,152 students. In Karnal district, 3,215 students were assessed in comparison to 3,975 students of Sirsa. In nine districts each, more than 3,000 students appeared in the exam.The Classes 3 to 5 students were assessed in Hindi, mathematics and environmental science (EVS), while Classes 6 to 8 pupils took the science, mathematics, social studies and Hindi papers across the state’s 119 blocks.SCORING PRACTICEA block gets the tag of ‘saksham’ where more than 80% students score over 50% marks in the ghoshna exam. Another level is ‘near saksham’ where more than 60% students have to score over 50% marks, while a block is ‘not saksham’ if less than 60% students score over 50% marks.Dr Gupta said 93 blocks were declared saksham in Class 5, while in Classes 6 and 8 almost half of the blocks were saksham with 64 and 65 blocks, respectively, achieving this benchmark. At least 40 blocks made it to saksham in grade 7.A block is disqualified where data analysis indicates mass cheating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-govt-school-students-make-the-grade-with-saksham-exam/story-Ixhjq0vg90mbp80Eyu2BGL.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi-Gurugram border sealed by Haryana Police, vehicles coming from Delhi asked to go back||The Delhi-Gurugram border was sealed by Haryana Police on Friday due to Covid-19 with people and vehicles coming from the national capital being asked to go back.While the Haryana government has said that people associated with essential services will be allowed to enter Gurugram, several of them claimed that despite having passes, the police did not allow them to cross the border.“I am a nursing staff in a hospital at IFFCO chowk in Gurugram but they are not allowing me to cross the border. Earlier, the police would see my identity card and let me through but now they are not,” said Rahul Singh, a resident of Rajokri in Delhi, who was stopped at the Delhi-Gurugram border near Sehraul.Another regular commuter from Delhi to Gurugram, Dipak Kumar, a hardware engineer with an internet service provider alleged his pass was not accepted by the police.“I am waiting for more than hour but police are not letting me in. I have been using a pass provided to me by my company to go from Delhi to Gurugram but now they are not allowing me to enter,” he said.A Haryana Police officer at the border said that entry of vehicles and others without proper passes has been stopped from 10 am on Friday till further orders.“We are only following the DC order and only those associated with essentially services are being allowed in,” he said.Haryana’s home and health minister Anil Vij had a few days ago said that borders of the state with Delhi have been “sealed” and stricter restrictions will be imposed on those coming in from the national capital while only those associated with essential services will be allowed to enter.Haryana will be in a “comfortable position” as far as Covid-19 cases are concerned if the borders stay sealed for 15-20 days, Vij had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-gurugram-border-sealed-by-haryana-police-vehicles-coming-from-delhi-asked-to-go-back/story-kv2nOGRO9CAdnvmR6O2eyK.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||HPAU rolls back entrance exam, admission fee||The Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU) has rolled back its decision to hike application fee for admission to various courses through entrance exam as well as merit bases.The HPAU conducts entrance exam for admissions to the bachelors and masters courses in agriculture and veterinary sciences. The admissions to the courses of physical sciences, life sciences, B. Tech (Food Technology), community science and doctoral programmes is done on merit bases.The university, which issued the prospectus for academic session 2020-21 on April 20, had drawn flakes from students and parents for quietly increasing the application fee amid the lockdown. The application fee was increased by ₹900 from ₹3100 to ₹4000.Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student arm of RSS had even written to the chief minister about the fee hike and also threatened a stir if the same was not withdrawn.Meanwhile, HPAU vice-chancellor Prof Ashok Kumar Sarial said that the academic council of HPAU, after taking stock of hardships faced by students and their parents in the lockdown due to Covid-19, has decided to roll back the decision.The entrance exam and the admission fee will remain same as it was in the previous academic year.The vice-chancellor further said that the university has also decided to increase the centres for the entrance examination as per the number of applicants so that the social distancing norms are complied with strictly.Prof Sarial said that the academic council has also decided to enhance intake capacity in M.Sc. Agriculture degree programmes with ten additional seats.He said that to ensure maximum admissions in the various programmes being run by HPAU, the academic council has decided to retain the existing number of self financing seats so that the students were not compelled to move to private colleges.“The HPAU is also considering extending the last date of submission of applications forms for various under graduate and post graduate programmes as has been demanded by various candidates due to closure of cyber cafes during the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hpau-rolls-back-entrance-exam-admission-fee/story-Uldx5SLXwDgeeOdTR1AVVN.html
01-05-2020||Gurugram||54-year-old man commits suicide in Gurugram||A 54-year-old man committed suicide here after his wife tested positive for COVID-19, police said.The incident was reported from Gurugram’s Acharya Puri.“The man committed suicide on Thursday night by hanging. No suicide note was found from the site,” a Gurugram Police release said.The police said they were investigating the reasons for suicide and it would be ascertained before post-mortem if the person was infected by COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/54-year-old-man-commits-suicide-in-gurugram/story-03lRg5B54XwjelSnDpGCCP.html
01-05-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Virus will be controlled when there is 60-70 % herd immunity, says Dr Choudhari||Health workers are on the front lines fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Prashant Choudhari, (45) who is a practising radiologist and also a managing committee member, Indian Medical Association; secretary, Pune Radiologist Association, and general secretary, National Medicos Organisation, Maharashtra speaks to HT about the on ground work that he has been doing since the lockdown began.What exactly is your role in this crisis?Ever since the lockdown began, I along with a few of my doctor friends were instrumental to collate and collect information of all the private doctors who would give free consultation within the set timings across Pune. This was during the first week of the lockdown. I have never shut my OPD during the lockdown. In fact, after finishing the stipulated hours in the OPD, I join a team of doctors to visit hotspot areas in Pune for assistance. We go door-to-door and conduct preliminary checks and treat those with minor covid symptoms I was first sent to Parvati vasti where I checked 200 patients and found four suspected cases. As a doctor, we were initially told that the vasti people might not like us prodding them, but once we began our rounds, they were more than cooperative. Creating awareness among them was also our job as they were afraid of the stigma. We were a team of two doctors, four local volunteers and a PMC official. There is always an ambulance on standby to take the suspected cases to Naidu hospital. Currently, I have been given Mangalwar peth, where I have screened 170 people.How does your day begin and rolls out?I wake up early and begin by helping my wife in the kitchen, washing the utensils, preparing for the breakfast, as my wife is also a doctor. We have two children and my parents al so stay with us. So before I set out for my OPD, I ensure that the entire family has had a health breakfast by 9.30 am.We have divided the house work among everyone and we pitch to help in any ways we can. Then post my OPD, after 3 pm, I head into the field, checking patients until 7pm.What precautions are you taking?In the OPD I use mask, sanitiser and a gown with head cap and a face shield. On field, I wear a PPE which is compulsory along with gloves and masks.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis n Pune? How is it unfolding?Covid-19 is not going to go away. There are going to be end number of cases undiagnosed, for 50 per cent of patients who might have Covid-19 are healthy carriers and the number will increase. When there is 60-70 per cent of herd immunity within the community, only then will this virus be controlled. PMC has its limitations, and though they are trying their best, we have a huge population, and it will need not just doctors, but everyone to participate.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?All hospitals are doing an amazing job. But the gaps are from the citizens. Patients hide facts regarding symptoms and travel history, which makes them careless. I appeal all residents to share all details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-virus-will-be-controlled-when-there-is-60-70-herd-immunity-says-dr-choudhari/story-Wc0VEUpvYrHucWCov1DxyO.html
01-05-2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University issues circular to complete syllabus via online classes||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has issued circular asking all its departments and colleges to complete remaining syllabus through online classes.The circular came following the guidelines issued by University Grants Commission (UGC) on Thursday, about examinations and academic calendar for the universities in view of Covid-19.SPPU vice-chancellor prof Nitin Karmalkar issued a circular to all its academic staff instructing for arrangements to be made during this crisis situation.For the decision on examination, all the V-Cs will attend the meeting on Friday to be held by minister for higher education Uday Samant.In the order Karmalkar said, “The spread of Covid-19 pandemic at global level has presented never before challenges to government, institutions and humanity in general and education is no exception in this scenario. Whereas it is necessary to continue the teaching learning process through digital education for the academic year 2020-21,”There are seven specific orders issued in the circular. -The mapping of courses may be initiated on priority basis to suitably identify and develop e-content for each course and may be done in alignment with the university curricula.Each course of each UG and PG programme be expeditiously supported by at least 40 per cent of syllabus content covered through e-learning. Maximum participation of the faculty be ensured in the entire process.Such e-content be sourced from national resources like Swayam, e-Pathshala or similar content from globally renowned sources. Appropriate validation for suitability be ensured before adopting such content.Present provision of 20 per cent credit transfer in UGC (credit framework for online learning courses through Swayam), 2016 be leveraged fully for effective implementation of digital education.University resources and infrastructure like Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMMRC), e-content development studio be utilised for the purpose.Director of Jaykar Knowledge Resource Centre shall coordinate and facilitate the process of development, storage and dissemination of these knowledge resources.The dean of the faculty concerned shall take necessary steps to ensure time-bound and effective implementation of the above program before commencement of the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/savitribai-phule-pune-university-issues-circular-to-complete-syllabus-via-online-classes/story-Qjp9Spd8If8JhQA9kWZkaN.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal inches towards becoming Covid-19 free, over 3 lakh await homecoming||Even as Himachal inches towards becoming free of the deadly novel coronavirus, around three lakh people are waiting to return home. No new cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the last eight days in Himachal Pradesh, said the ministry of home affairs. There are no red zones in Himachal. There are six orange and six green zones. The Himachal government has set new health surveillance protocols for people entering Himachal Pradesh. Those wanting to return home will be allowed to travel only on e-passes. Government data says that over three lakh residents were stranded in different parts of the country and are keen to return to their native places. Principal secretary revenue and agriculture Onkar Chand Sharma will facilitate the return of the stranded people. The state’s borders had been choked with traffic after the ministry of home affairs lifted travel restrictions on people stranded outside the state, including students and migrant labourers. Around 50,000 people have entered the state from different interstate borders in the last three days. All returnees have been asked to quarantine themselves at home. “We are coordinating with other state governments to facilitate the return of people stranded in different states.” said Sharma.FRESH SURVEILLANCE GUIDELINES The Jai Ram Thakur-led government has issued fresh guidelines to strengthen surveillance to prevent Covid-19 from spreading. As per the order issued by chief secretary Anil Khachi, concerned district magistrates shall appoint the heads of urban local bodies (ULBs) and gram panchayats (GP) in the territorial limits of the respective districts as ‘surveillance personnel’.Government has directed all the local urban bodies and panchayats to have a registration facility for returnees.Family members or relatives of returnees will register themselves at the facility immediately after their arrival or ‘surveillance personnel’ may register such names suo-moto, on receiving information from any other source.Registration is mandatory and any violation will invite action. The gram panchayat secretary will be the nodal officer for registration of returnees. Similarly, the SDM will appoint a nodal officer for a ward or cluster of wards in the ULBs.Designated surveillance personnel shall ensure that no returnee in their respective area remains unregistered. They will record returnees in the prescribed format and will duly inform the ASHA worker or local health worker in case of such an arrival.Every person arriving in Himachal shall have to stay in home or institutional quarantine facility at gram panchayat level for 14 days and any violation will warrant action.If a person is allowed to home quarantine, the surveillance officer will affix a sticker on front of such house.The ASHA worker will mandatorily visit the house on receiving the information from the surveillance personnel and shall ascertain that there is proper space for home quarantine. If not, she will inform the surveillance officer who shall move the person to institutional quarantine.The persons who will jump home quarantine will be moved to an institutional quarantine facility. Regular health checkups of the quarantined persons shall be conducted. Any person who is required to observe quarantine and is found violating the norms or deterring surveillance personnel from discharging their duty will be liable to be punished under the provisions of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-inches-towards-becoming-covid-19-free-over-3-lakh-await-homecoming/story-oFoPih0yOrT0u9gv9AXfXJ.html
01-05-2020||Kolkata||Lockdown has badly hit working class: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said the ongoing lockdown to combat the COVID-19 pandemic has badly hit the working class.She greeted all workers and their families on “international workers day” and said that all “have to stand shoulder to shoulder with our brothers and sisters” during this tough times.“On #InternationalWorkersDay, my humble greetings to all workers around the world & their families. The COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have hit the working class hard. We have to stand shoulder to shoulder with our brothers and sisters,” Banerjee tweeted on Friday.To stand by the working class during the lockdown, our Govt in #Bangla announced two new schemes - 'Sneher Porosh' for migrant labourers, and 'Prochesta' for workers in the unorganised sector. (2/2)The chief minister referred to the two new schemes announced by her government to help the migrant labourers and those working in the unorganised sector who are badly hit by the lockdown.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“To stand by the working class during the lockdown, our Govt in #Bangla announced two new schemes - ‘Sneher Porosh’ for migrant labourers, and ‘Prochesta’ for workers in the unorganised sector, she added.Under the ‘Sneher Porosh’ scheme the West Bengal government is providing Rs 1000 financial assistance to migrant works who are stuck in different parts of the country due to the lockdown.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe ‘Prochesta’ scheme was launched to help daily workers who are affected due to the COVID-19 crisis. Under this scheme the state government would give Rs 1000 financial assistance to daily workers.May 1 is celebrated as International Workers’ Day or Labour Day across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/lockdown-has-badly-hit-working-class-mamata-banerjee/story-emWBBEipS2gt1wKPooZnpK.html
01-05-2020||Pune||Two held in Pune for allegedly bludgeoning friend to death over drugs issue||Two men were arrested by Pune police for allegedly murdering a man and remanded to judicial custody on Thursday by a local court. The murder took place over drugs issue, according to police.The two arrested have been identified as Nikhil alias Bhaiyya Digambar Kamble, and Pradeep alias Gotya Gorakh Katarnavre, 25, both residents of Tadiwala road. The two were arrested within 12 hours of the incident.The deceased has been identified as Mangesh Vishnu Kamble, a resident of Mangalwar peth.According to assistant police inspector Sandeep Jamdade of Bundgarden police station who is investigating the case, “They (accused and deceased) were known to each other. Among themselves, they had decided to ask one person to acquire drugs, but that did not work out and they got into a fight.”The police found the body on Wednesday early morning hours with his head completely smashed at Sangamwadi parking lot near the river.After his identity was ascertained, the police found that he was habitual of drug use and rarely came home. The police found other frequent visitors of the parking lot and found whereabouts of people Kamble was last seen with.As Yerawada Central Jail has stopped accepting inmates in light of the pandemic, the two arrested men were sent to a jail in Satara district. The police are on a lookout for a third suspect in the case.A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bundgarden police station in the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-held-in-pune-for-allegedly-bludgeoning-friend-to-death-over-drugs-issue/story-ukKzJWZcCfCv4kJ50IFkyL.html
01-05-2020||City||7-month-old foetus found abandoned in Punjab’s Faridkot||A seven-month-old foetus was found abandoned in an empty plot in Anand Nagar area of Faridkot’s Kotkapura town on Friday.Local residents said that they noticed foul smell near the plot and on checking found the foetus lying in the grass there.Suspecting it to be a case of illegal abortion as a result of banned sex-determination, the police have informed the health department.Kotkapura station house officer Rajbir Singh said that after getting the information, a police team rushed to the spot and informed the health department.“The foetus was sent to the government hospital in Kotkapura for examination. It appeared to be around seven months old. We have initiated an investigation and footage from CCTV cameras in the area is being scanned to identify the accused,” he added.A case has been registered against unidentified suspects under Section 318 (Concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code at Kotkapura city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-month-old-foetus-found-abandoned-in-punjab-s-faridkot/story-cVZWkh4hRP40t8FoRaHfTL.html
01-05-2020||Pune||As Pune slums emerge as Covid-19 hotspots, political activists urge for tweak in strategy||Pune Municipal Corporation authorities have said that notwithstanding the poor response from slum dwellers to shifting to the nearly 70 temporary shelters created in civic schools, numerous steps have been taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city’s slums.However, political activists from the affected slum areas said the PMC needs to change its approach in slums given the high population density, tiny houses and enormous difficulty in maintaining social distancing.Nearly seven weeks after the first case in Maharashtra was reported in Pune on March 9, eight slums in Pune from five wards, namely Bhavani Peth, Kasba-Vishrambaug, Dhole Patil Road, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori and Shivajingar have emerged as the major hot spots of the disease in Pune.As of April 29, 81 people have died of this disease in Pune—one of the highest death tolls in the country—and more than 1,400 have tested positive.Former deputy mayor of Pune, Dr Siddharth Dhende, a doctor with a regular practice in the Nagpur Chawl and Yerawada slum said, “PMC needs to change its approach and needs to provide basic food kits with the help of self-help groups instead of allowing slum dwellers to go to fair price shops. The PMC needs to take care of community toilets. These people also need a source of income.”Congress leader Avinash Bagwe said, “People in the slums are not observing social distance in their interactions. The civic body should provide them with two weeks’ food supply and enforce the lockdown strictly in the slum areas. The idea of creating shelter homes has flopped and a practical solution would be to provide food and vegetables at their doorsteps.”As reported on Wednesday, Bagwe had said that people were not ready to move to the shelter homes for various reasons such as no food facility and the fear of things getting stolen from their small tenements. They were also worried that may not be allowed to go home for errands by the police if they moved to the temporary shelters.Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said a number of steps were being taken by the civic body to control the spread of Covid-19 in the slums. These included rigorous contact tracing with an emphasis on High Risk and Low risk contacts; stepping up swab testing; opening of dedicated Covid Care booth in hotspot areas; allocation of 10 mobile clinics/ambulances per ward and deployment of 75 teams per ward for the 5 hotspot wards.Also, patients who had tested negative were being discharged with a packet of five masks, sanitiser and soap and comprehensive medical, nutritional and psycho-social care was being provided for those with Covid-19.Agarwal said the civic body was doing extensive sanitisation in the affected areas regularly and had increased the civic water supply in these areas for proper hygiene and sanitation.She said that schools had been opened in these areas to enable slum dwellers to use them as night shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-pune-slums-emerge-as-covid-19-hotspots-political-activists-urge-for-tweak-in-strategy/story-Ococb6oj76xY5DnS1McxOI.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||#MainViManjeetSingh: AAP’s Punjab unit starts campaign, seeks Rs 50 lakh compensation for departed PRTC driver||The Punjab wing of the Aam Aadmi Party initiated the #MainViManjeetSingh (I am Manjeet Singh too) campaign on Friday, seeking Rs 50 lakh compensation for the family of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) driver Manjeet Singh who died on his way to Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra on April 26.The Punjab government had sanctioned a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for Manjeet’s family.AAP’s Punjab chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann staged the protest at his residence in Sangrur, leader of opposition and Dirba MLA Harpal Singh Cheema also followed suit. AAP MLAs and party leaders held protests in their respective residences and held placards demanding ‘justice’ for the ‘corona warrior’.“Manjeet Singh was on special duty. There should be no discrimination between a cop Harjit Singh, whose hand was chopped off, and Manjeet Singh who died while on duty. The government should award Rs 50 lakh to his family because he was a frontline warrior against the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Mann.The 38-year-old driver, who hailed from Badbar village of Barnala district, suffered a heart attack while the bus was going to fetch stranded Sikh pilgrims to Punjab from Hazur Sahib amid the nationwide lockdown.Leader of opposition Harpal Cheema said their party had demanded adequate compensation for the victim’s family because the role of people like Manjeet Singh was also commendable during tough times.“Manjeet sacrificed his life fighting against coronavirus. We are staging protests across the state seeking justice for Manjeet. The government just announced Rs10 lakh but we demand that his family should be given Rs 50 lakh and his kin should be given a government job,” said Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mainvimanjeetsingh-aap-s-punjab-unit-starts-campaign-seeks-rs-50-lakh-compensation-for-departed-prtc-driver/story-GschtrgGvHO8EVpZMLAcXM.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Home is where his heart is||Home is a place where the heart feels easy — at least this is how the self-proclaimed “mast maula (carefree soul)” Ashok Kumar Dhaka feels.“And the best way to keep the heart calm is to try to remain contended,” he says, adding, “no point in worrying about what might happen tomorrow.”An electrical engineer in a Gurugram residential society, Mr Dhaka, 36, is chatting on WhatsApp — the picture is taken through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. He says he is never perturbed by external events, and is not particularly rankled even by the ongoing pandemic. “I take all the precautions I can”—he is wearing a white mask—“but I don’t fret about things upon which I have no control.”Unlike many of us, Mr Dhaka’s working life hasn’t been profoundly altered. Indeed, he is temporarily staying in the apartment complex—his workplace—due to the lockdown. Otherwise he lives alone in a one-room house in Jharsa village in Sector 39, which he doesn’t consider a home. It doesn’t have his family (they’re in the village). There’s no TV. The only potential source of distraction in the room is the window through which he might look out into the neighbourhood “but I keep it covered with a curtain,” he says, laughing. Instead, the gentleman considers his workspace his “ghar,” home. He is a workaholic, and it was true even in the BC (Before Corona) era. He would always try to opt for early morning shifts, and though his duty would end by 2pm, he wouldn’t leave straight for Jharsa village. “I’d mostly continue to work until it would be really dark... there’s nothing to do in the room after all.” And then he would cover the 20-minute distance walking, his hands sometimes tucked into his pants pockets, and his black pitthu bag (backpack) hanging on his back.So now he must be thrilled having to live on his “work site” 24/7, thanks to the lockdown.Mr Dhaka looks amused. Following a pause, as if thinking hard to translate his feeling into words, he says, “to me, naukri is home.”What about the village then?His family, including wife and kids, live in Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan.“I frequently visit them—they’re only 4 hours away by bus.”In fact, he was in the village a few days before the lockdown started. “By then, I had already heard of coronavirus... there were news of people dying in China.” Nobody in the village was talking of the virus, though. “My village is far removed from the tensions of cities.” Mr Dhaka wistfully talks of its temples, its by-lanes, the friends he left there, and the taalaab (rainwater lake) whose cool water is a refuge to the cattle. “Life there is as mast as me.” To be honest, Mr Dhaka sometimes wonders just why he left the village, especially “when the high cost of living in Gurgaon nullifies whatever difference in the earnings one enjoys in a city compared to a village.”But he doesn’t stress much. “I enjoy my present.” He opens a picture in his mobile that depicts “the biggest part of my present”—a portrait of his wife, Sunita, and children, Mohit and Lakshita.As soon as the lockdown ends, Mr Dhaka will wait for 10 days “for things to normalise” and then he will board a bus for a holiday in the village—“my true home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-home-is-where-his-heart-is/story-Kt99Ssb8XEB6fdFvF5KkTK.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two missing mentally disabled persons found in Amritsar, MP, reunited with families||Two missing mentally disabled men found living in deplorable conditions in Amritsar and Madhya Pradesh have at long last been rescued and reunited with their families in Punjab. A Jalandhar-based NGO was instrumental in ensuring their homecoming. National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) and its activist Amarjit Anand stepped in to help the men when they heard of their pitiable condition.In the first case, Lovepreet, 19, a mentally disabled man, had gone missing in Ferozepur five months ago. His mother, Paramjeet Kaur, works as a housemaid in Barike village near Hussainwala, to make ends meet. She is a single mother and has four children. 19-YEAR-OLD’S MOTHER HAD BEEN FEARING THE WORST Kaur says she had filed a missing person complaint with the police but had gradually lost hope when months passed without any news of her son. She was reunited with her son on Friday after he underwent a Covid-19 test upon his return from Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh with the GRP police on Thursday night. Kaur said, “I had sleepless nights wondering how my child was surviving without food and shelter.” Lovepreet, was found sleeping on roads by the GRP police and circulated a video of him to ascertain his identity. Anand, who is also a member of the state advisory board on disabilities, said two weeks ago that he shared the video with all volunteers across the state. Last week, a worker, Pritpal Singh, with help of a local NGO and the administration found him in Jabalpur village. Pritpal, arranged food and lodging for the teen, till the administration ensured his safe departure. “We put forth his case before district magistrate Jabalpur Bharat Yadav and he sanctioned Rs 35, 000 to cover taxi fare and other expenses to send Lovepreet back to his family,” Anand said.In the second case, 21-year-old Javed, who also has mental disabilities, boarded a train on March 31 and reached Amritsar.His father Lukmaan, a 71-year-old rickshaw puller lived in Mayur Vihar, Delhi, launched a manhunt to find him the next day but to no avail.Anand, with help of local volunteers and the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), ensured the child’s safe return.Anand said that he had received information about this child from a shopkeeper in Amritsar and through NCPEDP executive director Armaan Ali on March 31. “With the intervention of the NGO and DEPwD, the child was sent back to his home in Delhi on April 4. It took several days for us to trace and retrace the child,” he said.“In this unprecedented situation, the administration and governments have chance to trace most missing children, especially mentally disabled people, who mostly, sleeps on the roads,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-missing-mentally-disabled-persons-found-in-delhi-mp-reunited-with-families-in-punjab/story-k5jBZSJDYDCfeJFAQxvrZP.html
01-05-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s brain stoke patient’s death not due to Covid-19 despite testing positive: Official||A 56-year-old woman from Uttarakhand’s Nainital district who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, died on Friday morning but her death wasn’t due to coronavirus, said officials.She died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, where she had been initially admitted on Tuesday after suffering from a brain stroke but was tested positive for the Covid-19 disease later.A health bulletin issued by the state government stated that the death was not due to Covid-19 but because of reduced blood flow to the heart.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer for AIIMS Rishikesh said that doctors have found the cause of death to be excessive brain bleed. Earlier, Dr Amita Upreti, director general for health in Uttarakhand, had said that the patient was kept on ventilator after being admitted to AIIMS.“The woman was admitted to the hospital after she suffered a brain stroke. She was kept on a ventilator, but she tested positive later and died on Friday morning,” said Dr. Upreti.The senior health official added that a person can be said to have died from coronavirus disease only his or her health condition deteriorates from a healthy state after testing positive.“After testing positive, once the person shows symptoms like cold, fever or cough which intensify further into respiratory problems due to which they are then admitted into an intensive care unit, from where their health condition further deteriorates leading to death; in that situation it can be called death due to Covid-19,” said Dr Upreti.“In this case, the woman had already been referred by four hospitals before she was admitted at AIIMS Rishikesh for her brain ailment. She later tested positive for the virus,” she added.On Tuesday, Harish Mohan Thapliyal had said that the woman had been admitted to the hospital due to an ailment in her brain and she was tested positive before a procedure was to be conducted on her.“The lady who is a resident of Nainital was first admitted to a hospital there from where she was referred to Bareilly before being admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh on April 22. We took her samples on April 21 evening for a precautionary test before conducting any medical procedure on her and she tested positive...” Thapliyal had said then.He had added that the woman had tested negative twice earlier when she was tested in Nainital and Bareilly.So far, Uttarakhand has reported 57 positive cases of Covid-19 out of whom 36 people have successfully recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-s-brain-stoke-patient-s-death-not-due-to-covid-19-despite-testing-positive-official/story-KwIxFzUQ0CuTQcpc8MrPEM.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 16 more Covid-19 cases, Jalandhar becomes first Punjab district to cross 100 mark||Recording the highest spike in a single district, 16 new fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases were reported on Friday.Confirming the development, Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said with this 105 positive cases had been reported in the district, including four deaths. A health official, seeking anonymity, said the new patients were close contacts of those already found positive, while some had returned from Nanded, where they had gone on pilgrimage.Jalandhar, which has the highest number of cases across the state, has also become the first district to cross the 100 mark. The Doaba region of Punjab, which comprises four districts, has reported 151 Covid-19 cases so far. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar has reported 23 cases, Hoshiarpur 11 and Kapurthala 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-16-more-covid-19-cases-jalandhar-becomes-first-punjab-district-to-cross-100-mark/story-WEsZtkZse419WMMaVyTNsK.html
01-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka to have 60 labs for Covid-19 testing by end of May||Seeking to ramp up its testing capacity for Covid-19, the Karnataka government propose to increase the number of labs in the state to 60 by this month end as against existing 26, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.The existing labs have a capacity to test about 5,000 samples a day, he said.“We have boosted our Covid-19 testing capabilities. Gadag, Vijayapura & Tumakuru get their own Covid-19 testing labs.From just 2 in Feb, we now have 26 labs & capable of testing 5,000 per day. We will have 60 labs by end of May,” Sudhakar tweeted. As per health department data as of Thursday evening, a total of 60,156 samples have been tested in the state so far and 57,548 of them reported negative. On Thursday alone, 4,752 samples were tested and 4,307 of them turned negative. The state’s tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 576, including 22 deaths and 235 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-to-have-60-labs-for-covid-19-testing-by-end-of-may/story-iiol1hui65flBloUC2RokK.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra has 14 districts in red zone, Mumbai included as well||Out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra, 14 have been classified as red zones, 16 as orange and six as green zone, in the latest list released by the Centre.The Union health ministry had divided India’s 733 districts into 130 red zones, 284 orange zone and 319 green zones and said all metropolitan cities—Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad—will remain as ‘red zones’ even after the lockdown ends on May 3.The Union health ministry said on Thursday districts with high load of Covid-19 cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease have been classified as red zones. Those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory disease fall in orange zones and others with no case are green zones.Red zones will have the most stringent restrictions after May 3. However, there will be partial easing in orange zones and liberal easing in green zones.Among Mumbai’s suburbs, Thane, Palghar and Mumbai Suburban have been designated as red zones. Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Solapur, Yavatmal, Aurangabad, Satara, Dhule, Akola, Jalgaon and Raigad are the other districts in Maharashtra to fall under the red zone.In the orange zone are Raigad, Ahmednagar, Amravati, Buldhana, Nandurbar, Kolhapur, Hingoli, Ratnagiri, Jalna, Nanded, Chandrapur, Parbhani, Sangli, Latur, Bhandara and Beed.The six districts which have been designated as green zones are Osmanabad, Washim, Sindhudurg, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Wardha.Maharashtra continued to report the most number of Covid-19 cases in the country with 10,498 patients and 459 fatalities across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-has-14-districts-in-red-zone-mumbai-included-as-well/story-4Hc1sApXLkyMk2ttFSBTmK.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||On Maharashtra Day, water resources minister Jayant Patil thanks ‘those bravely battling Covid-19’||Maharashtra is celebrating its 60th Foundation Day on Friday.The state came into existence, along with Gujarat, in 1960 when the Bombay Reorganization Act was passed by India’s Parliament to divide the multilingual state of Bombay into Gujarat and Maharashtra. Extending his wishes on Maharashtra’s Foundation Day, the state’s water resources minister Jayant Rajaram Patil expressed his gratitude to ‘everyone who is bravely battling for us against Covid-19’.Here is the full text of the minister’s statement on Maharashtra Day: Today we celebrate the 60 years of the formation of the State of Maharashtra. I extend my best wishes to every Maharashtrian and my deepest gratitude to everyone who is bravely battling for us against COVID-19. Maharashtra Divas is one emerged in pride and celebration across every Marathi household. Remembering the struggles of our united past and rejoicing the establishment of our shared legacy through language, culture and Statehood. As we step into the 60th year of our glorious State in the midst of these difficult and dark times, it is important to introspect and remember where we have come from, where we are and where are we marching. Maharashtra has always been a soil of social reformists, thinkers, intellectuals and activists. In Medieval India, reform was ushered in the field of devotion through Bhakti Marg and Varkari Sampraday. Saints like Dnyaneshwar, Namdev, Tukaram propagated the philosophy of equality in spirituality. The principles of religious tolerance and women empowerment cemented by the benevolent and visionary warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj laid ground for the progressive mindset which proved to be a basis for several major social reforms in the 18th and 19th century. In the late 19th century, egalitarian reforms in Maharashtra had three distinct veins; Women’s education & empowerment, Mahatma Phule’s anti-caste truth-seeking society and the organizational endeavors initiated by Bharat Ratna Dr.Babasaheb Ambedkar for the education and rights of the underprivileged. Maharashtra was a frontrunner in the Indian War of Independence producing countless freedom fighters, moderates and radicals alike. After independence, the fate of the Maharashtrian people would not be decided so easily, for the path ahead would be full of further struggle, protests and patience. The concept of a separate state for the Marathi speaking people had been established since the idea of Swaraj by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in the 17th century, however, after independence, it was only in 1956 that the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti was formed under the aegis of Keshavrao Jedhe in Pune. Prominent activists like Atre, Prabodhankar Thackeray, Senapati Bapat and Shahir Amar Shaikh and many others have invaluable contribution to the State we call home today. It was Shri. Yashwantrao Chavan Saheb, the first Chief Minister of Maharashtra who led us and our newly formed State into the bright future. An ingenious and intuitive leader, Chavan Saheb was more than a political leader, he was voice of the common in the state and a true Statesman! He guided our State to greatness by planning in the fields of agriculture, water resources, small-scale industries and panchayat raj. His values and principles firmly established Maharashtra on progressive and rational lines. Even with the victory of State formation, challenges kept erupting in the way. Among them are the Muslim Satyashodhak Samaj led by Hamid Dalwai, Baba Adhav’s’ Ek Gaav-Ek Panavatha’s movement, the Yuvak Kranti Dal and the Dalit Panther protests. Aggressive language and satyagrahi actions were the hallmarks of these movements. Baba Amte’s Anandvan emerged as a training center for socialist activists. Post-emergency, our State is once again gifted with a 38-year old Chief Minister in Padma Vibhushan Sharadchandraji Pawar, a true visionary as subsequent decades would prove multiple times. Padma Vibhushan Sharadchandraji Pawar’s immense intuition, insight and intelligence saw the State excel rapidly in agriculture and industries. He reiterated the State under values of welfare, promoting social equality and equity. Post emergency, a lull was evident in youth movements in Maharashtra and in the following decade the women’s liberation movement gained momentum. Maharashtra had been the pioneer in championing the cause of women’s education and emancipation. Journals like ‘Baija’ and ‘Stree’ became the mouthpieces of women’s liberation in the 1980s. Various women and public organizations were formed and took the cause forward. These organizations met various demands of women’s health, hygiene, livelihood, protection, including those of abandoned and verbally divorced women. From this to women’s toilets, many questions were raised by these organizations. This led to the enactment of new laws to protect women against domestic violence, female foeticide, and sexual harassment in the workplace. Maharashtra was the first state in India to enact 30% reservation for women in local bodies under the leadership of Shri Sharad Pawar, and with his untiring efforts over the years it is now 50%. Many would say that in the last decade the legacy of social change within Maharashtra has slowed down. It is true that in the last 10 years, many movements for social equality and social progress have reached a dormant stage in this progressive state that has been instrumental in creating leadership to the country in various fields. We have excelled in various domains of social justice, education, health, local governance, infrastructure and economic development over the last 60 years, and even still a greater course is yet to be covered. Any kind of social numbness which seems to be pervasive should be shunned since our beloved State is in an uphill battle in many fronts, especially today. We face two great threats which cannot be seen. On one hand, an attack on our heath and livelihood by COVID-19 and on the other, an attack on our personal freedom by the pangs of communalism. A defining characteristic of Maharashtra has been that of secularism. Practiced and propagated by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s secularism found its roots in Maharashtrian society early, and has inspired the formation and flow of our present society. We have been a people of various faiths who have survived together to live freely together. Against the several ugly communal onslaughts taking place in the country, Maharashtra was the first State to break age-old political barriers, to unite to defend the age-old Maharashtrian spirit of secularism. The Maha Vikaas Aghadi has been a role model for every secular force around the world. Under the very capable administration of Shri Uddhav Thackeray, we as the Maharashtrians have the opportunity to carry on the progressive principles of Maharashtra. It is in our history to struggle and emerge victorious. Today as we fight, as the worst hit state in India, in the war against COVID 19, we must keep hope. Maharashtra has been plagued by many natural and unnatural disaster through time and we have survived. The Government is working every minute and every hour only for the protection and welfare of the people, but it is the people whose mental strength is the most vital at this hour. As we step into 60 years of our existence, let us remind ourselves that it is no one leader who has taken us to where we stand proud today. It is the collective fight and efforts of many great leaders and generations of Maharashtrians who have overcome every hurdle thrown our way. It is in the DNA of every Maharashtrian to challenge, to struggle and to overcome; To be united in the face of danger and achieve victory against all odds. From this war, we will rise again, like the phoenix from the ashes to take flight in the highest skies. I leave you with some lines from our beloved poet Govindagraj, hoping it brings you strength and hope in our fight together. “Mangal desha, pavitra desha, Maharashtra deshaPranam ghyava majha ha shrimaharashtra deshaRakat desha, kankhar desha, dagadanchya deshaNazuk desha, komal desha, fulanchyahi desha”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/on-maharashtra-day-water-resources-minister-jayant-patil-thanks-those-bravely-battling-covid-19/story-CGhXBLTtIjy0FZKJNSMZzO.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Six Sangrur cops quarantined after woman held for drug possession tests positive in Ludhiana jail||Six Punjab Police personnel were quarantined in Sangrur after a woman arrested for possession of drugs tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Ludhiana Jail on Thursday. The affected personnel were posted at Bahadur Singh Wala Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) wing in Sangrur.Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said the accused was arrested on April 27 with 11gm heroin in Bagrian village. After arrest, the woman was taken to Ludhiana jail on April 28 where she was found positive for Covid-19 on April 30.“As soon as her results came positive, all police personnel who arrested and brought her to Ludhiana were quarantined,” added Garg.The accused woman was arrested on April 27 and she was sent to Ludhiana jail on April 28 where she was tested coronavirus positive on April 30.On Friday, police sealed Bagrian village and asked those who had come in contact with the woman to approach health department for their screening. The patient’s two children have been quarantined in their maternal home. “We are tracing her contacts. Her children, who were at Mandore village of Patiala, have been quarantined there,” said Rakesh Kumar, Amargarh station house officer.Senior medical officer (SMO) Amargargh civil hospital Dr Sanjeev Kumar said their teams started a survey in the village and were quarantining her contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-sangrur-cops-quarantined-after-woman-held-for-drug-possession-tests-positive-in-ludhiana-jail/story-GqJSazsFKwkU8XVn8ffYKK.html
01-05-2020||Jaipur||33 new cases, 3 Covid-19 deaths in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded three more coronavirus deaths on Friday, while 33 fresh cases of the virus were reported, an official said.Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said while two people died in Jaipur, one died in Nagaur. The death toll due to the virus in the state has climbed to 61.Jaipur alone has reported 34 deaths.As many as 33 new cases, including 11 in Ajmer, seven each in Chittorgarh and Kota, six in Jaipur and one each in Jodhpur and Rajsamand have been reported, the Health Department official said.The state now has 2,617 confirmed cases of COVID-19, out of which 644 have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,656 active cases, Singh said.Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 913 infections, followed by 511 in Jodhpur.The COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus. PTI AG DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/33-new-cases-3-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan/story-QeiqtMoFk64Dse9EnCj8WM.html
01-05-2020||Patna||Sushil Modi urges Centre to arrange trains to bring back stranded workers and students||Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi has urged the Centre to help arrange special trains to bring back state’s migrant workers and students that are stranded in other parts of the country due to the nationwide lockdown.“It is not possible to bring lakhs of people, including migrant workers and students, who are stranded in other states in buses. I appeal to the Central Government to arrange special trains for them keeping social distancing in mind,” the Bihar Deputy CM told ANI.“Bringing people back to the state through buses would not be feasible as it would take six to seven days for buses for the trip. It will take months to get people back home if we were to do so by buses,” he added. The Bihar Deputy Chief Minister said that arrangements for the returning of the stranded students and migrant labourers--with regard to quarantine facilities--have been made by the state government.He said that more than 27 lakh people have applied for relief during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/sushil-modi-urges-centre-to-arrange-trains-to-bring-back-stranded-workers-and-students/story-mz1nA6olN7GRhFv7iDEg6I.html
01-05-2020||Ranchi||One more Covid-19 case in Jharkhand, state tally reaches 111||One person from Godda district has tested positive for Covid-19 last night, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand to 111.“The patient had returned from Kolkata. A total of 111 persons have been affected by coronavirus so far in Jharkhand,” Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said.A total of 35,043 confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been reported in India. 8,889 persons have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Friday.There are 25,007 active cases of Covid-19 in the country at present. 1,147 people have lost their lives due to the coronavirus in the country to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/one-more-covid-19-case-in-jharkhand-state-tally-reaches-111/story-ylrDsLZOhbFNO7IPAaroTK.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||‘High load of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, all its districts in red zone’: Health ministry||The entire Delhi has a high load of coronavirus cases, and all of its 11 districts are under the red zone classification, according to a revised list released by the Centre on Thursday.The Centre said that recovery rates have gone up, so the districts have now been reclassified under different categories.According to Centre’s guidelines, districts with high load of coronavirus cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are classified under red zones, while those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory infection fall in orange zones.Districts with no coronavirus cases are categorised as green zones.An order released by the Union health ministry along with the list said that it’s a dynamic list and will be updated on weekly basis or earlier. “The states will be communicated for further follow-up action in consonance with the directions issued by the Union Home Ministry. under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the order further said.The states have been empowered to add areas/districts to red and orange zones based on field feedback and additional analysis, but they cannot relax the zonal classification as communicated by the Union health ministry.The National Capital Region (NCR) has a large number of hostpots or ‘red zones’. These include Faridabad, Sonipat, and Noida (Gautam Buddh Nagar).The government in Haryana, which surrounds Delhi from three sides, has said that many of the Covid-19 cases in its NCR districts have their origins in infections emanating from the national capital and the authorities had ordered sealing the districts with Delhi to check spread of the infection.The worst-affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (58), Gurgaon (54), Faridabad (53), Palwal (34), Sonipat (25), Jhajjar (24) and Panchkula (18).Meanwhile, the district administration in Gautam Buddh Nagar said that the number of coronavirus hotspots has risen to 54. Out of these, 21 are in the green zone, nine are in the orange zone and 24 are in the red zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-load-of-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-all-its-districts-in-red-zone-health-ministry/story-UXR178fuzn9m5UmPzUf60K.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patient recovers in Himachal, seven active cases remain||One more Covid-19 patient recovered in Una’s Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 28.Additional chief secretary health RD Dhiman said, “One more patient has been cured of the novel coronavirus disease in Himachal Pradesh. The report of his second follow-up sample came out negative late on Thursday.” The cured patient is a Tablighi Jamaat worker from Una, who was undergoing treatment at Charitable Hospital, Bhota in Hamirpur.The patient has been discharged from the hospital. He will be kept under observation in an institutional quarantine facility for two-weeks and will be sent home if he tests negative after completing a 14-day observation period.Seven active cases remain in the state.Two patients, from Chamba and Kangra, were also discharge on Thursday after testing negative twice.As many as 14 patients have recovered in last 11.Thirteen patients have recovered in Una, five from Solan, five from Chamba, four from Kangra and one from Sirmaur.Dhiman also said that the first samples of two Hamirpur patients also came out negative and as per protocol their second sample will be tested today. So far, 40 Covid-19 cases including one fatality have been reported in the state. Una was the worst-hit district with 16 cases. followed by Solan with nine cases. Six cases were reported from Chamba, five from Kangra and two each from Hamirpur and Bilaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-patient-recovers-in-himachal-seven-active-cases-remain/story-stpc38dr5ueOF7e5NMIJUI.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Leopard spotted on Lucknow outskirts||After flamingos in Mumbai, ‘nilgai’ in Noida, dolphins in Meerut, it is now a leopard that has been spotted in Noorpur village in Gosainganj, on the outskirts of Lucknow.The leopard was spotted by villagers, late on Thursday night after which the police was informed. The villagers blocked the opening of a tunnel pipe in which the big cat had taken refuge.A local resident, Mohit Kumar, who had first spotted the leopard near the culvert said, “I ran for my life and informed the villagers and then the police. The leopard had also been spotted a few days ago in Sarojini Nagar area.”The forest officials, who were called in, tried to get the leopard out of his hiding but failed.Assistant commissioner of police, Mohanlalganj, Sanjeev Sinha said a huge number of villagers had gathered around the culvert and we had a tough time trying to cordon off the area. The forest team has put a net on the end of the culvert so that whenever the feline comes out, it gets trapped in.Zoo director R K Singh said, “The leopard is stuck deep inside the culvert and will take time to come out only when he sees that people are not around.”Singh said that the wild animals were straying into the urban areas mainly due to the lockdown and would move back into the forest areas once the lockdown was lifted and traffic was restored on the roads.Meanwhile, in Bareilly district too, a leopard was spotted in Karimganj village two days ago. When a farmer saw the leopard, the big cat slipped back into the forest area.Later, forest department staff confirmed the presence of the leopard on the basis of its pugmarks.Similarly, pugmarks of a leopard were found at two different areas in Badaun. Chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone, Lalit Verma said, “Apart from leopards and tigers, there have been numerous sightings of hyenas, jackals, deer, jungle cats and crocodiles in human settlements in the last one month. We have rescued many wild animals since the lockdown.”He further said, “Due to the lockdown, there is hardly any movement on roads and animals are moving around freely.”--IANSamita/sdr/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/leopard-spotted-on-lucknow-outskirts/story-kCDc3ZP7w8elJG9UkQsVxJ.html
01-05-2020||Pune||Pune civic body to ease curbs in certain areas post May 3||The civic administration has decided to reduce the number of coronavirus containment zones in Pune city after May 3 and give some relaxations in the non-hotspots .“Barring hotspots or red zones in the central Pune, we are planning to give some relaxations in some non-hotspot areas of Pune which are unaffected (by the disease),” said Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner.He said as far as lifting of the lockdown (in force till May 3) is concerned, it is the central government’s call but in the non-hotspot areas, some restrictions can be removed and commercial establishments such as bakeries, salons and electronics shops can be allowed to function.“Currently all wards under Pune municipal limits come under containment zones but we will reduce their number after May 3,” he said.He added that IT companies located in Pune limits can also be given some relaxations and allowed to reopen.Gaikwad, however, said that restrictions will be in force in red zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-to-ease-curbs-in-certain-areas-post-may-3/story-Qgx5fxFjjwkotipU7xqvWP.html
01-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka Govt appoints nodal officers to monitor movement of stranded people||Karnataka government has assigned State Nodal Officers after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) order regarding the inter-state movement of stranded migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and students during the lockdown period.The Nodal officers have also been appointed for coordination with 11 different states.In an order issued on Thursday, Karnataka Government wrote, “To facilitate smooth and orderly movement of persons across State borders as per SOPs, the undersigned, in the exercise of powers conferred under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and in the capacity as Chairman, State Executive Committee, hereby appoint the following officers as Nodal officers to coordinate with Nodal Officers of States/Union Territories (UTs) mentioned against their names.”Dr Rajkumar Khatri, IAS and Arun Jeji Chakravarthy, IPS will be overall in charge of the movement of stranded people from outside States/UTs to Karnataka.N Manjunatha Prasad, IAS and P S Sandhu, IPS will be overall in charge of the movement of stranded people from Karnataka to other States/UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-appoints-nodal-officers-to-monitor-movement-of-stranded-people/story-2rtzyQ26w6W2VcEYMnfjeJ.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Five more pilgrims back from Nanded test positive in Mohali||Five more persons who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali on Friday besides a 20-year-old youth from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, taking the total count to 92 in the district.Among the pilgrims who were found to be infected are a 56-year-old woman and her 20-year-old son besides a 70-year-old woman, all residents of Khanpur in Kharar. A 30-year-old man from Badala and 40-year-old woman from Choti Nangal in Kharar have also tested positive.In the past three days, 20 pilgrims out of a total of 57 back from Nanded have tested positive. Meanwhile, the 20-year-old who tested positive in Jawaharpur is the son of the panch who was first to be infected in the village on March 4 and had triggered the outbreak there. The village alone accounts for 50% cases of the district. Of 46 confirmed cases, 17 have recovered so far.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the six patients have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “All are asymptomatic and are responding well to treatment,” he said. On Thursday, the district witnessed the biggest spike in the number of coronavirus cases in a single day with 13 people testing positive. Ten of them had returned from Nanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-nanded-pilgrims-test-positive-in-mohali-taking-district-count-to-89/story-8x1rNfOJjTrulgbqwNQMnI.html
01-05-2020||Gurugram||Cross-border transit into Gurugram prohibited from 10 am today||Cross border transit into Gurugram will be prohibited from 10 am today.Vehicles were seen lining up on the Delhi-Gurugram border today morning before the prohibition is enforced.The Gurugram administration issued an order on April 29 which reads that based on the revised guidelines of Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) which allow certain additional activities to be opened in the country, the movement for any additional purposes (not already allowed under exemptions) shall not take place without specific exemptions granted by the DM’s office, which shall be determined on the basis of objectives of essential nature of the activity, the mitigation of hardship to the public and ensuring continuity of government business.“The list of consolidated exemptions include authorised government officers/staff of government offices, those specially issued a restricted movement pass by authorised officers of Central government/Haryana government in this behalf, ambulances, ATM cash vans, LPG, oil containers/tankers, vehicles supplying essential items like PPEs, sanitisers, fruits, vegetable, etc,” reads the district administration order.India is under a nationwide lockdown until May 3 to stem the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cross-border-transit-into-gurugram-prohibited-from-10-am-today/story-oWAuLrCJyUyUVVABNJy11O.html
01-05-2020||Education||Doordarshan to extend e-learning to 5 more standards from May 4||In a bid to help students compensate for the academic loss due to the lockdown, the Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has decided to launch virtual learning for five more classes through the public broadcaster, Doordarshan (DD), from May 4.With technical support from UNICEF, Bihar, the BEPC has already been running virtual classroom teaching on the local DD channel for classes nine and 10 since April 20, days after the country went under lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus infection on March 24.As per the new arrangement, BEPC would conduct virtual classroom teaching for the students of classes six, seven, eight, 11 and 12. To facilitate teaching for fresh classes, the BEPC has booked a 3-hour slot, from 9 am to 12 pm.BEPC programme officer, Kiran Kumari, said the objective of virtual classes was to cover the syllabus of April and May for the students and engage them in academic activities during the lockdown.“For now, we have booked slots for one month. The classes may be further extended depending upon the lockdown situation”, she added.Nipurnh Gupta, communication officer of UNICEF Bihar, said they extended technical support in converting study materials of different classes in digital format. Gupta said, “Analyzing the target audience, television is a better medium for digital classes than mobile in the state. Majority of the students, especially in high school, may not have access to smartphones or parents could not afford additional cost of internet recharge.”“Those students who have access to smartphones, Unnayan App will be complementary in their online learning as it gives a platform to students to discuss queries and solve doubts with subject experts.”As per BEPC officials, there are around 75 lakh students enrolled in classes six to 12 in government and government-aided schools across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/doordarshan-to-extend-e-learning-to-5-more-standards-from-may-4/story-oBhTMDwN4nPKS0ACfgj0XK.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana are among 130 red zone districts in country||Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana in Punjab are among the 130 districts declared as red zones by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW).The three of the 22 districts in Punjab were listed among the red zones on Thursday, a day the state saw its sharpest spike in coronavirus positive cases. The Centre, according to a letter sent by secretary, MOHFW, Preeti Sudan, declared 284 districts as orange zones and another 319 as green zones in the country. Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Bathinda and Fazilka in Punjab have been declared green zones and the remaining 15 are orange zones.In the previous list of hotspots, released on April 15, the four districts of Mohali, Jalandhar, Pathankot and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar were identified as red zones with large outbreaks. “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria. This classification is multi-factoral and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance, feedback to classify the districts,” Sudan wrote to chief secretaries of all states after a meeting held by the Union cabinet secretary with them. The districts have been being considered under green zones if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case in the past 21 days in the district. The MOHFW secretary said that based on feedback and additional analysis at state level, states may designate additional red or orange zones as appropriate. “However, states may not relax the zonal classification of districts classified as red/orange as communicated by the ministry,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-jalandhar-patiala-and-ludhiana-are-among-130-red-zone-districts-in-country/story-aXYA5sf3RNXvI37LSTpztJ.html
01-05-2020||Education||Calcutta University makes its archive with century-old records available online||The Calcutta University on Thursday made its archive, including rare records dating back to the 19th century, available online for the public.Vice-chancellor Sonali Chakraborty Bandyopadhyay told PTI that the archive can be accessed by anyone through the Calcutta University’s official website.There are two major reasons behind the decision, she said.“The first is our responsibility to the students and faculty, whose education and research are getting hampered as they cannot physically access the library collections due to the restrictions.“The second is our responsibility as a public institution to the citizens as well as the world at large.Necessity and value of academic research should be felt by the society,” she said.The university’s library resources, including the digital collections, were accessible so far to users within the campuses.“As a public university, we feel that it is our responsibility to make CU’s digital collections part of the global academic commons, to facilitate the pursuit of knowledge beyond borders,” the vice-chancellor said.The list of digital resources include convocation addresses (1861-2018), Tagore Law Lectures (1870-1986), University Commission reports (1917-1919), minutes of the senate, provisional committee, syndicate & and council (1857- 1988), The Calcutta Review (1844-1966).Besides, the university’s old question papers (1891- 1980), old syllabi (1955-1977), full text of theses (PhD/DLitt/DSc) (1960-2018) and medical dissertations (1956- 2005) have also been made available.The vice-chancellor said teachers of the university have initiated online teaching as regular classes are suspended due to the lockdown and they have also been regularly uploading study materials on the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/calcutta-university-makes-its-archive-with-century-old-records-available-online/story-oAZaw91EqbktcI29ejBMAN.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hotspots in Haryana, Punjab, HP and J&K down to 10, many districts in orange zone now||The number of hotspots or red zones from the four northern states of Haryana, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh; and the union territories of Chandigarh and Ladakh were reduced to 10 from 29 on Thursday night by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). The new classification of districts, as per the Union health ministry, is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. A number of existing hotspot districts, consequently, have been dropped into the orange zones and may make it to the green zone subsequently, officials said. “It is important to ensure that we identify pockets of critical interventions for a focused management of Covid-19 at the field level,’’ said Union health secretary Preeti Sudan in an April 30 communication to the chief secretaries of the states. The fresh list of hotspots came after cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a video conference with chief secretaries of the states on Thursday.Himachal, Ladakh have no hotspot nowHaryana’s Sonepat and Faridabad districts are now designated as hotspots or red zones in terms of Covid-19 spread. The state earlier had six hotspot districts in Nuh, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal (hotspots with large outbreaks) and Ambala and Karnal (hotspots with clusters), as per the MoHFW classification of April 15.Similarly, Punjab now has only three hotspot districts: Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana as compared to the eight earlier, namely Mohali, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Jalandhar, Pathankot (hotspots with large outbreaks) and Amritsar, Mansa, Ludhiana and Moga (hotspots with clusters).Jammu and Kashmir now has four hotspots, namely Bandipora, Shopian, Anantnag and Srinagar as compared to the eight earlier – Srinagar, Bandipora, Baramulla, Jammu, Udhampur, Kupwara (hotspots with large outbreaks) and Shopian and Rajouri (hotspots with clusters).No districts of Himachal Pradesh (HP) and Ladakh have been categorised as hotspots. HP earlier had five hotspots with clusters in Solan, Una, Kangra, Chamba and Sirmaur, while Ladakh had Kargil. The Union Territory of Chandigarh, which was declared a hotspot on April 15, continues to remain so.Classification criteria broad-basedBroad-basing its criteria for labelling districts as red, orange and green zones, the Union health ministry on Thursday night categorised 18 Haryana districts into orange zones, and the remaining two in green zones. The existing hotspot districts of Nuh, Gurugram and Palwal have made it to the orange zone.The Union health secretary said that districts were earlier designated as hotspots or red zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. “Since the recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones by broad-basing the criteria,’’ Sudan wrote.A district will be considered under green zone if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case for the past 21 days, Sudan said.“Some states have raised issues on the inclusion of certain districts in the red zone. I would like to highlight that this is a dynamic list. The list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier and communicated to states for further follow-up action in consonance with the directions issued by Union home ministry under the Disaster Management Act,’’ the Union health secretary said.States at liberty to classify red zonesThe Central government though has also given the liberty to the state government to designate additional red or orange zones based on the field feedback and additional analysis at the state level. But they have been asked not to relax the zonal classification of districts classified as red or orange by the Union ministry. The Central government has emphasised that necessary action for containment be taken to break the chain of transmission of virus in both red and orange zone districts reporting confirmed cases.New criteria for containment zonesModifying the criteria for the demarcation of containment zones in districts, the MoHFW said that a residential colony/mohalla/municipal ward or police-station area/municipal zones/towns can be designated as containment zones in urban areas.The containment zones in these districts have to be delineated based on mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area with well demarcated perimeter and enforceability. For rural areas, villages/clusters of villages or group of police stations/gram panchayats/blocks can be designated as containment zones.“The area should be appropriately defined by the district administration/local urban body with technical inputs from the local level,” the communication said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotspots-in-haryana-punjab-hp-and-j-k-down-to-10-many-districts-in-orange-zone-now/story-Cz27GnK8VIBgl80275cGNK.html
01-05-2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot asks officials to make arrangements for return of migrants||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said he was in touch with Railways to ferry migrants to the state and asked district collectors to ready quarantine centres for them.He directed officials to make arrangements for transportation, quarantine and other facilities for the migrants who would return to the state.In a video-conference with senior officials late Thursday night, the chief minister reviewed preparations for safe movement of the migrants.Gehlot directed district collectors to prepare a route chart in coordination with the Railways so that labourers and other migrants could reach their destination without any problem, an official statement said.Rajasthan has got registered nearly 10 lakh migrants. Of them, 70 per cent are those who want to return to Rajasthan and rest 30 per cent are the migrants of other states.Prior to the video-conference with the collectors, the chief minister said that arrangement of special trains for ferrying migrants stuck in other states was “very much required”. He and hoped that the Centre would soon take a positive decision on the matter.“The Centre should arrange special trains for migrant labourers who are stranded in different states. The Railways should release schedule of the trains as soon as possible,” Gehlot told PTI before the meeting.“I have been consistently demanding that the Centre operate special trains for migrants who are stuck in various states,” he said.The chief minister asked the officers to prepare short-term and long-term strategies to fight COVID-19. Gehlot said efforts should be made to revive economic activities while containing the spread of coronavirus.“Along with lockdown, it is equally important to run economic activities. If all activities are shut for a long period, it will create a financial crisis and that will make fight against corona more difficult,” he said.Health minister Raghu Sharma informed that the state’s capacity to test samples has increased to 9,100 per day which will further enhanced to 10,000 testings per day.Chief Secretary D B Gupta, ACS (Home) Rajeeva Swarup, ACS (Industry) Subodh Agrawal and other senior officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/cm-ashok-gehlot-asks-officials-to-make-arrangements-for-return-of-migrants/story-qLKoW2eBGGGgq95J3HA3QL.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||417 new cases take Mumbai’s Covid-19 count to 6875; 20 die||With the addition of 417 fresh coronavirus cases, the number in Mumbai rose to 6,875 on Thursday, while 20 more patients succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 290, the city civic body said.According to a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) release, with the detection of fresh cases, the tally jumped to 6,875, while the toll reached 290 in the financial capital with the addition of 20 fatalities, most of them having pre-existing illnesses.The BMC said it discharged 45 patients from various hospitals on Thursday following their recovery from the disease, taking the number of such people to 1472.The civic body further informed that 498 new suspected patients of COVID-19 have been admitted in various hospitals in the city.According to BMC sources, the city has 1459 containment zones, where at least one positive or suspected patient has been found.The BMC said out of 20 fresh deaths, 16 patients had co-morbidities.“Eight of the deceased were above 60 years and 12 were between 40 to 60 years of age,” the release said.The civic body also claimed out of the 417 new cases, 110 tested positive on April 27 and 28. These patients have already been admitted in isolation wards and they are under treatment.Meanwhile, in the wake of death of a civic inspector associated with food distribution work in Dharavi due to coronavirus, the BMC has decided to test its assessment staff, bus drivers and community development officers at fever clinics by May 1.The decision comes after one of the main labour unions warned of “tough stand” if the BMC did not conduct medical examination of its staff.In the meantime, an NGO, Watchdog Foundation, has written a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray claiming that 26 staffers, including a few doctors, of a leading hospital in suburban Vile Parle (West) have tested positive for coronavirus.However, the hospital has not quarantined its staffers, the NGO claimed. PTI KK NP RSY RSY RSY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/417-new-cases-take-mumbai-s-covid-19-count-to-6875-20-die/story-s3Ge2UUMWvctiPLmC40nEO.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||29-year-old air hostess found dead in Mumbai apartment||A 29-year-old air hostess was found dead inside her flat at Poddar Wadi locality in the western suburb of Vila Parle, police said on Thursday.The body of Sultana Shaikh was found in a decomposed state at her apartment in Rajalaxmi building late on Wednesday night, after her neighbours were alerted by the stench emanating from her apartment, an official said.Shaikh worked with Go Air and was living with two of her colleagues, who had left the city before the COVID-19 lockdown was enforced, he said.No suicide note was found in the apartment, he said, adding that a case of accidental death was registered and further investigations were underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/29-year-old-air-hostess-found-dead-in-mumbai-apartment/story-EHqZ19jJ6cgOp7tZLI1CKO.html
01-05-2020||City||Four Yamunanagar scribes held for extortion||Four Yamunanagar-based journalists, including a woman were arrested for trying to extort ₹2 lakh from the district food and supplies controller, Rajesh Kumar Arya. Arya said, “On April 18, three journalists stopped my vehicle near Radaur-Sangipur nakkah. They asked the police to check my vehicle and started making videos, but Radaur SHO allowed me to go after I produced valid documents.” He said the scribes later came to his office and threatened to circulate the video on social media if he didn’t give them the money. On Arya’s complaint, an FIR was registered under sections 120B and 384 of the IPC and the scribes and the woman were arrested on Wednesday evening. CAUGHT RED-HANDEDPolice laid a trap and caught them red-handed while accepting money. Station in-charge Kamaldeep Rana said, “Our investigating officer gave signed notes worth ₹50,000 to the district food and supplies controller. The money was received by the accused and we caught them at his office along with the same currency notes given by the probing officer. At that time, four people, including a woman, were arrested and presented in a court on Thursday. The woman was granted bail, while the three men were sent to the judicial custody.” An official from district information and public relations officer said of these four, two are accredited journalists with the government of Haryana, while all of them are working with various news outlets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-yamunanagar-scribes-among-4-held-for-extortion/story-CkUJ1L6aj9SluaEAv9Q8cP.html
01-05-2020||City||17 cured, only 1 active case: Panchkula admn’s steps to control Covid-19 paying off||With no new Covid-19 case reported in the last 10 days and four positive patients, including a 44-year-old Sector 15 woman and her husband recovering and being discharged from a private hospital on Thursday, Panchkula has only one positive patient at the Civil Hospital, which indicates that the authorities here have taken the right steps to control the pandemic.The health department and district administration have been strict in laying down rules, which are being monitored effectively by the police. The MC too has been carrying out sanitisation of the city in a phased manner.Apart from her husband, the 44-year-old woman, a post office agent, was the prime source of infection for her 14-year-old daughter and seven other family members, who were discharged on April 26. Besides, two men aged 18 and 68, who had attended Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat event and were residents of Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore, were discharged from the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Till April 1, city had only two cases, which later spiked to 18 by April 20.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the administration’s preparedness and proactive working process controlled community infection. He said the health department was active since the first case was reported at Kharak Mangoli village and the area was declared containment zone. “Declaration of areas as containment and buffer zones and intensive screening and testing also helped,” he added.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said after the Sector 15 woman had tested positive, the containment strategy was immediately put in place and contact tracing carried out vigorously. Samples of 147 persons were taken of which eight of her family members tested positive. The sector was declared containment zone with its adjoining areas as buffer zone. Entry and exit of persons was prohibited and home delivery of essential items ensured.The health department also conducted house-to-house surveillance and covered around 2,397 houses, screening 13, 791 persons in the sector. To date, 22 teams have screened 41,293 people. About 12 mobile medical teams are pressed into service.Besides declaring the localities as containment zones, the administration sealed all entry points to and from Dera Bassi in Punjab. Also, 18 villages in the district where Tablighi Jamaat attendees stayed after returning from Delhi had been contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-new-case-in-panchkula-in-10-days-with-17-cured-and-only-1-positive-case-steps-to-control-covid-19-paying-off/story-SmE0zT2X0x66wcyv5BXImK.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Still on red zone list, Chandigarh mulling relaxations||Even as Chandigarh has been retained in Centre’s list of 130 red zones due to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, the UT administration is mulling further curfew relaxations from May 3.Partial opening up of stationery, books and computers shops, usage of cars and permission for morning walks are being considered in areas other than the three affected pockets — Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30 and Kachi Colony, Dhanas.The city first got the red zone tag on April 15. This was followed by the administration declaring the entire city a containment zone on April 18, thereby restricting residents’ movement.UT is also considering excluding some areas from the containment zone.In the daily review meeting, Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore held discussions with UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, UT finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha and other senior officers on suggestions received from various stakeholders regarding the exit plan after May 3.Parida had constituted a five-member committee headed by Sinha on April 27 to examine and recommend steps to be taken by the administration in the post-curfew period in the city. After further discussions with MP Kirron Kher, political parties and taking opinion of the medical community and other stakeholders, a final decision will be taken by the administrator. “The positive cases have increased to 74. In this scenario, it will be difficult for the administration to introduce major relaxations,” said a senior UT official.Badnore advised PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 to gradually open up facilities for non-Covid patients, as those requiring urgent attention should not be neglected. The hospitals should also facilitate their transportation to and fro from the houses. Private clinics have also been told to open up their facilities in line with Union health ministry’s guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/retained-in-red-zone-list-chandigarh-mulling-relaxations/story-qEHVXmvbDvwbNmIvgYzECP.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh saw wettest April in 12 years, May to bring in more rain||In a pleasant start to the summer, Chandigarh saw 63.1mm rain in April, making it the wettest since 2008, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). May is also expected to kickstart with light to moderate showers from Friday.Majority of the rain last month, at 40.3mm, was on April 18, an all-time record for the wettest April day as per IMD. The second highest April rain in the past 12 years was recorded in 2012 at 60.6mm, while the all-time record is 109.3mm from April 1983.Speaking about the excessive rainfall this year, IMD director of the region, Surender Paul said, “There was a confluence between low-level easterly winds and moisture coming to the region from the Arabian Sea, along with Western Disturbances. Usually in April and May, only Western Disturbances are observed, which is why rainfall is generally lower.”MORE RAIN ON THE CARDSPaul said the same effect was likely to continue in May as well. “Right at the start, a system of Western Disturbances will be active in the region. For the next seven days, chances of light to moderate rain up to 30mm will continue in the region, including Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Gusty winds up to 40km per hour and thunder can also be expected,” he said.“Around May 5, another system of Western Disturbances is expected to hit the region, so the intensity of rain will be the highest on May 5 and 6. This will continue into the month and more rain can be expected in the weeks thereafter,” he said, adding that farmers participating in the wheat procurement process need to be careful especially on May 5 and 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-saw-wettest-april-in-12-years-may-to-bring-in-more-rain/story-CstX6CqIUU2neju7jzt37N.html
01-05-2020||City||55-yr-old Covid-19 positive Jamaat member from Ambala discharged||Nearly four weeks after testing positive for Covid-19 in Ambala, a 55-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member of Maharashtra was discharged from PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Thursday. With this, all five jamaat members who had tested positive in Ambala have recovered.The man was traced on March 31, along with 35 others from the community, under a state-wide drive to identify people who had returned from Nizamuddin after attending a religious congregation there in March. The 55-year-old tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2, along with a Nepalese man, who was discharged on April 11 from the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The Maharashtra man was discharged from PGIMER on Thursday and has been asked to remain in quarantine for next 14 days. Although, he had recovered from Covid-19 disease earlier, he was undergoing treatment for another ailment. Now, there are two active cases in Ambala. One of them is undergoing treatment at PGIMER and another at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh.”“The health department on Thursday also took samples of 39 pilgrims, who returned from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, and were taken to Punjab. These people reached Ambala in a PRTC bus and were quarantined at two dharamshalas. Out of the 39 pilgrims, 11 are from Ambala, seven from Delhi and 21 from other parts of Haryana,” the CMO said.On Wednesday, samples of five jamaat members, who had returned from Gujarat, were taken and were quarantined at their homes in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/55-yr-old-covid-19-positive-jamaat-member-from-ambala-discharged/story-W0NUzobyVu26qlDvIFIGsK.html
01-05-2020||City||7am to 11am curfew relaxation in Mohali from May 1||Imposed five weeks ago due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the curfew in Mohali district will be relaxed for four hours - 7 am to 11am - from Friday.Grocery, chemist, dairy, vegetable, fruit and meat shops will be open.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said one person from a family was allowed to visit markets for essential purchases during weekdays, preferably without a vehicle. No curfew pass will be required for such purchases during these four hours. All markets will remain completely closed on Sundays. But, online orders can be delivered on these days.Shopkeepers in both rural and urban areas will have to ensure social distancing and all workers must wear masks.However, shops will not be allowed to open in Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi and Nayagaon, which have been declared hotspots.ROTATIONAL RELAXATIONDayalan said the shops will be allowed to remain open for four hours on rotational, odd-even basis. This means, shops with even numbers will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and those with odd numbers on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The DC said malls, multiplexes, shops in market complexes, gyms, salons and liquor vends will continue to remain closed. Restaurants will also continue to provide only home delivery services.Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.INDUSTRIES ALLOWED OPERATIONS WITH RIDERSAll industrial units operating in rural areas, outside the limits of the various municipal corporations and municipalities, can operate from Friday. “Permission has been given, but establishments will make lodging arrangements for their workers on their premises or adjacent buildings and ensure implementation of the standard operating protocol (SOP),” said Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industry Association (MIA).The transportation of workers to workplace will also be arranged by the employers while ensuring social distancing. CONSTRUCTION ALLOWED PARTLY IN URBAN AREASWhile all types of construction activities are allowed in rural areas, whether new or ongoing, in urban areas, only ongoing projects can resume subject to availability of workers. This applies to all types of constructions in residential and commercial buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7am-to-11am-curfew-relaxation-in-mohali-from-may-1/story-0V9BlgaLX3pkJNeqvo770L.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown blues: Private sports academies in Chandigarh struggle to cope with no income||For sports, the worst of Covid-19 does not seem to be over yet. At this time of the year, the grassroots academies generally prepare for the post-exam rush but have now been left struggling to come to terms with the Covid-19 lockdown. While the bigger associations and their academies can withstand the impact, it’s the smaller centres, which serve as future players’ first contact with the game, that are hit the hardest. Two of the most popular sports in terms of number of privately-run academies in tricity — cricket and tennis — employ many coaches and also ground staff, and are struggling to make ends meet. With around 60 academies for these two games, many stakeholders doubt they will be able to sustain financially. “It is a very difficult period for everyone. A lot of parents enrol their wards in sports post exams. I am not sure whether parents will send their children for practice after the lockdown ends, so monetary loss is something that everyone will have to bear,” says Sumandeep, who runs a cricket academy in a Mohali school and trains 45 trainees from Under-6 to Under-16 age groups. There are around 30 cricket academies in the tricity. Coach Devinder Kapoor of Total Tennis Academy, which has its main centre in YMCA, Sector 11, and seven others in the tricity, adds that the loss of source of income has affected everyone in the sports academies’ circuit. “Yes, the players are suffering, but so are the coaches and centre owners. We have tie-ups with various schools besides a centre in YMCA. We are dipping into our savings and trying to secure loans in order to help our coaches and groundsmen. April was generally when the rush started, we had on an average 60-70 players per centre and even more in some places, and the footfall of four-five months during the summer season is enough to sustain us for the year. But with no income, we are trying to give salaries and let see how long can we sustain,” Kapoor says. Former state-level cricketer Ravi Verma runs three academies — two in Kharar and one in Chandigarh — with over 100 trainees. But since mid-March his centres are deserted. He is now living off his savings. “Since the lockdown, I have lost around Rs 2 lakh. I am paying the groundsmen and the team of coaches and also looking after my family. It is difficult to make the trainees learn from videos and analyse their skills. It is yet to be seen how many of the budding cricketers will resume training and also maintain social distancing along with wearing masks. Covid-19 has changed the way we live,” says Verma.Parveen Sharma recently started a cricket academy at a school in Sector 24 and hired services of four coaches, including former India cricketer Dinesh Mongia and former Himachal Pradesh Ranji Trophy cricketer Rajeev Nayyar. With such eminent cricketers at the helm of coaching, more than 60 trainees joined. “Tricity has wonderful cricket academies. With idols like Kapil Dev and Yuvraj Singh, youngsters want to emulate them and learn the sport. But even if we open, we will have to maintain social distancing. Until a vaccine is invented, life cannot return to be normal especially for sports,” says Sharma.Another tennis coach Anupam Chetri, who assists in a few academies in the tricity, adds that he is afraid some might close in the near future. “Financially, it will be become unsustainable if this lockdown drags on,” he says.Another tennis coach Vikas Berwal, who has two centres in Chandigarh and Hisar, says he has to pick and choose while releasing salaries for his staff of five coaches and three groundstaff. “While the ground staff got the entire salary and will continue to get it in April. I asked some of the well-off coaches to take a pay cut and released salaries for others,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-blues-private-sports-academies-in-chandigarh-struggle-to-cope-with-no-income-scenario/story-Idv70w8qfXc4w1QJkMuXQP.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Inmates, staff quarantined as Chandigarh shelter home’s sweeper tests positive||As many as 33 inmates of Aashreya, a permanent home for orphaned, destitute, abandoned and differently abled persons situated in Sector 47 in Chandigarh, were quarantined at premises on Thursday after a woman working as a sweeper there tested positive for coronavirus. Besides, around 40 staffers of the shelter home, including counsellors and security personnel, have been isolated at the Government Rehabilitation Institute for Intellectual Disabilities (GRIID), Sector 31, said Preeti Arun, joint director of GRIID.“In the residential facility of Aashreya, inmates are quarantined in cubicles consisting of four beds with attached washrooms,” said Arun, adding that arrangements had been made for staff in GRIID classrooms with attached washrooms as the school was already shut because of the lockdown.GRIID staff is now doubling up to keep the shelter home running. The woman sweeper who has tested positive is the sister and a primary contact of the OT attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, who had attended his marriage anniversary party at Bapu Dham. Arun said, “Resident of Sector 52, the woman had herself told us on April 24 that her brother had tested positive. After that, we asked her not to report to work, and immediately prepared a fresh duty roster for the staff.”She added, “There was another staffer who was in contact with a suspected coronavirus patient. After these two cases came to fore, we were expecting that we might have to quarantine the children and were ready.”Arun said, “We have requested the administration to send a team of doctors to take samples of inmates in the shelter home itself. They will be tested tomorrow.” UT director health services G Dewan and GMCH director-principal Dr BS Chavan could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inmates-staff-quarantined-as-chandigarh-shelter-home-sweeper-tests-positive/story-G5G66HOaAfqFddZTDacuhP.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Business hit, CITCO seeks ₹16 crore from Chandigarh admn for salaries, bills||With little to no revenue generation amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) has sought around Rs 16 crore from the UT administration to pay the salaries of staff and other utility bills. Currently, CITCO has around 700 regular and 650 contractual staff, whose one-month salary amounts to Rs 5.5 crore.With yearly turnover of around Rs 500 crore, CITCO owns some prime properties in Chandigarh, including five-star hotels, restaurants bars, sales depots, lakes, gardens and a petrol pump. The pandemic has, however, hit the corporation’s business hard.‘NO BUSINESS AT ALL’A contractor providing manpower to the corporation, requesting anonymity, said, “How will I pay when there is no business at all? If the situation continues, I will be left with no option but to send my staff on leave without pay.”Showing concern over the financial crisis, the chairman of the CITCO union, Kashmir Chand said, “The petrol pumps still open have also lost around 95% of the business, while the rest 5% are continuing on credit. Also, there won’t be immediate revival of the industry even after the lockdown gets over. That’s why we need the administration’s help to sustain.”CITO chairman Arun Kumar Gupta said the administration was considering the demand for the grant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/business-hit-citco-seeks-16cr-from-chandigarh-admn-for-salaries-bills/story-6Dk3vJDwqR3qf6UMZom5BJ.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Petition filed in HC to direct Governor to nominate Thackeray as MLC within three days||A petition has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions to the Governor to decide on the proposal by the cabinet of ministers to nominate chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the legislative Council (MLC) within three days. The petition sought urgent directions on the grounds that if Thackeray is not appointed as an MLC, he will cease to be the CM from May 28, which will lead to administrative uncertainties at the time of Covid-19 pandemic in the state.The petition, filed by social activist Surinder Arora through senior advocate Satish Talekar, claimed that if state Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari does not act upon the cabnet’s proposal it would lead to ‘administrative uncertainties, destabilisation of the government, social chaos and political disorder in wake of Covid-19 outbreak.’ The petition added that the Governor is bound by the aid and advise of the cabinet but the BJP, ‘as a part of its political game plan’ is trying to make Thackeray step down as CM with the help of the Governor. The plea further states that Thackeray could be nominated as an MLC under Article 171 (5) of the Constitution, which states that members to be nominated to the legislative Council by the Governor shall have special knowledge or practical experience in literature, science, art, cooperative movement and social service, and Thackeray been a professional photographer, editor and social worker. The petition was mentioned today in the HC and has sought for an urgent hearing on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/petition-filed-in-hc-to-direct-governor-to-nominate-thackeray-as-mlc-within-three-days/story-yHEnEfnVCI6BnAXlcBuC1I.html
01-05-2020||City||7,000 people challaned, 318 arrested for violating lockdown in Hisar||As many as 564 vehicles were impounded and nearly 7,051 challans were issued by the Hisar police till April 30 to restrict the movement of people so as to ensure social distancing and lockdown.The police have also arrested 318 people for violating the government orders during the coronavirus lockdown. They were later bailed out. Giving more details, Hisar superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said, “It is important to obey the law during this time. The police are dealing strictly with those who are out on roads without any reason.”He also said that after the government announced lockdown, the Hisar police challaned 7,051 people and 564 vehicles were impounded with ₹44.75 lakh fine imposed on defaulters.A police spokesperson said that 318 people were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) who were later released on bail.Sub-inspector Pradeep Kumar, who was on patrolling duty said, “Many people started coming out of their houses after April 20. Only those with valid permission or dealing in essential services are allowed to move. If anyone is found roaming the streets without any reason, challans will be issued against them.”Man who gave lift to infected youth tracedHisar health department has traced the person who had given lift to an infected man. CMO Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “The youth had returned from Uttar Pradesh and was found infected on April 24.” Noor Mohammad, a health worker, said he had taken lift from two persons, second of whom has been traced and sent to isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-000-people-challaned-318-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-in-hisar/story-uQvdDJvVI48MfuRRUFEfRL.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||19-yr-old mother among six fresh cases take Chandigarh tally to 74||A 19-year-old woman from Bapu Dham who gave birth to a boy on the April 28 was among six persons who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking Chandigarh’s count to 74.The new cases include a man, aged 32, from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, a contact of the first case in the area, a 30-year-old male operation theatre (OT) attendant at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. The others are the brother, aged 14, and mother, aged 39, of a positive patient from Sector 52 and the son, aged 10 and wife, aged 32, of another confirmed case in Sector 30.Four persons who were in contact with the 19-year-old new mother have also tested positive, but other confirmatory tests are awaited. 62% CASES IN SIX DAYSWhat is worrying authorities is that 62% (46) of the total 74 cases in the city have been reported in the six days between April 25 and 30 , and in a majority of cases the source of infection has not been established yet.Among the 74 cases, 25 patients are from Bapu Dham Colony and 16 from Sector 30. Both areas have been declared hotspots and sealed.The 19-year-old woman tested positive at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, on April 30, becoming the first positive patient to deliver a baby in the tricity.“Both mother and son are doing well. The woman reported to GMSH-16 on April 28 for delivery. As she was from the Covid-19 hotspot in Bapu Dham Colony we collected her swab samples and sent them for tests as per protocol. Her reports came back positive after she had given birth to a boy,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, wishing to remain anonymous.The woman has been moved to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, while the newborn remains at GMSH-16 until he is tested for Covid-19.Meanwhile, UT adviser Manoj Parida said that until 8:30pm on Thursday all 118 samples at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and GMCH, Sector, 32 had tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/19-yr-old-mother-among-six-fresh-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-74/story-Gsghor9kNYQ2iKXWETw4IN.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown flouted at many ghats in Sangam city||Fishermen and suppliers of illegal countrymade liquor are allegedly active around many Ganga and Yamuna ghats during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. They allegedly move on boats in groups and supply the countrymade liquor at a time when English liquor shops are closed. They also violate social distancing norms issued by the government. Restrictions are only being followed near Sangam and other adjoining ghats.The localities and villages on the banks of rivers Ganga and Yamuna are dominated by boatmen community whose members usually rely on plying boats and fishing for earning their living.Hundreds of boats also ferry pilgrims in Sangam waters but activity at the holy place has been restricted following the lockdown.Water police incharge Kadedeen Yadav said all boatmen at Sangam were issued strict warning to comply with the restrictions, action was also taken against some boatmen who violated the lockdown.A resident of Karelabagh area of Kareli on the condition of anonymity said some boatmen continued with fishing activities despite lockdown. Fishing nets are being used frequently at Kakraha Ghat, Subban Ghat, Mahewa, Mohabbatganj and nearly all ghats on both banks of Yamuna. As fish markets at Kareli, Lukarganj, Moti Mahal, Gaughat and other areas are not allowed to run, the fish are sold at the ghats usually on higher rates than earlier. Assembly of fish sellers and buyers could be seen in the evenings at Subban ghat and other ghats of Yamuna, he claimed.At many ghats like the Gaughat, people are also bathing every evening in large groups, he claimed.Some boats used for hooch supply can be spotted at the ghats in Naini area throughout the day, some local residents alleged.While cops regularly patrol roads and streets, their absence at river ghats is posing threat of coronavirus spread in the localities on the river banks as many persons cross the river and come back all through the day with little precautions, residents added.SP city Brajesh Kumar Srivastava said although he had yet not received any reports of lockdown violation at the ghats, strict action would be taken against those found violating the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-flouted-at-many-ghats-in-sangam-city/story-aWfvWR2GseQu2Ou3IBbEwN.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Scientists bust myths about ‘immunity-boosting’ substances in fighting Covid-19||Indian scientists on Thursday released a statement against the promotion of “immunity-boosting substances” to protect oneself from being infected with the novel coronavirus. Citing lack of scientific evidence, scientists said consuming mustard oil or tea, homaeopathic solutions or ayurvedic preparations, or modern medicines like hydroxychloroquine that are claimed to provide either immunity or cure “do not provide any known and/or validated protection against Covid-19”.Any substance is considered effective only after rigorous testing through randomised clinical trials with Covid-19 patients, and additional laboratory analyses, the scientists said.Additionally, drinking cow urine, wearing talismans, exposure to ultraviolet light or injecting disinfectants are harmful to the human body, while excess consumption of supplements such as zinc or datura seeds can prove to be fatal.Aniket Sule, astrophysicist at Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education and one of the signatories, said, “Since the beginning of Covid-19 epidemic, several statements have propagated ‘immunity-boosting’ substances. Some assertions were also supported by a few government functionaries at the Centre and in various states; and we, therefore, wanted to place scientific facts in the public domain.”Explaining how an individual develops immunity against a bacterium or a virus, the statement reads, “Either we were infected and recovered from the illness, or we are vaccinated; in either case we develop antibodies that can target the specific virus or bacterium...The most severe cases of Covid-19 are made worse by an overreaction of the immune system. So trying to boost general immunity using untested methods may be risky.”The scientific community has urged citizens to continue wearing masks, wash hands, and follow physical distancing protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scientists-bust-myths-about-immunity-boosting-substances-in-fighting-covid-19/story-MzudJeEFcwnDxR6NpbLhlN.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||128 vehicles impounded, 298 rounded up in Chandigarh||Chandigarh police impounded 128 vehicles and rounded up 298 persons for flouting lockdown orders, on Thursday. As many as 85 vehicles were temporarily seized while five persons were arrested for violating curfew, police said.A resident of Sector 17 who went out to release a captured rat was detained, and later released, police added.On Wednesday, 17 people were arrested in 15 cases registered at Bapu Dham colony for violating lockdown orders.Also, since prohibitory orders came into force on March 24, police have rounded up more than 19,698 people and impounded 6,261 vehicles. As many as 789 people have been arrested in 528 cases for violating curfew orders, including going out for morning/evening walks and stepping out of their houses without wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/128-vehicles-impounded-298-rounded-up-in-chandigarh/story-kniRHwaoRqXFWzq63HhnlL.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||One-year-old girl gets surprise b’day gifts from cops in Mathura||A mother desperate to celebrate the first birthday of her daughter amid lockdown was in for a surprise when a team of cops deployed with Dial-112 (emergency number for ambulance, fire and rescue, police) reached her place in Govind Nagar area of the city with a cake and gifts. Sangeeta Singh, a mother residing in Maha Vidya Colony, was worried about the birthday celebration of her daughter Anika and expressed the compulsion because of lockdown on twitter.“The tweet was taken note of at our Lucknow command office and the mother was asked to provide a photo of the birthday girl. The photo was forwarded to me with instruction to gift chocolates, balloons and a cake to the girl and instructions were complied with on Wednesday evening,” said Ramesh Prasad Bhardwaj, incharge of Dial-112 in Mathura. A visibly delighted Sangeeta thanked the Dial-112 team for their good gesture during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/one-year-old-girl-gets-surprise-b-day-gifts-from-cops-in-mathura/story-0E8i1atCYbz5dMRwjfawFK.html
01-05-2020||City||Innovation takes centre stage as UP villages aim to keep virus out||Lilawati Devi, the unlettered gram pradhan (head) of Bhujawal Khurd village in Kushinagar and Poonam Singh, the MBA-holder gram pradhan of Didauli village in Rae Bareli, are united by the common concern of protecting their villages from coronavirus infection.Little wonder, villages in Uttar Pradesh are witnessing musical jan jagran (awareness campaign), raising anti-corona task force, devising indigenous home delivery models, stitching masks and distributing soap. They have also set up WhatsApp groups for sharing needs, news, problems and concerns and ensured the menfolk seal borders to bar foreign entry. That’s not all. Amid the crisis, these women are also presenting a humane face.While in some isolated incidents in urban centres vegetable vendors have been targeted on their religious identity, villagers are verifying the vegetable vendors more out of security concerns.“Our village is on the Nepal border. Vendors come to our village to sell vegetables, fruits, milk and other essentials. We have prepared a list of all such vendors with their name, number and other details for verification. Any new vendor is subjected to interrogation by villagers, though there is no classification on religious lines,” said Pratima Mishra, 36, a graduate from Luchuiya village in Siddharthnagar, a district with significant migration to Mumbai and Delhi. Along with her husband Pawan, the graduate village head, the couple have devised the doorstep delivery model to guard against overcrowding. All outsiders were sent to quarantine centres in the village and allowed to go home after 14 days in isolation.“In these times, women are playing a huge role in making people aware. Women understand women better and so their support is crucial in creating awareness,” said Pawan.In Chandwara village in Barabanki, village head Prakashini Jaiswal, 38, has, with the help of her husband Rituraj, deployed National Cadet Corps (NCC) members to maintain social distancing.“We have fixed the time for procuring vegetables. Between 6am and 9am, all the villagers who require vegetables come out to get veggies. Social distancing is strictly ensured,” she says. Most of the villagers who returned home after the lockdown and quarantine have now been checked. “There were 13 Jamaatis too in the village but all have tested negative. They are still in the village but it’s ok. In these times, all have to help each other. Only one person is in quarantine now and food for that person is prepared in our house,” Jaiswal said.In March, while preparing food for quarantined people in her village, Lilawati Devi, the village head of Bhujawal Khurd in Kushinagar, faced an uncomfortable moment.“One of the five persons refused to have food prepared by me, saying I was a dalit. I had prepared the food because the village cook had refused to serve means to them, saying he feared going near them. The accusation stung. After intervention, all got sorted out,” says Lilawati. Then, there is Poonam Singh, 30, the modern village head of Didauli in Rae Bareli. She says her village started stitching masks before others.“I think much before anyone started making homemade masks, we had started stitching masks at home for public distribution. All those village women who knew how to stitch were engaged in that task,” says Poonam.To create awareness, Poonam, along with her husband Raj Kumar, 37, who holds a Master of Computer Applications (MCA) degree, also distributed soap in her village.“I get my village sanitised twice every week and each person in the village has been motivated to do shram daan (voluntary labour) to ensure cleanliness,” she said.In Akbarpur village, women are part of a novel anti-corona task force raised by village pradhan Amit Dwivedi.“Women are able to convince women better and that makes a lot of difference. The anti corona task force has men too. But of course, making women aware is of huge importance and that makes a powerful, impactful statement,” said Dwivedi, 38.The anti-corona task force runs awareness campaigns, distributes soap, masks and other essentials, keeps villagers posted with news.In Latifpur village close to the state capital, Shweta Singh, the gram pradhan who holds an MCA degree, has launched a musical jan jagran (awareness campaign) in her village. With her team, she moves around the village playing cymbals. Another villager sings the lyrics penned by her that are aimed at creating awareness about social distancing protocols.Another person on ‘dhol’ completes the music party in the village, which has been regularly updating the villagers about the need to follow certain restrictions.“I go around making people learn the correct way to wash their hands. In fact, I believe not many know how to do that even in cities. Hence, I give special training to villagers on how wash hands properly. Our village has a WhatsApp group, a banking correspondent to take care of banking needs of the people. We are coming up with a novel waste segregation unit,” she says||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/innovation-takes-centre-stage-as-up-villages-aim-to-keep-virus-out/story-I7g6Lcs4NyaQQrZbpHIo6H.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||8 Indonesian Jamaatis sent to jail in Moradabad||Eight Indonesian nationals related to Tablighi Jamaat were sent to jail in Moradabad after their quarantine period ended on Wednesday.According to Moradabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Vikas Yadav, 10 Jamaatis including eight Indonesians were quarantined at Moradabad Institute of Technology on April 1. “They were produced before the chief judicial magistrate on Wednesday following completion of their mandatory 28-day quarantine period. The court granted bail to the two jamaatis, who were from Tamil Nadu, but the remaining eight Indonesians were sent to jail for misusing and violating terms and conditions of their tourist visas,” he said.The Indonesian nationals have been remanded to 14-day judicial custody by CJM RM Singh.The Moradabad police had registered a case under Epidemic Diseases Act against the Jamaatis, who were picked up from a mosque in Qureshian locality in Moradabad on April 1. They had come to Moradabad from Nizamuddin Markaz in New Delhi on March 11 and were staying inside the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/8-indonesian-jamaatis-sent-to-jail-in-moradabad/story-sIA0szWqIPPQpH5JJUiKhN.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay start-up conducts pregnancy counselling webinars||In a bid to address the concerns of expecting mothers about routine check-ups, delivery and infections amid the lockdown, a start-up from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) is conducting pregnancy counselling webinars with leading gynaecologists and doctors. CareNx Technologies is a start-up incubated at the Desai Sethi School of Entrepreneurship of the institute that helps detect high-risk pregnancy cases and helps health workers connect such cases, particularly in rural areas for check-ups. The start-up manufactures pregnancy test kits which in combination with an easy-to-use mobile application measure blood pressure, haemoglobin count, urine and basic parameters of pregnant women.Amid the lockdown owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the start-up is now also offering webinars with doctors. These webinars can be accessed by health workers in rural areas as well as expecting mothers and their families. Through the webinar, gynaecologists answer concerns that the expecting mothers may have about check-ups, delivery and even infection in newborns. According to Shantanu Pathak, co-founders of CareNx, the webinar titled ‘Don’t Panic, Protect’ is in partnership with renowned gynaecologists, doctors and counsellors. He claimed their mobile application is being used by frontline workers to counsel more than 10,000 pregnant women in remote areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-start-up-conducts-pregnancy-counselling-webinars/story-iiC2ZC2CMIyv034ZDB9S9L.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha’s 1st trial: Covid patient who underwent plasma therapy dies||The Covid-19 patient from the city, who became the first in the state to undergo the convalescent plasma therapy, succumbed to the infection at Lilavati Hospital on Wednesday night. The condition of the 53-year-old man was critical and he was on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU).The patient was brought to the hospital on April 20 after his swab test report came positive on April 19. Due to the delay in detection of the virus, he had already developed respiratory syndrome. He was immediately put on ventilator support in the ICU. According to doctors from the hospital, despite having symptoms such as sore throat, dry cough and fever, he delayed his treatment. As he didn’t have any travel history or wasn’t a high-risk close contact of any Covid-19 patient, he didn’t consider the possibility of having contracted the infection. “When the patient was brought to hospital, he had severe breathing problems due to the delay in treatment. He had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and pneumonia,” said Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati Hospital. On April 25, the hospital performed the first convalescent plasma therapy on the patient after procuring approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The therapy involves transfusing plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient into a patient fighting the infection, to act as reinforcement for the latter’s immune system. On the first day, 200ml of plasma was transfused. It helped him improve his oxygen intake. However, from the early morning of April 27, his condition started to deteriorate. He developed infections and was kept on high dosage of antibiotics. “We had to postpone the next two trials due to his deteriorating health. He succumbed to the infection on Wednesday night,” said Dr Ravishankar.Couldn’t even see him, says sonTalking to HT, the deceased patient’s elder son said as the whole family was under home quarantine, they couldn’t see him. “My father was on ventilator support. He couldn’t talk to us on call. We couldn’t see him as we are not allowed to leave home,” he said. The patient’s last rites were performed in Ghatkopar. His 26-year-old son has also tested positive and is presently undergoing treatment at Hiranandani Hospital, Powai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-s-1st-trial-covid-patient-who-underwent-plasma-therapy-dies/story-smPWHuhrG8vBWSG3lAJssL.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali police makes birthday of one-year-old special amid Covid-19 lockdown||To make the birthday of one-year-old Avnoor extra special, Mohali police arrived with a cake to her house in Sunny Enclave, amid the Covid-19 lockdown. “We could not go out due to the curfew. So, I called the police control room and asked for help, and they obliged,” said Amanpreet Kaur, the toddler’s mother.Sunil Kumar, who is posted at Balongi police station, said they received information that the family residing in Sector 125, Sunny Enclave, wanted to celebrate their daughter’s first birthday, but, couldn’t step out amid the curfew. So, we picked up a cake from Phase 3B2 market in Mohali immediately and went to deliver it, he said. The society echoed with the sound of “Happy Birthday”, instead of sirens, as cops drove into the society. “It was my daughter’s first birthday, and we got disheartened that we would not be able to celebrate it. But, the police made it possible,” said Varun Dhauja, the girl’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-police-makes-birthday-of-one-year-old-special-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-WUYTTxLSQzIo3JFTSjAkwK.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha goes past grim 10,000 mark for Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Thursday passed the bleak 10,000 figure for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, 53 days since the first case on March 9, even as officials said the situation is under control. With 583 new infections, India’s worst-hit state’s tally rose to 10,498, while the toll stood at 459 with 27 more deaths. The state took 30 days to report its first 1,000 cases, which means the next 9,000 cases took only 23 days.On Thursday, 417 cases and 20 deaths were reported from Mumbai. The financial capital, with 7,061 cases, accounts for 67.2% of the state’s total. It also accounts for 63.18% of the state’s fatalities, with 290 deaths. A total of 1, 773 patients have recovered across the state so far, including 180 patients on Thursday. On an average, the state reported over 500 new cases daily since April 19. In the past twelve days (since April 19), the state has recorded 6,855 new cases. On Thursday, the state also completed 38 days of lockdown, imposed from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Officials claimed the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts. “Although a dip in new cases is yet to start, we can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced, following detection of cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). So far, the health department has conducted 1,45,798 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra.Of them, 1,34,244 people tested negative. “We will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before arriving at any conclusion,” added Dr Lahane.The two 14-day cycles of the incubation period of infection was completed on April 20. It had begun from March 22, when international traffic was stopped. The state health minister, Rajesh Tope, said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1,677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, where 1,76,357 isolated beds and 7,248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories, between asymptomatic, mild and serious cases. We also have around 3,000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N95 masks,” he said.The state currently has 733 active containment zones. Around 10,092 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 42.11 lakh people. It has also kept 10,695 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities, while 1,68,266 are home quarantined, stated health officials.Of the 27 deaths reported on Thursday, 20 are from Mumbai, three in Pune, two in Thane and one each in Raigad and Nagpur. Of the day’s deaths, 22 patients had comorbidities, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has come down to 4.36% (432 deaths till Wednesday), from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.25% till Sunday, revealed the data of the state medical education department.Following complaints of hospitals denying admission to patients or delaying treatment, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday ordered that no hospital can turn away any patient without examination and required intervention under any circumstances. All private and government hospitals in the state have also been directed to check any patient who is entering hospital premises and after scanning may be shifted or admitted, depending on the patient’s medical condition.As per the guidelines issued by the Centre, the state government has also ordered shifting of all asymptomatic patients without comorbid conditions to Covid Care Centres, whereas private hospitals can send such patients for home quarantine, but after proper counselling, stated the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday. The order will come into force from May 2.The hospitals have been warned of action in case directives are not followed scrupulously.The state government has also allowed migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places in Maharashtra to move out of the state. The state government has also allowed intra-state movement of such stranded persons, but with certain conditions. An order to this effect was issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday.The state government has further declared that all undergraduate and post-graduate theory and practical examinations conducted by Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), Nashik for summer (2020) has been postponed till further notice, owing to the unprecedented situation caused by the Covid-19 outbreak. The decision was taken following recommendations made by a committee formed to suggest the options. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh made the announcement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-goes-past-grim-10-000-mark-for-covid-19-infections/story-SuGJYyB6Oi4QIzjl05fNIM.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Rope in migrants to transform parishadiya schools, says UP chief secy||Chief secretary, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, on Thursday directed the district administrations to provide necessary infrastructure to all Parishadiya schools (government schools up to class eight) under ‘Operation Kayakalp’ (transformation) with panchayat funds.“The parishadiya schools will also be assessed and graded on the basis of the infrastructure and amenities,” said the chief secretary while directing the officials to start the required construction works immediately in a time-bound manner. He also directed officers to employ migrant labourers for the job so that they also get a livelihood.Tiwari added that in the first phase, all these schools should have clean drinking water, separate washrooms for boys and girls, water supply in the washrooms, separate washrooms for physically challenged, multiple handwashing units, floor tiling in classrooms, blackboards, kitchens, ramps for physically challenged, colouring of walls, power connection and necessary power equipment.Tiwari said that migrant labourers are under quarantine at these schools these days and it would be a good idea to employ them in construction activities as it would consolidate the school infrastructure and at the same time provide a livelihood to migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rope-in-migrants-to-transform-parishadiya-schools-says-up-chief-secy/story-keVcEwJiOaypBCN456pncO.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Spurt in cases: Chandigarh admn’s containment efforts come a cropper||The UT administration’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) containment efforts have come under scanner amid steep rise in cases in the last five days. Even as the city has been under lockdown since March 24, infection has spread to newer areas. Chandigarh has been designated a red zone and containment zone.The initial spurt in positive cases in the city, first case being on March 18, came from foreign returned persons and their contacts. After a lull of almost a week, the pattern changed, with healthcare workers from two public sector hospitals reporting positive. In the last week, the infection spread to peripheral areas and colonies, particularly, Bapu Dham and Sector 30, taking the tally of positive cases from 27 on April 24 to 74 on April 30.SOCIAL DISTANCING IN COLONIES“In places like Mauli Jagran, people can be seen roaming freely on streets with no social distancing norms being followed. The administration’s move to distribute cooked food also creates unnecessary crowding in these areas. It is a very alarming situation,” said Paveela Bali, a city-based social activist, who is actively distributing ration in colonies.In a recent incident of crowd mismanagement, huge crowds of people thronged streets in Mauli Jagran when administration officials came to distribute food. Even after repeated warnings, administration has been slow to react and rectify the situation, critics say. BELOW PAR TESTINGExperts say testing in the city is below par even as administration contends it is following protocol.Till Wednesday, Chandigarh reported 68 cases and tested only 1,013 people, while Mohali with 73 infections tested 1,411. Panchkula, with only 18 cases, has tested 1,525 persons, highest in the tricity. Chandigarh has an estimated population of 14 lakh, Panchkula 6.6 lakh and Mohali 10 lakh.Dr RS Bedi, former president of Chandigarh’s Indian Medical Association and adviser, World Medical Association, said, “Today, after 36 days of lockdown, we are at a stage in Chandigarh where cases are still on the rise. Besides social distancing, we need to undertake aggressive and random testing throughout the city to locate infected people as cases are scattered.”“We have to follow guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research for testing. More testing without following guidelines is not an achievement,” a senior UT official said.HEALTH WORKERS TESTING POSITIVEAs many as 15 healthcare workers from PGIMER and GMCH-32 have tested positives so far, and some of their contacts have also contracted the infection. But, what is more worrisome, is that nearly 75% of them were working in ‘emergency’ areas, dealing with non-Covid-19 patients.Experts blamed it on health authorities’ delay in allowing provision of PPE kits to health workers working in emergency areas. “The authorities should not hesitate in providing proper protection gear to the health workers, and this should have been done from the start,” said Dr Neeraj Nagpal, convener, Medicos Legal Action Group.As per the central government’s guidelines for containment zone, “active search for cases” has to be done. Questions have been raised over administration’s claims to have screened more than 9 lakh people. Facing flak, the health department even conceded that it is not screening per se, but only conducting survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-s-containment-efforts-come-under-scanner-as-cases-continue-to-rise/story-w5E1WID6zHoYJpAp6DpH5N.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cops remove over 650 misleading social media posts on Covid-19, hate messages||Mumbai Police have pulled down over 650 objectionable messages including misleading posts on Covid-19, hateful messages, communal posts, false and fake news linking to the disease, and other such content from various social media platforms since the beginning of the lockdown till Thursday morning.Five FIRs have also been registered in this regard, said a senior police officer from city police.“The state cyber police have taken down 60 such posts and 155 accused arrested so far, said Harish Baijal, deputy inspector general of state cyber police. A senior police officer from city police on Thursday told HT that the Social Media Lab (SML) of Special Branch-1, the intelligence wing of Mumbai police, has pulled down 550 objectionable posts during the lockdown period. “These posts were highly misleading, baseless and had potential to trigger panic among people and also communal tension in the city,” the officer said.The officer further added that the messages circulating initially on the social media platforms had misinformation regarding coronavirus, but later, messages on the Tablighi Jamaat incident of Delhi spread like wildfire.DCP (Cyber) Vishal Thakur said, “The Cyber police station have removed over 100 objectionable content from the internet platforms during the lockdown.”“We keep a close eye on trends and patterns and analyse them to identify the platforms or groups which are regularly spreading such inflammatory videos or posts. Then appropriate action is taken against such elements,” another officer said.A team of 30 highly trained, technologically sound, multilingual dedicated policemen of SML works in three shifts to keep an eagle’s eye on the suspicious activities on various social media platforms.They look for objectionable content on popular platforms with the help of advanced filter tools. Once detected, the content is immediately blocked or removed with the help of the service providers. Members of this team are regularly given training by Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), anti-terror agencies and other government agencies about the new tools, filters and soft-wares that can be used to trace trouble makers operating online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-remove-over-650-misleading-social-media-posts-on-covid-19-hate-messages/story-Ck5j236EPmcsS4jolhjTCL.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Nine sectors will take time to revive; will need package: IIA||The Indian Industries Association (IIA) has sought help from the Centre for revival of nine prominent sectors which are likely to suffer for a longer time even after the post-lockdown period.Sharing a report of the Dun & Bradstreet, a prominent research and data analysis agency, the IIA has listed out nine priority sectors out of 16 for revival when nationwide lockdown is lifted.HighlightsWorst affected sectors--Tourism, Automobile, Entertainment, Electronics, Hospitality, Banking, Jewellery, Real Estate small and medium business sector. Sectors which will revive soon--Drug and Pharmaceutical, Retail, Wholesale trade, Textile, Livestock, Logistics, Metal. “Of 16 prominent sectors that propel economy, nine such as tourism, automobile, entertainment, electronics, hospitality, banking, jewellery, small and medium business will face slowdown for a longer duration due to COVID-19 pandemic,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, IIA, a lobby body of the MSME sector.“Our analysis is also the same. In Uttar Pradesh, these nine sectors will face more crises as compared to industrial states like Gujarat, Maharashtra and southern states like Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana,” added Kumar, demanding a special package for them.Drug and Pharmaceutical, Retail, Wholesale trade, Textile and livestock will recover from the present crisis soon.Similarly, logistic and metal sector will also be able to come out of the present crisis soon, says the report.“The banking sector will face problem as non-performing assets (NPA) will mount due to unpaid loans,” said Kumar.The tourism sector is considered as the most employment generating and labour intensive sector. This sector will be worst affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and will take more than one financial year to recover.Footfall of foreign tourists will be almost negligible for around a year due to financial constraints and social distancing norms. Air travel will also become expensive, says the report.“In such a scenario, we will have to depend heavily on domestic tourism and some assistance from the government for revival of tourism sector will be needed,” said Kumar.Due to slump in economy, demand for electronic goods will also go down, says the report. Box||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nine-sectors-will-take-time-to-revive-will-need-package-iia/story-2PvN5R9dJ8O7R18cjeVPTI.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Saffronart raises ₹66L in online auction to aid needy||The 24-hour online fundraiser by Mumbai auction house Saffronart raised a total of ₹66 lakh for organisations working with those affected by the Covid-19 health and economic crisis.Fifty-two pieces were donated to the sale by collectors, gallerists and artists, of which an untitled Thota Vaikuntam painting from 2019 led the sale with a bid of ₹7.84 lakh. The other top sellers were works by Ram Kumar, Krishen Khanna, KG Subramanyan and Tayeba Begum Lipi.The proceeds from the sale are being donated to the NGOs Goonj, Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA) and Stree Mukti Sanghatana (SMS), grassroots organisations that work with informal worker communities and migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/saffronart-raises-66l-in-online-auction-to-aid-needy/story-miGjRAl10tpQShXkHV5EnN.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||Alld HC to hear PIL on forming panel to assess Covid- 19 impact on economy||The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court will hear a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking constitution of a commission to assess the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on Indian economy on May 4. Hearing a plea filed by advocate Dr Shivji Shukla, the court directed the petitioner to provide a copy of the PIL to the central government’s counsel.A division bench of justice Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal and justice Karunesh Singh Pawar passed the order in chamber on April 28.“At present, effect of the Covid-19 is going on and, therefore, no such relief as prayed in this public interest litigation can be granted to the petitioner nor we issue any notice to the respondent nos. 3 to 5. Thus, appropriate course for the petitioner is to withdraw this writ petition or to argue it on the question of maintainability,” the court observed.The Centre’s counsel submitted that as the copy of the complete set of the writ petition had not been supplied to him, therefore, he was not in a position to say anything in the matter and requested that a direction be issued to the petitioner to provide a copy of complete set of the writ petition through e-mail to him.MANOJ KUMAR SINGH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/alld-hc-to-hear-pil-on-forming-panel-to-assess-covid-19-impact-on-economy/story-gmyuLafBkhJ4C8UXwI6ZeL.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Over 10,000 people booked for lockdown violations in Mumbai||Mumbai Police on Wednesday lodged 76 FIRs against 82 people and 51 of them were arrested for lockdown violations.Of the total cases, 36 FIRs were lodged against people gathering in one place and 28 for not wearing masks. The remaining cases were against shopkeepers and people using vehicles. A maximum of 58 FIRs were in central and western region which is worst affected by Covid-19. Since the beginning of the lockdown, 10,490 people were booked and 6,564 arrested for violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-10-000-people-booked-for-lockdown-violations-in-mumbai/story-iOlBwjkxvYtq8iZAEHlIUK.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Arunachal’s hydro project puts habitat of 25 globally threatened species, ancient trees at threat: BNHS to Centre||The habitat of 25 globally threatened species – 19 birds and six mammals – among other flora and fauna, face threat owing to the proposed Etalin hydroelectric power project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has said.Earlier this week, BNHS had submitted a letter to the chairman of the forest advisory committee (FAC), a body constituted under the Union environment ministry, strongly opposing the project and calling it “a fit case to be out rightly rejected”. BNHS has shared a copy of its letter with HT.The proposed project site, 14km from the protected areas of the Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary, will require the diversion of 1,150.08 hectare (ha) forest land for the 3,097 megawatt (MW) hydroelectric project, which is expected to be one of the largest in India.BNHS, which has carried out research across the Dibang Biosphere Reserve part of Mishmi Hill for more than two years, said over five lakh trees would be lost for the project, contrary to the current estimate. “The regional office of the Union environment ministry in its site inspection report had not recommended the proposal in the present form for forest clearance. It had raised concerns that the enumeration of trees has not reflected the ground reality as huge trees (old-growth) are not identified in the final list,” the BNHS letter read.Deepak Apte, director of BNHS, who drafted the letter, said, “The decision to grant forest clearance for this project is not just unprecedented but most tragic and unfortunate. We thought the Covid-19 pandemic has taught us lessons to respect nature but it isn’t the case. We request environment minister Prakash Javadekar to intervene, and not to grant final clearance for this project and save this pristine forest,” added Apte. Though the minutes of last Thursday’s meeting on the final approval for the project is awaited, an FAC sub-committee had recommended it citing economic remuneration for wildlife conservation. “A decision will be taken regarding the feasibility of the project once we see the FAC minutes of the meeting,” an official from the Union environment ministry told HT on the issue. Around 680 bird species have been recorded from the region, accounting for 56% of the total bird species in the country, BNHS has said. Among the 19 globally threatened species, four are ‘critically endangered’, including the Bengal Florican, White-rumped vulture, Slender-billed vulture, and Red-headed vulture, while two others – Greater adjutant and Black-bellied tern – are in the ‘endangered’ category. Thirteen ‘vulnerable’ species include three rare range restricted endemic birds (Chestnut-breasted partridge, Blyth’s Tragopan, and Sclater’s Monal). The habitat of six globally threatened mammals was also at risk, including the endangered Hoolock gibbon, red panda, and Bengal tiger, and vulnerable species such as the leopard, Mishmi takin, and Chinese goral.Apte added that the entire region falls under two categories designating high protection by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Endemic Bird Area, Global Biodiversity Hotspot and Key Biodiversity Area, all indicating its importance at the global scale.“It is not just about how many trees are felled, it is about the whole ecosystem and ecosystem services we take down with it,” said Apte.Two dams will be built over two rivers (Dri and Talon) with an underground powerhouse downstream having turbine units. The letter raises an alarm that the project site was in a seismically active zone (Zone V) in the Himalayan belt which has reported four earthquakes in Talon River basin in 2008, 1997, 1993, and 1983 ranging between 3.7 and 5 on the Richter Scale. “This makes it vulnerable to natural disasters. It not only threatens life of people downstream but also threatens the larger landscape in Brahmaputra flood plains,” said Apte.BNHS suggested that the FAC should protect the area in accordance with the National Forest Policy, 1988. “Since India is committed to the Paris Agreement for reducing deforestation and adding additional forest areas, in a biodiversity rich area such as this, the FAC should avoid diversion of forest land,” the letter added.Meanwhile the Mishmi indigenous communities from Arunachal Pradesh have also placed their concerns before the Union environment ministry over the project. “There are gross anomalies and contradictions in the Wildlife Institute of India’s study in clear violations of FAC’s recommendation. We want studies to be re-conducted in a transparent, factual, and scientific manner. However, such studies cannot be impartial unless there is a clear case of conflict of interest. We request ministry to look into these anomalies without bothering to decorate an environment management plan,” said Tilu Linggi, representing members of the Kera-Initiatives for Cultural and Ecological Security (KICES), a grassroots NGO and Mishmi indigenous communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/arunachal-s-hydro-project-puts-habitat-of-25-globally-threatened-species-ancient-trees-at-threat-bnhs-to-centre/story-Mn5GImPBM53CIpRMMie18O.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Asymptomatic Nanded pilgrims catch Punjab govt unawares||The arrival of Sikh pilgrims from Hazur Sahib in Nanded of Maharashtra has resulted in a burst of Covid-19 cases in Punjab with 145 pilgrims found infected with the virus on Thursday alone. All the pilgrims who have been found carrying the infection were asymptomatic and it came as a surprise for all, officials said.With this, 183 pilgrims who returned from Nanded have been found positive since their arrival in Punjab which started on April 25.With Punjab’s Covid-19 patient tally reaching 544, of which 200 recorded in the last two day, pilgrims from Nanded now contributes to more than 33% of the total cases in the state.The number is likely to rise further as only the reports of around 1,200 of 2,500 tested till now have arrived and the rest are awaited by late evening or by Friday morning.There are around 3,500 pilgrims who landed in Punjab in past three days as per the data shared by the officials in chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s videoconference with deputy commissioners, SSPs and police commissioners.Amritsar witnessed maximum 76 cases on Thursday, all Nanded pilgrims, while 37 of the 48 found positive in Ludhiana were also the pilgrims.The explosion of cases has doubled Punjab’s tally from 272 on April 23 to 544 on April 30. Punjab health officials have claimed that all Nanded pilgrims found positive were asymptomatic when their samples were taken.“The asymptomatic status means that despite the virus, the pilgrims kept on mingling with each other during their stay in Nanded and after their return to Punjab. It resulted in explosion in the cases,” a senior official dealing with Covid-19 cases said.Punjab government is already in the dock over asking the deputy commissioners to follow detailed Standard Operating Procedures on April 27, two days after start of the arrival of the pilgrims to the state. The state government allegedly was also clueless about the arrival of the pilgrims in private vehicles.Such was the casual approach of the department, as per an insider in the department, that in Amritsar district only, around 179 people were sent to ‘home quarantine’ on April 26 after their thermal scanning. “They were called back with the help of police only after four pilgrims were found positive in Tarn Taran,” said an official. In Ludhiana too, many people were called back from home quarantine.Top districts with positive pilgrimsAmritsar: 76Ludhiana: 48Mohali: 15Tarantaran: 14Kapurthala: 8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asymptomatic-nanded-pilgrims-catch-punjab-govt-unawares/story-yGrQwZCIzv1qrWEJdlcZZI.html
01-05-2020||City||Give free power, farm waiver, ₹5,000 to labourers: Maharashtra Congress task force||Mumbai: A Covid-19 task force made up of 18 senior leaders, constituted by the Maharashtra Congress, has suggested a waiver of interest on farm loans, free electricity for agricultural pumps for the next six months, and a monthly cash allowance of Rs 5,000 for workers in unorganized sectors — like taxi and auto drivers, and farmers — for the coming three months.Headed by former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and comprising of 17 other members, the task force was put together to make suggestions to the state and Central governments. Its first report was submitted to Congress’s state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat recently. While speaking at a press conference on Thursday, Chavan and former Rajya Sabha member from Congress Bhalchandra Mungekar also demanded a stimulus package from the Centre for the states, worth 5 to 10% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). The report has also demanded more Covid-19 tests be conducted and improvement in the supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) to private doctors and hospitals in Maharashtra.“The Central government should pay the interest on farm loans taken by farmers for next six months while the electricity used by them for agricultural pumps too should be waived for six months. Similarly, Maharashtra government should set an example by providing a monthly unemployment allowance of Rs 5,000 for three months to people from unorganised sectors like farm labourers, hawkers, shopkeepers, auto-taxi drivers,” the report said. Chavan has demanded that the Central government announce a stimulus package of about Rs 21 lakh crore, which is 10% of the national GDP to help revive state economies.Congress criticises Governor Congress leaders criticised Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of Maharashtra for the delay in the appointment of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative council. Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said, “Honourable Governor should take a decision on the matter by removing his cap [referring to the cap that is traditionally part of the uniform of Rashtriya Swayamsevak (RSS) members] on his head as it is playing a deterrent role in decision making.” Mungekar said, “Making Maharashtra politically unstable during the unprecedented challenging period of Covid-19 by not taking decision on Thackeray’s membership to the Upper House is uncalled for.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/give-free-power-farm-waiver-5-000-to-labourers-maharashtra-congress-task-force/story-GYbApbBz5r2w8Li0cFjt2O.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||‘JLNMCH tests over 5,000 Covid-19 samples free of cost’||The Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has so far tested over 5,000 samples of Covid-19 free of cost. These samples were from various districts of western UP, including Aligarh, Mathura, Etah, Kasganj and Hathras.“Out of these 5118 samples tested at LJNMCH, 125 were found positive. On Wednesday, 239 tests were conducted and 10 of them were found positive. The patients, who tested positive, were from Aligarh, Etah and Mathura,”said Prof Shafey Kidwai, the spokesperson for Aligarh Muslim University.“Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VRDL) test for Covid-19 is being done at JLNMCH with utmost care and alacrity in compliance with the norms established by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” said Kidwai.According to Professor Haris M Khan, the nodal officer for VRDL and chairman, department of microbiology, the medical college now has been assigned to test samples from Aligarh, Mathura, Etah, Kasgunj and Hathras free of cost. “The testing is done with prescribed protocol in three shifts and staff has not been given a single day off for a couple of weeks. Since samples tested positive requires confirmation test hence its reports get delayed,” stated Khan.“Sometimes samples received from the centres do not conform to the protocol and it causes delay and inconvenience. At this juncture when the health workers are risking their lives their moral boosting is the need of the hour,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/jlnmch-tests-over-5-000-covid-19-samples-free-of-cost/story-kOZCCtmfwt1t0rx9ryRftO.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Default in salary: HC asks DSGMC-run schools to pay ₹10k extra per month to teachers||The Delhi high court has directed the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) to pay an additional ₹10,000 for each month of delayed salary payment to teachers of its schools in the national capital.Many of the teachers have not been paid salaries in the DSGMC-run schools since January this year.Justice C Hari Shankar directed the DSGMC and its schools to “continue payments of salary and other emoluments, to which petitioners (teachers) are entitled, on a monthly basis, during pendency of the petitions (seeking implementation of Seventh Pay Commission).” The order, passed on April 27 in proceedings held via video conferencing, came on applications moved by several teachers in their respective petitions seeking implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission.In their applications, the teachers had said that they have not been paid salaries from January 2020 to March 2020.The court said that it had earlier on August 22, 2019, in its order had said that in case of default in salary payment, the schools would have to pay 10,000 per month extra to the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/default-in-salary-hc-asks-dsgmc-run-schools-to-pay-10k-extra-per-month-to-teachers/story-q1t9VA5Y6gMU6tWJnebCvI.html
01-05-2020||Lucknow||3 cops among 8 more persons test positive in Varanasi||Eight more persons, including a ward boy and three police constables, tested positive for coronavirus in Varanasi on Thursday.With eight fresh cases, the tally of corona patients in Varanasi district jumped to 60.Eight of them have been successfully cured, while one died and 51 persons are under treatment.District magistrate (DM) Kaushalraj Sharma said of the eight new corona positive cases, one is a 58-year-old powerloom operator. He is a resident of Jaitpura and was referred to Banaras Hindu University by Jam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-cops-among-8-more-persons-test-positive-in-varanasi/story-YUN9CYypNiUAJH85G3DOdP.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||101 accused in Palghar lynching case remanded in police custody||The Dahanu court on Thursday remanded 101 accused in police custody till May 14 for lynching of two seers and a driver at Gaddchinchale village in Palghar district on April 16, The arrest have been made on basis of one FIR, and judicial custody on basis of the other. A total of three FIRs were filed by Kasa police in the case. The third FIR was not presented before the court. The three victims are being represented by advocates Parmanand Ojha and Arun Upadhyaya. “Of the three FIRs filed in the lynching case, the 101 accused were remanded to police custody till May 14 for the first FIR, while in the second FIR, they were remanded in judicial custody,” said Upadhyaya. “Shockingly, the third FIR was not presented before the Dahanu court by the Kasa police, and hence no arrests were shown. The said FIR is just a plain blank paper,” he added. Meanwhile, five policemen are suspended and 35 policemen (entire staff of Kasa police station) are transferred in the case. Over 47 policemen have been appointed in their place on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/101-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-remanded-in-police-custody/story-cg2bE0JJ7FuZDzwIskTOFO.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||Hospitals can’t turn patients away without examination: Maharashtra government||After a number of complaints of hospitals denying admission to patients or delaying treatment, the Maharashtra government on Thursday issued an order that no hospital can turn away any patient without examination and required intervention under any circumstances. The order will come into effect from May 2.All private and government hospitals in the state have also been directed to check any patient who is entering the hospital premises, and shift or admit him, depending on the patient’s medical condition.Following the guidelines issued by the Centre, the state has also ordered shifting of all asymptomatic patients without co-morbid conditions to Covid Care Centres, whereas private hospitals can send such patients for home quarantine, but after proper counselling, states the order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday. The hospitals have been warned of action in case directives are not followed scrupulously. “Any patient entering the hospital premises for any treatment of Covid-19 or non Covid-19 ailment should be immediately checked in to casualty or screening clinic. After triage, the patient may be shifted or admitted. Depending upon the site condition, the staging area may be created for screening and triage of patients in isolation so that infections are not transmitted. No patient is to be turned away without examination and required intervention under any circumstances,” the order reads.The government has asked the directors of health services to prepare the standard operating procedure (SOP) for screening, transferring, admitting and discharging of patients. “Each patient needing hospital admission will be assigned a unique ID by the round-the-clock onsite team of the disaster management department (DMD) of the local body such as the BMC, without which admission cannot be granted. DMD should use this as a more accurate and efficient bed management in all hospitals,” it further states. “This will help in better calculation of beds in hospitals. So if any one calls helpline numbers, it will be easier to get details faster,” said a state health official.“For this, the state government has given them two days and hence the order will come into force from May 2,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.“In order to decongest hospitals, all asymptomatic positive patients without comorbidity should be shifted to appropriate Covid Care Centres (CCC) immediately. All Covid-19 and non-Covid 19 hospitals are also directed to ensure that no admission is granted to asymptomatic positive patients without co-morbidity. Similar patients in private hospitals should be stamped and sent away for home quarantine after proper counselling, according to the Government of India guidelines,” it adds.The hospitals are also directed to collect swabs of all suspected Covid-19 patients admitted on top priority and ensure that reports are collected within 12 hours and ensure the patients are diagnosed as per clinical conditions and shifted to CCC, Dedicated Covid Health Centers (DCHC) for patients with mild symptoms and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for serious patients. In case of death of a Covid-19 positive patient, the hospital administrations are also directed to ensure that the body is shifted from the ward within 30 minutes and disposed of within 12 hours for which necessary processes have to be defined keeping in view the prevalent regulations.“In Mumbai, the mobilisation of the ambulances should be controlled centrally by the Disaster Management Department of the BMC,” states the order. This is being done to ensure ambulances can be made available to the patients without any delay, said the senior official.Health experts have welcomed the move. “Patients run from pillar to post seeking treatment, but due to the lack of a proper guideline, they are being refused treatment. Doctors and staff are clueless how to manage patients. This will be helpful, but there is also a need for its proper implementation,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hospitals-can-t-return-patients-without-examination-govt/story-4Bm5mB42reb9RrBGq0gIJN.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC rejects Dera plea for hearing on donation to PM Cares fund||The Punjab and Haryana High court has refused to entertain a request from Dera Sacha Sauda, Sirsa, for hearing on plea seeking permission to make a donation of Rs 2 crore to Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Fund for battling against Covid-19.The Dera had sought permission in view of the fact that its accounts stand frozen by the high court after the widespread violence reported in the aftermath of conviction of its head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in two rape cases of disciples in August 2017.Besides, PM Cares fund, the Dera had also desired to donate Rs 1 crore each to Haryana and Punjab for similar relief funds launched by the respective governments.RESTRICTIONS IN COURT WORK EXTENDEDMeanwhile, the high court announced extension of restrictions in functioning of courts in HC and trial courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, “beyond May 1 till lockdown/curfew period announced by the respective administrations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-rejects-dera-plea-for-hearing-on-donation-to-pm-cares-fund/story-mGG88PIHYZKnTDSOzAcOoM.html
01-05-2020||Bangalore||Industries in K’taka may start from May 4||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday announced that all industries in the state outside containment zones will be allowed to operate from May 4 a day after the extended lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread will end. He said the Covid-19 cases might continue for another two to three months and added efforts to control the pandemic would go hand in hand with economic activity which has almost fully stopped due to the lockdown.Yediyurappa said the cases reported from Bengaluru have been coming down for the last two to three days but they will wait for a few more days to take a final decision on allowing economic activities in the city. Bengaluru, which has reported 147 of Karnataka’s 565 Covid-19 cases, has around 24 containment zones. The city is Karnataka’s economic engine and contributes nearly half of the state’s revenues.Yediyurappa said they have no plans for allowing malls, hotels or movie theatres to reopen and added the state would wait for Centre’s directives before taking a final decision.Yediyurappa later met representatives of associations of commerce and industries and asked them to be ready to resume operations. He appealed to the industrialists to pay wages and salaries to their employees.The Karnataka Cabinet met separately and decided to issue one-time permits for inter-state and inter-district for stranded migrants and labourers.Law minister J C Madhuswamy said the cost for the travel would be borne by those who want to travel and the government would merely provide permits and bus services. On Wednesday, another minister, Suresh Kumar, said the state government would bring back stranded people from Karnataka from Gujarat and buses would be sent for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/industries-in-k-taka-may-start-from-may-4/story-Gs4h4EMWUo9PITfGzxcbnN.html
01-05-2020||Mumbai||9 wards witness spike in doubling rate of Covid-19 cases; slowdown in 2 south Mumbai wards||Nine wards in Mumbai have recorded an alarming drop in the number of days it is taking for Covid-19 positive cases to double. This comes even as the overall doubling rate of the city improved from 8.3 to 10 days between April 17 and 27. Two wards in south Mumbai, A ward and B ward, have contributed to a decrease in the average doubling rate in the city. In B ward, it earlier took 5.4 days for cases to double, while now it takes approximately 37.6 days for the same. The A ward where earlier it took 3.4 days for cases to double, is now taking 34.2 days.While the city as a whole is now taking roughly two more days for the number of cases to double, the opposite is true for Chembur (M/West ward), Tardeo and Malabar Hill (D Ward), Bandra East (H/East ward), Marine Lines and Kalbadevi (C ward), Mulund (T ward), Sewri and Parel (F/South ward), Mankhurd (M/East ward), and areas of Dahisar and Borivali (R/North and R/Central ward).At these nine wards, cases are doubling faster, by anywhere between 0.9 days to 11.4 days. At least four of these wards are dominated by slums and densely populated chawls, such as the Mankhurd and Govandi area that saw a jump of 110 cases in 10 days; Bandra East which witnessed a spike of 156 cases; Parel and Sewri that saw a jump of 76 cases; Girgaum and Tardeo where cases rose by 121 in 10 days, and Kalbadevi that saw a jump of 21 cases. In the 10 days between April 17 and April 27, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) monitored and mapped the rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in all 24 administrative wards. This confirmed that the average doubling rate in the city had decreased.A senior civic official said, “It is good news as it implies cases are now multiplying more slowly and people are not transmitting the virus to each other as fast. As for the other nine wards, we have studied reasons for the decrease in doubling rate and are finding customised solutions for each case.”While it earlier took 16.9 days for the number of cases to double in R Central ward, it has now reduced to five days. Earlier it took 18 days for cases to double in R North ward, but now it takes nine days. Similarly, while earlier it took 13 days for cases to double in T ward, it reduced to 8.4 days.HT spoke to all ward officers or health officers of the nine wards, and each of them cited that one or a few large clusters were discovered in their ward. However, this was restricted to one area, or one building, or a single slum pocket, and hence, the spread will be easier to curb in the next few days.Swapnaja Kshirsagar, assistant commissioner of F South ward said, “In the past seven days, my ward organised two fever camps per day, and we discovered 33, 22, 34, and 20 cases on four days alone. I discovered a new slum pocket called India slum which had zero cases until one week ago. Then one positive patient was reported, who was on dialysis and must have caught the infection during his treatment. Fortunately, others who have tested positive are contacts of this patient, so cases are as of now restricted to one pocket.”Sheetal Mhatre, Shiv Sena corporator from R North ward said, “There has been one new index case living in a slum and the remaining are contacts of this patient.”As for the C ward, 1/3rd of its total cases have increased only in the past 3-4 days. A health official of the C ward said, “I had organised only one health camp, collected 18 swabs, and 12 of them tested positive. On three consecutive days, we identified 11 cases, seven cases, and five cases respectively. The C ward had managed to keep its cases down as there were more index patients and fewer contact patients. But on one these three days, we found many contact patients living in one building.”Ward officers believe that a change in policy helped them detect more cases. A senior civic official said, “More detection leads to more number of cases. Our fever camps and contact tracing has thrown up these numbers. To curb the spread of the virus in these wards, containment, and strict lockdown, shifting people to quarantine centres, and early detection is the key.”Kishor Gandhi, assistant commissioner of the T ward (Mulund) said, “There are 46 cases in my ward, of which 22 were found in the last 10 days from two large and densely populated slum pockets in my ward.” While the Ramgad slum in Mulund reported its first case on April 19 and then had a breather of a few days with no new cases, one testing cycle threw up 10 new cases in this slum. Similarly, one testing cycle in Indira Nagar slum in Mulund reported 11 new cases, after it had reported its first case on April 21.“The good thing is all these cases are high-risk contacts of positive patients and were already in quarantine. Since they were removed from the community, there may be no new threat,” said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-wards-witness-spike-in-doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-slowdown-in-2-south-mumbai-wards/story-MVbhmLihbEfOhleqvwXqLL.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt notifies home isolation guidelines for ‘mild’ cases of Covid-19||A Covid-19 patient living at home will have his/her left hand stamped stating “committed to home isolation” and will have to remain in the designated room for at least 16 days, the Delhi government’s home isolation guidelines, released on Thursday, said. This comes two days after the Centre allowed home isolation of positive patients, keeping in mind the rising number of cases and the strain they put on hospital infrastructure.A consultative meeting of Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, health secretary Padmini Singla, director general of health services Dr Nutan Mundeja and medical director of Lok Nayak hospital Dr JC Passey, among others, was held Wednesday to finalise the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for home isolation.So far, 3,515 cases and 59 deaths have been reported in the city.Data shows that around 43% of all active Covid-19 cases – those still with the infection – are admitted to the Covid-19 care centre with mild symptoms. These people will be eligible for home isolation if they have adequate facility – a separate bedroom and bathroom at home.Once a person tests positive, the new SOPs state that the surveillance team will call to check if (s)he has mild or moderate symptoms. Anyone with moderate symptoms such as high fever or breathing difficulty, and those with comorbid conditions such as diabetes or hypertension will be moved to a Covid health centre or hospital.If symptoms are mild and the person has no comorbid conditions, then a health team will visit the house to check the person and the house to see if it can be used for isolation. If yes, then the team will get an undertaking from the patient that (s)he will remain in isolation and call them in case symptoms worsen. The patient will be stamped on the left hand and made to download Arogya Setu app, which will track the person’s movements. A home isolation sticker will also be put up outside the residence.The person will be allowed to come out of isolation only after two of his/her tests come negative for Covid-19. If not, the isolation can be extended and the right hand of the person will be stamped, the guidelines stated. The patient’s condition will be checked every day over phone by the district health teams and treatment has to be sought if there is difficulty breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, mental confusion, or bluish discolourations on the body.“It is impossible to assess someone’s condition over phone; a physical check is necessary at least twice a day. We simply do not have the manpower to let a doctor check every patient twice a day, even if we have just 50 such cases in a district. Also, the progression of the disease is sudden and might require immediate medical attention. In such cases, we cannot wait for the person to call us and then wait for an ambulance to bring her to a hospital,” a district health official said.During the isolation, the patients must wear a triple-layer mask at all times and discard it after eight hours of use or when visibly dirty or moist. The mask has to be disinfected using 1% hypochlorite solution. The caregiver also has to wear a triple-layer mask when in the same room as the patient and use disposable gloves when handling the patient.They must avoid contact with contaminated items such as cigarettes, eating utensils, dishes, drinks, used towel and bed linen, the guidelines say. The caregiver also have to take the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine – 400 mg twice a day on Day 1 followed by one tablet every week for three weeks. The drug is not recommended for anyone under the age of 15, anyone with retinopathy, cardiac conditions, or know hypersensitivity to hydroxychloroquine and aminoquinoline. In case there are side effects, the caregiver has to report to pharma covigilance.Once home isolation ends, the person will still be under surveillance for another 14 days, and they are not to attend any gathering, according to the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-notifies-home-isolation-guidelines-for-mild-cases-of-covid-19/story-w01Yyfzjfnr5wMXcBEkrOJ.html
01-05-2020||Gurugram||Residents look to ward off virus with orange-tinted immunity||The sale of oranges in the city has increased by at least 66% in March and April this year, as compared to the same period last year, according to the Haryana State Agricultural Market Board (HSAMB), as people are seeking to build immunity by consuming the fruit rich in vitamin C, said officials.As per the HSAMB data, between March 1 and April 27 this year, a total of 11,222 quintals had been sold at the wholesale Khandsa market, the city’s only wholesale fruits and vegetable market. In comparison, 6,745 quintals of oranges were sold from March 1 to April 30 last year.Incidentally, 6,433 quintals of oranges have been sold between April 1 and April 27 this month.Fruit vendors and HSAMB officials attributed the spike in sales of oranges to the Covid-19 outbreak. “We have had a lot of customers buying 10-15 kilograms of oranges at a go, as opposed to the two to three kilograms people usually buy. Many say they have started purchasing in bulk to increase their vitamin C levels. We have had to increase our orders from distributors across Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh to meet the growing demand,” said Arvind Yadav, a fruit and vegetable wholesaler at the Khandsa market in Sector 10A.According to HSAMB officials, almost 70% of the orange supply to Gurugram is from Maharashtra, 20% from Madhya Pradesh and around 10% from Punjab. The sale of oranges is highest from December-March, after which the sale starts dipping due to higher temperatures.“This year, the demand for oranges has been unprecedented, as people are looking to boost their vitamin C intake. There has been no issue in regard to transportation of fruits from across India and we will continue to ensure it remains that way to meet the growing demand,” said Vinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB.While the price of oranges in both March 2019 and March this year was the same — ₹2,500-6,000 per quintal — it has become cheaper this April, a drop from ₹5,000-10,000 per quintal in 2019 to ₹3,500-7,500 this year.“If you look at the prices of oranges in March 2020 and March 2019, there is no difference in the rate despite the increase in demand this year. The main reason the prices of vegetables and fruits, in general, have come down this month is due to the fact that people have stopped purchasing items from farmers directly amid the national lockdown. Instead, the farmers have had to sell their goods to a limited number of retailers and wholesalers, which has led to a major drop in prices of all fruits and vegetables,” an HSAMB official privy to the matter said.However, this dip in price has not translated to the retail buyers. Residents said that local grocery stores and roadside vendors are selling oranges at ₹150-200 per kilogram, up from ₹80 earlier.“I had jaundice recently and my immunity is weak, that’s why I have been purchasing oranges in bulk to ensure I am healthy enough to fight off another possible infection. There has been a huge demand for oranges in my society and the roadside vendor has been taking full advantage of it by pricing it at ₹150-200 per kilogram. With my immunocompromised health, I did not want to risk venturing outside due to the fear of contracting Covid-19 and have been forced to buy oranges at such exorbitant rates,” said Anil Chugh, a resident of Sector 50.Health experts said that oranges alone cannot build a strong immune system and a diverse diet with exercise is needed to stay in good health.“While it is well established that vitamin C, which can be derived from oranges, has immune-modulating properties and is a potent anti-oxidant, it alone cannot build immunity overnight. The key to having good health and to fight infectious diseases, including respiratory tract infections, are to include diet diversity such as immune-boosting nutrients like vitamins A, D, zinc, selenium, iron and folic acid, besides vitamin C. Adequate amount of protein in the diet is also vital for a person to enhance their immunity,” said Sandhya Pandey, chief clinical nutritionist, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram.Pandey said that a balance of various food groups, such as whole grains, cereals, pulses, legumes, variety of seasonal fruits and vegetables, nuts and seeds, milk and milk products, lean meat and fish, along with engaging in physical activity and high-hydration levels, are needed to stay healthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-look-to-ward-off-virus-with-orange-tinted-immunity/story-cZGeI33dicesb0Xu0YErXO.html
01-05-2020||Gurugram||Man hangs to death after wife tests positive, family of 10 being tested||Hours after a woman tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19), her 54-year-old husband hanged to death from a ceiling fan at his house in Sector 12 on Wednesday night. Samples of others staying in the house have been taken for testing and the family has been asked to quarantine.While the police said that they are yet to ascertain the reason for the act, the man’s relatives alleged that he was stressed due to his wife having tested Covid-19 positive.According to the police, the man used to work with the servicing department of an automobile company in the city, while the woman was a homemaker. She is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Sector 9.A relative of the family who stays at the residence, requesting anonymity, said that samples of 10 people living in the house were collected by the authorities for testing on Thursday.This the first positive case of coronavirus in Sector 12. The area is not listed as one of the 24 containment zones, but the police have put up barricades on both sides of the lane leading to the residence.The relative said, “A week ago, his wife had an upset stomach and was admitted to a nearby hospital. She was later told to get tested for the coronavirus disease and shifted to another hospital in Sector 9. On Wednesday night, the husband was informed that she had tested positive for the disease. He then returned home and went into his room. He was worried about her and did not talk to us.”The relative said the man was found hanging from a ceiling fan around 7am on Thursday.The man’s son, who works at the pharmacy of a private hospital in Palam Vihar, said, “I had left for the night shift around 11pm. He seemed fine at that time. When I returned from work the next morning, I got to know that he had hanged himself.”“I do not know how the woman contracted the coronavirus. Her daughter-in-law (a nurse at a Sector 38 hospital) was not going to work. Although her son has been going to the pharmacy, he has not shown any symptom,” said the family member, while waiting outside the house on Thursday afternoon for authorities to send someone for disinfecting the premises.A team from Sector 14 police station was sent to the spot after they received the information, said officials.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, “We are yet to confirm if the deceased’s wife tested positive for coronavirus. We still do not know the exact reason behind the incident. The police officials were fully equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and went to the spot to collect the body. We are investigating the matter.” Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC).A neighbour, requesting anonymity, said, “We got to know about the incident when the police came to his house around 8am. It was only then that we were informed about the woman having tested positive.”According to the health department, a post-mortem examination will be conducted on Friday, after testing whether the man had been infected.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “The team has taken swabs from the nose and throat of the body, which has been sent to PGIMS Rohtak for testing. On Friday, we will get the results which would help us in contact tracing and investigating how the woman contracted coronavirus.”“We have been sending samples from bodies for RT-PCR testing to confirm whether the person had been infected with the virus. But none of these samples sent so far has tested positive.”(with inputs from Archana Mishra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-hangs-to-death-after-wife-tests-positive-family-of-10-being-tested/story-sVi5nArAKIJCR9JViiWuZO.html
01-05-2020||Gurugram||20 lakh litres of sanitiser found in drums and buckets at a Pataudi house||Acting on a tip-off, the drug control department in a joint raid with the police on Wednesday raided a hand sanitiser manufacturing unit in Pataudi, which was allegedly running without a drug manufacturing license and arrested two persons from the spot. The team recovered one lakh bottles of 500ml capacity each filled with the sanitiser. The label on the product said it was alcohol hand rub, killed viruses, and was made of 70% or more alcohol-based formula.The team allegedly recovered 20,000 such labels and 20 lakh litres of sanitiser stored in several drums and buckets. The factory was operating out of a house in Pataudi area.As per the report prepared by the department, hand sanitiser was filled in the bottles from the buckets and drums with taps. No machines were being used. The house was constructed over 500 square yards and was double-storeyed, comprising six big rooms on two floors, the police said.Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the food and drugs control department has launched an operation to check places manufacturing illegal hand sanitiser and masks, which are being sold on the black market across the district, officials said.Amandeep Chauhan, drug control officer, said that he formed a team of officials from the department and the police after receiving information on Wednesday around 2pm. “We raided the house and found several drums and buckets of hand sanitiser. When we asked the owner to produce the requisite documents, he could not do so. They were manufacturing without a valid license,” he said.The officials said when the teams asked the owners to produce the purchase records of the raw material used for manufacturing hand sanitiser, they produced fake certificates that had allegedly been bought for ₹40,000 from Delhi.Chauhan said since the demand for alcohol-based hand sanitiser has increased due to the Covid-19 outbreak, several illicit manufacturing units have mushroomed across the state. “They have already sold hand sanitiser worth ₹35 lakh in the last one month in Manesar industrial areas, and Bawal and Rewari markets before the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) authorities were tipped off and raided the unit,” he added.According to the police, the directors of the company are Class 12 graduates and started manufacturing sanitiser to make a quick buck during the Covid-19 pandemic.Muhammad Akil, the commissioner of police, said that a team from the Sector 40 police station raided the house on Wednesday afternoon and found a copy of a CE Certificate, WHO GMP Certificate, and ISO and test reports for the hand sanitiser issued by a research laboratory located in DLF Phase 2. When the officials checked the certificates and confirmed with the authorities, they found them to be fake. “During the search, it was found that they manufactured the hand sanitiser by mixing ingredients in a silver container, which is generally used as a cooking utensil, and using a motor fixed with paddles,” he said.The police said the house was in a bad condition: flies and mosquito-like insects were in abundance. The manufacturers allegedly did not take measures to avoid the risk of contamination from the environment, open sewage, drains and a public lavatory.The manufacturers did not disclose the source of water or produce a water test report. There was water stored in tanks, which may have adversely affected its quality. The water tank was not cleaned and there was visible sand in the water, the police said.“The environment of the manufacturing premises was very filthy and unhygienic, which may have contaminated the sanitiser with filth and rendered it injurious to health. This was evident from the storage area where alcohol drums were stored adjoining to the washroom which was in an unhygienic condition,” Akil said.A case under sections 471 (using forged documents), 467 (Forgery of valuable security), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 420 (cheating), 34 (common intention), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 120 B (conspiracy), Sections 51 of disaster management act, 2005 and sections 27(D), 27 (B) and 27 A of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, was registered at the Pataudi police station on Wednesday night.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that they have formed teams to check if factories manufacturing masks and hand sanitiser are involved in black marketing. “Strict action will be taken against those found involved in any illegal trade during ongoing lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/20-lakh-litres-of-sanitiser-found-in-drums-and-buckets-at-a-pataudi-house/story-Yviq46ZgPgsilaIpTLa7NL.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Health centres directed to remain open, beds added at private hospitals for Covid patients||The Delhi government has directed all clinics, hospitals and nursing homes, including private ones, to remain open for the treatment of non-Covid patients. The hospitals have been threatened with cancellation of licence for not complying with the order.“Non-compliance will be viewed seriously and action as per provisions of law, including cancellation of registration of the defaulter hospitals and nursing homes will be initiated without further notice,” the order stated.Hospitals have been asked not to refuse treatment to anyone, other than suspected Covid-19 patients, and ensure essential services like delivery of children, haemodialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy, treatment of chronic as well as communicable diseases, such as TB and leprosy.“Several clinics and nursing homes started opening up and scaling up their services after April 20. However, we need to ensure that while people receive treatment, healthcare workers do not get infected. The government should provide masks and PPE kits to private clinics and small nursing homes as they are already in a lot of financial trouble because of the lockdown and this burden should not be added. Also, there should be aggressive testing to detect the asymptomatic carriers so that the chances of unknowingly getting exposed are reduced,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president, Delhi Medical Association.“Plus, the government has to sort out the border closure issues and ensure public transport for healthcare workers to ensure that the clinics remain open,” he said.For the treatment of Covid-19 patients, Delhi government has started two more paid isolation facilities at private hospitals in the city, adding 220 beds for Covid-19 patients — 120-bed Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital on Pusa Road and 100 at the Maha Durga Charitable Trust in Model Town — taking the total to 412.Those testing positive for the virus can opt to stay at these hospitals and pay the hospitals directly.Until now, Indraprastha Apollo hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet and Max Super Speciality hospital in Saket were the designated private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients.“In view of the shortage of isolation beds at private hospitals, following private hospitals are also declared as Covid hospitals for admitting confirmed or suspected cases of Covid-19,” the Delhi government order read.“Two of the hospitals — with 162 beds in total — affiliated with Sir Ganga Ram will now treat Covid-19 patients. The main hospital in Rajinder Nagar will remain for the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients only,” the hospital said.Two dedicated Delhi government hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients — Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality — have 2,500 beds in total for Covid-19 patients. There are at least 500 beds for Covid-19 patients in the four Central government-run hospitals — AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, and Lady Hardinge Medical College.The government has also directed Lok Nayak Hospital to run its dialysis centre all hours throughout the week, to provide services to kidney disease patients who also have Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/health-centres-directed-to-remain-open-beds-added-at-private-hospitals-for-covid-patients/story-giUE9UeKvEkvzPAP8XPJwN.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Another nurse tests Covid positive at Hindu Rao Hospital||A second nurse working at North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.In Thursday’s case, the nurse was tested as part of a group of 76 healthcare workers — including doctors and ward staff — who had come in close contact with another nurse who tested Covid positive last Saturday. The 980-bedded super specialty hospital had to be closed for a day after this.“We have received test reports of 34 of these 76 healthcare workers so far. All have tested negative except for this one nurse, who was a primary contact with the nurse who tested positive last Saturday.. She was sent on quarantine from Monday immediately after her sample was taken,” \north body spokesperson, Ira Singhal, said.Doctors have alleged negligence in the case of this nurse saying she had already reported high fever to the hospital authorities a week before her test results came positive, but was still asked to report for duty daily. The north corporation later said it had launched an enquiry in the matter.In the case of a young gynaecologist, who tested Covid-positive at the corporation’s Kasturba Hospital on Wednesday, similar allegations were made. This hospital is near Jama Masjid. A doctor working with the hospital, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “It was extremely negligent on the part of the department head. The gynae who tested positive had come to the hospital five days before she tested positive. She was running a high fever and her condition was so bad that she was unable to move and had to sleep in the delivery room.”“She was asked to go home later, but not tested for Covid immediately. Isn’t it the administration’s duty to get healthcare workers checked if they are unwell? She was tested only once she came back to duty but still had some symptoms. In the meantime, other doctors kept visiting her room routinely,” he said.Singhal said no doctor had come forth to them and reported such a lapse. “No such thing has come to our notice. If anyone has any specific issue, they need to tell us and we will resolve it. Sanitization is anyway being done there thrice in a day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/another-nurse-tests-covid-positive-at-hindu-rao-hospital/story-QxVUhoW2AXXqniitncCQJJ.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi police appeal to stranded migrants, students, tourists to stay where they are||A day after the Union home ministry issued fresh guidelines, allowing stranded migrant workers, students and tourist to return home, Delhi Police on Thursday appealed to such people to “stay wherever they were until modalities for implementation of the guidelines are framed.”Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said that the home ministry in its order has issued certain instructions to the states and union territories — which included developing standard protocols for receiving and sending stranded people.“We are in the process of framing the modalities to ensure that transportation of such people is done in a planned and phase-wise manner. Till then, I appeal to migrant workers, students and tourists stranded in Delhi to maintain peace, stay wherever they are and wait for our updates,” said the police chief.Many senior police officer said that police presence and patrolling has been intensified on streets and in areas where migrants are living in order to avoid a rerun of the last month’s situation. Last month, immediately after the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of Covid-19, a sea of migrants had gathered outside Anand Vihar bus terminal to return home following rumours that buses were being arranged for them.“Inputs have started coming in that some people are misguiding stranded migrants and offering them help to return home in lieu of money. We have identified a few of them and their activities are under watch,” said joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Chandra Srivastava.Anticipating that the stranded people may reach the three interstate bus terminals — from where government and private interstate buses operate — these places have been sealed and no buses are parked there.“Apart from the main roads, adequate deployment of police personnel has been done on other alternate routes, such as railway tracks through which migrants can reach the bus terminals,” said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (east).Between March 27 and 29, thousands of migrants had gathered in and around Anand Vihar bus terminal near Delhi-Ghaziabad border after rumours spread that they will be sent back home, despite the lockdown. Since the crowd continued swelling at an alarming rate, the government arranged buses and sent many such migrants home. Those left were later shifted to various shelter homes and camps. All station house officers (SHOs) and beat officers have been asked to regularly meet the stranded migrants and keep updating them about the steps the city police was taking to implement the home ministry’s fresh guidelines. They have also been instructed to deliver cooked food and essential items to migrants, who are jobless because of the lockdown.“We are trying to keep them free from stress and boredom by introducing them to different sports and other recreational activities,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-appeal-to-stranded-migrants-students-tourists-to-stay-where-they-are/story-uMXsOWYkrqIQkcbt3Nmj4M.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt readies to send workers home, bring back students||The Delhi government will bring back over 750 students stranded from Kota in Rajasthan, senior government officials said on Thursday. The government will also introduce an online application system to help thousands of migrant workers in the city to return to their native states.While a timeline is yet to be finalised, the buses are expected to leave for Kota, around 520 kms away, in a day or two, an official said.This came a day after the Union home ministry issued guidelines for state governments to enable the return of migrants, students and pilgrims, in buses. These people are stranded due to the ongoing lockdown that was started on March 25 and extended till May 3, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19.Soon after the guidelines were issued, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday had said that his government will come up with a detailed plan later this week and urged migrant workers in the city to stay indoor till then.On Thursday, Kejriwal announced that his government is making arrangements to bring Delhi students back home from Kota, a hub of coaching centres for engineering and medical aspirants from across the country. “The transport department has been directed to arrange 30 private buses. Each bus will seat around 25 students only owing to social distancing norms. We are trying our best to send the buses by tomorrow so that the students can reach Delhi by Saturday. We will bring back 750-800 students. Besides, we can also arrange for a second batch of buses, in case the Kota administration informs that there are more Delhi students stranded there,” said a second senior official on condition of anonymity.With regard to transporting people stuck in the lockdown, most requests to the Delhi government were from those wishing to leave for their home state elsewhere.“So far, we have received only a few requests to bring people back to Delhi. These are mostly pilgrims, family members or students. Majority are of those who want to go to other states such as UP, Bihar, Haryana, West Bengal and so on,” said a third senior government official.This point was also highlighted by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday. “We are initiating talks with different states who want to take their people back from Delhi. I want to make it clear that it will be the concerned state’s responsibility to send buses to Delhi and take them home safely. Delhi government, on its part, will conduct thorough medical screening of all those who leave the city and hand over their records to the concerned state government,” Jain said.A senior government official said that the government has sought appointment for video conference with the Centre as well as with other states.Be it students, parents or migrant workers, everyone who will be transported from one state to the other will not just have to undergo medical screening, but will also have to mandatorily home quarantine themselves for 14 days upon reaching their home state, a senior official said. Only people who do not have symptoms of Covid-19 would be allowed to travel.The Delhi government is planning to set up a system under which migrant workers and others can apply for special passes either online, through a weblink which the government is working on, or by calling the integrated helpline 1031, which was, so far, receiving distress calls related to food distribution, ration, compensation for auto drivers and construction workers and those related to Covid-19 related medical emergencies.“The idea is to prepare an application system so that people can be sent back systematically and the city does not have to witness a repeat of the Anand Vihar situation. The proposed system aims at ensuring people are given dates, time slots, bus details and facility to travel to the concerned boarding point,” said the official.A day after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, thousands of migrant workers flocked to the Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal at the Delhi-UP border hoping to get a ride to their respective native states. A day later, the Delhi government was forced to help them with buses connecting them to borders of neighbouring states and some specific destinations for another day until the lockdown could be properly imposed. Kejriwal had then urged the remaining migrant workers to stay back ensuring them shelter and regular meals.Currently, over 20,000 migrants are staying in 328 shelter homes across the city. More than 1 million people, comprising a large chunk of migrant workers, avail free meals distributed by the government, officials said.Groups of trade unions in the city peg the total number of migrant workers employed in the unorganised sector at around 1.5 million – with the largest chunk employed in the construction sector.The demand for such a scheme increased after states such as UP, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Bihar coordinated among themselves to facilitate interstate travel of students and pilgrims caught in the lockdown.(ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-readies-to-send-workers-home-bring-back-students/story-ESFdH1oOH1GFa0sGkQ7LcO.html
01-05-2020||Noida||Pregnant woman tests positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, total cases in district at 138||A nine-month pregnant woman tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 138, officials said.On the brighter side, seven more patients were discharged from hospitals following their treatment for Covid-19, even as the number of active cases came down to 50, the officials said.“Total 112 reports have been received in the last 24 hours. One of them has tested positive and 111 tested negative for Covid-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 138,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.The new patient is a 27-year-old woman living in a residential society in Sector 121 of Noida, he said. According to officials, the woman is into the ninth month of her pregnancy and has been admitted to a hospital for treatment, while her husband has been put under quarantine.Seven patients, including an 11-year-old girl and an 81-year-old man, were discharged after successful treatment of coronavirus, the officer said in a statement.Others discharged include three women, aged 41, 45 and 53, and two men, aged 40 and 63, he said.“So far, 88 of the 138 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 50 active cases in the district,” Dohare said. The recovery rate of patients is 63.76 per cent, according to the official statistics.According to the Health Department, 3,592 samples were taken for Covid-19 test till Thursday evening.So far, 2,161 people have been identified across Noida and Greater Noida who have travelled abroad in recent months and they have been put on surveillance, while another 736 were in institutional quarantine, it added.There are currently 54 hotspots in Gautam Buddh Nagar which have been categorized into three zones – red (new case detected in last 14 days), orange (no new case in last 14 days) and green (no new case in last 28 days).As of now, 24 hotspots are in the red zone, nine in orange and 21 in green, according to officials.District Magistrate Suhas L Y said chances of infection are more in red zone while it is moderate in orange zone.“As a precautionary measure, equal restrictions apply on movement in both zones above the green zone. The green zone is not a hotspot and normal lockdown principles apply there,” he said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pregnant-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-total-cases-in-district-at-138/story-OElPFA3UhriLzd4gupOwkK.html
01-05-2020||Gurugram||After Faridabad, cross-border movement between Delhi, Gurugram now suspended||Cross-border movement between the national Capital and Gurugram will be stopped from 10am on Friday, with a few exemptions to maintain the supply of essential items, according to an order issued by the Gurugram administration on Thursday. On Wednesday, Faridabad had cross-border movement while the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh sealed borders last week.Deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Amit Khatri, in his order, asked government and private organisations in Gurugram and Delhi to make lodging arrangements for their employees, including essential staff such as health and sanitation workers, to avoid any undue hardship.Officials said that rapid antibody testing of suspected cases will be done at the Delhi-Gurugram borders, besides thermal scanning. Drivers and helpers undertaking cross-border movement will have to remain in isolation at dedicated facilities, on their return to Gurugram. Those moving across borders have been asked to install the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones for contact tracing and monitoring their locations.Residents of the two cities who have been travelling between the borders daily for work will now have to stay in the respective cities they are working in. The decision has been taken after Covid-19 cases reported in Gurugram were traced to the Capital. Till Friday, 57 Covid-19 cases were reported in Gurugram.“We have given time for people to make appropriate arrangements before the movement is curbed from Friday,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), who is also the Covid-19 in-charge for Gurugram.The decision to close Delhi-Gurugram borders was announced four days after Haryana home minister Anil Vij called for sealing of the state’s border with Delhi, where 3,515 cases of Covid-19 have been reported so far.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday, in an address to the citizens, said that the number of infected persons in Delhi is rapidly increasing. “We will not allow coronavirus from Delhi to enter Haryana. In the last six days, 28 coronavirus cases have been reported in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar where contact sources were traced to Delhi. We have taken the decision to strictly curb movement across the border. The supply of essential items will be ensured, allowing only a driver and single support staff to cross borders,” said Khattar.The administration has allowed vehicles ferrying vegetables, fruits, grains, poultry and other eatables, fodder for animals, medicines, medical equipment and raw materials used in manufacturing protective gear, sanitisers and ventilators to cross the border. The vehicles can have only one support staff, besides the driver.Ambulances, ATM cash vans, LPG and oil containers/tankers will be allowed to move. Those who have been issued restricted movement pass by Central and state governments will also be allowed to cross the borders, as per the order. This includes the staff of Prime Minister’s Office, Union ministry of home, finance and defence, postal department, disaster management and early-warning agencies, National Informatics Centres and Food Corporation of India.To ensure inter-state and inter-district supply chain is not affected, the movement of vehicles carrying essential and non-essential items will be allowed to cross the national and state highways. However, these vehicles will not be allowed to halt in Gurugram. For the movement for any other vehicles, except those exempted, permission has to be sought from the deputy commissioner’s office.Khatri has deployed 30 duty magistrates at police posts located at the state and district borders. Ten other duty magistrates will be on standby.Mohammad Akil, the commissioner of police, Gurugram, said, “An assistant commissioner of police and station house officers of the area will personally monitor the border for at least eight hours. Deputy commissioners of police will check the surveillance and submit reports on the vehicular movements, every day.”Meanwhile, inter-district movement to and from Faridabad and Nuh, with valid permissions, has been allowed.Faridabad also sealed its five entry and exit points connecting Delhi on Wednesday, except vehicles transporting essential items, and directed staff working in Delhi to make temporary accommodation arrangements. Prohibitory orders, under Section 144 of the CrPC were imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-faridabad-cross-border-movement-between-delhi-gurugram-now-suspended/story-gYrGDshOqCvhQUh1SlI5WM.html
01-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi chronicler who wrote on streets, ruins and its people, dies||RV Smith, the Delhi chronicler who produced stories from the city’s gallis, kuchas, bazars, ruins, dargahs and graveyards as lightly as a magician brought out pigeons from a hat, died on Thursday morning. He was 83. He is survived by wife, 82-year-old Alvina, and five children.“He was ill for some time,” said his eldest daughter 51-year-old Enid, adding that he died at around 7.30am at his second-floor flat in Mayapuri.Ronald Vivian Smith, Ronnie to friends, began his career as a reporter for The Statesman where he worked for more than 30 years and went on to author scores of books on the city. He was also wrote a column for the paper (“Quaint Corner”) and also for The Hindu (“Down memory lane”) on the city and its people.“I feel no amount of bookish knowledge can compete with the sort of insights and real, lived memories Smith sahab had,” said author Rakhshanda Jalil who often hosted Smith at her house for tea and sandwiches. “He had a fund of qissa-kahanis (anecdotes) about Delhi, and he always told his stories with an anecdote, a laugh and a twinkle in his eye.”Admirers who flocked to meet Smith at his apartment would at first be boggled by the massive pile of yellowing newspaper cuttings, containing the thousands of offbeat stories he had written on the Capital. Those papers would be stacked up haphazardly on the metal shelves of his drawing room that also served as his study. Smith would point them out as valuable documents of his life and work. They also remain an important archive of modern-day Delhi, but the frail elderly man was too modest to point that out.Smith’s first story, he once told this writer, was on a painting he saw hanging inside the historic St James’ Church in Kashmere Gate.He would go on to author 12 books on the city, including a novel and two volumes of poems. Some of his acclaimed titles are The Delhi That No-One Knows, Tales The Monuments Tell and Capital Vignettes.One of his last books, published in 2014, was Delhi Rambles: Quaint Cityscape Through A Roving Eye. It was a collection of his more recent newspaper columns. In the foreword, author Pran Nevile wondered if Smith was “inspired by the Muraqqa-e-Delhi by Dargah Quli Khan, who penned a fascinating account of Delhi’s social and cultural life in the 18th century.”Unlike most writers these days, Smith shunned the laptop. He typed his column on his late father’s Underwood typewriter before walking down to a nearby cyber café, where he would get it typed on Microsoft Word by a café attendant for ₹20 per page. While modern-day reporters can’t function without online search engines, Smith’s stories came straight from his personal encounters on the street. “I keep my eyes and ears open wherever I happen to be, for I always write what I have personally experienced,” he used to say. “Writing to me is recalling incidents and bazaar scenes, or things noticed in the surroundings of old monuments.”With titles as atmospheric as “Killer Tree In The Red Fort”, “Durga Puja In The 1950s” and “Loneliness & Street Cries”, the crisply written chapters in Smith’s various books were like a flying carpet that take the reader into a city only he has seen.Unlike other celebrated writers on Delhi, he remained as invisible as the people and places he wrote about. He was rarely spotted at book launches. In the Sunday service at Mayapuri’s St. John De Britto Church, he would always be seen sitting quietly in the last row.Like many Delhiwallas, Smith was not born in Delhi. Raised in an Anglo-Indian household in Agra, he was a descendant of an adopted daughter of a British adventurer called Salvadore Smith, who was drafted into a Maharaja’s army in the 18th century. The next generations opted for less uncertain professions. Smith’s father was the Agra correspondent for a number of national dailies. It was through “Papa’s letter” that he was appointed in 1964 as a sub-editor/reporter at The Statesman in Delhi.For many years Smith had no permanent home in the city. He lived in cheap hotels that surround the Jama Masjid to this day. This semi-nomadic existence enabled him to explore the Walled City like an insider: his archetypal street-side stories are the stuff that today’s flâneurs dream of.“First, I moved to Naaz Hotel, where I stayed in the room that was earlier occupied by (painter) M F Husain when he lived in Old Delhi,” Smith said in one of his many interviews with this author in recent years. “I later shifted with my wife to Azad Hind Hotel, where my son Tony was born. We ate most of our meals at Karim’s. In the evenings, we sat on Jama Masjid’s stairs, where we would have seekh kebabs.”One wonders what will be the fate of the newspaper clippings of his writings that he so assiduously collected in his study. Also, what about the scores of black-and-white family photos and letters he preserved? This accumulation is a rare window not only into an Anglo-Indian world of Saturday night dances and Tambola rounds in Agra’s Postal Telegraph Club, but also into the life of a Delhi writer who has chronicled those aspects of the city that otherwise would have passed unrecorded.“Smith sahab had a hard life towards the end of his years; some of that hardship could have been alleviated if there were some help from a government agency none of which was forthcoming. I know this because I tried,” remarks Jalil.One of the souvenirs in Smith’s archive was a press ID card issued to him by The Statesman in the 1970s that specifically mentioned that “his work involves attendance at night.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-chronicler-who-wrote-on-streets-ruins-and-its-people-dies/story-qGH39pSkPHli2Bvk7mFcwJ.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Safety of health workers proving Herculean task for Chandigarh admn||Protecting health workers from getting infected and spreading Covid-19 is proving to be a challenge for the Chandigarh administration. So far, 16 health workers in the city have got infected, of which two have infected over 30 others, including 24 in Bapu Dham Colony.Of the 16, six are from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), one from a private health institute and nine from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32.Over 450 persons, who have come in contact with these health workers, have been quarantined in Chandigarh. These do not include the health workers residing on GMCH premises.INFECTION TRAILS On April 24, one of the health workers from GMCH-32, a 30-year-old resident of Bapu Dham Colony, became a “super spreader” for the colony, wherein 24 more have been found positive (two more in Manimajra and Sector 52) and 190 persons have been put under home quarantine.After his reports, eight other staffers of GMCH, including three doctors, have been tested positive so far. None of them was dealing with a positive case, and majority were either posted in emergency or in operation theatre.In another instance, a 30-year-old hospital attendant posted in communicable disease ward at the PGIMER got infected on April 17. The next day, the entire family of the man, who reside in a one-room apartment in Nayagaon, got infected.‘MINIMISING RISK’In a meeting with the UT administrator on Thursday, health secretary Dr Arun Kumar Gupta said adequate facilities were being provided to the doctors and health staff.Meanwhile, GMCH director principal Dr BS Chavan said, “We have started providing PPE kits to doctors and other staff in the emergency to ensure their safety. We are going to start testing for Covid before performing any surgery. There can be exception in case of emergency situation.”He said, “I have asked for a list of all workers who live in sealed areas or hotspots. We will ask them not to report to work, but they will be paid, so that we minimise the risk of infection.”When asked about the number of health workers put under quarantine, he said, “ have asked for a list, and we will see how to manage the work, with some of the staff under quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/safety-of-health-workers-a-challenge-for-chandigarh-admn/story-2Z0f2p6X9nEjjzveUntpJM.html
01-05-2020||Noida||UP industry minister assures help for Noida’s realty sector||The Uttar Pradesh industry minister Satish Mahana has assured developers that the state government will address the crisis in the real estate sector in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mahana interacted with developers through video-conferencing to discuss issues that cropped up after construction sites were shut down due to the lockdown. Several developers from the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), two builders’ associations, participated in the webinar that took place on Wednesday evening. Alok Tandon, industrial and infrastructure development commissioner, Uttar Pradesh government, also participated in the webinar that was organised to discuss various issues facing the real estate sector.The developers’ demands include mortgaging unsold stock (ready flats), the reduction of interest on project loans, waivers of interest on land cost dues if civic amenities are delayed, a waiver on time-extension charges, financial dues de-linked from occupancy certificate issuance, the postponement of financial dues on housing projects, a waiver in stamp duty for one year, the reduction of prevailing impractical circle rates (property cost at which flats or plots are sold) to boost sales, and a waiver on electricity charges for builders during the lockdown period, among others.“We have noted all demands raised by the developers. Now the state government will take appropriate decisions on all important demands to give the real estate sector a boost. The state government is taking required steps to address the issues that have arisen due to the lockdown,” Mahana said.Developers said that the state government should take immediate decisions if they want the sector to be revived. There are at least 600 ongoing housing projects in Noida, Greater Noida and the Yamuna Expressway areas said the UP real estate regulatory authority. And at least one lakh homebuyers’ investments in these projects are at stake. As per NAREDCO, there are at least 5 lakh skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers employed to work on different projects in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. And at least 2 lakh employees have been employed by 200 developers, who are operating from Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. “We need the state government to make quick decisions so that we can survive. If the state government accepts our demands, then it will help at least 2 lakh employees working on real estate projects and 1 lakh homebuyers earn their livelihoods without hassles. If these issues are not resolved then the sector will witness an unprecedented deadlock due to the lockdown given the Covid-19 pandemic,” RK Arora, president of the Uttar Pradesh chapter of NAREDCO, said.Builders from across the state participated in this webinar.“There are at least 5 lakh skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers employed to work on different real estate sites. If the issues of this sector are not resolved then it will worsen the economic crisis. But we hope that government will look into our demands,” Prashant Tiwari, president of the western UP chapter of Credai, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-industry-minister-assures-help-for-noida-s-realty-sector/story-iFvn6NQzaFtMTh0OZd4Y9H.html
01-05-2020||Noida||51 persons from UP, MP kept in quarantine centres in Noida to be released||The district administration of Gautam Buddh Nagar has decided to release 39 persons of different districts of Uttar Pradesh who were quarantined for two weeks in Noida. Presently, they show no symptoms of the disease and have received health certificates from the health department. Additionally, 12 people from Madhya Pradesh, who were also stuck in Noida, will be sent to their homes, said officials. The administration has asked the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), Noida, to arrange buses for them.MN Upadhyaya, additional district magistrate (finance), issued a letter on Wednesday, stating that the administration had to make temporary shelters in the district to quarantine people suspected of suffering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The UP government had issued an order on April 13 in which it asked the local administration to quarantine people and also prepare a list. Once the person completes the 14-day quarantine period, the person should be released and administration would facilitate them to reach home. They would be needed for home quarantined for next two weeks (sic),” the letter to UPSRTC, Noida, stated.Upadhyaya, in the letter, stated that there are 39 such persons who have completed their quarantine period, undergone medical checkup, and are presently showing no symptoms of Covid-19. These people are residents of Bulandshahr (1), Sitapur (1), Shamli (3), Baghpat (3), Ghaziabad (4), Gautam Budh Nagar (3), Bareilly (4), Balia (1), Hardoi (3), Gonda (1), Jalaun (1), Kasganj (8), Allahabad (2), Lucknow (1), Etah (1), and Farrukhabad (1).Anurag Yadav, assistant regional manager, UPSRTC, Noida, said that he has received the letter from administration. “We will arrange for the buses and send them home. But at present, we are waiting for a nod from the administrations of the respective districts to which these people belong,” he said.Yadav also said that there are 12 people from Madhya Pradesh who were kept in quarantine centres in Noida for two weeks. “They have completed their quarantine period and are now medically fit. We will soon arrange for buses and send them home,” he said.Gautam Buddh Nagar has recorded 138 coronavirus positive cases so far, of which 88 have been cured while 50 others are undergoing treatment. A total of 736 persons are in institutional quarantine in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/51-persons-from-up-mp-kept-in-quarantine-centres-in-noida-to-be-released/story-qyUYzEA6t5acoXDJUlUwzN.html
01-05-2020||Noida||Noida: 110 people arrested daily for violation of lockdown rules||The Gautam Budh Nagar police, data showed, have arrested at least 110 people daily on an average for violating prohibitory orders ever since the lockdown was imposed .Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a three-week nationwide lockdown from March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was later extended till May 3. However, the Uttar Pradesh government had already announced a three-day lockdown from March 23.The UP government has also mandated the use of face masks in public places and cops have been booking anyone who is caught without a mask.According to official data, from March 23 to April 30 (till 7pm), a total of 4,894 people had been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Of whom 4,318 had been arrested.“The arrests came in violation of Section 144 of CrPC that has been implemented in the district in the wake of the lockdown. It bars the gathering of four or more people. For violations 1,209 cases have been registered so far,” said a police spokesperson.Anyone booked under Section 188 can be granted interim bail as it carries a punishment of less than seven years, said the police.“The violations include people venturing out without any specific purpose or those not wearing masks in public places or groups gathering,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Police teams are carrying out daily checks at 200 barricaded posts in the district, including border areas, and ,have checked 77,250 vehicles from March 23 to April 30. Of these, 16,467 vehicles have been challaned for various violations, while 906 have been seized. The department has also collected more than Rs 1.85 as fines.The police spokesperson said that five cases under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, have also been registered, in which five people were booked, of which three were arrested.The police data showed that 3,373 vehicles of essential services for movement in and out of the district was allowed.Earlier this week, the GB Nagar district completely sealed its borders with Delhi to insulate itself from the spread of Covid-19. Police and health officials have been scanning the temperature of anyone entering the district and people with increased body temperature are not being allowed to enter.Meanwhile, the police have also been issuing guidelines regarding various cyber thefts in the district during the lockdown — the most common of which are offers on Covid-19 medical tests, free recharges, donations through fake social media IDs. KYC frauds and online shopping frauds.“Fraud can also occur through request of donations for relief funds, distribution or requirement of ration, vehicle passes, fake helplines, online delivery of essential services, government schemes etc. Any requests coming in through social media or messages should be verified first while using doubtful links should be avoided,” said a police spokesperson.Cops also said that any sensitive software should not be downloaded, suspicious QR code links not clicked and unverified customer care numbers should not be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-110-people-arrested-daily-for-violation-of-lockdown-rules/story-i4zL66iTtItkUC06Yha4GN.html
01-05-2020||City||Ludhiana industrialists urge Punjab govt to allow operations in mixed land-use area||With the state government announcing relaxations for industries situated in rural areas, industrial estates and focal points; members of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have demanded that the industrialists be allowed to operate the units situated in mixed land use areas.The industry representatives said that most of these units are situated inside the houses and the large-scale industries depend on these micro and small units. “The owners of these units work as vendors for the large-scale industries. The small industries in the mixed land use areas are paid to modify the products sent to them,” they said.FICO president Gurmeet Kular said, “The government should permit operations in mix land use areas from May 3. Thousands of units are situated there, ranging in size from 50sq yards to 100sq yards. Only a few labourers work in these units, so it is will be easy to follow the social distancing norms. Also, the large-scale industries cannot work until the small and micro units start their operations.”BJP district vice-president Rajnish Dhiman said, “These industries should be allowed to operate from 7am to 11am, as they are reeling under losses. Almost 50% of Ludhiana’s industries are situated in mixed land use areas and by allowing them to operate, the economy can be brought back on track. Further, the government should also look into the problems being faced by the industry due to shortage of labour.”Earlier, Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) president Jaswinder Thukral had submitted a memorandum with deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. FICO DEMANDS RELEASE OF PENDING VAT AND SGST REFUNDSDemanding the release of pending value added tax (VAT) and state goods and service tax (SGST) refunds, FICO members conducted a meeting on Thursday with Punjab excise and taxation commissioner Vivek Pratap Singh and additional excise and taxation commissioner Ravneet Singh Khurana through a video conference. They demanded that the state government should waive the penalty/surcharge on the delayed payment of GST instalment which was deferred till June, 2020.The industry is demanding its own money and no extra subsidy, but the government has failed to release the pending refunds.Kular said, “The state government failed to release the VAT refunds, which have been pending even before the GST regime, which was introduced in 2017. Further, the SGST returns of hundreds of crores are also pending due to which the industry is facing shortage of working capital. The industry is reeling under losses and imposition of interest on bank loans has further worsened the crises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industrialists-urge-punjab-govt-to-allow-operations-in-mix-land-use-area/story-4rhO9i5uKaiJcMefIJ22fO.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||After Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30 emerges as second biggest Covid hotspot in Chandigarh with 16 cases||After Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30 has emerged as the second major Covid cluster in Chandigarh, accounting for nearly one-fifth (16) of the total 74 cases to date.Nine cases, including the two that came to light on Wednesday night, have been reported here in the last four days. What makes authorities worried is the fact that all these cases have emerged in the EWS locality of the sector’s B block that stands entirely sealed now.The locality’s 600 households are home to approximately 4,000 people living in multi-storey 2 marla houses. As many as eight houses between house numbers 1500 and 1680 have already been exposed to the virus.While the test reports of several primary contacts of those found infected are awaited, the source of the spread is not fully known to the authorities. Some administrative officials indicate that the ground situation is akin to community transmission, but it has not been declared officially by the UT health department. The first case reported from Sector 30B on March 28 was that of a Dubai-returned youth, who ended up infecting his mother and two friends living not far from his place.Just when the authorities thought all his contacts had been tracked and screened, a 52-year-old woman — who lives in the lane behind the Dubai-returned youth’s house — came for checkup at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 on April 17 after she had developed minor fever and cough. She was found to be Covid positive a day later. She had no travel history.Three out of five of her family members tested positive a day later on April 19. However, no more sampling was done in the area even as 64 of the woman’s secondary contacts were home-quarantined.For the next one week, no case was reported here. But on April 27, two of a family — a 41-year-old man and his 65-year-old mother — were found positive on April 27. Their house is located in front of the 52-year-old woman’s.Five more cases from as many as four houses were found positive the very next day on April 28. This led the authorities to sample 15 of their primary contacts while putting in home-quarantine as many as 100 people. These cases, however, had no primary or secondary contacts with the earlier cases, nor were their locations anywhere nearby their houses.The latest two cases reported on April 29 midnight were contacts of the mother-son duo that had tested positive on April 27.While UT health authorities claimed that these positive cases were the result of their intense screening on ground, Yadvinder Mehta, president of RWA-Block A (Sector 30B), said the screening was still not an effective way of dealing with the threat. “We want aggressive testing in the whole locality as there may be people who are either asymptomatic or have lied about their travel history,” he said.Area councillor Devinder Singh Babla said he had approached the administration for aggressive testing but to no avail. Besides, supply of essentials was erratic and even those who needed immediate medical help like insulin injections had to wait for days. “Police enforcement, too, gets weaker by late evening, giving a chance to the people to come out of their homes,” he added.While UT director health Dr G Dewan did not respond to repeated calls, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore during the daily review meeting on Thursday directed Dr Dewan to send medical teams to conduct intensive and extensive screening and testing in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30B, so that no suspected cases are left out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-bapu-dham-colony-sector-30-emerges-as-second-biggest-covid-hotspot-in-chandigarh-with-16-cases/story-UjGEanRiOyXqsRb4iRHxpM.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sources of 8 Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh still untraced||The untraced Covid-19 source of a 30-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony and seven others in Chandigarh has authorities worried, especially as they have infected 39 others.It all started from the 30-year-old male operation theatre (OT) attendant at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, who tested positive on April 24. Within six days, 24 others from the same colony (excluding one from Sector 52 and another from Manimajra, with their source of infection from Bapu Dham Colony) had tested positive and 190 of his contacts quarantined.“Out of 74 Covid-19 positive cases in Chandigarh, the highest number, 25, is from Bapu Dham Colony and 16 from Sector 30. In Bapu Dham, the source of infection is one, the OT attendant from GMCH-32, but we don’t know how he was infected,” said Anil Kumar Garg, additional commissioner, Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC).Then in Sector 30, from where 16 cases have been reported, the source of five persons has not been traced. “One woman with Covid-19 infected five more, but again we don’t know her source. Four more cases whose sources are not known have infected seven more,” said an MC official.Garg said “We do know that the Sector 30 woman had spent six days at GMCH-32. She might have picked up the infection from the hospital, but we are not sure.”Sources of two more patients, a PU teacher and resident of Sector 37 and a woman from Sector 38, have not been traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sources-of-8-covid-19-cases-including-gmch-ot-attendant-from-bapu-dham-still-untraced/story-OSJv91H5hhrW7tCa9ZW01N.html
01-05-2020||Football||Bhaichung Bhutia, Sunil Chhetri lead condolence messages for legend Chuni Goswami||Present day Indian football icons Sunil Chhetri and Bhaichung Bhutia led condolence messages as social media poured in their love and respect for former India captain Subimal ‘Chuni’ Goswami who breathed his last here on Thursday. He was 82.“We’ve lost one of the leading lights of Indian sport today. Not too many can boast of being top-notch in two different sports. You played your part to the fullest, rest well, Chuni sir. Strength to the family,” India captain and record goalscorer Chhetri said in a tweet.Former captain Bhutia, who has played for Mohun Bagan, a club Goswami played for all his life, said Indian football lost two of its biggest icons in Goswami and P.K. Banerjee who passed away last month.“It’s a huge loss. This is a bad period for Indian football. Whenever there is talk about Indian football, you hear names of Chuni Goswami an P.K. Banerjee,” Bhutia told IANS.“I haven’t had a lot of interaction with Chuni da but I did meet him when I was playing for Mohun Bagan. He always had a smile on his face and was a gentleman,” added Bhutia.Goswami’s biggest achievement was captaining India to the 1962 Asian Games Gold medal when India scripted a historic 2-1 victory against South Korea (Korea Republic) in the final to land India its second gold medal in Asian Games history.Goswami was an able all-rounder for the Bengal cricket team, leading them to the Ranji Trophy final in 1971/72.He represented Bengal in 46 matches between 1962 and 1973 and scored 1,592 runs as also taking 47 wickets.“BCCI mourns the death of Subimal ‘Chuni’ Goswami, an all-rounder in the truest sense. He captained the Indian national football team & led them to gold in the 1962 Asian Games. He later played first-class cricket for Bengal & guided them to the final of Ranji Trophy in 1971-72,” BCCI said in a tweet.“We’re deeply saddened by the passing of former player and club Legend Sri Subimal (Chuni) Goswami. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time. Rest in peace, Chuni Goswami,” Mohun Bagan’s official Twitter handle read.“QEBFC deeply mourns the sad demise of the versatile international sports personality Subimal (Chuni) Goswami. He will be remembered for his unparalleled contribution as multi faceted sports person. May his soul rest in peace,” East Bengal said in a statement.--IANSdm/bbh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/bhaichung-bhutia-sunil-chhetri-lead-condolence-messages-for-legend-chuni-goswami/story-6CESz7OukdoP1ZTXw9H5tO.html
01-05-2020||City||Parenting stress amid lockdown? Ludhiana admn starts free counselling||With schools shut and children forced to stay indoors 24/7, most parents are finding it difficult to go about with their everyday routine while also helping children with their studies. To help parents cope with this added stress amid the pandemic, the district bureau of employment and enterprises (DBEE) has started a free counselling facility for parents.Nidhi Singhi, counsellor (PhD in psychology) at the DBEE, said the facility is for the parents having school-aged kids. “Earlier, children used to spend about seven hours everyday in an educational setup. But now they are stuck indoors and it is becoming challenging for the parents to give in to their wards’ special demands throughout the day while working from home,” said Singhi, who has a nine-year-old son.“The parents will also be provided counselling for other interpersonal and mental health problems,” Singhi added.The counsellor said schoolteachers, who have kids of their own, are the most stressed these days. “These days, teachers are online throughout the day as they have to prepare educational videos, assignments and tests for the students. Further, they need to get the homework approved by the heads before sending the same to the students,” she said.“Then these parents also handle students’ queries while doing household chores and helping their own kids with homework. All this has overburdened the parents,” Singhi added.Gurjit Kaur, a city-based pre-school teacher, said her two daughters (aged 10 and 4) are being given more assignments during the lockdown. “I prepare assignments for my students at school and also help my daughters with their homework. Some assignments given to my daughters are tough and require my total assistance in solving them. As I got stressed with managing everything, I hired an online tutor, who is charging ₹700 per subject, for my elder daughter,” Kaur said.Ravinder Kaur, a government schoolteacher, said, “I get calls throughout the day from students who want me to answer their queries. So, I only do the work that needs priority so that I can also help my son with his homework and do the chores,” said Kaur, who has a 13-year-old son.DBEE deputy CEO Navdeep Singh said the counselling facility is available for the parents from Monday to Saturday from 9am to 5pm. “We have started giving sessions on phone on various issues, including handling children during the lockdown, preparing for competitive exams, self-care, time management while in quarantine and dealing with stress. Parents will also be taught thought modification techniques for improving mental health besides career counselling,” Singh said.“Interested individuals can call on 7889194960 to avail this free counselling facility,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-stress-dbee-offers-free-counselling-to-parents-of-school-going-kids/story-Ep6bRH0iFt9mwdkTvEeO5L.html
01-05-2020||City||Ludhiana students at their creative best amid coronavirus lockdown||Aisha Eliza Jabu, a student of CT University’s School of Design and Innovation, has made designer face masks to spread awareness on the importance of wearing them amid the coronavirus pandemic.The student said she designed the masks having African print fabrics so that they match with her outfits. “I wanted to spread the message that we need to stay indoors. I am far from my home, but I am doing my bit to help the nation in the fight against the coronavirus,” she said. Course coordinator Kiranpreet Kaur said, “This is a perfect example of the ‘three R’s -- Reduce, reuse and recycle’ as the outfits have been designed from existing garments and with whatever material that was available with her in the hostel.”ARYA COLLEGE STUDENTS HIGHLIGHT PRECAUTIONS AGAINST COVID-19Meanwhile, students of Arya College made awareness posters on the ongoing pandemic. The competition that aimed to channelise the students’ talent and energy amid the lockdown was supervised by girls section in-charge Suksham Ahluwalia. “Though they (students) have been confined to their homes since March, they have carried out various social outreach programmes such as distribution of food and medicines among the needy,” Ahluwalia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-students-at-their-creative-best-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-S2m30I7VrEfy4jpJGEFoWI.html
01-05-2020||City||Farm to fork: Farmer’s distress call turns into direct-selling of produce in Mohali’s housing societies||What began as a response to a distress call made by a kinnow grower in Abohar, looking for a market to sell the fruit amid the curfew, has now turned into a pilot project to aid direct selling of farmers’ produce in different housing societies of the district. The project called “Farm to fork” — an initiative of the residents’ welfare association of Jal Vayu Towers, Kharar, and two horticulture development officers living there — has not only helped around 800 families get a regular supply of fresh fruits and vegetables, but also helped farmers create new markets through direct selling.Under this community supported agriculture (CSA) model, horticultural crops like fruits and vegetables that are perishable in nature are sold at fair rates directly to the consumer. The prices are higher than the mandi rates (wholesale rate) for the farmer and lower for the consumer than the retail rates.The system has been running successfully for three weeks in the Jal Vayu Towers. “Due to the curfew, the supply of kinnow fruit was hindered, so our farmer friend from Abohar called to find out the demand for kinnow in Chandigarh or other nearby mandis. But at the time, the mandis were almost closed, so we thought of setting up an arrangement in our society,” said Yuvraj, horticulture development officer, Nurpur Bedi, Rupnagar.The demand was generated through the society’s WhatsApp groups. “As the farmers of Nurpur Bedi block of Rupnagar were in touch with us, they were persuaded to supply fruits/vegetables. Some farmers joined us and started supplying fresh strawberries, muskmelons, watermelons, brinjals, okra (bhindi), and cauliflower.”“Seven to eight farmers are currently supplying produce in our locality. They are getting profit directly without sharing it with any middleman, and residents are getting fresh produce at a reasonable rate,” said Bharat Bhushan, horticulture development officer, Majra in Mohali.“During the curfew when people are not permitted to step out of their houses, these two employees of Punjab horticulture department have tied up with farmers to bring their produce to the society complex and sell at very reasonable rates,” said Vijay Kumar, vice-president, RWA, Jal Vayu Towers, Kharar.“The rate list as well as prior intimation is given through WhatsApp,” said RS Pannu, retired wing commander and a resident.MODEL TO BE REPLICATEDThe Punjab horticulture department is now looking to replicate the model.Shailender Kaur, director horticulture, said, “A pilot project facilitated the farmers to sell their produce. We are looking at replicating this in different housing societies in Mohali and Kharar.”She added that talks were on with different farmers to encourage them to sell their produce in groups, so that one farmer collected different fruits/vegetables from different farmers and sold them to lower the transportation costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-to-fork-farmer-s-distress-call-turns-into-direct-selling-of-produce-in-mohali-s-housing-societies/story-aov2PiqTpf1JcboPDX3pTK.html
01-05-2020||Chandigarh||Five drug peddlers held in Ludhiana; 1kg heroin recovered||The local unit of Special Task Force (STF) claimed to have busted two gangs of drug peddlers with the arrest of five people and recovery of 1.1kg heroin from them on Wednesday, police said. The woman kingpin of one of the gangs is yet to be arrested.In the first case, the STF arrested three accused, identified as Bobby, 24, Kashmiri, 24, and Arjun Rai, 19, all residents of EWS Colony on Chandigarh Road, and recovered 810 grams of heroin from their possession.AIG STF Snehdeep Sharma said following a tip-off, the accused were intercepted by the STF team when they were moving towards Jamalpur from EWS Colony riding on a scooter. During checking, 810gm heroin was recovered from the boot space of the scooter.The accused confessed that they were going to deliver the consignment among the addicts and had procured it from a woman named Heena of Ghoda colony, the AIG said, adding that they also confessed that they have been into drug peddling for past one year and used to procure the contraband from Heena.Following the information provided by the accused, police have booked Heena and a hunt is on to nab her.“Bobby is a scrap dealer, while Kashmiri and Arjun Rai are labourers. Arjun is already facing two cases of assault,” police said.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused at STF, Mohali.Convict, aide held with 300gm heroinIn the second case, the STF has arrested a convict and his accomplice for drug peddling and recovered 300gm heroin from their possession. Following a tip-off, the arrest was made from Transport Nagar, police said.The accused have been identified as Raj Kumar alias Guggi, 50, of Abohar, and Balwinder Kumar, 42, of Bedi Nagar in Moga. Raj Kumar is a truck driver and has been living in a rented accommodation in Ishar Nagar here, while Balwinder is unemployed, they added.“Balwinder was convicted in a case of drug peddling and has been serving 10-year imprisonment. He had come out from jail on parole and again got involved in drug peddling. Apart from it, he is already facing trial in three other cases of drug peddling,” they said.A case under Sections 21, 29, 68 of 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at Moti Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-drug-peddlers-held-in-ludhiana-1kg-heroin-recovered/story-i1lqs73WACIwkjNAONn09J.html
01-05-2020||City||Miscreants break open ATM in Dera Bassi, no cash lost||Despite beefed up security in the district amid the Covid-19 lockdown, miscreants broke open an ATM in Dera Bassi’s Akali market on Thursday.The accused, however, could not take away any cash.Police were informed about the broken ATM of Canara Bank around 12pm.On reaching the spot, they found no security guard deployed in the kiosk and the wires of the ATM alarm system damaged.Police got in touch with the bank, but no complaint was lodged. Police have initiated preliminary investigation and are scanning the CCTV footage available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-break-open-atm-in-dera-bassi-no-cash-lost/story-SMiOEb9C6UJ35D1TbBnkwN.html
01-05-2020||Pune||Market Yard godown gutted in midnight blaze, none injured||A godown in Market Yard was gutted in a midnight blaze on Wednesday. The fire was reported from a godown located near Gate 9 of the vegetable and fruit hub of the city. A truck standing outside the godown was also gutted in the incident. The crates inside the truck kept the fire burning for some time before the fire officials could douse it.Six fire tender vehicles rushed to the spot to douse the fire. The reason for the fire could not be ascertained immediately.The fire incident was recorded at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/market-yard-godown-gutted-in-midnight-blaze-none-injured/story-CQvfwD7jxBfLFMCmTjrJYO.html
01-05-2020||Pune||Highway police official in anti-corruption trap flees from Urse toll plaza while allegedly accepting bribe||An assistant police inspector (API) of the highway police fled from the Urse toll plaza area on Wednesday night after the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials allegedly caught him accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000.“We have set up a team which is on the lookout for him. We cannot reveal details about which direction he went in,” said Rajesh Bansode, superintendent of ACB Pune Unit. According to police officials, the API who is on the run has been identified as Satyajit Ramchandra Adhatrao with the highway police help centre in Wadgaon. The complaint against API Adhatrao was lodged by a driver of a truck that was carrying the nozzle of a windmill. The complainant’s truck was among two trucks stopped by the highway police. The booked API allegedly asked for Rs 10,000 for passage of each truck. After negotiation, the API allegedly agreed to accept Rs 15,000. The driver informed the ACB and the ACB officials led by officials of ACB Pune unit on Wednesday set up a trap. A trap was set up at the spot where the bribe was being exchanged. As API Adhatrao realised that ACB officials were closing in, he got into a car and tried to flee. The life of police inspector Sunil Bhile of ACB Pune unit was put at risk as API Adhatrao sped towards him. However, SP Bansode confirmed that nobody was injured in the incident.A case has been registered under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act along with Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/highway-police-official-in-anti-corruption-trap-flees-from-urse-toll-plaza-while-allegedly-accepting-bribe/story-4f5dZiodQLeucksSHWCzEM.html
01-05-2020||Pune||PMPML offers its buses for hire to firms to generate revenue during lockdown||With the lockdown putting a stop to all public transport services, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is staring huge losses amounting to approximately Rs 1 crore 40 lakh daily. To generate some revenue, the public transport body has put up a proposal to private and semi-private firms, government-run institutions and information technology (IT) companies in areas like Chakan, Hinjewadi, Bhosari, Chinchwad and MIDC to opt for hired buses from the PMPML.At least 1,600 buses are parked on the roads, while only a handful of them ply on the road for essential services staff. “Ever since the lockdown, 1,600 buses are off the road and there is no revenue. We are losing Rs 1 crore 40 lakh per day and hence the management, and chairman and managing director (CMD) Nayana Gunde has decided to propose hiring of the buses for companies,” said Anant Waghmare, traffic manager, PMPML.He added, “If the companies wish to use PMPML buses, we are offering them on hire at the rate of Rs 83.50 per km, and with a minimum run of 2000km per month. This decision is to sustain our transport since the buses are not plying. We are also offering them choice of buses - 25 seater or 35 seater.”Earlier, PMPML buses were used for schools in the city at Rs 70 per km and for a minimum run of 30km.Responding to PMPML’s proposal, government-run National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) asked PMPML to supply four buses to ply its staff.“We have been exploring options for the staff to come to office and commute without any problem during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, which made us write to PMPML to see if they have a viable solution. We have to see the willingness of the employee as well as the financial constraints before we take any decision,” administrative officer, NARI, said.Dattareya Pandit, an IT programme manager, “We used to have our own bus service from the company, which was enabled with GPS and hence, was easy to trace besides, our buses have special card machine to swipe for the bus charges, but post lockdown, I feel intercity bus services will be allowed and if that doesn’t work, then companies will have to look at the PMPML option, then it will be a viable option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-offers-its-buses-for-hire-to-firms-to-generate-revenue-during-lockdown/story-MD8qWmIr5qiAhV33xo5mFJ.html
01-05-2020||City||Cured and raring to go, SI Arshpreet excited to join duty||Almost two weeks after she was admitted to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana, sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal has finally recovered from the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Talking to Hindustan Times over the phone from the hospital, an elated Grewal said that she is excited to go home and join duty as soon as her home quarantine period is over.She had been on curfew duty, getting just four to five hours of sleep everyday, when she tested positive for the virus on April 17. Her first thoughts on being tested positive were-- had she passed on the infection to her parents, both diabetic patients. But luckily, their tests came out negative and Grewal could concentrate on her own health. At the hospital, she spent time catching up with her friends and family over phone, playing ludo online, watching shows on online streaming sites and doing yoga. “The department had arranged a yoga instructor, who used to teach us asanas online,” she says.Grewal also took to making videos to keep her well-wishers updated about her health. She says her Facebook page has been flooded with messages from concerned residents ever since the news of her infection got out. “There are so many messages that I am unable to read all. But I make sure to respond to at least 20 persons everyday. I wish to convey my gratitude to everyone who prayed for my speedy recovery,” she says. She is also all praise for the doctors, nurses and other staff at the DMCH who helped her recover. “The staff here took good care of me and fed me a balanced diet. We were also given turmeric milk and tulsi tea to boost our immunity. Doctors have now advised me 15 days’ rest and I can’t wait to get home,” says the cop who is set to be discharged on Friday. The 27-year-old, who is station house officer of Basti Jodhewal, says, “Earlier, due to my busy schedule, I rarely got time to spend with my family. I am hoping to make up for that in this quarantine period. I am also looking forward to learn cooking from my mother and update my knowledge by reading law-related books.”A graduate in Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) from the Kamla Lohtia SD College, Grewal had joined the police department in 2015 after clearing the recruitment exam. She was on probation for two years after which she was given charge of the police post in Jalandhar before being finally promoted as SHO in August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cured-and-raring-to-go-si-arshpreet-excited-to-join-duty/story-wn8epCXfgyHDpKepsXX6HM.html
01-05-2020||Football||Chuni Goswami - A footballer who could count India’s president as his fan||Chuni Goswami, captain of the 1962 Asian Games football gold medal winning India team, died after a heart attack on Thursday at a nursing home near his residence in south Calcutta. He was 82 and is survived by wife Basanti and son Sudipto. Goswami’s death comes a little over one month after former India teammate PK Banerjee’s passing. Banerjee, Goswami and Tulsidas Balaram were part of a famous India forwardline which scored nine of India’s 11 goals on way to the Asian Games gold medal in Jakarta.India won 12 of the 16 games they played together. All of them came between 1958 and 1962; the trio scoring 20 of India’s 36 goals in that period. Goswami, who played inside-left in a five-forward formation, scored seven of those goals.Of wiry build, Goswami had remarkable ball control and could dribble his way out of most situations. Rival defenders would be exhorted by their coaches to look at the ball and never at Goswami’s legs for they would then have no hope of getting the ball. And for a player that lean, Goswami could pack a punch. Goswami’s Mohun Bagan and India teammate Jarnail Singh called him an artist.Known to be a tough taskmaster, the famous India coach Syed Rahim had a soft spot for Goswami. Once, Goswami joined an India camp late and a player pointed that out to Rahim. “Play like him and I will let you join late too,” Rahim said. Goswami debuted for India against Myanmar in the 1958 Asian Games, scoring in his first match. He played international football till 1964 netting 13 goals in 36 games. In that time, India played the 1960 Olympics where they narrowly lost to a heavyweight Hungary team that had Florian Albert --- European Player of the Year in 1967 --- and players from top clubs such as Ferencvaros and Honved.Two years later, Goswami led India to the Asian Games gold. Goswami scored three goals in the campaign including a brace in the semi-finals as India beat South Vietnam 3-2. The other goal in the semi-final came from Singh with Goswami providing the final pass.He quit international football after the Merdeka Cup in 1964 and after India finished runners-up in the Asian Cup that year.Goswami was a pin-up in Indian sport much before the term became popular. He could count among his fans Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, India’s second President. Seeing him warm-up before a Durand Cup final, where the President was the chief guest, Radhakrishnan said: So, I see Chuni again. You seem to have become a permanent feature in the finals.”This was when Mohun Bagan --- the only club Goswami played for, starting as a junior in 1946 and retiring in 1968 --- won the Durand Cup for three seasons in a row, from 1963. Goswami scored 200 goals for Mohun Bagan --- many of them from the final pass of outside-left Arumainayagam with whom he had great understanding --- after joining the senior team in 1954. He also won three Santosh Trophy titles for Bengal.Such was Goswami’s star power that stories abound in the Kolkata Maidan of a section of the crowd leaving the Mohun Bagan ground, forsaking a league match of their favourite club, to see him turn out in an office league game. This when Goswami had long retired from football.“Chuni had good looks and exuded star appeal. He was different: a sportsman who would buy books of PG Wodehouse and Somerset Maugham to get through long train journeys. He had a great sense of humour and a never-say-die attitude,” said Raju Mukherjee, the former Bengal cricket captain who played under Goswami.Goswami was also adept at tennis and was a regular on the South Club courts and those of the Calcutta Cricket and Football Club till the turn of the century. He also played a mean hand at carrom, the board game.But if there was one sport Goswami aced after football, it was cricket. Goswami first played for Bengal in 1962. His taking on the fiery Roy Gilchrist, who was representing Hyderabad, and scoring over 40 as a middle-order batsman is still talked about in Bengal. When he was still ruling the club football scene in India, Goswami’s in-swingers helped a combined Central and East Zone team beat Gary Sobers’ West Indies.Goswami took cricket more seriously after his football career. He played 46 first-class matches as an all-rounder. He led Bengal to two Ranji Trophy finals.“He never bothered looking at the pitch, saying it would be the same for 22 players. Once, a player complained about the sight-screen and Goswami said, ‘focus on the ball and not the screen. Did you have a screen when you played cricket in the city’s bylanes?’,” said Mukherjee. “His will to fight was infectious and we learnt so much about fitness from him,” said former India left-arm spinner Dilip Doshi who also played for Bengal under Goswami. Born in Kishoreganj, now in Bangladesh, Subimal ‘Chuni’ Goswami caught the eye of BD Chatterjee who groomed him and got him into Mohun Bagan.Goswami worked in a nationalised bank and was the first director of the Tata Football Aacdemy in Jamshedpur, a post he held from 1986-90. He won the Arjuna award in 1963 --- one year after Balaram and two after Banerjee --- and the Padma Shri in 1983. He was given the Mohun Bagan Ratna, an award initiated by the club in 2001 to honour club legends, in 2005, the same year he was made Sheriff of Kolkata. The Postal Department issued a stamp in his honour on January 15, his birthday, this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/legendary-footballer-chuni-goswami-no-more/story-IrD19dGqFfVL28yftFFPOP.html
01-05-2020||Pune||Finding sponsors will be tough in post-covid era, says president of Maharashtra Squash Rackets Association||With squash steadily gaining popularity in the state, players have been hit hard by the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic. Many tournaments and summer camps have been cancelled this year. However, what seems to be troubling the president of the Maharashtra Squash Rackets Association, the most, is funding.“Sponsors play a very important role in individual sports like squash and even in tennis, I think. Till now we received good support of sponsors to conduct tournaments, but now even they will feel the pinch of the lockdown because of the economic losses and even for us, it will be a tough task to get sponsors in the post-covid era,” said Pradeep Khandre, president, Maharashtra Squash Rackets Association (MSRA).Camps cancelled“Players are disappointed as they are missing a lot of opportunities to train during the summer. We organise camps in various parts of the state under renowned national coaches which is a big help for the players. Pune leg of PSA HCL SRFI India tour (June 13-16) also got cancelled and state players were looking forward to it,” said Khandre.“Along with Pune and Mumbai, the idea was to conduct camps in other districts as well as players from smaller districts are also showing interest in the game nowadays,” added Khandre.Social media activitiesSince the lockdown, MSRA has been engaging players with various activities on social media and has also advised them to continue practice at home.“Since the lockdown started, we ran an awareness campaign for our players. Top players of Maharashtra who have represented India – Urvashi Joshi and Mahesh Mangaonkar - helped spread awareness about what the precautions which need to be taken care during the pandemic and exercises which they can continue during the lockdown,” said Khandre.In Maharashtra, there are 100 coaches and all of them are currently busy in preparing special online programmes for the players.“Out of 100, 40 are certified level coaches, we have advised all of them to stay in constant touch with the players and work on their fitness at moment. I wish the situation improves soon because personally I feel training in front of a coach is completely different, than training at home,” added Khandre.Webinar for coaches and playersMSRA has also planned webinars for coaches and players. Association is aiming to conduct sessions with current/past players, coaches, sports physiotherapists and psychologists. “We are finalising the schedule and every day we are planning to conduct one session. It is the best time to conduct these sessions. Sharing of experience by senior players will definitely help upcoming players,” added Khandre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/finding-sponsors-will-be-tough-in-post-covid-era-says-president-of-maharashtra-squash-rackets-association/story-KolxEkEkTm8H4PfiTMrYpJ.html
