02-05-2020||Lucknow||Consider all options for resuming economic activity: Yogi to Team 11||A day after the Centre extended the lockdown for two weeks and issued new guidelines, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked his team of officers to consider all options to restart economic activity in Uttar Pradesh after studying the central government’s norms.Yogi Adityanath was reviewing the lockdown situation at a meeting of his Team 11 on Saturday. Referring to the functioning of sugar mills and brick kilns during the lockdown, he said no case of coronavirus infection was reported from any of these units in the state. He also said distilleries attached to sugar mills produced sanitisers while sugar mills carried out sanitisation work during the period. Other industries should also be started on the same pattern, he suggested.Yogi said a work plan should be formulated to give a new dimensions to investment in the state. A work plan should also be prepared to provide 15-20 lakh jobs to people, the chief minister said to members of Team-11.He said migrant labourers/workers coming back to the state must be mandatorily quarantined. The process to bring back migrant labourers/workers should begin only after preparing a list and carrying out their health checkup.Those found unwell during a health examination should be given medical treatment, he said. He said an officer should be appointed to ensure that quarantine protocol was followed for migrant workers brought to the state.The state government had paid salaries to 16 lakh employees and 12 lakh retired employees well in time in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. The chief minister asked for measures to mobilise additional resources and he would hold a meeting with finance ministers again.Adityanath said the coronavirus infection chain would have to be broken to win the fight against Covid-19. Illegal intra-state and inter-state movement must be checked through effective policing, he said. OPDs should not be conducted in hospitals for now and a list of specialist doctors available for consultation through telemedicine should be published in newspapers, he said.Adityanath also said action should be taken to increase the number of beds in level one, two and three Covid-19 hospitals. Medical treatment of elders and children should be done only in level two and level three hospitals. Covid and non-Covid hospitals should be identified in every district, he said, adding that infrared thermometers should be made available in all the districts.The services of Pradeshik Raksha Dal (PRD) jawans should be taken to ensure order in the ‘mandis’. Besides, works under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana should be started soon to provide MNREGA jobs to labourers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/consider-all-options-for-resuming-economic-activity-yogi-to-team-11/story-2nFyxJP9rAFIGk52grg5dJ.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||UP’s first Shramik Special train bringing back 847 migrants||Uttar Pradesh’s first ‘labour’ train, the Shramik Special, having 847 migrants onboard, will reach Charbagh railway station early morning on Sunday. The train that left Nasik at around 10:22am on Saturday, is perhaps the first train to operate during the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to contain the deadly corona virus outbreak.Both Northern Railways (NR) and District administration have made elaborate arrangements at the station to maintain social distancing among the labourers.The initiative is a part of the UP Government’s exercise to bring back migrants from different states. After being brought here, the migrants would be quarantined in their respective districts.Divisional railway manager (DRM) Lucknow division, NR Sanjay Tripathi said, “We will act in co-ordination with the UP government, district administration and Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC). We have also made arrangements at the station to strictly ensure social distancing.”NR officials who did not wish to be quoted, said the migrant labourers would be received at two points—portico one and portico two. “At both the places, we have painted blocks on the platform floors on which the labourers would be asked to stand to maintain social distancing. There would be thermal scanners at both the porticos where the migrants would be scanned,” the NR officer said.Once the migrant labours cross the thermal scanning where medical teams would be deployed, the district wise segregation would start where they would be asked to stand in groups (gap among the people in group would be one metre). “There would be only one exit gate open from where these migrants would be allowed to leave the station premises,” officer further said.Mukesh Meshram, divisional commissioner, Lucknow said the migrants alighting at the station would first undergo health check-up. “Those who are through would be segregated district wise. We have also arranged around 65 buses. The groups would be asked to board the buses leaving for their respective districts,” said Meshram. The commissioner further said that they had also informed the district magistrates of the districts to receive the migrants and to put them under quarantine for 14 days. He said that on their arrival at the station, it would be ensured that the food packets and a bag of essential goods was handed over to each and every migrant.7,500 MIGRANTS REACHED UP TODAYOn Saturday, around 7500 migrants who were stranded in Rajasthan and Uttarakahand arrived in the state capital. Raj Shekhar, managing director (MD) said the two states transported the migrants to the borders of UP from where around 285 buses would be deployed to transport the migrants to their respective home districts. Besides, UPSRTC also deployed 35 special buses to bring back around 1000 migrant labourers from UP who were stranded in Haridwar district of Uttarakhand. “Those who returned from Rajasthan were dropped in Mathura district where we made arrangements to ferry them. And those returning from Uttarakhand were dropped in Bareilly district where we have deployed a fleet of 60 buses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-first-shramik-special-train-bringing-back-847-migrants/story-iIQ25aNexaJJCxN9NnIGHL.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kesar Ganj Mandi traders go on two-day strike over ‘police harassment’||The traders at the Kesar Ganj Mandi, a wholesale groceries market, went on a two-day strike on Saturday, alleging police harassment with them. “The cops deputed here on the lockdown duty have been troubling traders every now and then. They make the traders park their vehicles at least 400 metres away from their shops and don’t allow them to open shutter while unloading the material from their vehicles,” members of the market association said, adding that the police personnel also threaten them with sealing their shops.“Therefore, to show our resentment, all associations of the Kesar Ganj Mandi have decided to keep the shops shut on Saturday and Sunday,” they added.Rice Traders’ Association president Subhash Bansal said earlier, due to the lockdown they were not operating. Later, the officials of the food and supply department called them for a meeting and requested to resume work so that the supply of essential commodities does not get affected in the city. The police and district administration had also promised full cooperation to them. However, now the police personnel deployed here are not cooperating with us, Bansal said.“If we have to make home deliveries, we are supposed to pick heavy cartons, walk for 400 metres to reach our vehicles. While unloading the groceries from delivery vehicles, we have to open the shutter, but police don’t allow us to open the shutters. If police, doctors and sanitary workers are getting appreciation for working amid Covid-19 fear, we too are doing the same. But we are being harassed,” he said.President of the Dal Trade Association Pritpal Singh alleged that the police were biased towards some traders, who they allowed to open shutters while unloading the material. “Before the lockdown, we had lodged a compliant against a station house officer (SHO) over his misbehaviour with the traders and now he is harassing us,” Singh said. Meanwhile, commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agarwal said he was not aware about strike called by the traders. “I will ask the associations to discuss their grievances and we will resolve them soon,” the CP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kesar-ganj-mandi-traders-go-on-two-day-strike-over-police-harassment/story-YxHeTlYf9XxeNEsRxjpLMK.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi records highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 384 cases, tally crosses 4,000 mark||Delhi recorded a massive spike of 384 Covid-19 cases – the highest so far in a single day - as the national capital’s tally went past the 4,000 mark on Saturday, the state health department said.Delhi’s tally of Covid-19 cases on Saturday night stood at 4,122 while three more deaths took the number of casualties to 64.The previous single-day high of 356 new cases was recorded on April 13.There are 2,802 active cases of Covid-19 while 1,256 have recovered.Delhi became the third state after Maharashtra and Gujarat with more than 4,000 cases.Earlier in the afternoon, the Union Health Ministry put India’s Covid-19 cases at 37,776 while the death toll rose to 1,223.For the third straight day on Saturday, the Delhi health department did not release any data on testing.On Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a digital address to the media said the number of Covid-19 cases in the city was high because his government has scaled up testing for the disease.He said the government was conducting 2,300 Covid-19 tests per million population, which is higher than the national average of around 500 tests per million.Over 50,000 tests have been conducted in the city and about 7,000 of them were in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-covid-19-cases-with-384-cases-tally-crosses-4-000-mark/story-sVRWP4vgdmpjVNvZBJbKdO.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: City crosses 8-K mark; 137 discharged on Saturday||A growing hotspot for Covid-19 cases in one of the country’s largest and congested slums, Dharavi, recorded 89 cases on Saturday and a total of 221 cases in the past six days, bringing the tally on Saturday to 496. The area recorded the highest number of cases on Saturday. Overall, Mumbai recorded 547 cases of Covid-19, crossing the 8,000-mark, and 27 deaths were reported on Saturday. The total number of cases in the city has reached 8,172 and there have been 322 deaths so far. Of these, 1,704 people have recovered and were discharged. On Saturday alone, 137 recovered patients were discharged from hospitals across the city.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation attributed the rise in positive cases in Dharavi to aggressive contact tracing and pro-active screening through slum surveys of senior citizens, fever clinics, health camps, and municipal dispensaries.According to civic officials of the G North ward (Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim), around 79, 000 people have been screened in Dharavi, of which, 25,000 were screened this week alone. Nearly 1, 920 were suspected to be positive and have been referred to institutional quarantines where they are tested for Covid-19. Mahim area also recorded 15 new positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases there to 52. Dadar recorded 13 new cases, bringing the total to 46 till Saturday.Meanwhile, data released by the BMC states that more than 1.20 lakh people across Mumbai had been home quarantined by the civic body till April 30, of which 35, 380 have completed their quarantine. The BMC also claims to have tracked 1. 57 lakh people through contact tracing; 26, 584 of them are high-risk contacts. While people are home quarantined, some are also being quarantined in realty projects that are constructed but not yet sold. One of those is a Mhada building in Borivli where residents of some slum pockets were quarantined earlier this week. On Saturday, there was a ruckus at Sector 9 of a Charkop Mhada building after the slum dwellers who were shifted there had a quarrel with BMC officials over poor living conditions, including low-quality food, lack of hot water for those with throat ailments, etc. Mandar Musle, one of the people quarantined, said, “We cannot eat the stale food served to us. The building has one lift which they used to ferry a positive patient and the same lift is used to deliver the food. There are no proper arrangements at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-city-crosses-8-k-mark-137-discharged-on-saturday/story-wHaVd6aBNKMq4FYmpS0ctJ.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Residents’ association starts e-library for locals across age groups||For the past few days, around 400 people from Tilak Nagar in Chembur have been able to access various newspapers and e-books on social networking platforms thanks to a new digital library that was set up for residents.The office-bearers of the Tilak Nagar Residents Welfare Association (TNRWA) had earlier intended to hold an entrepreneurship workshop for youngsters in April and May. However, after the lockdown began, they decided to switch to online platforms to keep their residents occupied with access to various e-books and periodicals.“It started with a WhatsApp group on which we were sending links to newspapers and magazines, but then parents started requesting us to start a platform where we could keep their children occupied as well, which is how a parenting group started on WhatsApp and Telegram,” said Tony Jose, business coach and a resident.Jose said that while the group was first started for members of the resident association, it is now open to people from across the world.Currently, Jose runs three reading groups – one for people of all ages; a second for children and parents, and the third one for college students.Across these platforms, newspapers of different languages, along with educational, informative, self-help and fiction books are shared for people of all age groups.On the parenting group, the association shares readings and comics for children from Amar Chitra Katha, Tinkle, and superhero comics. It also provides access to parenting development. For youngsters, life skills, leadership, and entrepreneurship books are shared.“We regularly have a Zoom call session with these youngsters who have enrolled for entrepreneurship-related updates, wherein we speak to them about their takeaways from these books,” said Jose.“During the lockdown, as a working mother, it has been a challenge to keep my hyperactive son engaged. Access to this literature has helped me not only to keep my son engaged through learning but has also helped my senior parents to utilise this lockdown time creatively and build on their information. The best part is that it has helped us develop as a community through sharing,” said Harshika Khona, an entrepreneur and resident of Tilak Nagar.“Earlier, my eight-year-old son was busy with school, tuitions, and extra-curricular activities. During this lockdown, we have a lot of time, apart from his online school lectures. We decided to improve his reading skills through the e-library. It has helped improve his imagination as well,” said Kaning Thakker, resident of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/residents-association-starts-e-library-for-locals-across-age-groups/story-sJKgrockAbzfa1J1hSY0DJ.html
02-05-2020||City||Palghar lynching case accused tests positive; swab samples of 43 others sent for testing||Of the 115 arrested accused in the Palghar lynching case wherein 3 people were murdered, one 55-year-old accused has tested positive for Covid-19, confirmed Dr Dinkar Gavit, medical superintendent of Rural Hospital, Palghar.The accused was arrested by Kasa police on April 17 and has since been in lockup along with 20 other accused in the case. He was produced before the Dahanu court and has been remanded in police custody till 14 May. The arrested accused in the case have been lodged in different police stations in a bid to avoid overcrowding amid lockdown.Following due procedure, the accused were first tested for Covid-19 on April 28 morning, wherein the accused had tested negative. However, his second test report on Saturday was positive, said Dr Gavit. He has since been transferred to the prison ward of JJ Hospital, Mumbai, said Dr Gavit. He further added that the accused was asymptomatic and that the authorities have taken swab samples of 43 others, including 20 accused and 23 police personnel, who were at the police station.Palghar has so far reported 170 positive cases with 10 deaths including areas under Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation, while 59 have been discharged after recovery. Till now, 2,691 people have tested negative and reports of 188 is awaited, said an official from the District Information Office (DIO), Palghar.Meanwhile, around 60 police officers from across Palghar district have been posted to nab around 200 accused who are hiding in the jungles bordering the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, which is just 500 metre away from Gaddchinchale village where the lynching took place, said an officer from Kasa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-accused-tests-positive-swab-samples-of-43-others-sent-for-testing/story-0qVNBs4tf7vYYemdkX1TtN.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Need to revive all sectors together, experts tell CM Uddhav Thackeray||To help tackle the economic impact of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, a team of 14 from University of Mumbai’s Mumbai School of Economics and Public Policy has drawn up a report with recommendations for the state, highlighting the need for multi-faceted change in multiple sectors.The report, submitted on April 30 to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the state finance department, was drawn up by 14 members of the school’s economics department, including professors, junior fellows and research staff. “The situation at hand is such that the government cannot focus on only one or two sectors. Revival of all sectors together is needed,” said one of the 14 members.Need for multi-faceted change in fiscal and financial policies, consumption and investment policies as well as micro-level service and agricultural sectors along with transport, education and health industries is highlighted in the report. “Decentralisation would be the key to how well policies get implemented and that would determine how soon we can get our economy to re-bound,”said Mala Lalwani, head of Mumbai School of Economics. The lockdown, which has been extended till May 17, has hit several service sectors including hospitality, tourism and real estate. The recommendations include constant help from the government for a few months to a year and better support for farmers. For rural areas, the report suggests more supplementary nutrition programs as well as a push for digitisation of the education system. “This lockdown has provided a political opportunity to push through important reforms as Covid-19 has laid bare several lacunae in different sectors. Areas like urban governance and public health management need to witness maximum changes,” said a professor from the department.The report also shows how raising significant funds is important but equally important would be effective utilisation of resources for maximum impact. From earmarking windfall gains in revenues — like those from the fall in international oil prices — and diverting these to public health; to the need for banks to ensure sufficient credit availability to different sectors and reduce risk aversion, the recommendations cover reviving of investment policies as well.The team of 14 worked on the report for three weeks during the lockdown.  “The University of Mumbai’s vice chancellor suggested we work together on this front and this has to be the first time that we worked together but from our own homes to put together the suggestions,” said a team member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-to-revive-all-sectors-together-experts-tell-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-AHAeFXM0L8QV2RrmpIkEGI.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Researchers from three institutes develop algorithm for better contact-tracing||Researchers from three premier scientific institutes in India have developed an algorithm for ‘improved’ Covid-19 contact-tracing via mobile phones that can identify indirect contacts who may be at risk of contracting the virus.Currently digital contract-tracing algorithms – including the government’s Aarogya Setu Covid-19 app – are undocumented but seem to be largely restricted to identifying and following-up on individuals who may have come in direct contact with a Covid-19 positive person.The newly created algorithm can identify individuals who are at risk of contracting the disease from high-risk contacts of a Covid positive person who are not themselves known to be infected, said researchers at the Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), and Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) at Chennai.“For example, if you met A, and I later met you, and A is found to be infected, not just you but I too could be at risk. Our methodology calculates this probabilistically,” said Rahul Siddharthan, professor of computational biology at IMSc. “In our simulations, we found our method to be more effective than direct contact tracing methods; that is, for a given ‘false positive rate’ (fraction of negative cases that we wrongly call positive), we get a higher ‘true positive rate’ (fraction of positive cases that we correctly call positive).” On Friday, their paper ‘Risk assessment via layered mobile contact tracing for epidemiological intervention’ was uploaded on medRxiv, the preprint server for health sciences operated by US-based Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.With concerns about surveillance and privacy surrounding Aarogya Setu and similar apps, the new algorithm stores most data locally on the individual’s phone and requires minimal communication with a server; thus it can be secured to ensure privacy. For instance, only when a person is tested and found to be infected, his/her contact traces need to be informed/identified, possibly via a centralised system. The algorithm maintains privacy in terms of contact history and location history, and shares only the risk factor to the government. “Current apps are opaque on what exactly they do with the collected data and how they process it,” said Vishwesha Guttal, associate professor at IISc. “By making our algorithm public, we bring the issues of privacy concerns to the forefront. For apps that do not publish the algorithm, there is no way to know how they process the data, and therefore, serious concerns of privacy will exist.” “Current apps do not present their methodology of how they assess risk of an individual having contracted the disease,” said professor Sandeep Krishna, member of the Simons Centre for the Study of Living Machines, NCBS. “We hope that our work will encourage app developers (including that of Aarogya Setu) to make their algorithm public. One can then compare all the algorithms and adopt the one that’s most efficient.”The three-member team has shared their work with K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/researchers-from-three-institutes-develop-algorithm-for-better-contact-tracing/story-u3vQysCNJ6KDBNypQYDLSO.html
02-05-2020||City||Maharashtra: 56 Covid-19 patients discharged at a time from hospital||As many as 56 Covid-19 patients, including a three-year-old girl, were discharged at the same time from a civic-run hospital in Mira Bhayandar township in Thane district of Maharashtra after recovery, an official said.The staff at the hospital, including the doctors, clapped for them and bid them goodbye.“As per the latest report, a total of 161 persons have tested coronavirus positive in the township. Of them 41 were discharged till a couple of days back. On Saturday, 56 others discharged at one time after their repeat samples tested negative,” the official said.In-charge officer, Dr B D Arsulkar, said of the 56 patients discharged on Saturday, the youngest one was a three-year-old girl, while three persons were over 70 years of age.“Sixty others are undergoing treatment. Three patients have died due to the infection in the township,” he said.Talking to reporters, Municipal Commissioner of Mira Bhayandar, Chandrakant Dange said, “The administration could control the spread of the virus due to the complete lockdown in place in the township since the last past 12 days. Only medical shops are open and milk is being supplied.” MLA Geeta Jain said it was perhaps the first time in the state that so many Covid-19 patients were discharged at once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-56-covid-19-patients-discharged-at-a-time-from-hospital/story-iieq0EN4ljkiZ6pdSyEAjL.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||200 inmates of Ludhiana Women’s Jail shifted to Pathankot jail||As many as 200 inmates of the Ludhiana Women’s Jail were shifted to the women’s jail in Pathankot on Saturday, after an inmate tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Confirming the development, Ludhiana Women’s Jail superintendent said, “For the safety of the inmates and to maintain social distancing among them, we have shifted the inmates to Pathankot jail. Now, we have 45 inmates here.”Meanwhile, 15 inmates and five jail employees, who came in contact with the positive patient, were quarantined.The 48-year-old undertrial, who was arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, was brought to the jail by the Sangrur police on Thursday. The woman’s samples were taken for testing on Friday after she exhibited symptoms of coronavirus. She tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday night and is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Ludhiana.Earlier on April 19, as many as 200 inmates lodged in Borstal jail were shifted to Faridkot jail due to coronavirus fear. The step was taken to accommodate inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail, which was already overcrowded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/200-inmates-of-ludhiana-women-s-jail-shifted-to-pathankot-jail/story-6FpdPUfkeLWAQ2kSEA6euI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Knitters’ body submits MSME revival plan with PM Modi||With the industry reeling under losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the Ludhiana Knitters’ Association on Saturday sent a plan to revive the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector to the Prime Minister’s (PM) Office on Saturday. In a letter sent to the PMO, the association has demanded relief for the industry in terms of bank interest waiver, payment of salaries/wages to workers by the government, ban on duty-free imports from Bangladesh, etc.President of the association Ajit Lakra said, “The steps being taken by the government to contain Covid-19 are need of the hour, but these are also causing damage to the economy and the industry and a special plan to revive them is also needed.”He said the Union government needed to take a decision to cash in on the situation when the US-China relations were at the historic low and several nations were deciding to boycott China.Some of the major reliefs demanded by the association include bank interest waiver for six months, deferment of term loan EMIs for a minimum of one year without downgrading the credit rating of units to avoid NPAs, lowering interest rates of MSME industry loans by a minimum of 3 basis points and waiving of ESI and PF contribution by employers and employees for three months.The association has also demanded that the government should pay or contribute in the salaries/wages to be paid for the lockdown period and for this funds lying under ESI and PF heads can be used. To ease liquidity of the units, the association has suggested that 75% of the goods and services tax (GST) credit of the units should be refunded.The association has also suggested that policies should be amended to attract the companies exiting China and make India a preferred destination for foreign investment. The association has also sought a ban on duty-free import of man-made fibre (MMF) garments from Bangladesh and increase in duties on all imports from China to promote the Indian industry for substituting imports.The insurance premiums of the industry are very high and beyond the reach of MSMEs, so rates should be reduced and premium of all categories of insurance for the lockdown period be waived or period of renewals be extended accordingly, the association said.‘GOVT SHOULD UTILISE WEALTH OF TEMPLES TO GENERATE FUNDS’The association said, “The government can utilise 90% wealth of temples and other religious places for generating funds to compensate banks and insurance companies to provide the sought reliefs. By doing so, the government can generate up to Rs 20 lakh crore. The government should also bring back about US $179 billion kept in US bonds with a return of not more than 1% per annum.” Unless the above reliefs are announced immediately, there will be massive unemployment and the economy will not be able to bounce back, said the association chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/knitters-body-submits-msme-revival-plan-with-pm-modi/story-sU2yBQ2B4QphD8VmJ1Iy0J.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Agra tally crosses 500 mark, 39 hotspots identified||With 30 more positive cases of Covid-19, the tally grew to 526 in Agra, said health officials on Saturday. The city has been sealed after being declared in the red zone and 39 hotspots or containment zones have been identified in the district and rural Agra. The current tally of Covid-19 includes 369 active cases, 130 fully recovered and discharged patients and 15 deaths during the treatment. The city has so far collected 6000 samples for testing and in the last four days, the number of cases touched an alarming 101. Meanwhile, in neighbouring Firozabad district, the number of cases has gone up to 130, whereas Mathura recorded 28 new cases of Covid-19. Following the increase in positive cases, patrolling has been intensified on the highways to check the spread of coronavirus. On Saturday, the commissioner Agra division, Anil Kumar presided a meeting for an effective check on the spread of Covid-19. The meeting focussed on the complaints of quality of food and availability of water at isolation ward and quarantine centres.Commissioner Agra Division Anil Kumar gave directions for funding of these arrangements so that the patients admitted in the isolation ward and quarantine centres get uninterrupted supply of food and water. He also asked for deputing an in-charge to bear the responsibility. Furthermore, he stressed on the compliance of established protocol for solid waste management.“An in-charge will also be deputed for facility quarantine to ensure the arrangement of the essentials,” said Commissioner Agra Division.Meanwhile, responding to complaints and appeal for medical support, the SN Medical College opened its emergency ward for non-Covid patients. District authorities have asked the private doctors and nursing homes to provide medical services, after strictly following the protocol and guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-tally-crosses-500-mark-39-hotspots-identified/story-am5iDPnOhmuLV7t5usbilI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||For a newspaper addict, going digital is not great||The newspaper has always been a part of my routine. I remember, even as a child, watching my father pacing up and down as he waited anxiously for it in the morning. Like a guided missile, the rolled up newspaper used to land in our balcony with a thud. The day the target was missed, the army, comprising my younger brother, sister and I, was deployed for search operations.Father initiated us into reading newspapers at an early age; slowly it became a habit and then turned into an addiction. Unlike the techno-savvy generation of today that prefers to checks the news on mobile phones, I don’t enjoy checking out Google for my dose of news as I miss the insightful editorials, the crisp middles and many other features in a newspaper. For a technically challenged person like me, reading news digitally is a hassle; and I’m not comfortable with an e-paper. Besides, flipping the pages has a joy of its own that cannot be felt digitally.In the age of ‘infodemics’ when there is explosion of information without verification in social media, I bank upon traditional media. My inbox may be flooded with all sorts of forwarded messages, but I tend to rely upon print media which I expect to be more responsible and reliable.The coronavirus onslaught and the resultant lockdown has turned life topsy-turvy. The supply of essentials got disrupted initially, but was restored within a couple of days. However, as the newspaper was not delivered for quite some time, my husband and I, holed up at home, started missing it badly. Our mornings were not the same and the morning cup of tea had lost its charm.After a week or so, however, I was in for a pleasant surprise. My eyes lit up to see a bundle of newspapers lying in the verandah. Excitedly, I rushed out to grab them, but hesitated for a moment as all those apprehensions of catching an infection crowded my mind.Then, I got an idea. Picking up the newspapers I marched towards the ironing table, ironed the outer exposed pages with a hot iron and washed my hands thoroughly (full 20 seconds with soap and water). Newspaper and hands sanitised, with much glee, I sat down to enjoy the morning, a steaming cup of tea and my crisp copy in hand!Not that there is much to cheer about these days, as coronavirus is everywhere. However, with the newspaper back in the morning, a semblance of normalcy has been restored in our lives.rama_1177@yahoo.co.in(The writer is a retired associate professor of MCMDAV College, Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-a-newspaper-addict-going-digital-is-not-great/story-g7tjMySPxnFSjRIXV4knnN.html
02-05-2020||City||Wildbuzz: Caught between a cobra & corona||The Chandigarh forest and wildlife department rescue team faces a ticklish situation. The team is receiving distress calls from residents, who have spotted a serpent in their homes. These are predominantly Spectacled cobras, while other species include Rat snakes, vipers and Checkered keelbacks. However, some residents are in dilemma. They are apprehensive that a team comprising two or three snake wranglers may import the dreaded Coronavirus when they come in to search their homes for the fugitive serpent. Wearing masks and observing Covid-19 protocols, the team members do present a surreal spectacle. They have to patiently explain to residents that risks of transmitting the virus are non-existent as they are free of the contagious disease. But the depth of Corona paranoia, which has wormed its way deep into the minds of residents, cannot be underestimated. It is akin to a terror of invisible ghosts. Serpents hiding in a house similarly invoke a fear of unseen ghosts that can lurk and lunge from any dark crevice. “Such residents ultimately resolve their dilemmas and let us search the premises as they cannot bear the presence of the serpent. Due to undisturbed conditions and reduced presence of humans, snakes are moving around and crossing deserted streets and lanes more frequently. The undisturbed conditions lull them into venturing into homes and bedraggled gardens,” a team member told this writer.Salim Khan, the tricity’s veteran snake-rescue personnel, too, has his hands full with unprecedented complications. The most interesting case was of a man who found a snake in his stationary car’s engine. The man had no permission to drive the car but he was able to clear the ‘nakas’ by warning cops that a serpent was hiding right under the bonnet and that he was desperate to reach Khan for its removal. Cops duly accorded the speediest clearance!EVERY DAY IS A MONDAYChandigarh Golf Club president Sandeep S Sandhu remarks in jest that “every day is a Monday for wildlife at our club!” Mondays were days in the BC (Before Covid) era when the club was shut down for maintenance and animals and peacocks would wander lazily on fairways. Going a step further, the club’s assistant course manager Surjit Singh describes the animal invasion during the Covid-19 curfew as one where “creatures have gained azaadi (freedom) and the lush greens, groves and fairways are serving as an extension of the jungles.”The highlight was a majestic Neelgai bull strolling along and up the fairway of the 18th hole towards the locked club house. The undisturbed bull’s pace was remindful of slow golfers who couldn’t care less for players behind them and long awaiting their turn at the shot with peevish patience and fraying tempers! On some days during the curfew, 40-50 Neelgais come and sit around the 12-13th hole complex and nibble at the soft grass, which, for them, is a welcome change from the adjoining jungle’s hardy, stale and thorn-protected flora. “We had an unusual intruder, a wild boar, who started digging the area next to the 13th hole green for roots and tubers. I asked my staff to spread naphthalene balls to drive away the boar as it reacts adversely to such odours. That ruse worked well,” Sandhu told this writer.The scourge of boars ripping greens is manifest at the Army’s Shivalik Golf Club (SEPTA), Chandimandir. After having tried all methods, and on the then Western Army commander’s advice, the SEPTA management had once ordered jawans to store their urine in plastic bottles. The bottles were strung on green fringes. For some time, marauding boars coming in at night smelt the urine, suspected human presence and beat an inglorious retreat. But pugnacious creatures as they are, the boars soon smelt a proverbial rat and the urine ruse did not work after that.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildbuzz-caught-between-a-cobra-corona/story-oDoCcssz3iGt6XDOG0XFRP.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||CICU members discuss post lockdown challenges with Indian ambassador to Japan||Members of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), during a video conference, discussed the opportunities and challenges that the Indian industry will face post the Covid-19 lockdown with Indian ambassador to Japan Sanjay Kumar Verma on Saturday.They discussed the steps that can be taken by the government to invite foreign investment and how the industry can seize the opportunities that will arise in the internal market.Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, CICU, said the ambassador asked the members to look for suppliers other than China and suggested that the Indian industry should plan joint ventures with Japanese companies post the lockdown.Ahuja said they also discussed the opportunity for the local industry in the Japanese health sector as Japan was advanced in research, but the cost of production was higher there.“There is a great opportunity ahead but Indian companies will have to focus on quality, cost and management. The industry should work more professionally and a result-oriented approach should be adopted,” said Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cicu-members-discuss-post-lockdown-challenges-with-indian-ambassador-to-japan/story-wnZiNQJHDxb5A0A7ia2g7N.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Despite ban, gutkha, pan masala available in Agra||People in Agra can still manage to buy ‘gutkha’ and ‘pan’ parag from black marketers by paying exorbitant prices for them despite a ban on sale of these tobacco products.The price of gutkha has increased more than four to five times but it is not deterring people from purchasing them.People could be found hanging around shops without worrying about lock down violation.According to sources, the price of Rs 5 gutkha has increased up to Rs 25-30. Besides, the price of branded pan masala is available at the price of Rs 150-200 with the black marketers. It can be bought from most of the localities of city, added source. An attendant of the kin at SN Medical College (SNMC) said, “I buy gutkha from the road side tea shop near emergency ward of SNMC. But the shopkeeper is charging too high price according to his wish.”However, he avoids selling to strangers, but once you start visiting everyday at his tea shop and buy tea he can give you, informed the attendant. An addicted resident revealed, “Earlier, I used to eat 15 sachets of gutkha, but now it has reduced to 5-6 in day. I have to put many efforts to get it. But some day, I am not able to eat any due to unavailability of it.”“Not only rates of gutkha and pan masala have increased these days, but price of ‘bidi’ and cigarette have also increased too much,” he added When contacted ADM City Dr Prabhakant Awasthi, he said, “We have been taking action against those who are selling tobacco and pan masala illegally. The concerned nodal officer is keeping a strict vigil in this regard.”Furthermore, designated officer of Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), Agra Manoj Verma said, “We have confiscated two sacks of ‘supari’ at the end of April month. We acted against the owner as per norms of FSDA act.”“We have been regularly carrying out inspection and acts accordingly against those who try to sell ‘gutkha’ and pan masala,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/despite-ban-gutkha-pan-masala-available-in-agra/story-ArTUFLiE6xPOSHnWpqPIVP.html
02-05-2020||City||Kalyan doctors team up with KDMC to fight Covid||Around 190 doctors from Kalyan, belonging to different associations, have joined hands to help the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) treat Covid patients. The KDMC took help from the doctors to demarcate three dedicated hospitals for Covid and set up eight fever out-patient departments. “Apart from Covid cases, our doctors also deal with other cases related to respiratory problems,” said Prashant Patil, spokesperson of the doctors’ association. KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said they did not have enough doctors and facilities when the virus broke out. “The Kalyan doctors have helped us fill the shortage. They have been handling the fever clinics and the hospitals and this has helped us improve our healthcare services.” He also appealed to other doctors to come forward and join them. The KDMC has also started a live programme on social media where the doctors answer Covid-related queries. This is available on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between 3pm and 4pm. Call 9819850850 if you have a query.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-doctors-team-up-with-kdmc-to-fight-covid/story-UG3jbbZtemHR2CoTQHUTcJ.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||With Delhi-Gurugram border sealed, people forced to travel on foot||Many commuters were seen crossing the Delhi-Gurugram border with luggage on Saturday. Following the orders issued by the district administration on Friday, the border was sealed and people were asked to return to the respective cities they work in. All the old permissions for movement were canceled and the employees working in Gurugram were asked to make arrangements in the city.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police, ACP (DLF), said that residents of the two cities, who have been travelling across the borders daily for work, had started shifting their base. “We allowed people who were carrying their luggage and carried valid permission from their offices to shift their base. Many companies have already made arrangements of the lodging for their staff members,” he said.The scene at the border was chaotic as people were seen trying to cross the barricades holding their bags and suitcases. People from Gurugram called vehicles at the Sirhaul border, walked on the wrong side from Ambience Mall, and boarded their cars, after crossing the border.Ankit Hooda, a resident of Sector 56, Gurugram, who crossed the border on Saturday morning, said that his office is in ITO and all of his colleagues who are working have shifted closer to the office. “The new order states that we will not be allowed to cross the border every day and will have to stay near our workplaces. The office has asked us to shift with our colleagues or relatives living in the national Capital. We had requested our friends to reach the border to pick us up, and we crossed walking,” he said.Another employee, Ruchika Das of a private laboratory, who works in Gurugram, was seen shifting her base temporarily. She said it was a sudden decision taken by the company and she had to shift within an hour. “I have packed stuff for two weeks as the lockdown is extended until May 17. Our working hours have also been extended as only a few employees are allowed to work. Staying in temporary accommodation for long is very uncomfortable and you cannot rely on food provided by the company which will be delivering it from an outsourced agency,” she said. Many people have also given an undertaking to police that they will not return to the city unless the lockdown is uplifted, said the police, adding that they has taken down the details of the employees who were shifting their base to their respective work cities, by asking them to submit an undertaking from them. The police also said they are maintaining a record to ensure that no one misuses the relaxation permission. All violators will be booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code(IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-delhi-gurugram-border-sealed-people-forced-to-travel-on-foot/story-2cKuDP4djzxTBeVN4zy6DO.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||High freight cost, few transport options make exports difficult||The steep increase in freight charges for air cargo and few trucks is proving to be a major stumbling block for exporters in the Gurugram-Manesar industrial belt. There are over 500 small and large garment export units in Udyog Vihar and Manesar, which supply to markets in Italy, France, Spain and other European countries. Their goods, worth around ₹500 crore, are now stuck at their warehouses for months since the coronavirus outbreak hit Europe bring the region’s economies to a virtual standstill. With India enforcing the ongoing country-wide lockdown to contain the disease on March 25 , their troubles just got harder.The exporters say that airfreight charges, which was once between ₹100 to ₹120 per kilogram earlier has shot up to ₹500 to ₹600 a kilogram. These firms are not being able to send their goods to warehouses of large transport companies located on the outskirts of the city either for further shipment to ports like Mumbai.“We send the finished goods by air or by sea but this has now become too expensive. The local trucks are not available and we can’t use our own vehicles to transport goods to warehouses locally,” said Satyendra Singh, general manager of an Udyog Vihar based export firm.Whatever few truck companies are there, they too are charging higher rates, he added. Also bothering them are the multiple permissions required to resume operations, and meeting the conditions of the standard operating procedures during the lockdown.On Friday, while extending the lockdown for another two weeks, the Union ministry of home affairs guidelines had made it clear that movement of any cargo trucks was allowed without any conditions. These will be in effect from May 4, but transporters fear that these instructions may not trickle down to the ground inspectors.“There is express need for authorities to ensure that goods vehicle are not stopped due to Covid-19. Due to multiple checks, the transporters are also not comfortable in taking loads. Also there is a major shortage of drivers,” said Manomohan Gaind, a Manesar-based exporter.The industrial associations in the city also want that restrictions should be eased and permission be give to transport and other firms to operate on priority. “There should be a single authority in the district to clear such matters so that there is no confusion,” said JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association.Naveen Gupta, general secretary, All India Motor Transport Congress, said, “In many parts of the country trucks are being stopped for no reason and challans are being issued. Support staff like conductors, and helpers are not able to move around and the drivers are also not being able to come, which has complicated the problems.”Further, the truckers said that there was uncertainty over opening of godowns, offices, booking offices, and movement of support staff was problematic due to different categorization of zones.A Haryana government spokesperson, however, said that they are giving preference in issuance of passes and other necessary support to 100% export oriented units and those which have labour on site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/high-freight-cost-few-transport-options-make-exports-difficult/story-Cg7jPqB2g3yIU6GzFHLqdP.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||State govt offers to bear six months’ interest on loans for industries||The Haryana government launched an interest subsidy scheme on Thursday for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) reeling under financial stress during the lockdown period. Several industries had demanded a financial package from the state and central governments to pay salaries to their workers. The notification was issued after a cabinet meeting on Thursday evening said all the MSME units working in Haryana, as on March 15, 2020, will be eligible to 100 percent interest benefit on loans availed for payment of the wages of employees and/or other expenses up to a maximum of ₹20,000 per employee.“The interest benefit shall be limited to the interest paid by the MSME unit to the bank up to a period of six months starting from March 15. The interest benefit shall be calculated at a rate of interest of maximum eight percent/year or actual rate of interest charged by the bank or whichever is lower,” said the notification.The notification also said that once salaries for the month of April are paid to the workers, industries can apply to avail interest benefits on the industries and commerce department’s portal with all relevant documents.“The interest subsidy scheme for the MSME has been approved by the Haryana government/cabinet and we believe it will act a catalyst in the revival of the industries in the state which are shutdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19 ,” said TVSN Prasad, additional chief secretary industries and commerce department, Haryana. Prasad, who prepared the draft of the interest scheme, added the Haryana government will refund the interest claimed by owners directly in their bank accounts.Additional chief secretary Prasad said those industry owners who have not currently availed such loans can apply for a fresh loan to avail the interest subsidy being offered by the state government.Most industries in the state have been shut since March 21, and a few of them were allowed to start operations after April 20 after taking permission from the administration. Industry owners in Gurugram, which is an MSME hub, said with zero production their financial liabilities were mounting as the had to repay their loans, pay workers’ salaries, goods and service taxes, electricity bills, rent etc. The fear of shutting down permanently also looms large over small industries that are under debt.Following directions of the union ministry of home affairs (MHA), industry owners need to continue paying salaries to workers during the lockdown period. As the nationwide lockdown enters its third phase, many industries have been demanding financial relief.The subsidy scheme, launched in light of such demands, has however come under criticism from several industry owners. They said that the procedure to avail the benefits is cumbersome and added that the capping of the scheme benefits at ₹20, 000 per employee and at 8 percent interest rate will not be extremely helpful to them. Sanjiv Bansal, Kadipur-based industry owner, said, “Government should give us instant relief – we have to pay salaries to workers within a day or so. We do not want to apply for a bank loan and then avail the interest benefits later.”Raj Singla, Udyog Vihar-based industry owner, said, “The interest benefit at of 8% interest and capping the benefits at ₹20,000 per employee seems insignificant, besides the apprehension of procedure being cumbersome and not hassle-free.”Many small scale industries are not even confident of starting operations and do not want to bear the burden of a loan to avail interest benefits.Aseem Takyar, an industry owner in Udyog Vihar, said, “The Haryana government should have rather announced relaxation in goods and service tax (GST) by instantly reducing its rate from 12 percent to six percent. We do not want to avail this subsidy scheme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-govt-offers-to-bear-six-months-interest-on-loans-for-industries/story-IP53JraM6IaQk0PBhH4eAO.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||Four test Covid-19 positive, taking total count to 67 in Gurugram||Four persons with their contact history to Delhi tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, health officials said. With the addition of new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram has reached 67, of which 29 are active cases.“Of the four cases, two are linked with the Dundahera family where three people were confirmed Covid-19 positive on Friday. Another case is of a New Palam Vihar resident, who worked at a private hospital in Delhi, came in contact with a colleague at the cash counter of the hospital who had tested positive. Also, a man from Rajeev Nagar, who has a jewellery store in Delhi, is confirmed Covid-19 positive after he visited the neighbouring city,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.On Friday, three people from Dundahera tested positive after they came in contact with a man from the area who had visited Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for the treatment of his epileptic son. The man visited Dundahera for a day on April 22 and was confirmed Covid-19 positive on April 25. “Till now, five people in Dundahera have tested Covid-19 positive after coming in contact with the man,” said Punia. A member of the rapid response team said that the health department will ask district administration to declare Dundahera a containment zone after the spike in the number of cases. Also, the area is in proximity to Delhi’s Kapashera where 41 people were tested positive on Saturday. Currently, there are 24 containment zones in Gurugram. To keep a check on the containment zones, the health team collected more than 100 samples and conducted 93 antibody tests using rapid testing kits in Jharsa and Sector 39.In neighbouring Faridabad district, two new positive cases emerged on Saturday. Yashpal Yadav, Faridabad deputy commissioner, said, “One is the grandson of the 68-year-old man who had died due to Coronavirus earlier this week, and the other is a 25-year-old woman who resides near Bata Chowk. We are investigating how the woman contracted the infection.” Faridabad has reported a total of 61 positive cases so far, of which 42 have been discharged from different hospitals after being cured. The district has also reported a Covid-19 death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/four-test-covid-19-positive-taking-total-count-to-67-in-gurugram/story-4Dz9jUw4D32vdhdfAvCGmJ.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Vishal Yadav’s parole plea to be considered||The Delhi High Court has directed the competent authority to decide on the parole plea of Vishal Yadav, convicted for the murder of business executive Nitish Katara in 2002. Yadav is serving a life imprisonment sentence and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail. Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal has the power to grant parole to prisoners. The L-G may authorise any officer from the state government’s home department to decide on granting or refusing parole. Justice AK Chawla said that Yadav’s plea seeking eight-week parole is to be treated as a representation and be disposed of within 15 days. Yadav, through his counsel Sanyam Khetarpal, had moved the court stating that he is at an increased risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since he has a history of tuberculosis.“In the considered view of the court, the subject matter requires to be considered by the competent authority in the first instance,” Justice AK Chawla said.On Friday, the counsel for the Delhi government, additional standing counsel (criminal) Rajesh Mahajan, told the court that the representation would be considered on its merits and will be disposed of within three weeks.Yadav, along with his brother Vikas Yadav and another person, were found guilty of murdering Katara, a businessman, as they did not approve of his relationship with their sister. A Delhi court had convicted the trio in May 2008 and the sentence of life imprisonment was upheld by the Delhi High Court in 2014.The Tihar prison, which has around 18,000 inmates, is the most crowded prison complex across the country. As on Saturday afternoon, the prison had not reported a single case of Covid-19. As a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19 by decongesting the prison, around 3,000 prisoners were released last month. The prisoners lodged in open jail have also been told to avail the eight-week parole. Until the lockdown started, open jail prisoners would leave the prison complex in the morning to work outside and return in the evening. The jail administration has also cancelled the visits of all family members. Before this, every prisoner was entitled to meet his/her family member twice a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/vishal-yadav-s-parole-plea-to-be-considered/story-Q9uR69c3XpBXLZ3zdXiwiO.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||Use LPG furnace to cremate Covid victims, orders CM||To contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Saturday, directed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to explore the possibility of equipping all existing crematoriums with LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) furnaces, officials said.In a crematorium that uses LPG, the body is placed directly into a furnace fuelled by LPG thus reducing direct contact.During a video conference with all seven mayors of Haryana, including Gurugram mayor Madhu Azad, Khattar said patients who die of Covid-19 should be cremated at LPG-equipped crematoriums as this method is safer than the traditional method of burning a body over a pyre of wood. He proposed use of LPG facility as it involves minimal contact with the body and reduces the chances of people contracting the infection. He subsequently, directed all mayors to explore into the possibility of equipping all existing crematoriums with LPG furnaces and directed the respective municipal commissioners to initiate a feasibility assessment. Gurugram has one LPG-based crematorium at Madan Puri, next to Pataudi Chowk. Azad said at the other two crematoriums—in Sector 32 and Sukhrali village near Atul Kataria Chowk—the MCG will initiate a feasibility assessment on how to install LPG furnaces. “Any step which can reduce or contain the spread of coronavirus is being evaluated for implementation on a priority basis by the MCG. We will look at the best possible ways to ensure all crematoriums can be made LPG-equipped,” MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said.On March 7, the MCG had designated six sites for performing last rites of people who die of Covid-19. Aside from the aforementioned cremation sites, three burial grounds at Sector 58 near Power House, Sector 58 near Ghata village and Badshahpur village were approved.Khattar also reiterated the need for constituting local committees, comprising social workers and volunteers, at the polling booth level, to conduct surveys for determining the number of migrant workers in each area under the ‘Distress Ration Token Scheme’ to ensure they can be provided ration from the local government during the lockdown.“The task for determining the number of migrant workers in each locality is underway to ensure they can be provided with adequate ration during the lockdown and nobody goes hungry. We have also received assistance from corporate and social institutions for this objective and are aiming to cover more parts of the city each day to ensure no migrant worker is left in a lurch,” said Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/use-lpg-furnace-to-cremate-covid-victims-orders-cm/story-4ZwYA6YxAG2RYtDdNbBFsJ.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||No shortage of funds for providing best healthcare to residents, says Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu||Ludhiana Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu on Saturday said there was no shortage of funds for providing best healthcare to residents amid the Covid-19 outbreak.He said, “As demanded by the district administration, I have provided ₹1 crore out of my MPLAD fund to purchase medical equipment. This equipment was handed over to department officials in the presence of deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, DDLG-cum-nodal officer Amit Bamby at the Zila Parishad office on Saturday.”Bittu said he had asked the health department to provide a list of medical equipment required to fight the pandemic.With the funds provided by the MP, the health department has purchased 15 infrared thermometers, five portable X-Ray machines 100mA, 100 oxygen cylinders, 100 regulators of oxygen cylinders, 24 stretchers, 90 pulse oximeter (alarm enabled), 28 Ambu bag, 35 multi para monitors, 10 crash carts, 3,300 nasal prongs, eight laryngoscope, four video laryngoscopes, 22 BiPAP with masks and wheelchairs.Bittu said he will provide more funds if the department needed to purchase additional equipment. Claiming that there was no shortage of funds, he hailed the contribution of the doctors and other health officials, who have been on the forefront in the fight against Covid-19.Agrawal said administration and health department officials were working 24X7 in a dedicated manner to ensure that there was no shortage of equipment in hospital.He urged residents to stay indoors, not to believe in rumours on the social media and follow all directions of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-shortage-of-funds-for-providing-best-healthcare-to-residents-says-ludhiana-mp-ravneet-bittu/story-UtBT8FqfaDeCePlFzlkbHM.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||At Sirhaul toll, families who can’t cross meet at border||Traffic at the Sirhaul toll on the Gurugram-Delhi border was streamlined on Saturday, three days after the Gurugram district administration restricted movement here. Three lanes were dedicated for ambulance, essential services and central government employees for smooth surveillance and verification of documents.Of the 3,100 vehicles that arrived at Sirhaul toll to move into Gurugram on Saturday, 2800 were barred as they failed to furnish document that could establish valid reasons to enter the city. The decision to restrict the movement was taken by the state government after around 10 Covid-19 cases in Gurugram were linked to Delhi. Those not allowed to cross made do with meeting at the border. Over 200 people were seen meeting their family and friends and delivering medicines and other important documents for this reason. Some parents were seeing their children after two months.“The scene was like a border between countries with families on either side unable to cross without a visa. I met my parents almost after two months. Our meeting lasted for only a few minutes. I had tears as I wanted to return with them, but due the job I had, had to remain here,” said Swati Singh, a bank executive who is currently staying at her colleague’s apartment in DLF Phase 2.Another woman was seen holding her newly born and meeting her in-laws from Noida. “I delivered baby 15 days prior to my date. The emergency forced me to move in to one of my friend’s place in Gurugram as my treatment was at a private hospital here. My in-laws were so excited and happy to see their grandson but they had to leave with tears,” said Vinita.Police personnel distributed face mask to commuters who were seen moving without the masks and the temporary set up office and all barricades were sanitized to ensure the personnel are safe and in sanitized atmosphere.The district administration has also started to issue fresh passes for critical emergency movement outside Gurugram. Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said they were using the SARAL movement pass system, an online application developed to allow travel during the lockdown. The administration on social media issued an advisory that stated that only a limited number of passes were being approved daily. Khatri said passes will be issued to those who are in need to cross cities for emergency. “No essential supplier will be stopped and neither will companies who are handling IT services involved in Covid-19 work,” he added. However, everyone, will need to have their documents verified.Police said 70% of people who crossed the border on Saturday were doctors and other essential service providers.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said, “We have allowed people who were carrying fresh permission from district administration. The team deployed at the border have allowed several people suffering from a medical emergency to pass even without a valid pass after verifying their other supporting documents,” he said.He said they even allowed people who were carrying their luggage to cross the border after extracting an assurance that they would not return until the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-sirhaul-toll-families-who-can-t-cross-meet-at-border/story-W4CHF2kbFFEg6KeKTurYeO.html
02-05-2020||City||Two persons arrested for damaging ATM in Greater Noida West||Greater Noida: Two persons were arrested on Saturday morning for allegedly damaging an auto teller machine (ATM) in Greater Noida West, the police said. Local residents in Gaur City spotted the incident and alerted the police, following which the duo was arrested red-handed. The suspects were identified as Satte Jatav,40, and his accomplice Roshan,25, residents of Haibatpur in Greater Noida West, the police said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that there is an ATM kiosk next to a private school in Gaur City. “There was no security guard at the ATM kiosk at night. The two suspects barged into the ATM booth with a hammer and tried to break the machine,” he said.Sumit Prajaprati, a Gaur City resident, spotted the incident and informed the police. He also filmed the incident in his mobile phone. He said that the suspects attacked the ATM around 3:30am.The police said that the miscreants had smashed the machine’s screen and body cover.“The police found a hammer from their possession. During interrogation, Jatav revealed that he used to work in a factory which is closed due to the lockdown, leaving him jobless. He had run out of money and decided to attack an ATM machine. We have registered a case against them under sections 379 (theft) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody,” Chander said.Jatav was also wanted in a case registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-persons-arrested-for-damaging-atm-in-greater-noida-west/story-OYTxxahXvSrNZCqMUA0h7I.html
02-05-2020||City||Two arrested for defying lockdown, organising Iftar party in Jewar||The police on Friday evening arrested two persons and booked 19 others for attending an Iftar party and violating lockdown norms in Jewar. The organisers were identified as Pappu and Mausam, residents of Jewar.Ajay Aggarwal, station house officer, Jewar police station, said that any kind of social, religious, cultural gathering is prohibited during the lockdown. “We received information on Friday evening that some people were attending an Iftar party outside Jama Masjid in Chaudhaiya Mohalla. A police team reached the spot and found over 21 people having Iftar together without maintaining social distance. This was a violation of the lockdown norms,” he said.Aggarwal said that during interrogation, the police came to know that the two organisers Pappu and Mausam had also made an announcement from the local mosque and urged locals to participate in the Iftar party.“The two organisers were arrested while 19 others were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. We have advised people to pray and have Iftar at home and maintain social distancing,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar district has recorded 159 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases. Of them, 94 persons have been cured while 65 are being treated at hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-defying-lockdown-organising-iftar-party-in-jewar/story-mELHYd3VuvC7tkNiYHvGgO.html
02-05-2020||City||In times of social distancing, close the emotional gap||I live in a part of Mumbai that was declared a containment zone because of Covid-19. It is one of the 240 plus zones in the city observing the lockdown with a higher level of severity because a resident in the zone tested positive for coronavirus. The patient (I dislike referring to him/her as a ‘case’) was immediately hospitalised. Officials of Brihanmumbai municipal corporation marked the building the patient lived in as an epicentre and a radius of about a kilometre around it as a containment zone. They sanitised and disinfected the building. People in the zone who may have come in direct contact with the patient are being proactively checked and sent for tests. The building’s main gate is kept locked. No resident can drive out of the zone. There is zero movement of cars and two-wheelers. Even people on foot are closely watched and questioned by Mumbai police stationed round-the-clock inside the zone. People are only allowed to leave the area if they have a medical emergency. The state authorities are doing a phenomenal job to enforce social distancing.The other day I left the containment zone to visit a medical store. As I stood in the queue where everyone kept a distance of two metres between each other, I noticed that each one stood stiff, and eerily quiet. People either glanced at each other suspiciously or refused to look each other in the eye. The air was fraught with tension. People didn’t want to even acknowledge that other human beings stood around them. Everyone acted like they were self-sufficient islands and only they mattered. When a water bottle accidentally slipped from a woman’s hand, no one bent down to stop it from rolling down the pavement. And when it was my turn to place the order for medicines with the staff outside the store (no one was allowed to enter), people in the queue perked up their ears to listen to what medicine I asked for, wondering if I needed something to cure a cough or cold. It felt as if they were after my blood!I returned home disturbed. For the first time since the lockdown, I understood why there were reports of residents attacking nurses and doctors, or people ostracising their neighbours and acquaintances simply because they were sent for tests, irrespective of results. Such behaviour was reported from different parts of the country, inside containment zones and outside. Fear and panic combined with misinformation is a lethal combination.Now, with a fresh mind, it’s worth revisiting the one and only norm for the ongoing nationwide lockdown – social distancing. What does it mean? Maintaining a greater than usual “physical distance” from others. Why? To reduce chances of exposure and transmission of a contagious disease. What’s required is only physical distancing which means we can’t meet, congregate, hug each other, or shake hands.But why are we degrading it to emotional distancing? What’s stopping us from sharing a cheerful vibe, being kind in our behaviour or humane in our attitude? Will the virus spread if we look at fellow human beings as people, just like us, battling the unexpected disruption? Will we contract the virus if we spare a smile for the delivery boy and tell him how grateful we are for serving us while we sit in the safety of four walls? Will the virus enter our body if we say “Namaste” to the security guards instead of treating them like they were invisible?If there ever was a time when society needed compassion, it is now. Every person is in the thick of fatigue and multifarious struggles – managing the added burden of household-cum-office work, ensuring safety of dependents, engaging children in a confined space, dealing with the shock of dramatic changes, preparing for financial uncertainties, reworking plans, and dealing with other unforeseen circumstances post the lockdown. Everyone is in an emotionally vulnerable state (I’m not even touching on caregivers of patients battling coronavirus).Hence it is not the time to be selfish or apathetic. In the current times, that amounts to cruelty. Let’s not look at each other as culprits or enemies or virus spreaders. Among the many skills we may want to acquire during this unusual period of quarantine, the most pressing one is upping our emotional quotient. Let’s put in efforts to become sensitive, to care. And if we are privileged enough to have a roof over our heads, own a personal conveyance, and have the money to stock up supplies, let’s be acutely aware of that privilege and understand that we have the bandwidth to be kind to the ecosystem around us. If not us, who?Moreover, by being kind, I don’t mean we have to rise above the needs of our personal safety to become a brave heart volunteer serving in the frontlines. I mean doing simple things. For starters, when you step out for essentials, smile at the people you pass by. Even with a mask on, your smile will shine through your eyes. That may be just what someone needs to pull through a hard day. Say a cheerful word or two to people braving the desolate outdoors, performing their duties. Maybe they wish to realise they matter, that their efforts are valued. Salute or say Jai Hind to the policeman or any other representative of the government to show respect for their service in times as difficult as these.Let this period of social distancing bring out the best in us, not the worst. It’s time to be physically far away, but emotionally nearer than ever.anushasingh3@gmail.com(The author is a writer, lawyer, and corporate communications consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-times-of-social-distancing-close-the-emotional-gap/story-mYRJGLjj4v7lvTNfKWsNjI.html
02-05-2020||City||Over 22,000 stranded migrants get ration kits, GB Nagar admin preparing database of needy people||Noida: Amid reports that many stranded migrant workers are battling hunger in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration on Friday initiated an exercise to prepare the database of such people who are in need of help. Over 1,200 government employees are in the field to make the database, officials said on Saturday. Also, the officials claimed that over 22,000 families of stranded migrants were provided with ration kits over the past 24 hours in the district. One ration packet is sufficient for a family for one week, they said. While the stranded migrants are now getting ration, new ration cards are also being issued to the eligible families who are resident of Uttar Pradesh, the officials said.Of 22,000 ration kits, 11,000 were the government kits consisting of nine essential food items acquired from the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) while remaining were acquired through donations by city residents or through the corporate social responsibility (CSR).“A number of migrant families were facing hunger like situation. However, the issue was to spot them. Thus a team of over 1,200 officials are in the field to recognise and enlist such families so that benefits reach them. This is a rolling process and the list is still being updated. So far, over 22,000 families were identified and they have been supplied with kits,” said MN Upadhyay, additional district magistrate (finance), Gautam Budh Nagar, who is looking after the ration distribution works among the migrants.He said that the administration had sent a demand of 26,000 ration kits to NAFED, of which 18,000 had been received till Saturday.“Each family will get one kit per week. The standard ration kit has nine items that include five kg atta, five kg rice, three kg potatoes, one kg masoor dal, one kg salt, one litre mustard oil, 200 grams coriander powder, 200 grams turmeric and 200 grams of chili powder. Besides, the CSR kits are also being distributing to the needy people,” Upadhyay said.“We have received feedback that about 30% of the migrant families did not turn up when the ration was being distributed in their areas. We are trying to contact them as well,” he added.Meanwhile, 10,000 new ration cards were issued to the eligible migrant families between May 1 and 2. The officials said that in past 24 hours, they have recognised 11,500 such families, belonging to low-income group, who did not carry a ration card and thus were unable to buy ration from the fair price shops.“We have already issued 10,000 ration cards so far, and will issue more depending on the demands. There are a total of 378 fair price shops across the district. Each cardholder will soon start receiving one kilo channa dal free of cost. We are actively monitoring the public distribution system,” said RN Yadav, district supply officer.“Of 1,85,000 cardholders in the district, about 63% have already received their weekly quota between Friday and Saturday,” Yadav said. When contacted, a number of migrant families stated that they have received the ration kits.“We received ration on Saturday and so did our neighbours, but the quantity was different. Also, it is not clear when will we be supplied again. The ration kit I received had 2 kg atta and rice, half kg dal, oil and sugar, washing and bathing soaps, and a small packet of tea leaf,” said Jyoti Sahu at Shahdara village in Noida Sector 141, a stranded migrant from Madhya Pradesh, who serves as domestic help in the neighbouring high-rises of Sector 137.However, some migrants complained that they were left out. Munnu Kumar Singh, a migrant from Darbhanga district in Bihar who stays at Shahdara village, failed to receive the ration kit. “Some families received the kits and some did not. The persons distributing the kits said that only those with their names in the list will receive. Now, we have given our names as well. They saw our Aadhaar cards, but did not tell us when the ration will arrive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-22-000-stranded-migrants-get-ration-kits-gb-nagar-admin-preparing-database-of-needy-people/story-G0Bqm4yAyzx85TeygA8HeP.html
02-05-2020||City||Dedicated teams for random sampling in trans-Hindon areas, UP yet to decide on relaxing lockdown norms||The district administration Saturday gave directions to the health department officials for conducting random sampling and door-to-door surveys in the Covid-19 hot spot areas of Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara.“Most of the cases are of hospital staff who contracted the infection at work but teams of the health department have been asked to take up random sampling and door-to-door surveys to find asymptomatic patients. These trans-Hindon areas have turned out to be major hot spots of Covid-19 over the past fortnight and we need to have better scanning and surveillance,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.Till Saturday evening, the Ghaziabad district collected 3,133 samples for testing and the results of 461 are still pending. The pendency of reports have delayed contact tracing and has also affected the surveillance and containment activities in hot spots.Till Saturday evening, the district has 16 hot spot areas (red zones) and two orange zones, which are step down from red.“The government has taken cognisance of delayed in reports and proper directions are being issued to Noida and Meerut officials to expedite testing. We held a video conferencing with the chief minister on Saturday night and on his directions, we will take a call on opening -- partially or fully -- facilities in the district,” Pandey said.According to the recent communication by the Union health ministry, the Ghaziabad district has moved from a Red zone to an Orange zone, as per the latest classification of districts across the country.Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta said three dedicated teams having lab technicians were deputed for random sampling in Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara areas.On Saturday, three more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Ghaziabad, taking the tally of cases to 74. Forty-seven persons e were discharged from different hospitals and the number of active cases is 26.“The three positive cases are related to a man from Khoda and another from Modinagar. A woman from Sanjay Nagar who came for dialysis was also tested positive. Three patients were also discharged on Saturday. These included two women who were discharged from Meerut Medical College,” Dr Gupta said.In Uttar Pradesh, the total number of Covid-19 cases was 2,455 (Saturday evening). The state also has 433 hot spot areas under jurisdiction of 286 police station areas. “About three-fourth of positive cases in the state are from hot spot areas. We are also issuing instructions for opening of retail mandis (vegetable markets) for a longer duration of time, from 7am to 7pm. This will help avoid overcrowding. But proper social distancing and sanitization will be ensures in markets,” Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dedicated-teams-for-random-sampling-in-trans-hindon-areas-up-yet-to-decide-on-relaxing-lockdown-norms/story-Cqd8XKXbSH39oZxzoRID7K.html
02-05-2020||City||Covid hot spot: Disinfecting slums poses big challenge for Noida authority||NOIDA: Disinfecting densely populated slum clusters, which have emerged as Covid-19 hot spot in the city, is posing a big challenge for the Noida authority. On Friday, 11 Covid-19 cases were reported from Noida slums, spread chiefly across sectors 5 and 8 with its peripheries also touching sectors 10, 9 and 4. On April 7, the slums had reported the first positive case, and since then 15 persons have tested positive for Coronavirus. Since April 8, officials have shifted around 400 persons from slums in sectors 5 and 8 to government quarantine centres as a precautionary measure after four persons — one of whom was linked to fire safety solutions firm Ceasefire — tested positive for Covid-19 in Sector 5 JJ Colony. Noida authority officials said that their staff are facing more problems in disinfecting slum areas as compared to group housing complexes or plotted houses in the city. In group housing complexes where Covid-19 positive cases were reported, the authority disinfected common areas such as lifts, lobby, clubs, parks and grocery stores without any major hindrances.“But in slum clusters, there are narrow lanes and small houses which are not easily accessible. Our staff have disinfected all the houses, which are located near the patients’ addresses,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority heading the health department.On Saturday, the authority deployed 70 staff members who wore PPE kits and then carried out the disinfection drive led by the Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer, the officials said, adding that in group housings they did not need health officials.“As we need to ensure that the spread is contained properly, we did take all laid down precautions. We are disinfecting all villages, sectors and other premises twice in a week. Soon, we will carry out a special drive in slums. Drones are being used for disinfection in slums. Our objective is to disinfect surface, air and houses properly,” said Mishra.The authority is tasked to carry out disinfection drive in each nook and corner of slums because the suspected patients might have visited many places nearby which cannot be identified easily, unlike positive cases in group housing or plotted areas, said the officials.“We are carrying out intense house-to-house sanitisation in Covid-affected clusters in sectors 4, 5, 8, 9 and 10,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-hot-spot-disinfecting-slums-poses-big-challenge-for-noida-authority/story-oKkrL9wNwVNHsHEDyPLrgO.html
02-05-2020||Jaipur||Huge evacuation exercise underway in Rajasthan as stranded people rush home||Evacuation of stranded workers and students from Rajasthan has picked up steam with over 2,000 people including leaving the state through Shramik Special trains in the last 24 hours. Two more trains will be leaving Saturday for Dhanbad (Jharkhand) and Surat (Ahmadabad), a senior state government official said.A special train left Kota for Jarkhand’s capital Ranchi carrying 942 students and the second train carrying 1,187 labourers left for Patna after ensuring strict compliance of social distancing.“A train from Kota to Dhanbad and another from Pali to Surat will be leaving tonight,” he said.Till date, a total of 45,287 labourers have been sent to various states and 57,521 Rajasthanis have returned, most of them from Gujarat (45,789) while 1,225 have been sent back to that state.Around 27,000 labourers have been sent to Madhya Pradesh and 4,762 were evacuated from that state.Similarly, 6,200 migrant labourers have been sent to Punjab and 453 were brought back.Over 2,500 labourers have been sent to Haryana and 876 have arrived from the state. A total of 2,178 labourers have been sent to Uttar Pradesh and 2,680 will be sent on Sunday. About 300 labourers have left for Uttarakhand and another 70 will be leaving. “The state government is making arrangements to send students studying at coaching institutes in Kota. Till date, 27,893 students have been sent to various states through buses. On Sunday, 700 will leave for Orissa. A train carrying students has left for Ranchi,” he said. Now 15,000 students of Bihar, Jharkhand, Delhi, and other states are there in Kota,” he said.The pilgrims stuck in Ajmer are also being sent and till date, 1,159 have been sent home. He said there are 2,700 pilgrims from different states still stranded in Ajmer.Seventeen 17 buses carrying 222 migrants from Assam have reached Rajasthan. “Around 250 labourers and migrants will leave from West Bengal for Rajasthan. Over 600 people want to travel by personal vehicle for which passes are being arranged,” he said. The official said over 13 lakh labourers/migrants have registered through call centres, portals etc, either to return Rajasthan or move to their respective hometown from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/huge-evacuation-exercise-underway-in-rajasthan-as-stranded-people-rush-home/story-iOu97e18uahrhFItkImwlK.html
02-05-2020||City||Two children among 9 new cases in Panvel||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported nine new cases on Saturday. The total cases in Panvel is 90.Among the new cases are a 33-year-old woman and her two children, aged one and seven, from Kamothe. Her husband, who works in a pharmaceutical company in Govandi, had tested positive. A 32-year-old nurse working at St George Hospital in Mumbai and a 36-year-old employee of a pharmaceutical company in Govandi have tested positive.Navi Mumbai reported 39 Covid positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 289. Twelve cases were reported from Ghansoli, eight from Kopar Khairane, six from Nerul, four from Turbhe and three each from Vashi, Airoli and Digha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-children-among-9-new-cases-in-panvel/story-mXpa5eihNi8MLrIZO3DnuO.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow reports 8 fresh cases, new areas listed||The state capital on Saturday reported eight fresh cases including three from the areas with no history of Covid-19 till now.A nurse of Chandan hospital and native of Khargapur, a 28-year-old man from Sarfarajganj on the Hardoi road, a 44-year-old man from Alambagh, 57-year-old dialysis patient of PGI, 36-year-old man and another 30-year-old man from Topkhana tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. Two others, one from Sadar and another admitted to GCRG college also tested positive, health officials said.In the reported areas, Khargapur, Alambagh and Sarfarajganj had not reported any case so far. The state capital has recorded a majority of cases, over 110 from Sadar area. A day before Lucknow had reported seven cases.The nurse was asked to stay in home quarantine after two patients admitted to the Chandan hospital tested positive for coronavirus. As many as 30 staff members including nurses, ward boys and doctors were put under surveillance and samples of those staff members who came in direct contact with the patients were taken for the test.The nurse is the first staff member of the hospital to test positive. This nurse is the second in the medical profession to be tested positive for coronavirus in the state capital. Earlier a nurse working at KGMU and living in Nakhkhas area had tested positive on Sunday. Ten other people in the neighbourhood of the nurse in Nakhkhas also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-reports-8-fresh-cases-new-areas-listed/story-cAmd3hVa7CQaySRimuiK1N.html
02-05-2020||City||HT Chandigarh debate: Time to chalk out economic and welfare plans for migrant labourers and daily wage workers||The one big story that has emerged in the times of the Covid-19 pandemic is the plight of migrants and daily wage workers. A mass exodus began from Delhi in March since the lockdown was announced, with thousands queuing up for buses or rushing to railway stations to take them back to their villages and smaller towns in other states. As governments struggled to come to grips with the matter, some people, unable to find transport, began walking, hoping against hope to reach their destinations alive. Tragically, many died, their hearts unable to bear the hardships, hunger and stress due to displacement. Then came lockdown two in April, triggering another outflow of people from bigger cities stricken with fear of contracting the disease or worse, dying of hunger as all means of survival dried up with construction projects and other labour-intensive services remaining closed. Many were thrown out of their tenements and lodgings by landlords who themselves needed rent to survive. Things have started moving feebly since then with many states slowly realising the extent of the migrant problem and scrambling to get their own people back home. Some migrants have been kept in relief camps and others are being sent back home after mandatory quarantining in special state transport buses, and now in Shramik Special trains.The question that must be on the minds of top government official in the Centre and states is: What now? Kick starting the economy is vital for the survival of every citizen of this country. Though the Union home ministry ordered from April 20 that agricultural and related activities remained fully functional to keep the rural economy going, many states, with the exodus of migrants, are facing labour shortage, a huge problem now with paddy sowing round the corner.Workers are also critical to reopening of industrial and construction activities. What happens when the lockdown is lifted?The learnings from Covid-19 are obvious: It’s time the migrants/daily wage workers get their due. All stakeholders in the farming, industrial and business community should rise to the occasion and invite them back to their cities or villages with good packages, including medical care and education of their children. Future savings and investments should also be made mandatory.All sectors that have reaped rich harvests with the support of these workers cannot be excused for giving them the short shrift in times of a crisis and expecting states or the central government to take care of their needs. Even though a Labour Welfare Fund exists, the migrations from Delhi and other metros prove beyond doubt that the poor are being exploited mercilessly, with no thought given to improving their lot or helping them secure their future.In these times of Covid-19 and looking ahead, plans and policies need to be put in place to ensure these vulnerable communities are looked after and their future secured once normalcy is restored.What should be done to secure the future of daily wage workers/migrant labourers?What steps should farmers/industrialists/local administrations take to secure the future of migrants/daily wage workers once normalcy is restored? Send your answers to Chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by May 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-chandigarh-debate-time-to-chalk-out-economic-and-welfare-plans-for-migrant-labourers-and-daily-wage-workers/story-iKsdRnqv2BRTzPjB2ZMivL.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||AMRITSAR: 9kg heroin seized near Pak border in 2 ops, three held||The special task force (STF) of Punjab Police has recovered around 9 kg heroin with the arrest of three persons in two separate operations carried out near India-Pakistan border in the district. The first operation was launched with the help of the Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday in which 6.7 kg heroin was seized, which was kept hidden in a field across the barbed fence at the border.In the second operation, the STF recovered 2kg heroin from the possession of two drug smugglers, who were arrested on Friday night after an encounter in which one of the accused received a bullet injury. Addressing a press conference, assistant inspector general (AIG) of STF, border range, Rashpal Singh, said, “We had a tip-off that a consignment of heroin was smuggled from Pakistan recently, which was kept hidden in a field situated across the barbed fence at Shahpur village. A case in this regard was registered on Thursday and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Vavinder Mahajan started probing the case. The DSP found that one Karam Singh, alias Golu, of Karimpura village was roped in to clear the consignment.”He said Golu was arrested on Friday and at his instance, 6.7 kg heroin was recovered from across the fence. The heroin was kept hidden in a tractor’s drawbar. Giving details about the second operation, the AGI said, “We had another tip-off that Gurinder Singh of Jajeani village in Majitha subdivision and Sandeep Singh of Kot Dharam Chand village of Tarn Taran were on their way to smuggle heroin in Ajnala on a Mohindra Scorpio. Immediately, a police team set up a naka at Gujjarpura village.”He said, “The accused came after some time, broke the naka and fled. Our team chased the accused and opened fire to deflate the SUV’s tyres. After a 25-minute chase, the accused were arrested near Chak Mishri Khan village. One of them received a bullet injury on his leg during the firing. During the SUV’s search, 2 kg heroin was seized.”The AIG said the further investigation was on to track down the other accomplices of the accused arrested in the two operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-9kg-heroin-seized-near-pak-border-in-2-ops-three-held/story-cRxlhXgx2RqK2CYftFNblJ.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow nagar nigam ignoring KGMU’s trouble with stray dogs||KGMU has asked municipal commissioner to make arrangements for stray dogs loitering on the campus, particularly near the isolation ward made for coronavirus patients, as they pose threat to the security of medical workers and the senior officials and ministers visiting to see arrangements.This is KGMU’s third letter since March 28 on the issue. In the fresh letter to the municipal commissioner of the Lucknow nagar nigam on Saturday the chief proctor Prof RAS Kushwaha said, “A lot of stray dogs roam near the isolation ward which has given rise to filth and also raised security concern. Make arrangements to catch these dogs so that there happens no untoward incident.”KGMU had written to the nagar nigam on March 28 and also on April 7 requesting solution for the same problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-nagar-nigam-ignoring-kgmu-s-trouble-with-stray-dogs/story-qIyYp4Q9xNSgpox8crCG5H.html
02-05-2020||City||Second Covid death in Bihar, tally at 481||PATNA: Bihar reported its second Covid-19 death in as many days when a patient, suffering from lung cancer, died in Patna Saturday in what was the fourth reported fatality to the fast spreading contagion in the state.A 45-year-old male from Sitamarhi, admitted at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) on April 30, died on Saturday due to co-morbidity, said its superintendent Dr Nirmal Kumar Sinha.His 40-year-old spouse, who also tested positive for the virus, is undergoing treatment at the NMCH, after being admitted there on April 30, said Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, NMCH epidemiologist.“The cancer patient deteriorated very fast. He became unconscious last night and we believe the patient suffered brain metastasis (development of secondary malignant growths). He did not show typical Covid-19 symptom of severe acute breathlessness either last night or before his death this morning,” said Dr Sinha. “The cancer patient was undergoing treatment at the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Mumbai. Our doctors did not interfere with the TMH line of treatment for cancer, except for treating him for coronavirus,” added Dr Sinha.A case of terminal stage lung malignancy, the patient had returned from TMH, Mumbai, to Sitamarhi on April 28 and admitted at NMCH on April 30, said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar in a tweet.Bihar, with a case fatality rate of 0.84%, still fared better than the national average of 3.2%, which accounted for 65% male and 35% female till Thursday.All the four Covid-19 deaths in Bihar are of male aged 38, 35, 54 and 45 from Munger, Vaishali, East Chamapran (Motihari) and Sitamarhi districts, respectively. All of them had co-morbidity, with two patients suffering from renal failure and two others from cancer of the oesophagus and lungs, said health officials.Meanwhile, 15 new cases of coronavirus were reported Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 481 in the state so far.Six cases were reported from Bhojpur, three from Kaimur, two each from Buxar and Katihar, and one each from Saran and Araria.The 481 Covid-19 cases were spread across 30 of Bihar’s 38 districts, with Munger topping the list at 95. It was followed by Buxar (53), Rohtas (52), Patna (44), Nalanda (36), Siwan (30), Kaimur (27), Gopalganj, Madhubani, Bhojpur (18 each), Begusarai (11), Aurangabad (8), Saran (7), Gaya, Sitamarhi (6 each), Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, West Champaran, East Champaran (5 each), Lakhisarai, Arwal, Nawada, Jehanabad, Katihar (4 each), Banka, Vaishali (3 each), Madhepura, Araria (2 each), Purnea, Sheikhpura (1 each).So far, 107 patients of coronavirus had been discharged after recovery from government facilities in the state.Bihar, with a case recovery rate of 22% was marginally behind the national average of 25% on Thursday.Of the 107 recoveries, the NMCH topped the list with 64. “Our recovery rate of asymptomatic cases or those having mild symptoms of coronavirus, with no co-morbidity is almost 100%,” said Dr Kumar.Seven patients had recovered from the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Bhagalpur, two from the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital in Gaya and one from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna. Besides these four dedicated Covid-19 medical college hospitals in the state, patients had also recovered were discharged from government facilities in Gopalganj, Chapra, Siwan, Nawada, Begusarai and Nalanda.After its initial order of March 13, the state health department Saturday also extended its order cancelling leaves, other than study and maternity, of its healthcare personnel till May 31 in its fight against the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-covid-death-in-bihar-tally-at-481/story-YdpARt6bZuD0Z0nrutebpJ.html
02-05-2020||City||Lockdown workout: Ludhiana players turn to gas cylinders, bricks||Making optimum use of empty gas cylinders, tyre tubes, buckets filled with water and bricks, city athletes are doing everything they can to stay fit at home amid the lockdown.Coaches have formed groups on WhatsApp where they post daily workout plan for players. Praveen Thakur, a judo coach, said, “There are around 40 players in my group and I guide them daily about how to make right use of limited sources available at home. This is not only helping in maintaining physical fitness of the players, but also developing a creative mindset for solutions to do exercise at home.”“Players respond with their workout videos and me and another coach, Navdeep Jindal, guide them accordingly to ensure they exercise correctly,” Praveen said.Commonwealth championship gold medallist Prince Kumar shared a video of him using a cycle tube for shoulder and upper back exercise. Similarly, judoka Priya ,who represented India in the World University Games 2019 Summer Universiade, uses eight bricks on her thighs.Athletics coach Sanjeev Sharma is giving meditation sessions to the players. He said while creating a workout schedule for the players, he keeps in mind to add some mobility and stretching exercises along with some lightweight exercises.Sharma said by staying indoors for long, players can be affected by depression, anxiety, etc. “Therefore, along with exercise, I also keep posting motivational videos and messages in the group. I give them different examples of sportspersons, who had been advised bed rest due to illness, like Yuvraj Singh, but they made a comeback by working hard. Such examples motivate players,” he shared.Meanwhile, sports experts suggested that the administration should allow players to go to the stadium for daily workouts.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, Punjab Basketball Association, and Jagroop Singh Jarkhar from the Jarkhar Hockey Academy said sitting home for a long time will adversely affect players’ health and future performances. “There should be some relaxation for players. They should be allowed to run on roads in the morning hours or should be allowed to come to the stadium. We will ensure that players do exercise by taking all precautions,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-workout-ludhiana-players-turn-to-gas-cylinders-bricks/story-SKELvTXe4dyAREVkAr636J.html
02-05-2020||City||With 30 districts in virus grip, Bihar braces for trainloads of migrants||PATNAFrom just 12 districts in the state with Covid-19 positive cases at the end of the first spell of lockdown to 30 of the 38 districts as the second spell nears its end has raised concerns for Bihar, which is bracing to receive train loads of its natives stranded across the country.While the number of positive cases was just 66 on April 14 in the state, it reached 475 at 10 am on May 2, with 243 cases reported in seven days between April 25 and May 1.The government has already deferred all leaves of doctors, health officials and contractual employees in the health department till May 31 in view of growing need for surveillance and screening.What is worrying for the state is that many of the new cases reported in the second phase of lockdown are migrants, who somehow managed to reach Bihar and took the infection to newer areas unknowingly as they were largely asymptomatic and did not report.North Bihar districts like Madhubani, Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Purnea remained free from Covid-19 infection until the last week of the second phase of the lockdown, but now they all have cases. Madhubani, with 13 cases reported on Friday only, has now emerged as the hot spot in north Bihar.Neighbouring Darbhanga has five cases while Sitamarhi has six. East and West Champaran have five cases each, while Seemanchal region has too reported cases - Purnea and Araria (1 each) and Katihar (2).Madhubani district magistrate Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deor, who is himself a doctor, said all the 13 positive cases detected in the district had been found to be migrants from Delhi, Mumbai and Lucknow, while the origin of the earlier five cases was traced to a woman who came by car from Delhi.“Due to her, another woman, who also travelled in the car and two children, contracted infection,” he said.With Madhubani sharing borders with Nepal and inflow of migrants likely to increase, there are greater concerns for district, famous for exquisite Madhubani paintings and rich cultural heritage, and the surveillance, screening and quarantine facilities have been intensified.“There is lockdown in Nepal also till May 7. People are not coming from that side and if anyone tries to sneak through, it is immediately detected due to heightened surveillance. All outsiders have to spend the required time in the quarantine facilities. There was no positive case in Madhubani earlier, but as migrants have started returning cases have surfaced. The administration is on its toes. We have to remain vigilant,” he added.In Madhubani, five blocks, Jhanjharpur, Rajnagar, Jainagar, Kalyani and Radhika, have reported Covid-19 positive cases. Madhubani and its neighbouring Darbhanga have already been put under ‘orange zone’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-30-districts-in-virus-grip-bihar-braces-for-trainloads-of-migrants/story-ATmSjJim1OGhCSpskcUd7J.html
02-05-2020||City||7.1% of total tests done in Thane are Covid positive||Around 7.1% of the total tests conducted in Thane so far are Covid positive cases. As per Thane Municipal Corporation, 4,839 reports are out and 344 have tested positive.The city’s percent of positive cases is same as the state average of 7.5 %, as per the statistics released on May 1. Since March 12, when the first case of coronavirus was detected in the city, Thane has conducted 5,293 tests.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Out of the 5,293 tests conducted, we have got reports of 4,839 people so far. Out of these, 344 people have tested positive -- which means 7.1 % people are positive among those tested. Around 50 people were tested in CP Talao slums after a social worker was found Covid positive.”TMC has set up its own lab in Wadia Hospital where over 100 samples are tested daily. Some private labs have also been taking samples for Covid test. Those who have shown symptoms or those who are high-risk contact of positive patients are being tested.TMC has quarantined 5,491 people so far and 1,000 are still in quarantine.Malvi said, “We have home quarantined 5,491 people so far, out of which, 4,432 have completed their quarantine period so far. A total of 907 are in active quarantine. Around 107 people are in institutional quarantine centres.”TMC has 2,242 quarantine units at its four centres -- BSUP Kasarwadavli, Lodha in Bhayander pada, Tata Amantra in Kalyan and Dosti in Shilphata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-1-of-total-tests-done-in-thane-are-covid-positive/story-gGeigZo3JQ6Q3fuFW1KGQM.html
02-05-2020||Patna||Bihar govt relaxes attendance requirement for salary payment for March, April||In a major relief, the state government has decided to relax the attendance requirement for the payment of salaries for March and April for all its regular employees who were unable to attend offices in wake of the countrywide lockdown imposed on March 24 for containing the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.Deputy chief minister-cum-finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi Saturday said, “The government has decided to relax the attendance requirement for all such employees, who used to reach their workplace by travelling on local trains on a daily basis.” “All such employees would be considered present till May 3, the period till second lockdown was in force, for the calculation of their salary entitlement,” he said.The state government has already taken a similar decision for contractual and outsourced employees for the payment of remunerations, as per their service contract.Modi said that the decision also applied to all those government employees who were on sanctioned leave or had gone on tour but could not return to their headquarters owing to the lockdown. “They will also be considered present,” Modi said.In addition to these, employees who remained outside the headquarters without permission or sanctioned leave, during the lockdown period, will have to get their absence approved as per the rules to claim their salary on their return, the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/march-april-govt-relaxes-attendance-requirement-for-salary-payment/story-WiarHnhS3At1w7AITttR7M.html
02-05-2020||Lifestyle||Extending help in the time of Covid-19 lockdown||Most NGOs in Delhi-NCR, who had been working for various causes over a number of years, have now joined the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. Among those coming forward to help the underprivileged at such a time is Naad Foundation — a Delhi-based public charitable trust that aims to promote and preserve the cultural heritage of India, and improve the lives of the underprivileged. Since the lockdown was announced, to fight coronavirus, this NGO started feeding thousands of needy in the city, and even provided packets of ready food to those in need. Nishi Singh, founder, Naad Foundation, says, “We have distributed more than three tonnes of ration in various parts of Delhi. Since the beginning of the lockdown, we are making tremendous efforts to mitigate the difficulties faced by the daily wage workers.” Alongside the dry ration, which includes flour, vegetables, rice, pulses and oil, this foundation has also distributed masks and sanitizers to the underprivileged, to help them stay safe from coronavirus. Singh — who is a singer, painter and poet — says, “We get random calls for help, and we don’t disappoint them. I try to reach everyone in need. Last year, we had adopted 40 kids from a government school in Rohini, and we are taking care of them as well.” It’s, however, the social work that motivates Singh to keep working for the betterment of the society. “Helping others gives me lot of satisfaction and strength. I would like to request everyone to extend help to the less privileged in such difficult times. Together we can...and we will,” adds Singh. The foundation’s work has been appreciated by many, through social media, and even otherwise. Sunita Sehgal Kalra, expressing gratitude for the efforts of Singh and her foundation, wrote on Facebook: “Thank you so much for reaching the unreachable areas and providing food to my staff members, who live in nearby areas but we were not able to reach them.” Vikke Anand, another social media user extended gratitude to them, for helping a destitute: “Thank you so much for helping the poor. I received a call from the poor lady who was starving due to lockdown, she has received ration.” Follow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/extending-help-in-the-time-of-covid-19-lockdown/story-IUBvxvB5vinu4luFJyEchP.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||A garbage cart for a ride, surviving on biscuits & miles from home||May 1 Labour Day SpecialA makeshift motorised cart chugs down the roads of Lucknow at night. Lallan Pandit is steering the modified bike in front of the cart as it moves with a low-pitch rattle. Behind, in the open cart, are six men, their backs to each other, legs hanging over the cart, as they move along the deserted road, trying to reach home.“Yahan kahin paani mil jayega, hamare pas pani khatam ho gaya hai (Can we get water some place here),” said Pandit, as he stops the rickshaw at a crossing on the Lucknow-Sultanpur highway.Just a month earlier, the men, all hailing from Madhubani, Bihar, were doing different jobs in Jaipur, 1,200 kilometres from home.Pandit drove the cart which was used to carry municipal garbage. Randheer Patel, 42, the eldest of the group packed food in a restaurant. The youngest, 20-year-old, Manish, was an assistant at a tailor’s shop along with Rakesh, 24, who sat behind him in the cart. Keval Yadav, 40, drove a pedal rickshaw on which he carried tourists around the Pink City. Manish, 35, worked as motor mechanic, while Nagendra, 30 worked as a waiter. They all lived nearby.“Humlog 14 April ka intezar kar rahe they, ki lockdown khule aur hum ghar jaye. Par fir lockdown badh gaya aur ham niklne ka sochne lage (We had been waiting for the lockdown to get over on April 14. But when it got extended we began thinking of leaving the place,” said Pandit.The lockdown which was put in place on March 25 was extended till May 3 on April 14.The men first planned to walk back home but the distance was too much. Then they planned renting bicycles but eventually decided to travel on the makeshift rickshaw. They put in Rs 2,500 each from their meagre savings to buy the motorised cart and put on new tyres. Rs 1,500 were kept aside for fuel. They tied their bags on the side of the cart and left Jaipur on the night of May 25.Lallan and Nagendra shared the driving. The group drove for around five hours every day to avoid straining the engine. They drove in the night and slept and washed during the day. “Din mein har jagah police wale rok lete hain. Marte hain, pareshan karte hain, isiliye hum log rat main chalte hain (We travel only during the night because during the day, policemen trouble us. They stop us and even beat us),” Ranjit said.But with almost all their money spent on buying the rickshaw the men hardly had anything left to buy food. Packets of glucose biscuits was all they could buy.In the four-day long journey they only ate biscuits, some which they bought, others which they got from people along the journey. “Kabhi socha nahi tha biscuit kha ke guzara karna padega. Par nahi khayenge to mar jayenge, humko pochhne wala kaun hai (Never had we thought that we will have to survive on biscuits. But we will die if we don’t eat it. Who is there to ask about us),” said Yadav, the pain and despair apparent in his voice.Yadav had to pay back a loan of 2 lakh taken from local money lender for the marriage of his sister. Randheer is saving for his daughter’s marriage scheduled next year. Pandit has a family of seven to feed. Manish and Nagendra don’t have any farm to survive upon and Rajesh can’t find a job in the village or in Bihar.Each of them has a reason for working far from home and no matter how much they hate it, the same reason will make them leave their houses again, soon. “Gaon main kuch kam nahi hai. Wahan bhooke mar jayenge. Wapas kam par to jana hi padega (There is no work in the village. We will die of hunger there and will have to return to our jobs)” Nagendra said.In Lucknow, the group drank water from a tap near a roadside mosque. They filled their bottles and hopped back on the cart. Patel kick-started the engine and the overloaded cart moved, slowly melting into the darkness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/a-garbage-cart-for-a-ride-surviving-on-biscuits-miles-from-home/story-q5LtIJ3LDuM4rNpVz9uXNI.html
02-05-2020||City||First special train ferrying migrants reaches Bihar||When the first special train carrying migrant workers from Rajasthan’s Jaipur reached Danapur railway station Saturday, Bihar became the second state where a passenger train reached its destination after five weeks of lockdown. “The Shramik Special train carrying 1,174 migrants reached here in the afternoon,” said Patna DM Kumar Ravi.Elaborate security arrangements were made in and around the station for the train’s arrival. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal, DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Upendra Sharma, city SP Ashok Mishra and senior RPF officials were present at the railway station to oversee the arrangements.The migrants were allowed to alight from the train one by one and then taken to the railway school for medical examination and thermal screening. Thirteen rooms had been prepared in the railway school for their stay. Twenty five medical teams comprising of four members each with thermal scanner were deployed to examine the migrants.After the medical check-up, all the workers were sent to their home districts in over 100 buses arranged by the transport department of the state government. “The seating arrangements in buses have been made keeping in mind social distancing norms. Buses will ply half compared to their seating capacity,” divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said.“During the screening, none of the passengers was found symptomatic. After breakfast, they were sent to their home districts, where another screening will take place,” said a senior railway official. Agarwal said, “All the migrant workers who were sent to their respective districts would be kept in quarantine centres situated in the block where they will live for 21 days.” The Patna DM said, “All the migrants are staying in different camps, under medical supervision, and all of them are healthy.”A railway board official said after de-boarding the passengers, the empty train will return once the train is sanitised and all the coaches will be locked meticulously to avoid entry of anybody.The official said only 54 passengers are allowed per coach, which has a capacity of 72 in order to follow social distancing norms.  The passengers travelling in these trains will be checked for Covid-19 and only those without symptoms will be allowed to travel, said the official. “Each passenger is expected to keep his or her mouth covered. They will be screened both at the station of departure and on arrival,” he added.Six more trains on the way to stateMeanwhile, six more trains, carrying the stranded people from Bihar, will be reaching Bihar on Monday and Tuesday. Two trains from Bengaluru will depart for Bihar on Sunday (May 3) and reach Danapur on May 5. Principal secretary, disaster management department, Pratyaya Amrit said two trains will be departing from Kerala on Saturday night. Both trains are expected to reach Patna Monday, he said.He said two others will start from Kota for Bihar. “One of the trains will reach Begusarai on Monday and another at Gaya on Monday afternoon,” he said.Amrit said that as per the information received from Kota district information, 11,130 students from Bihar are studying there. “We are also in touch with the governments of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and Karnataka and drawing modalities to bring back the stranded persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-special-train-ferrying-migrants-reaches-bihar/story-22akUdIc6HQYVmCNmCiS1I.html
02-05-2020||City||Delhi govt launches online spoken English programme for class 10, 12 students||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Saturday launched a spoken English and personality development online programme for class 10 and 12 students studying in its schools.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday made the announcement during his weekly session -- Parenting in the time of Corona. The programme was launched in collaboration with the British Council and MacMillan Education.Under this initiative, students will be sent links via SMS from Monday. “Almost 1,60,000 students of class 10 and 1,12,000 students of class 12 have appeared for their board exams are awaiting their results. We decided to launch spoken English and personality development classes (online) for them to make apt use of their free time at home. No child should feel inferior for not being able to communicate in it. Hindi is our language, and the mode of communication and teaching is in Hindi only, but we cannot overlook the importance and relevance of English today. To progress further at the national and international levels, our students should have good command over the language. And that is why we are starting the classes from Monday,” Sisodia said.Explaining the course design, the representatives of the British Council and Macmillan Education said, “The course is divided into two parts. First is Everyday English where students will be taught the functional usage of English. The second part is personality development where students will be taught about peer pressure and made to learn basic skills like facing an interview. The students of class 10 and 12 will receive an SMS with a link every day. The link will take them to the assigned webpage for that day and then the child will be able to navigate to activities of the day.”Director of education Binay Bhushan said the initiative will give students an opportunity to make good use of their time amid the lockdown. “The classes will go on in May and June and will help in adding to the confidence of the students,” he said.The Delhi government had last week launched an online Mathematics classes for class 9 and 10 students. As many as 120,000 students have attended these classes in the first week. “It is important to understand that these online classes are not to be taken as parallel teaching. Our teachers should not think that. They have to start from scratch when the schools reopen and get under pressure. it is a part of the overall teaching, it should be complementing each other,” Sisodia said.Besides, the Delhi government is conducting online classes for class 12 students to minimise the academic loss amid the lockdown. As many as 1,50,000 students have registered for it. The DoE is sending daily activities for students of classes Nursery to 8. The government had also launched happiness classes through YouTube and Facebook to ensure the emotional well-being of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-launches-online-spoken-english-programme-for-class-10-12-students/story-EJ9SZBILlfdEGZST71e7gN.html
02-05-2020||City||Police garland curfew violators in Ludhiana||As part of their efforts to keep people indoors, police have come up with an innovative idea to embarrass those violating the lockdown guidelines. The city police on Saturday garlanded at least 30 people who were out for a morning walk amid the curfew. Inspector Jarnail Singh, Division Number 8 station house officer (SHO), said despite lodging FIRs and putting these violators in open jail, many people continued to roam on the streets.The inspector said there were complaints that residents in posh localities, including Club Road, Civil Lines, College Roads and Ghumar Mandi, were stepping out for morning walk.“We formed teams and deputed them at different locations. As soon as the people came out, the police garlanded them and requested them to stay indoors,” said the SHO.“Most of the people made excuses, such as they live nearby and came outside for a short walk, while some said they were out to fetch milk or other essentials,” he added.The police have already arrested 665 curfew violators in 382 cases. Besides, 14,170 people have been rounded up since the curfew was imposed on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-garland-curfew-violators-in-ludhiana/story-MPmMQH2CaOWWUC6Uvhs9PI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Shift Nanded-returnees to gurdwara serais: SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal on Saturday wrote a letter to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh urging him to shift Nanded-returnees to gurdwara serais from temporary quarantine centres, including Radha Soami congregation centres.Longowal and Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had earlier made a similar appeal to the state government. In his letter to CM, Longowal said they have already apprised the government that they have good arrangements for the pilgrims returning from Nanded and instead of quarantining them at any other place, they should be kept in the serais. “However, our plea was not entertained,” he added.SAD SEEKS PROBE INTO ‘MALTREATMENT’ OF RETURNEES Meanwhile, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded a probe into the alleged maltreatment of Nanded-returnees at quarantine facilities in Punjab. In a statement here, party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said it is shocking that despite a hue and cry among people over the unhygienic conditions under which the pilgrims have been quarantined, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has not deemed it fit to order an inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shift-nanded-returnees-to-gurdwara-serais-sgpc/story-eyTOLaMsJJ9bALJ8aPVLZK.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab education dept floats helpline numbers to enhance enrolment in govt schools||With an aim to increase enrolment in government schools, the state education department has launched five helpline numbers to address the queries of parents and students.The department says if any parent or student is having problem in getting enroled at any of the state-run-schools, then they can call at these helpline numbers and can get their issues addressed. The helpline numbers, that got operational on Friday, have already received over 500 calls from parents, school heads, teachers and students from across the state.As the schools are closed due to the lockdown, many parents called on these numbers seeking advice on how to enrol their wards in these schools, department officials said. “Since yesterday, I received over 40 calls. In most of the calls, parents have been enquiring regarding the admission process. Earlier, parents used to enrol their children in government schools by visiting the schools, but as the schools are closed due to the lockdown, they are facing problems. But, I have guided the parents on how to contact the schools that are near them,” said Gurjot Singh, assistant director, DPI secondary.The district education officers (DEOs) have also been asked to provide numbers of school heads, he adds.Meanwhile, most of the schools have developed online pro forma for the parents and have shared it through WhatsApp groups of students and school management committees so that it can be shared with those who want to get their wards enrolled in government schools.Assistant director at DPI secondary office, Kuwinder Kaur, said, “I am receiving calls from both school principals and parents for admissions. Parents have been suggested to admit their wards online as majority of the schools have come up with their online pro formas to admit the child. I have also shared the information with the respective DEOs so that parents can admit their wards in the nearest government school easily.”“I wanted to enrol my two children in the government school nearby. My neighbour informed me regarding the helpline numbers, so I called them and got guidance and completed the enrolment process,” said Sevak Ram, who lives near Sherpur Chowk and had migrated to Ludhiana from Bihar in January this year. He works in a cloth factory here.Ram said he didn’t even have a smart phone and was wondering how his children will attend the online classes. “But, the school head assured me that the subject teachers will call the children and clear their concepts and doubts. Books will also be provided to them soon, so that they can study at home,” he added.THE HELPLINE NUMBERS:Assistant director DPI secondary Gurjot Singh: 98152-97396Assistant director Karamjit Singh: 81467-00538Assistant director Karamjit Kaur: 98882-05947Assistant director DPI secondary Kulwinder Kaur: 98724-51333Lecturer at SCERT Sanjeev Bhushan: 95014-74200||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-education-dept-floats-helpline-numbers-to-enhance-enrolment-in-govt-schools/story-K6F5hQZzpavHXilRAZEa0J.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Health officials collect samples after protest by quarantined labourers in Faridkot||Around 60 labourers, who have been kept at Abbnoor Polytechnic College, a quarantine centre on Ferozepur road here, on Saturday blocked the road in protest against the district administration for not collecting their samples for Covid-19 tests even after three days.These labourers had returned to Faridkot district from different parts of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan on Wednesday. The labourers, who operated combine harvesters, were stuck in other states for over a month due the lockdown.However, the labourers lifted the protest and returned inside the quarantine centre after officials assured them that their samples will be collected promptly. A health department team was rushed to the quarantine centre to collect the swab samples of the workers. The labourers also alleged that there are poor arrangements at the quarantine centre.Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said health officials had started collecting samples of these labourers and the process will be completed by the evening. “More than 1,000 persons have returned to the district in a week and the samples of Nanded-returnees were collected first. We have provided all facilities to them,” he added. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Paramdeep Singh said, “The district administration is providing three meals to the labourers, besides filtered water and tea. The centres are being cleaned regularly and washrooms are clean.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/health-officials-collect-samples-after-protest-by-quarantined-labourers-in-faridkot/story-w3fBdmkbGanNgumey7obGK.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid lockdown: EPFO simplifies e-return for businesses||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has relaxed the norms for filing of electronic-challan-cum-return (ECR) in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.To ease the compliance procedure under the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, the filing of monthly ECR has been separated from payment of the statutory contributions reported in the ECR.The ECR can now be filed by an employer without the need of simultaneous payment of contributions and the latter can be paid later by the employer after filing the ECR.“Filing of ECR by the employer on time is indicative of employer’s intent to comply and will not therefore attract penal consequences if the dues are paid within the extended time,” said Dheeraj Gupta, regional commissioner, EPFO.Gupta urged the establishments to file the ECR on time, stating that it will help in the credit of employers’ and employees’ contribution, totalling 24% of wages by the Central government to low wage earners in establishments eligible under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana package. “The current ECR data shall also help in policy planning and decision-making in relation to providing further relief to businesses and EPF members affected by the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-lockdown-epfo-simplifies-e-return-for-businesses/story-avU2E8QvmgId2B99CQlLHM.html
02-05-2020||City||Auto driver on emergency service among 12 new cases in Kalyan||A 48-year-old autorickshaw driver is among the 12 new cases reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Saturday.“The auto driver has been ferrying patients to hospitals during the lockdown. He might have got infected from a passenger,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).The KDMC has 85 autos across Kalyan and Dombivli to help people travel in case of emergencies and health issues during lockdown.“We will test all autorickshaw drivers who are providing the on-call service in the city. We are providing them healthcare facilities in our hospitals,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.After Saturday’s 12 cases, the total number of cases in Kalyan and Dombivli is 181.Eight of them work in Mumbai and they got infected at their workplace, said the KDMC health department. Sixty patients have been discharged so far.The civic body chief has decided to do a detailed survey in slum areas by checking the residents’ health.“So far, the virus has not reached the slums in the city. As a precautionary measure, we will survey the slum dwellers,” added Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-driver-on-emergency-service-among-12-new-cases-in-kalyan/story-gOySuGWaz3FfX2lJJ9VuHO.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Increase testing capacity to 6,000 a day by May 15: Capt Amrinder Singh||CHANDIGARH Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday asked the health department to ramp up the RT-PCR Covid testing facilities in the state to 6,000 a day by the May 15, instead of the targeted 5,800 a day by May-end.Chairing a cabinet meeting through video-conferencing, the CM directed the health department to conduct fresh tests on all returnees instead of relying on screening done in other states. The CM said as several staffers at the Hazur Sahib gurdwara had tested positive, the Akali Dal’s claim that there were no positive cases in the Nanded and the pilgrims had got infected on the way back or on reaching Punjab had been trashed.“This was a crucial time in the state’s fight against Covid-19,” the CM said. Directing the health department to come out with a plan to advance its schedule for increasing the testing capacity, the Amarinder stressed the need to be prepared for the worst. The CM said he had already asked the chief secretary to coordinate with the central government to scale up the testing capacity to 20,000 a day to cope with the influx of migrants and others expected to return to the state over the next few weeks in the wake of the new directives of the Government of India.Amarinder said he had also asked the vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, to explore the feasibility of setting up a testing facility in Jalandhar for which the government was ready to sanction an immediate grant of Rs 1 crore.In response to a suggestion by some ministers, the CM agreed to examine their proposal for home quarantine of the returnees in coordination with panchayats.Meanwhile, the Cabinet on Saturday approved extension of parole period beyond 16 weeks during epidemics and disasters, for those sentenced to 7 years or less.The cabinet also cleared various appointments, on outsourcing basis, for critical posts at the government medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot. The appointments, already approved by the finance department for six months, will enable the government medical colleges to appoint vital staff in the viral testing laboratories, isolation wards etc, to enable 24X7 functioning, said an official spokesperson.The committee headed by Dr Raj Bahadur will decide and finalsze the appointments for the posts of specialist doctors, nurses, ward attendants, technicians, lab attendants, apart from directors and other.The cabinet was informed that proposal has been sent to the Government of India to set up four new labs in the district hospitals at Barnala, Rupnagar, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur. Additionally, a proposal to procure 15 TruNaat machines has been moved. State is also considering starting CBNaat testing in Patiala and Faridkot.The cabinet also accorded ex-post facto approval to the appointment of 4,300 guardians of governance and agreed to amend the transfer policy of the school education department to allow teachers seeking transfer after 18 months of posting in the border areas, instead of the earlier 3 years, once new recruitments are completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/increase-testing-capacity-to-6-000-a-day-by-may-15-capt-amrinder-singh/story-0dRvexh34T6FDqPNR4C6JO.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab staff unions flay delay in release of salaries||The Sanjha Mulazam Manch Punjab and UT on Saturday criticised the state government for delay in releasing salaries due to a proposal to impose pay cut.At a meeting of the conveners of different unions through video conferencing, the Sanjha Mulazam Manch objected to the refusal of district treasury offices to accept salary bills of employees on verbal instructions from the government.“District treasuries usually start accepting salary bills from 25th of each month, but they are not accepting it this time. This is because of a proposal to cut salaries of state employees,” said Sukhchain Singh Khehra, convener-cum-coordinator of the union, in a statement.He said the proposal was to cut pay of two to three days every month for different categories of employees over the next one year. “Government employees are on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19 and the government should give them extra salary instead of imposing a pay cut,” he said.The union’s conveners also criticised the proposal to deduct mobile allowance of employees stating that this meagre amount was proving too much for the government but MLAs, MPs and ministers were being given Rs 15,000 telephone allowance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-staff-unions-flay-delay-in-release-of-salaries/story-8aJCIEFj4u32uhF2qx5kTL.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Nanded-returnees put Punjab on the defensive in fight against Covid-19||Just when the Covid-19 situation seemed to be back under control in Punjab after the initial NRI and Tablighi Jamaat scares, the return of 4,000 stranded pilgrims from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, over the week has emerged as a bigger challenge for the state in its fight against coronavirus.Extending the curfew till May 17 two days before the Centre decided on Lockdown 3.0, the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab knows it is in for a tough battle. Within three days, every second Covid-19 patient in the state is a pilgrim back from Maharashtra. Of today’s 750 positive cases in the state, 360 are pilgrims back from Nanded.The pilgrims from across Punjab, Haryana and Delhi were stuck in Nanded for more than a month since the nationwide lockdown. Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and Union minister and Bathinda Akali MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal were quick to take up the cause of the pilgrims with the central and state governments.Not to be seen to be lagging, the Punjab government urged the Centre and its Maharashtra counterpart to facilitate the return of the pilgrims.Capt Amarinder Singh is learnt to have spoken to his counterparts in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan to allow hassle-free passage to Punjab.The credit war between the Badals and the chief minister was cut short with news of pilgrims testing positive for Covid-19 started emerging. With other states dithering, Punjab sent its own buses to bring back its natives but the risk of coronavirus spreading grew by the day.‘SOP NOT FOLLOWED, NANDEDGURDWARA MGMT TRUSTED’More than 600 pilgrims entered Punja’b by hiring local vehicles and those provided by the gurdwara management by April 26. They were sent to home quarantine after thermal screening. The samples of a few suspected cases were taken in Tarn Taran.On April 27, three residents of Tarn Taran district tested positive. In a knee-jerk reaction, principal secretary, health, Anurag Verma ordered that all Nanded returnees be sent to state government facilities.Punjab Police was tasked with bringing back the pilgrims and their contacts from home quarantine to the state facilities for testing.A senior government functionary claimed that the state government did not follow the standard operating procedure in bringing back the pilgrims and relied on information provided by the gurdwara management that claimed that the pilgrims were tested thrice during their stay.AC BUSES SHOULD’VE BEEN AVOIDEDExperts say the next blunder was sending air-conditioned buses to bring back the pilgrims when it’s known that that the contagious virus spreads fast in such an environment.Given the high number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, as it happens to be the worst-hit state in the country, the state government should have been cautious in screening all pilgrims returning from there.PUNJAB BLAMES MAHARASHTRAThe Punjab government now its Maharashtra counterpart for giving it wrong information about the health status of the pilgrims.“The Maharashtra government did not clarify properly if these pilgrims were tested or not. They kept telling us since Nanded is a green zone, pilgrims are safe and tests have been performed on them,” Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said.The credit war has now turned into a blame game between the Congress government and the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal. The Akal Takht jathedar has also wriggled out of the controversy, saying that it’s all a conspiracy to defame the Sikh community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nanded-returnees-put-punjab-on-the-defensive-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-6shGb9HTCasbp2Z8LZfdyL.html
02-05-2020||City||Bootlegger tests positive, 17 cops of Khanna CIA quarantined||At least 15 cops from CIA staff of Khanna police were quarantined after a man arrested for operating an illegal liquor factory and distillery tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Seventeen labourers, who shared a room with the accused, have been also quarantined.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh said among the quarantined cops were an inspector, 11 assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), two head constables and a home guard.The SSP said five men were arrested during a raid at an illegal liquor factory and distillery in Bahomajra village on April 22. Later, two more men were arrested on April 28, and the Covid positive man was among them. “He had developed symptoms before he was sent to jail, and was therefore tested for coronaavirus. After he tested positive on Saturday, he was admitted to the Khanna civil hospital,” the SSP said. The accused is a native of Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan, but lives in Khanna. Inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Sadar Khanna police station, said the man was interrogated by CIA staff. Therefore, 15 cops attached with CIA and 17 other contacts with whom he shared accommodation had been quarantined. An FIR under the Excise Act was registered against the seven accused at the Khanna Sadar police station following the April 22 raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bootlegger-tests-positive-17-cops-of-khanna-cia-quarantined/story-8lcyKCVXMw0Wv38PJZaWHO.html
02-05-2020||City||SGPC chief Longowal’s wife Amarpal Kaur dies at 60||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal’s wife Amarpal Kaur, 60, died of heart attack at Longowal village in Sangrur district on Saturday. Kaur is survived by her husband, a son and a daughter. Longowal’s PA Darshan Singh said that Kaur was diabetic and was unwell since Saturday morning. “She was taken to a local hospital and was referred to a private hospital in Sangrur, where the doctors declared her brought dead,” Darshan said. Amarpal was a retired teacher and the younger sister of Bibi Inderjit Kaur, who is the head of Pingalwara organisation in Amritsar. Amarpal will be cremated at Longowal village here on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-chief-longowal-s-wife-amarpal-kaur-dies-at-60/story-Qm0BnZSPumQdSeGyug5z9K.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Doctor at Hindu Rao hospital tests positive for Covid-19, sent to home quarantine||A doctor at North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj tested Covid-19 positive Saturday.This is the third Covid-19 case from the hospital. “The doctor was asymptomatic but tested positive on Saturday. His contact tracing is being done and he is already in home quarantine,” the spokesperson of north corporation said.Earlier, on April 25, a nurse at the hospital had also tested positive for Covid-19. As part of her contact tracing, samples of 78 people were collected. “Till now, reports of 67 people have been released of which two were found positive. These two included one nurse, who had tested positive on April 30 and a doctor who tested positive on Saturday. The reports of the remaining 11 are yet to come,” the spokesperson said.Hindu Rao is largest hospital run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The 980-bed super specialty hospital had to be closed for a day after the first Covid-19 case was reported on April 25. The north corporation had set up an inquiry after some hospital employees had alleged that the nurse who tested positive had informed hospital authorities about having a high fever a week before her tests came positive, but was still asked to report to duty daily.Meanwhile, another gynaecology student at north corporation’s Kasturba Hospital near Jama Masjid tested positive on Friday. Prior to that, a gynaecology student from the same hospital had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/doctor-at-hindu-rao-hospital-tests-positive-for-covid-sent-to-home-quarantine/story-2AkQeLBXHWWUabcY1AvFjM.html
02-05-2020||City||Thane records 28 new Covid cases, 1 death||A 49-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died on Saturday.Thane recorded 28 new cases on Saturday, after its highest single-day spike of 34 cases on Friday.Thane has 372 Covid cases. More than 80% of the positive cases found on Saturday are from slum areas of Wagale Estate, Lokmanya Sawarkar Nagar and Vartak Nagar.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The 49-year-old man who died was a resident of Wagale Estate and had been admitted to Chatrapati Shivaji Hospital since April 30. He did welding work.”Out of 28 new cases, 13 are from Lokmanyanagar-Sawarkar Nagar.The city has recorded 15 Covid deaths and 74 people have recovered so far.The Lokmanyanagar-Sawarkar Nagar and Wagale Estate ward has 78 and 65 Covid positive cases respectively and both the wards have 38% of the total cases in the city.Malvi added, “We have begun extensive contract tracing in Lokmayanagar area. On Saturday around 50 persons, all close contact of 13 positive cases were taken to the quarantine centres in Bhayandar Pada.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-28-new-covid-cases-1-death/story-iDC9Azt5NleLeFC9dKyK3L.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Police help man on his way to hospital with severe kidney pain||A 26-year-old man, who had run out of fuel and was found lying in the middle of a road in outer Delhi’s Narela crying of severe kidney pain, was rushed to a hospital with the help of Delhi Police on Friday. Police said the man had left his home with a friend to visit a hospital but their two-wheeler ran out of fuel midway in Narela. Keeping in mind the social distancing norms, policemen who had arrived to help them, gave them petrol from their motorcycle and accompanied the duo to the hospital to facilitate his immediate treatment, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said around 8.30pm Friday, when constable Deepak Hooda from Narela police station was patrolling the area with a team of paramilitary personnel, he spotted two men, one of whom was crying in pain lying on the road.“When Hooda went close he saw while one of them was crying in pain holding on to his abdomen, the other man accompanying him was frantically running here and there while looking for anyone to help him. When Hooda enquired, the man told him that his friend was suffering from some kidney pain and that they were on their way to Raja Harish Chandra hospital when the their motorcycle ran out of fuel,” Sharma said.The man also told police that because no public transport is available due to the lockdown, they had been stranded for more than an hour and that the condition of his friend was deteriorating.The DCP said, on this, wasting no time and at the same time keeping social distancing in mind, the constable transferred some petrol from his motorcycle into the two men’s vehicle. “He then asked the man to pick up his unwell friend and head towards the hospital, while he too accompanied them,” the officer said.All this while, the constable made sure that he maintained a safe distance from the two men and also followed the coronavirus safety guidelines, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-help-man-on-his-way-to-hospital-with-severe-kidney-pain/story-CywzC5HF0GeA5JFMBz33cL.html
02-05-2020||City||PCMS doctors in Ludhiana silently protest delay in salary||Not paid for two months, as many as 20 Punjab Civil Medical Service (PCMS) doctors at the Ludhiana civil hospital held a silent protest on Saturday by wearing black ribbons while continuing to serve the patients.Not paid for March and April, the PCMS doctors were joined in protest by all doctors at the hospital.Dr Rohit Rampal from the PCMS Association, Ludhiana civil hospital, said, “Even when doctors are battling the Covid-19 outbreak by putting their lives at stake, they are not being paid on time. We do not want the patients to suffer, so did not stop work. But, we will continue to wear black ribbons as a sign of protest till our salaries are released.” Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Geeta Kataria said the state government was aware of the matter and working to release the doctors’ salaries. PARAMEDIC STAFF’S STRIKE ENTERS DAY 2Demanding hike in the salary and insurance cover of staff nurses and contractual staff, paramedical staff of the civil hospital continued their strike for the second day on Saturday, hitting services at the hospital. The paramedical staff comprises staff nurses, operation theatre technicians, ward helpers and sweepers. The staff have also demanded regularisation of their services as they were working on a meagre salary even amid the Covid-19 outbreak.While the staff nurses are getting Rs 6,500 per month, others are paid Rs 4,500.A delegation of the staff members met deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal on Saturday. One of the staff members, requesting anonymity, said the DC had assured that the administration will work on providing them insurance cover, but the salaries will not be enhanced.“The DC met the paramedical staff on Saturday. They will be returning to work,” said SMO Dr Kataria.Extending support to the protesting staff, district president of Youth Akali Dal (YAD), Gurdeep Singh Gosha, said health workers were battling the Covid crisis as warriors and the state government should immediately accept their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcms-doctors-in-ludhiana-silently-protest-delay-in-salary/story-uU7y5wXtmLx5BzF2ZGHHfK.html
02-05-2020||City||75-year-old Ludhiana man assaulted in tiff over monkeys captured by neighbour||A sweetshop owner was arrested for assaulting a 75-year-old man following a tiff over a pair of monkeys held captive by the former.The accused, Bittu, 54, is a resident of Star City Colony.The victim, Des Raj, told the police that Bittu had illegally captured two monkeys that used to bite people passing by their house.On Saturday, when he confronted Bittu to release the monkeys in the wild to avoid further attacks, Bittu and his sons Nitin, 28, and Vikas, 25, pelted him with stones, causing him head injuries.ASI Jora Singh of Tibba police, who is investigating the case, said they had arrested Bittu, who revealed that they had brought the monkeys home “on a sorcerer’s advice to get rich”.The ASI said they had notified the wildlife department for further action.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused, and his two sons, who have not been arrested yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/75-year-old-ludhiana-man-assaulted-in-tiff-over-monkeys-captured-by-neighbour/story-OUfaINVNLoKHMoueltisxI.html
02-05-2020||City||2 booked for attacking Punjab Police ASI, one held||Two persons have been booked on Saturday for allegedly assaulting an ASI of the Punjab Police amid curfew at Narli Chowk barricade, which falls under the Bhikhiwind sub-division. One of the accused has been arrested.The accused are Charanjit Singh, of Chhina Bidhi Chand village, and Arshdeep Singh, of Narli village.According to police, the duo attacked ASI Sarabjit Singh after being stopped at a barricade.“On Saturday morning, the duo was coming from Narli village side on their respective motorcycles. When the cops stopped them, they attacked the ASI,” said Bhikhiwind DSP Rajbir Singh.Meanwhile, a video of the incident is making rounds on the social media. The clip shows the duo arguing with the ASI, the ASI jostling one of the accused, him reciprocating and the cop falling on the ground. The clip shows the infuriated ASI cane-charging the duo and them retaliating, while other cops are trying to mediate the scuffle.However, police have claimed that the accused duo started the scuffle. The DSP said the accused were roaming in the grain market area without any work and messed with the police party.Police have arrested Charanjit and raids are on to nab Arshdeep.A case has been registered under Sections 353, 186, 188 and 269 of the IPC, and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act at the Khalra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-booked-for-attacking-punjab-police-asi-one-held/story-eHZnCWQqyGxwpS5erOMV7N.html
02-05-2020||City||2 booked for spreading fake news in Kamothe||A social worker was booked for spreading a fake message about a four-day curfew which led to panic buying in Kamothe. The police later booked another man for circulating the false news.“Locals from Kamothe were buying groceries and vegetables without following social distancing. After investigating, we found that a fake message was doing rounds about a curfew in the area from April 30 to May 3 because to increasing number of coronavirus patients in Kamothe,” said an officer from Kamothe police station.The police booked Anmol Shitole and Ganesh Shinde. Shitole, who is in his late thirties, is the head of a social organisation called Kamothe and Ekta Samajik Sanstha, and the message he circulated claimed the curfew has been called after discussions with various local leaders.Shinde has been booked and not arrested as his area is a containment zone. Both have been booked under sections of Indian Penal Code for public mischief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-in-kamothe/story-88sV1iM1kLf7DG6oCw7JgK.html
02-05-2020||City||Shops selling essentials will remain open during lockdown: PCMC chief||Panvel City municipal commissioner (PCMC) Ganesh Deshmukh has rubbished rumours of a bandh and clarified that the civic body has not given any order of a further shutdown in Panvel.A few days ago, Panvel BJP MLA Prashant Thakur had threatened of a bandh from May 4 if the state government does not provide accommodation in Mumbai for residents of Panvel working there. This had led to panic buying.Deshmukh said, “The municipal corporation declares that no such bandh notice has been given by PCMC or the state government. Residents should not panic. All that is operating now will continue to do so. All essential establishments of groceries, vegetables and medicines will remain open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-selling-essentials-will-remain-open-during-lockdown-pcmc-chief/story-YU7M2oyaPo4gndfOwXsv4O.html
02-05-2020||Ranchi||Ranchi couple, on way to Patna on bicycle, hitches ride on truck; killed in accident||Four persons, a man and his wife from Jharkhand, and the driver and helper of the truck on which they had hitched a ride, were killed when it crashed into another heavy vehicle coming from the opposite side on a highway near here, police said on Friday.The incident happened on NH-31 in Naugachia police district in Bhagalpur in the early hours, and it left three others grievously injured.The deceased have been identified as Gopal Pandey and his wife Usha Devi both residents of Ranchi and driver Gunjan and helper Sunil, who hailed from Nalanda district, Kharik police station SHO S N Chauhan said.He said the Jharkhand couple were headed to Patna and after an arduous journey from Ranchi on a bicycle, because of the non-availability of vehicles due to the lockdown, they hitched a ride on the truck at Naugachia zero mile out of fatigue.Ranchi is nearly 400 km from Naugachia.Three others all workers at a factory in Katihar who had reached the spot covering nearly 75 kilometers on foot also got a lift and they were looking forward to alight at Hajipur for their onward journey to their homes in Saran district, the officer said.The driver of the truck that came from the other side apparently did not receive serious injuries as he managed to flee by the time local residents rushed to the spot upon hearing the sound of the collision, he said.The injured passengers are being treated at the Naugachia Sadar Hospital, he said, adding that both the trucks have been seized and a search was on for the driver who escaped after the collision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ranchi-couple-on-way-to-patna-on-bicycle-hitches-ride-on-truck-killed-in-accident/story-yrsy2gHZNVOJFg89V957nI.html
02-05-2020||City||With industries shut, Panvel residents get 24x7 water supply this summer||It’s the first summer after decades that Panvel residents have not felt the heat.Residents have been getting uninterrupted water supply, unlike previous years when water shortage starts much before summer.Taps go dry and most housing societies have to depend on tanker water.“Every year, we faced major water cuts and had to change our schedule according to the supply. This year, no water cut has been imposed. We are getting interrupted water supply,” said Dhumal Rana, 45, a Panvel resident.During the lockdown, Panvel is getting 30 mld (millions of litres per day) of water which is the actual requirement for the area.Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is managing to supply more water as industries as shut.Jamir Lengrekar, deputy commissioner of PCMC, said, “We have ensured that people don’t face water crisis. Water which would have been consumed by industries has been diverted for residential use.”“Only some industries are operating at MIDC Taloja. While in full operation, industries require 50 mld,” said an MIDC official.Every year, summer is marked by protests and complaints for residents. This year, they are thanking the lockdown. “Last year, we spent more than a lakh towards tanker water supply. We are relaxed this year as we don’t have to worry about water this summer,” said Shivam Patel, 50, a resident of Sector 21 in Kamothe.Kantilal Kadi, a city-based activist, said civic officials can work out a system so that residents do not face water cuts even when the industries are functioning. “I feel that officials can work out an uninterrupted water supply every year,” added Kadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-industries-shut-panvel-residents-get-24x7-water-supply-this-summer/story-IWG9tGNRK0CiE9v2yUQq4N.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police receives over 700 calls since Friday for help during lockdown||The Delhi Police has received over 700 calls, including 373 related to movement passes, since Friday afternoon on its 24x7 helpline number, an official said on Saturday. So far, police have received 35,074 calls on helpline number 011-23469526 since the lockdown was announced on March 24, he said. Between Friday 2 pm and Saturday 2 pm, they received a total of 709 calls, the official said, adding that 373 were related to movement passes. Out of the 709 calls, 43 were from outside Delhi, which were referred to respective state helpline numbers. Four other calls received were related to no food/money, which were forwarded to NGOs for direct relief at their addresses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-receives-over-700-calls-since-friday-for-help-during-lockdown/story-IKiw0pxBkdXvOPDzMN9HyI.html
02-05-2020||City||HP govt assures 120-days employment to urban population, announces waiver of electricity bills for hotels||In a bid to revive the economy, the Himachal government has announced to waive off electricity bills of hotels registered with the tourism department and decided to start a scheme guaranteeing 120 days assured employment to the urban population besides some relief for agriculturists and fruit growers.The decision was taken during the cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, on Saturday.CM constituted a three-member cabinet subcommittee headed by jal shakti minister Mahender Singh seeking measures for the economic revival of the state. The other two members are education minister Suresh Bhardwaj, industries minister Bikram Singh and forest minister Govind Thakur.The subcommittee will submit its report in the next two weeks, Bhardwaj said. The cabinet gave approval for 120 days assured employment to the urban population under the new Mukhya Mantri Shahari Rojgar Guarantee Yojana. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, agriculturists and horticulturists of the state have been facing huge losses. Therefore, the government had decided to compensate them to some extent.The cabinet also decided to waive electricity demand charges of hotels for six months, thereby providing them relief of about ₹15 crore. Similarly, excise and taxation license fee will be waived, and lifting quota of bars would be on pro-rata basis.In addition to this, token tax and special road tax would be waived for four months and no penalty will be imposed on the owners of private vehicles on account of delay on renewal of registration and permits. Support of ₹55 crore will also be provided to the Himachal Road Transport Corporation.30% attendance in government officesGovernment offices will have 30% attendance from May 4 onward. The cabinet authorised the head of departments to prepare a list of employees. Besides it also extended curfew relaxation hours for another one hour. The curfew will now be relaxed from 10 am to 3 pm. However, it decided not to ply busses in the state till further orders.Old excise policy extendedIt was also decided to give post-facto approval for the extension of Excise Policy, 2019-20. The cabinet also gave its nod to post-facto approval of extension of Toll Policy 2019-20 up to May 31. The retail excise licensees would not be required to deposit any excise levies for the period liquor vends remained closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown after March 22. The retail excise licensees will be allowed to lift the remaining Minimum Guaranteed Quota of 2019-20 if due, against the licence fee deposited before March 31 and in case the complete licence fee has not been deposited by the said date then such excise licensees will be allowed to lift the pending quota against the deposition of the pending excise license fee for 2019-20 in April and May, whenever the vends are opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-assures-120-days-employment-to-urban-population-announces-waiver-of-electricity-bills-for-hotels/story-A3NCvtXuqMCPGqH1nxXL3I.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||AICTE directs colleges to grant provisional admissions to students||htmetro@hindustantimes.com With the national lockdown extended by two weeks, management colleges across the country have been directed to grant provisional admissions to candidates whose undergraduate examinations have either not yet been conducted or results declared. Colleges will not be allowed to hike their fees for the academic year 2020-21. The directives were issued by the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) on Friday.The new academic session is deemed to start on August 1 according to the notification issued by AICTE secretary Rajiv Kumar. “The institutions shall not hike the admission fees or other fees for the academic year 2020-21 and also should not force the selected candidates to pay advance fees during the lockdown,” read the notification.The regulatory body has asked institutes offering postgraduate diploma in management (PGDM) and post-graduate certificate programmes (PGCM) to confirm admissions of candidates on a provisional basis. The candidates will have to submit the proof of completion of their undergraduate studies by December 31.As for starting classes, institutions may choose to start online classes and shift gradually to physical teaching mode based on the revised academic calendar issued by the AICTE. However, institutions in red zones (as identified by state government bodies) will be exempt from the new academic calendar. These institutes will be allowed to start and end the new academic year according to the prevailing situations, said the regulatory body.For existing students, if examinations for the first year could not be conducted before the lockdown, the colleges have been advised to follow the University Grants Commission (UGC) plan for promoting students to higher classes. On April 29, the UGC had announced the annual examination details and a new academic calendar. According to the plan, students in intermediate classes were to be graded based on the internal assessment of the present and previous semester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aicte-directs-colleges-to-grant-provisional-admissions-to-students/story-s1yZF5AuIumFg0S3IPkCSO.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Friday’s stormy rains uproot 75 trees, damage gantry and mobile tower||Stormy winds and heavy rains that lashed Pune on Friday destroyed 75 five trees and also led to the collapse of a massive gantry near Sancheti Hospital and a mobile tower in Mangalwar peth. No one was injured due to the absence of pedestrian and vehicular movement on the roads due to the lockdown, Pune fire brigade chief Prashant Ranpise said. The stormy winds and rains occurred for around two hours in the afternoon on Friday. A total of 14 fire tenders and eight rescue vans had to be deployed across the city to clear off the roads and areas where trees fell, Ranpise said. The removal of debris was still in progress till Saturday afternoon.The Fire Brigade control room said that huge, aged trees with large trunks fell in different areas of the city such as Sadanandnagar, Kasturi chowk, Mominpura, Quartergate, Pudumjee Park, Hirabaug Society area, Maharashtra Housing Society, Parvati Darshan, Kothrud and Koregaon Park. The mobile tower fell down in Mangalwar peth, but nobody was injured.During the storm, power supply was disrupted in some parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/friday-s-stormy-rains-uproot-75-trees-damage-gantry-and-mobile-tower/story-Og1WEMOIv58u6NQVHj1dQP.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Tata hospital mulls taking stranded cancer patients to their hometowns in Maharashtra||Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) is in talks with the state transport department to arrange for buses to ferry stranded cancer patients to their neighbouring hometowns in Maharashtra. “We have initiated a conversation with the state transport department to give us the permission to send these patients back home and also in arrangements,” said Humayun Jafri, head public relation officer of the hospital.The bus facility will be available only for inter-district transportations, not for other states. “We will take these patients in buses through several trips with proper precautions. But the final decision is yet to be taken,” he added.As HT reported earlier, hundreds of cancer patients are stranded in Mumbai. Cancer patients are most vulnerable to acquiring the infection due to their low immunity. Many of them have taken shelters in crowded dharamshalas or lodges. Now, as the government has provided some relaxations in transportation, TMH, the biggest cancer hospital in India is trying to send these patients back home. The hospital has already provided alternative accommodation to several patients and their kin in the city. Around 18 patients along with their relatives have been shifted to Zaid International Hotel in Marol. The hospital has also made arrangements for food for them. “We have also organised BEST bus services for patients to ferry them to hospital for treatment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tata-hospital-mulls-taking-stranded-cancer-patients-to-their-hometowns-in-maharashtra/story-Cqywvh5ybJGnPSvZibwtxM.html
02-05-2020||Kolkata||Don’t try to usurp power in time of crisis: Mamata hits out at Bengal governor||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit out at Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday, accusing him of trying to “usurp powers” amid the coronavirus crisis, and asked him to desist from using official communications and logos on social media.Banerjee’s sharp rebuttal came after the governor shot off two letters to the chief minister last week amid the clash between the Raj Bhavan and Nabanna, the state secretariat, in the wake of West Bengal’s response to the COVID-19 outbreak.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Such words and such communications of such content, tenor and tone from a Governor to an elected CM are unprecedented in the annals of Indian constitutional and political history. Your words against me and my ministers and officers can be described as vituperative, intemperate, intimidating and abusive,” Banerjee said in her 14-page reply to Dhankhar.Accusing him of preaching and sermonising constitutional norms “without practising it and violating it”, she said the governor may not agree with her policies, but unfortunately, he has no other power than bringing it to her notice, as long as the government commands the confidence of the legislature.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“I beseech you to desist from intensifying your efforts to usurp powers, especially at the time of crisis.... You should desist from using official communications/logos for your continuous tweets on social media,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/don-t-try-to-usurp-power-in-time-of-crisis-mamata-hits-out-at-bengal-governor/story-O7RgivgVJmdxGOVzrrkWWN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Migrants in Haryana can register online to return to their home states||To facilitate hassle-free movement, both inward and outward, of migrant workers, the Haryana government has launched a webpage https://edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantService, where migrants can register themselves. An official spokesman said that the migrants can also download the ‘Jan Sahayak Helpme’ app on Google Playstore and register themselves there. They could also take assistance from district administration helpline by dialling 1950 or call center number 1100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrants-in-haryana-can-register-online-to-return-to-their-home-states/story-C2HyrLtiIBuHl0MRj0Z3oL.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police seizes 476 liquor bottles concealed under cucumbers||Two men were arrested for allegedly smuggling liquor bottles hidden beneath piles of cucumbers in three-wheelers in Dwarka’s Baba Haridas Nagar area, police said on Saturday. The accused were identified as Sanidul Islam (21) and Sahnul Islam (25), both residents of Mundka, they said. On Friday around 1 pm, police saw two people going towards Mundka in separate motorized three-wheelers carrying cucumbers. The duo tried to escape, but were apprehended, a senior police officer said.When the cucumbers were removed, 476 bottles of illicit liquor were found concealed under the vegetable loads, the officer said. Police said the accused work for one Munna, a resident of Mundka. They were carrying the liquor from Haryana, police added. According to a Delhi Police data, 155 people have been arrested in 147 cases under the Excise Act and 18,556 bottles of liquor recovered in first two weeks of April during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-seizes-476-liquor-bottles-concealed-under-cucumbers/story-GyNCcggbFX7CnsS2V9KIhK.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||5,000 boxes of illicit liquor seized in Sonepat||The Haryana police on Saturday claimed to have seized 5,200 boxes of illicit Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) in Sonepat district when the consignment was being smuggled in trucks amid the lockdown.Stating that three persons were also arrested in this connection, an official release stated that the estimated value of seized liquor is around ₹3 crore. The accused have been identified as Manjit Singh of Ajrabar in Patiala district, Balwinder Singh of Mubarkpur in Mohali district and Devender Singh of Derabassi in Punjab. As per investigation, the liquor was being illegally transported from Derabassi to different parts of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-000-boxes-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-sonepat/story-OUVf97U7WLJn6JCqpbGgJO.html
02-05-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news amid coronavirus lockdown||When baton-wielding SSP left many surprised in BurailIt’s rare to find a senior superintendent of police (SSP) patrolling the streets with a baton or a stick. The Covid-19 pandemic led Chandigarh SSP Nilambari Jagadale to do a reality check and patrol the congested areas in town. Last week, SP, city, Vineet Kumar accompanied her as she went around asking people about their curfew passes at Burail village. Her presence sure surprised many a resident as they are used to engaging with beat officials and PCR staff on a daily basis but not a senior IPS officer. Covid confusion for namesakes in KhararTheir common name has led to many a confusion but the other day it triggered a fight over none other than humanity’s biggest enemy: Covid-19. Kuldeep Kaur, 65, and her namesake cousin daughter-in-law, 56, returned from Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, last week. Both residents of Choti Nagli village in Kharar were put up in a quarantine centre and their samples were taken to check for coronavirus infection. The 65-year-old tested positive but refused to accept the result, claiming she was hale and hearty. An argument ensued when she expressed the doubt that the result may have been that of the younger Kuldeep Kaur. The drama went on till health officials intervened and admitted the 65-year-old to a hospital though she still didn’t believe them.SHO becomes talking point among cops after encounterOn arresting four men wanted for attempt to murder after an encounter in Panchkula recently, the station house officer of Phase 8, Rajnish Chaudhary, who led the team, became a talking point in his department. Police personnel posted in Mohali say “encounters are Chaudhary’s passion”. They say he keeps a bullet-proof jacket handy in his vehicle because safety always comes first. Though no cop opened fire in this incident, constable Rashpreet Singh was shot in the left leg by a gangster before his accomplices and he were caught.Health dept fighting Covid-19 info leakThe health department in Chandigarh is dealing with new kind of challenge: Information leak. As the city’s corona count climbed through the week, the department found that the information was being broken on social media even before the reports reached the top brass. Director health services, Chandigarh, Dr G Dewan said that the administration has taken serious note. A senior doctor on the operational front at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, admitted that over the past few days, he had been receiving official confirmation after the news was all over social media.Repairmen caught off guardThe list of repairmen drafted by the Chandigarh administration wasn’t made after consulting them. For instance, an air conditioner serviceman in zone 3 said that his name was given in the final list without informing him. “My father died recently and I won’t be back on duty for at least a week. Now I’m redirecting the calls.” PEC director takes online classDheeraj Sanghi, the director of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), ensures the faculty feels like family. While all teachers are busy preparing online modules for students to make sure the academic year is not wasted, Sanghi joined in and prepared an online lecture, too. That’s motivation and supervision at the same time. Contributed by Hillary Victor, Shailee Dogra, Amanjeet Singh, Rajanbir Singh, Shub Karman Dhaliwal and Srishti Jaswal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-gZkL22kFYjsWbWLAaJMy6J.html
02-05-2020||City||Uri SDM issues order asking govt employees to donate one day’s salary to fight Covid-19||Uri sub-divisional magistrate on Saturday set up a relief and welfare committee and urged the government employees to donate their one day’s salary to aid the government’s efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic.An order was issued in this regard which stated: “With a view to creating provision of immediate relief for the mitigation of sufferings of people (especially labour class) caused by the lockdown enforced to combat Covid-19, all the government employees working in twin tehsils of sub-division Uri are enjoined upon to make the voluntary contribution towards the relief and welfare committee.”This is first such order issued by an official in the Union territory.“The government employees are to make fixed minimum contributions which may extend up to the deduction of one day pay from the salary. “Further, though the contribution is voluntary in nature, the drawing and disbursing committee officers operating upon government treasury Uri and sub-treasury Boniyar are also exhorted to encourage the employees to make a generous contribution towards the common pool being maintained by the committee for the utilisation in the activities of relief and welfare being undertaken to mitigate the sufferings of the public during the lockdown period,” the order reads.However, the government employees working in the different departments of Uri have expressed shock over the order issued by the SDM.“At a time when we have the L-G and PM CARES fund available, why has the SDM created a separate account asking employees to donate one day’s salary. The matter should be investigated,” said a government employee in Uri, on the condition of anonymity.A government teacher posted at zone Jhulla of Uri on Saturday received an SMS from her Zonal Education Office (ZEO) which reads, “All the employees of zone Jhulla are hereby informed that this office is going to deduct one day’s salary of all the employees for Covid-19 relief fund. It is a noble cause and for the people of Uri only if anyone is not willing he/she may communicate to the ZEO office through WhatsApp. Matter treated as urgent”.Another employee wishing not to be named said, “There are some employees at SDM office who might be getting benefit from this fund.”Uri treasury officer Rouf Ahmad said that he has been appointed as the head of the audit in the committee. “Everything is being monitored by the SDM himself. He takes a call on how to use the funds,” he said.SDM Uri Reyaz Ahmad Malik denied commenting on the issue.Secretary to the government for the department of law, justice and parliamentary affairs in J&K Achal Sethi said, “The SDM level officer has no authority to issue such orders.”Kashmir divisional commissioner PK Pole said he has directed the DC Baramulla to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uri-sdm-issues-order-asking-govt-employees-to-donate-one-day-s-salary-to-fight-covid-19/story-KYTivepghJ8ExwbsKEBW5O.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||20 langar staffers at Nanded gurdwara test positive||Around 20 staffers, who worked with the community kitchen service at Gurdwara Langar Sahib at Nanded, have tested positive for Covid-19, district officials said. The spike in cases in Nanded has come at a time when the Punjab government has alleged negligence on part of the district authorities, after over 90 pilgrims who went back to the northern state from the district tested positive. Coronavirus cases in Nanded now stand at 26.District authorities said around 97 gurdwara staffers were tested, of which 20 have contracted the disease. The gurdwara has been sealed off. District health officer Balaji Shinde said that the staffers were involved in managing the langar or the community kitchen and a group of the staff was also in service to the over 90 pilgrims at the shrine who were sent to Punjab. “So far 20 people have tested positive. Test results of another 40-odd staffers are awaited. We have created a containment area there and have started massive contact tracing as per procedure,” he said.An official from the district collector’s office said that two bus drivers and an attendant, for buses arranged by local authorities to take the pilgrims to Punjab, have also tested positive. “The two drivers and attendants had travelled to Punjab. Their swab samples also turned out to be positive. We have traced close contacts of the confirmed cases and put them under isolation at health facilities,” the official said.On the claims by the Punjab government that the stranded pilgrims contracted the disease while in Maharashtra and the Nanded officials were negligent, district health officials said that the Sikh pilgrims were periodically checked. “We carried regular check-ups for all the pilgrims. None showed any symptoms such as cold or fever. Coronavirus test was not done on them. They could have contracted the disease on the way to Punjab,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-langar-staffers-at-nanded-gurdwara-test-positive/story-6yTSikCCMmTD4uZziBmxuO.html
02-05-2020||India||2 men booked for escaping from isolation centres in Sangrur||The district police have booked two men quarantined in separate isolation centres for allegedly escaping from there, said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg on Saturday.The SSP said that Naib Singh of Ahmedgarh was found missing from Sandaur isolation centre on April 30, but his wife and daughter were in the centre.“The accused has returned to the centre, but will have to face the law,” added Garg.Bhawanigarh police station house officer (SHO) Ramandeep Singh said that one Harpreet Singh of Gurdaspur went to his home from Batriana isolation centre without completing his quarantine period.“Health department officials wrote for action against Harpreet and he has been booked for escaping quarantine. The police have started investigation,” the SHO said.Both Naib and Harpreet have been booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act at Sandaur and Bhawanigarh police stations respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-men-booked-for-escaping-from-isolation-centres-in-sangrur/story-amnbaSHyLtLMQWxeCYX9fM.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||127 new Covid-19 cases reported in UP; total cases in state mount to 2,455||With 127 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, the number of confirmed cases in the state rises to 2,455, officials said here.Coronavirus cases have so far been reported in 64 of the 75 districts in the state. Six among these 64 districts have no active cases at present, Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,756, he added.Forty-three deaths have so far been reported and 656 patients treated and discharged from hospitals, Prasad said.He said a detailed government order for screening of migrant labourers and workers returning to the state was issued on Friday.“All those returning will be first screened and those found healthy will be home-quarantined for 21 days. Those showing even minor symptoms will be stopped from proceeding homewards and would be subjected to detailed testing,” the official said.If these people test positive for Covid-19, they will be sent to isolation wards in hospitals. If not, they will be stopped for seven days, Prasad said, adding that after seven days, they will be screened again. If the results are negative, they will be placed under home-quarantine for 14 days, he said.Since a large number of migrants will be returning to the state, arrangement of community surveillance is being made, the principal secretary said. For this, ‘gram nigrani samitis’ are being formed in the rural areas and ‘mohalla nigrani samitis’ in the urban areas, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/127-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-up-total-cases-in-state-mount-to-2-455/story-eMynNpPJObPwCcvbSRV9xH.html
02-05-2020||City||Haryana agri varsity V-C nominated as ICAR member||Director general of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Trilochan Mohapatra on Friday nominated KP Singh, the vice-chancellor (VC) of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU), as its member. The university staff congratulated the VC on the achievement and said that the newly constituted committee under the leadership of the chairman will work to implement innovative schemes for the scientists of all agricultural universities in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hau-v-c-nominated-as-icar-member/story-aYgdLsgZxwBIUHCFcP8H1J.html
02-05-2020||City||Migrant workers protest in Bilaspur, demand facilities to return home||More than 1,000 migrant workers engaged in construction work of AIIMS being built at Kothipura in Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh staged a protest on Saturday against the state government and demanded facilities to return to their hometown and availability of food every day during the lockdown period.The migrants gathered near the construction site of AIIMs hospital demanded that arrangements be made for their movement to their home states.Unrest amongst the workers had been brewing for the last two weeks. They said they have been facing hardships due to the lockdown as their source of income has stopped.On being alerted, personnel from Kothipura police station rushed to the spot. The police officials urged the migrant workers to maintain social distancing and appealed to them not to walk to their home districts as they would be put in quarantine.The district administration has set up four kiosks at the AIIMs construction site for registration of workers who hailed from West Bengal, Bihar, Chattishgarh, and Jharkhand. The workers refused to continue construction work citing that do not have enough money or ration to feed their families. The district administration directed the management of the National Builder Construction Company to release the pending wages of migrant workers. There are nearly 1,567 migrant workers who are engaged in the construction work of AIIMS. The company had further given the construction work to the Narguna construction company. “We have not been paid wages for the last 42 days,” said Ram Kumar, a migrant worker from Bihar. Deputy commissioner Rajeshwar Goel said that the government has directed the company to release their wages and elaborate arrangements are being made to send them back to their hometowns.The AIIMS hospital will have 750-bed capacity and the construction cost is ₹1200 crore The work on the project started in January last year.200 buses stranded in HP, J&K borderNearly 200 buses ferrying Kashmiri labourers are stranded at Himachal’s border with Jammu and Kashmir. The Kashmiri workers who work at different construction sites across the state, also work as porters in the state capital had requested the district administration to send them home for Ramzan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-protest-in-bilaspur-demand-facilities-to-return-home/story-6miADVaLWO7h46raT7eUNK.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Congress asks Himachal government to setup a committee of economics experts||Former six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh and Congress Legislators have demanded the state government to set up a high level economic expert committee that will propose a concrete strategy for the state to emerge from the losses suffered during lockdown after proper assessment so that economy of the state could be saved.Singh has written a letter to CM Jai Ram Thakur offering some suggestions by focusing on many points. He has mentioned that as the main opposition party, it is Congress’s moral duty to put problems faced by people in front of ruling government. The state government should seriously consider our suggestions and should start working on it by making a broad action plan.He has mentioned in the letter that all commercial, agricultural, horticultural, industrial activities and essential services like education and healthcare have been badly affected since lockdown was imposed. Highlighting various problems, Congress has demanded a special financial package for farmers and orchardists of the state as they have suffered huge losses not only because of coronavirus but also due to heavy rainfall and hailstorms. Apart from this, he has written that state government should purchase apples from HPMC and HIMFED and should make arrangements for its marketing. The state government should also provide carton boxes, trays and other essential items for apple packaging. He has also demanded the state government to pay minimum support price to vegetable growers. Problems could arise as remote areas do not have proper network, many students do not have smart phones which can affect online education.He has mentioned that state government should pay salaries of lockdown period to teachers and staff members of private schools as government had directed them to not to charge school fees. He also asked to ensure adequate testing kits, masks, sanitizers, PPE and basic medicines.He has also demanded to provide unemployment allowance for workers.He has also suggested the state government to demand special financial package for the state to cover losses suffered due to lockdown.He said that proper arrangements should be made to bring back people who are stranded within and outside the state after medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-asks-himachal-government-to-setup-a-committee-of-economics-expert/story-6KKXTsxXp33NUOqcZlSGxL.html
02-05-2020||Bangalore||‘Can’t please everyone all the time’: IAS officer on Tablighi Jamaat tweet||A day after the Karnataka government issued a show cause notice to him over his tweet about coronavirus-cured Tablighi Jamaat members donating plasma for treatment of other patients, IAS officer Mohammad Mohsin on Saturday said he will reply to the notice as per rules.“Yes, I have got the notice and shortly I am giving reply as per the rules,” the IAS officer told PTI.Claiming that he had only shared a news item of a private news channel, Mohsin said he has no idea why there is so much outrage over the tweet.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic “You can’t please everyone all the time,” the officer said in reply to a query whether he saw any conspiracy behind the row.The officer was in the news last year after the Election Commission suspended him for trying to inspect Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s helicopter during his visit to Odisha in April. He was deployed as a poll observer.Also Read: Karnataka govt issues show cause notice to IAS officer for tweet on Tablighi Jamaat members“More than 300 Tablighi Heroes are donating their plasma to serve the country in New Delhi only. What about? #Godi Media? They will not show the works of humanity done by these heroes,” Mohsin said in a tweet on April 27.A 1996 batch IAS officer from Karnataka cadre hailing from Bihar, Mohsin is currently serving as a secretary in the Backward Class Welfare Department.Also Read: 4,000 Covid-19 cases linked to Jamaat, says govt. But India isn’t the only oneThe state government said the show cause notice has been issued to the officer in connection with his tweet.“The adverse coverage this tweet has got in the media has been taken note of seriously by the government, given the serious nature of Covid-19 and the sensitivities involved,” the notice, which was accessed by PTI, stated.The government has sought a written explanation from the officer within five days for violating the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968.The Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary group, shot into the limelight early this year after thousands of its members who attended a congregation in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March tested positive for coronavirus.After attending the event, the group’s members travelled to various parts of the country, with many of them carrying the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/will-reply-to-notice-as-per-rules-says-ias-officer-on-tweet-related-to-tablighi-jamaat-members/story-g6u1QxZEQjmnJV8smz8P9K.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Locating IFSC in Gujarat aimed at reducing Mumbai stature’: Thorat||Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday said the Centre’s move to locate the International Financial Services Centres Authority to regulate all financial services in International Financial Services Centres (IFSCs) in Gandhinagar was aimed at reducing Mumbai’s stature as the financial capital of the country.A notification establishing IFSC in Gandhinagar was issued recently by the Centre.“The central government’s decision to locate the IFSC to Gujarat is disappointing and is being done to reduce Mumbai’s stature. The centre should reconsider its decision,” tweeted Thorat, who also heads the Maharashtra Congress unit.Stating that Mumbai has been the financial capital of the country, the Congress leader questioned “silence” of the state BJP leadership on the issue.Currently, banking, capital markets and insurance sectors in IFSC are regulated by multiple regulators -- the RBI, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), and Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locating-ifsc-in-gujarat-aimed-at-reducing-mumbai-stature-thorat/story-Wr7Q3oyBz7nwRRy6FSKB2M.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||62-year-old Ambala woman dies of Covid-19 at PGI, Chandigarh||A 62-year-old woman from Ambala, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Saturday.This is the second death due to coronavirus in Ambala district. A 67-year-old man from the Timber Market area in Ambala cantonment had died at PGIMER on April 1. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The 62-year-old woman from Ratangarh area of the district died at PGIMER on Saturday morning. She was diabetic for the past 15 years and had a liver-related ailment besides chronic kidney disease for the past three years. The woman was undergoing dialysis twice a week. “She was visiting the civil hospital in Ambala cantonment for dialysis but was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, on April 24. She tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh but due to her serious condition, she was further referred to PGIMER by the GMCH authorities,” the CMO said.The health authorities in Ambala took 40 samples of her contacts and all had tested negative. “Ratangarh area has been declared a containment zone and restrictions are in place since she tested positive. Her family has agreed to carry out the cremation in Chandigarh itself,” Dr Kuldeep Singh said. The district has recorded 14 positive cases of which one is undergoing treatment in Chandigarh. Eleven patients have recovered so far.YAMUNANAGAR MAN TESTS POSITIVEMeanwhile, a 27-year-old man from the Kalindi area in Yamunanagar district, who returned from Nanded recently, has tested positive for coronavirus. He was brought from Ambala, where he had tested negative earlier. A group of 39 Nanded returnees from Ambala, Delhi and other Haryana districts were brought from Punjab to Ambala on the night of April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/62-year-old-ambala-woman-dies-of-covid-19-at-pgi-chandigarh/story-oojXjEShySpamyHefIpNXI.html
02-05-2020||Ranchi||Policeman dies when van escorting Telangana returnee migrants bus overturns||A policeman died and four other security personnel suffered minor injuries when their van overturned in Ramgarh district while they were escorting a bus carrying migrant workers from Hatia to Chatra in the wee hours of Saturday, police said.Ramgarh Superintendent of Police, Prabhat Kumar, told PTI that another escort van was immediately provided as the bus continued its onward journey.The accident occurred on NH-33 under Ramgarh town police station, killing one policeman, who was identified as Dinesh Kumar, on the spot, he said.He added the injured policemen were given first aid at the Sadar hospital before being discharged.The police van was escorting the bus carrying migrant labourers after they reached Hatia railway station, on outskirts of Ranchi, by a special train from Telangana late Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/policeman-dies-when-van-escorting-telangana-returnee-migrants-bus-overturns/story-08uToQytVt8wdnvTNihweL.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi begins evacuation of 800 students stranded in Kota||The Delhi government on Saturday began operations to evacuate students from the city stranded in Kota in Rajasthan due to the lockdown, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.“Hundreds of our children studying in Kota were stuck for more than a month. We are arranging for their return to Delhi. Am so happy they will soon be reunited with their families,” Kejriwal tweeted. Hundreds of our children studying in Kota were stuck for more than a month. We are arranging for their return to Delhi. Am so happy they will soon be reunited with their families https://t.co/gfRenyX3eYDelhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said the government has sent a fleet 40 buses to Kota to bring the students back.“40 buses of Delhi Transport Corporation reached Kota, Rajasthan at around 10 AM today to bring back around 800 students to Delhi. Not more than 20 students will be allowed on a bus. They will be screened at the time of departure and arrival,” Gahlot said according to ANI.On Wednesday, the Union home ministry in an order had cleared the decks for the evacuation of stranded people. The order said those stranded could be evacuated by buses.Kota, a coaching hub for competitive examinations is just over 500 km south of Delhi and draws students from many parts of the country.Uttar Pradesh became the first state to evacuate its students from Kota last month when it sent hundreds of buses to bring back more than 10,000 students.The union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh also carried out a similar operation a few days later to bring back 400 of their students from Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-begins-evacuation-of-800-students-stranded-in-kota/story-aeITM9yuy4xegfmP3A0OdM.html
02-05-2020||Patna||First special train carrying nearly 1,200 migrant labourers reaches Patna||The first ‘Shramik Special’ train carrying 1,187 stranded migrant labourers from Jaipur reached the Danapur railway station here on Saturday afternoon. The 24-coach train departed at 10 pm on Friday from Jaipur and reached the Danapur railway station around 2 pm, East Central Railway, Hajipur, Chief Public Relation Officer (CPRO), Rajesh Kumar told PTI.Medical screening of all the passengers will be carried out first for which 20 medical teams have been deployed.“After medical examination, they will be served food and sent to their respective districts by buses,” Patna Divisional Commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told PTI.Around 100 buses have been stationed at the Danapur railway station for the purpose of sending these passengers to their home districts, he said.The seating arrangements in buses have been made keeping in mind social distancing norms. Buses will ply half of their seating capacity, Agarwal added.This is the first run of a special train to Bihar to bring back migrants stranded during the nationwide lockdown to contain the coronavirus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/first-special-train-carrying-nearly-1-200-migrant-labourers-reaches-patna/story-S708j5w68G221zyE3xHXEI.html
02-05-2020||Indore||18 men caught travelling in concrete mixer truck in MP’s Indore||Eighteen people were found travelling inside the tank of a concrete mixer truck by the police in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh, news agency ANI reported citing local officials, even as the Centre has allowed stranded people to go back to their homes.The agency tweeted a 41-second video showing the men coming out of the tank one after the other as police officials looked on.“They were travelling from Maharashtra to Lucknow. The truck has been sent to a police station and an FIR has been registered,” Umakant Chaudhary, the deputy superintendent of police, was quoted as saying by ANI.#WATCH 18 people found travelling in the mixer tank of a concrete mixer truck by police in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. DSP Umakant Chaudhary says, "They were travelling from Maharashtra to Lucknow. The truck has been sent to a police station & an FIR has been registered". pic.twitter.com/SfsvS0EOCWThe Union ministry of home affairs had on April 29 issued fresh guidelines for interstate movement to allow stranded migrant labourers, tourists and students to return to their homes.However, the movement of migrants, tourists and students will be restricted to non-containment zones. MHA had said the new guidelines will come into effect from May 4, “which shall give considerable relaxation to many districts.” The guidelines said all stranded people can go back home after undergoing strict medical screening both at the source and destination cities. States must also organise thermal testing units and quarantine facilities for all those who are stranded, in order to clear asymptomatic cases, before sending them back. They must also arrange for sanitised buses for transportation, it said.Reports of people travelling on foot and cycles, boats and ambulances have poured in from across the country since March when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the nation-wide lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19. It has been extended twice and till May 17 now.Many have even died while travelling long distances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/18-men-caught-travelling-in-concrete-mixer-truck-in-mp-s-indore/story-EM0sal8GKVPk70z8grQTzO.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police distributes travel registration forms to migrant workers||Mumbai police has started manual distribution of registration forms to migrant workers, stranded in the city due to lockdown, to enable them to travel back to their homes.The forms are being distributed in person at food distribution points, community kitchens, relief camps and shelters, said Mumbai police officials.The forms are being distributed after the Indian Railways announced special Shramik trains for migrant workers, and the relaxation given by the Ministry of Home Affairs for inter-state road transport for migrant workers, pilgrims and students during the lockdown.Mumbai police officials said that most migrant workers come from poor backgrounds and do not have access to the internet which limits their scope for applying online, following which the top brass of the city decided to hand over the forms to the migrants themselves.A senior police officer said that the police already know where most of the migrants are living. After the Bandra incident (wherein over 1,000 migrants had turned up near Bandra railway station on April 14) cops had located those pockets in the city where most of the stranded migrants, laborers are living in clusters to provide them food and other essential items.Bandra, Wadala TT, areas along with the docks like Sewri, Mazgaon, Reay Road, Cotton Green, Govandi, Mankhurd, Chembur, in North Borivali and Kandivali are the pockets where most of the stranded migrant labourers are residing.“To reach out to maximum stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, students our men at the police station level are distributing forms manually. Many migrants are given forms at the food distribution points, community kitchens and at the migrants relief camps and shelters,” said Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general (Law & Order), Mumbai police.Public announcements are being made in the slums to discourage migrant workers from rushing to police stations or railway stations with the forms. Only one member of a group would be allowed to visit police stations with the required documents.“The stranded migrants are given forms with the instructions that they must avoid to apply for a single person’s travel and instead form groups of 25 to 40, and apply together in groups. They are also being informed about the strict compliance of conditions such as health clearance certificate from a registered doctor, Aadhar card details, etc.,” Choubey said.“Separate teams under zonal DCPs, who are the nodal officers for this task, would segregate the collected forms and then in coordination with the Railways and state road transport department transport will be arranged”, added Choubey.“Once we get forms of around 1,000 stranded migrants wishing to go to the same destination we would approach railways to arrange a train for the said destination”, he said.Migrants stranded in containment areas are not included in this set up, irrespective of their health conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-distributes-travel-registration-forms-to-migrant-workers/story-EMyLyn1tK9QNND6urruycK.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||1,000 migrant labourers hit the streets in Maharashtra, demand returning home||Around 1,000 migrant labourers, mostly from northern parts of India, came on to the streets in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur on Saturday to demand that arrangements be made for their return to the native places, police said.The incident took place around 9.30 am at Ballarpur in the district, an official said.“More than 1,000 labourers, mostly staying at a construction site in a government medical college, hit the streets and demanded that arrangement be made for their movement to their home states. They tried to block the highway and started walking towards the railway station,” he said.“The labourers want to go back to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Some of them are from West Bengal. They said they have been facing hardships due to the lockdown as their source of income has stopped,” the official said.On being alerted, personnel from the Ramnagar Police Station rushed to the spot and the situation was brought under control.“The police staff told the labourers that proper procedure has to be followed if they want to return to their home states as special trains are being arranged. They were asked to fill the application forms to get a place in the special trains,” he said.The police provided food to them, he said that the labourers later returned to local residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-000-migrant-labourers-hit-the-streets-in-maharashtra-demand-returning-home/story-wden7BOQmzY1FRBwBzV3nO.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Government schools declared quarantine centres in Patiala||All government schools, including primary, high and secondary schools, in Patiala were declared quarantine centres on Saturday and teachers have been asked to look after them.Residents, pilgrims and others evacuated from Nanded and Rajasthan will be quarantined in these schools.The district administration has told all school heads to ensure that they along with two other staff members are on duty at the centre. There are 2,081 government schools in Patiala.The schools were declared quarantine centres under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005.Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said, “We had already setup quarantine centres at several government buildings and now we have declared all government schools as quarantine centres too. All school heads have been directed to cooperate with the district administration.”The Patiala district education officer, secondary, also instructed head teachers look after these centres. DEO Harinder Kaur said, “The head teachers will ensure their attendance at school from Saturday and will also assign duties to two staff members. They will also ensure attendants and cleanliness workers are present at school every day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/government-schools-declared-quarantine-centres-in-patiala/story-q47aBTMiEKNXIZuc6ZTFQN.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: 41 people from one building in Delhi’s Kapashera test positive for Covid-19||Forty-one people from the same building, which was sealed on April 19, in Delhi’s Kapashera area have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Coivd-19), news agency ANI reported citing the district magistrate’s office.The building is in Theke Wali Gali near the district collector’s office in Kapashera and was sealed after one person contracted the respiratory disease.Three officials in the district magistrate (DM)’s office had tested positive for Sars-Cov-2, the infection that causes Covid-19 on April 29.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “As soon as a place reports three positive cases, our officials declare the identified area as a containment zone,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said during his daily media briefing on Wednesday.An area has to be declared a containment zone if three or more Covid-19 cases are reported from there, according to the Delhi government’s rules.Rahul Singh, South West’s district magistrate, had put himself in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Seventeen others, who were in close contact with the first official who tested positive, were kept under observation at the Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurvedic Hospital, which is a dedicated Covid-19 health centre.Delhi now has 96 containment zones after one more residential complex in east Delhi’s Patparganj area was taken out of the list on Friday evening. The three localities were “de-contained” on Friday, the day revised guidelines for the third phase of national lockdown were issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, which also notified strict protocol for containment zones.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The number of containment zones in Delhi had reached 100 a couple of days ago before the de-containment of a few areas again brought it under the 100-mark.There were 223 new cases of Covid-19 in the national capital on Friday including two deaths. It has taken Delhi’s tally to 3738 and toll to 61, a health bulletin issued by the Delhi health department said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-update-41-people-from-one-building-in-delhi-s-kapashera-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-6uXn30xR3c67tf2iBrYeMN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||5 Covid patients recover in Himachal, bringing down active cases to 2||Himachal Pradesh is hopeful of becoming a Covid-19 free state with five patients recovering in two days bringing down the number of active cases to five.Two patients are from Hamirpur district, two from Una and one from Chamba. Among the Hamirpur patients who recovered on Friday, one is a migrant woman labourer from Uttar Pradesh, who lives in Hamirpur along with her family, while the other is a youngster from Nadaun, where he works as a principal of a private school.Three, who recovered on Saturday, are all Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts. Two are from Una and One from Chamba.“Five patients have recovered in the state in two days as they twice testing negative for Covid-19. They will remain under observation in an institutional quarantine facility for two weeks,” said additional chief secretary, health, RD Dhiman.The health authorities are, however, not clear how the two Hamirpur patients contracted the infection as the source remains a mystery. They were detected with coronavirus during a random sampling at a flu clinic at the Hamirpur medical college on April 17.The woman had returned from her native place in UP on March 3, but she tested positive a month and a half later. The Nadaun patient has no travel history. The health department screened 270 of their contacts, including 97 primary contacts of the two, but none of them tested positive.Failing to trace the source of infection, the health authorities have referred these cases to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) after getting their anti-body profiling done.With the recovery of the five patients, the number of active cases in the state has come down to two.As many as 19 patients have recovered in two weeks.So far, 15 patients have recovered in Una, five in Solan, six in Chamba, four in Kangra, two in Hamirpur and one in Sirmaur.A total of 40 Covid-19 cases, including a fatality, have been reported in the state.Four patients from Solan have shifted out of the state for treatment.Una was the worst-hit district with 16 cases, followed by Solan with nine cases. Six cases were reported from Chamba, five from Kangra and two each from Hamirpur and Sirmaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-covid-patients-from-hamirpur-recover-bringing-down-active-cases-to-five-in-himachal/story-QTioOlKVgR6JYIVQbl668N.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cop tries stopping car amid lockdown, dragged along on bonnet||A 20-year-old man, who allegedly tried to run over an assistant sub-inspector, was arrested on charges of attempt to murder on Saturday. The youngster’s father, too, has been booked on the same charges for allowing his son to violate curfew.The accused, Anmol Mehmi of Nakodar Chowk, reportedly attempted to run over assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mulkh Raj when the cop signalled him to stop his Eritga at a checkpoint near Milkbar Chowk near Model Town around 8:30am. The incident comes two days after sub-inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off by a group of Nihangs when he tried to stop them, was released from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.  #WATCH Punjab: A car driver drags a police officer on car's bonnet in Jalandhar, after the officer tried to stop the vehicle today, amid #COVID19 lockdown. pic.twitter.com/IZUuTHapsKINCIDENT CAPTURED ON VIDEOA video of the incident shows the ASI hanging on to the car’s bonnet. Mehmi stopped the vehicle a few metres away, after which the cops pulled him out and beat him up. The video has been widely circulated on social media.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Parminder Singh Bhandal said Mehmi’s father, Parminder Kumar, has also been booked for allowing him to drive amid curfew without a pass and putting other people’s lives in danger.The duo have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. Kumar is yet to be arrested. DGP WARNS AGAINST PULLING SIMILAR STUNTSPunjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta also tweeted about the incident. He said both father and son had been booked and the Punjab Police has ‘zero tolerance policy’ against such acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-arrested-for-trying-to-run-over-asi-father-also-booked-on-attempt-to-murder-charges/story-KMzng2DckRPPzaZ9VYtHcM.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||20 people test positive for Covid-19 in Nanded gurdwara||Twenty people tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease at the Langar Sahib gurdwara in Nanded on Saturday.Confirming the development, Nanded superintendent of police Vijay Kumar told Hindustan Times that 97 samples had been collected, of which 20 karsewaks (volunteers) had tested positive for the disease, while 25 tested negative. The results of 41 samples are awaited.Nanded civil surgeon Dr Neelkanth Bhosikar said the 20 persons who had tested positive on Saturday were residents of Maharastra.When asked whether they had taken swab samples of pilgrims from Punjab who stayed at Hazoor Sahib and Langar Sahib gurdwaras Dr Bhosikar said they had conducted a checkup but had not taken swab samples of the pilgrims.The Takht Hazur Sahib Sachkhand Gurdwara and Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Nanded in Maharashtra were sealed on Friday after a batch of pilgrims who left from there to Punjab were found infected. In Punjab, around 296 pilgrims, who were brought back from Shri Hazur Sahib in Nanded (Maharashtra) over the last few days, have tested positive of viral infection so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-nanded-gurdwara/story-GWTaD2Zs91H9JoljwGYeSO.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||122 CRPF troopers of Delhi battalion test Covid-19 +ve, over 100 results awaited||More than 100 troopers in a Delhi-based battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, news agency PTI reported on Saturday citing an official.These 122 personnel belong to the 31st battalion of the country’s largest paramilitary, which has more than 1000 troopers, and are based in Mayur Vihar Phase-III area of the national capital. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereTwelve troopers had tested positive on Friday and a 55-year-old sub-inspector of the unit had succumbed to the disease early this week.“A total of 122 troopers of this battalion have tested positive for the virus. Results for over 100 more are awaited,” a senior official said, according to PTI.The official cited above by the news agency said that most of these infected troopers are asymptomatic.The personnel have been admitted to an isolation facility of the Delhi government at Mandoli even as Mayur Vihar Phase-III has been entirely sealed after the huge numbers of the Covid-19 infection was reported over the last few days.These number of infections in a single battalion in the force has come amid reports of “dichotomous” orders issued to check the spread of Covid-19.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageA mandatory quarantine of 14 days for personnel joining back the unit from leave or having suspected exposure to a coronavirus-infected person had been ordered.CRPF officers, according to PTI, said it recently came to light that the medical wing of the paramilitary force had issued a separate order in April. The order had said that doctors and paramedical staff can be taken off the quarantine if they do not show any symptom after five days.Officials have indicated that the primary source of the Covid-19 infection in this unit could be a constable, a nursing assistant, who joined this battalion after finishing his leave period at his home in the national capital region (NCR).This trooper is posted in another CRPF battalion deployed in Kupwara of Jammu-Kashmir and it is not clear as to how he contracted the infection. His family members had also tested negative for the respiratory disease. Officials, according to PTI, have said that it could be possible that some other asymptomatic personnel from the 31st battalion was the primary source of infection for the unit.Also read: 130 districts identified as Covid-19 hotspots home to nearly 400 millionThe force is investigating all angles apart from an instance where it was claimed that the nursing attendant was not kept under strict quarantine in the battalion camp leading to the spread of the infection.In April, CRPF’s director general AP Maheshwari had gone into self-quarantine as a precautionary measure after the force’s chief medical officer (CMO) tested positive for Covid-19. Maheshwari didn’t directly come in contact with the CMO but another personnel who was with the doctor had met the top officer of the force.Explained: India’s lockdown 3.0 in one chart for red, orange and green zonesCases of the coronavirus disease have been reported in the Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) as well. Some of them have been cured too.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/122-crpf-troopers-test-covid-19-ve-in-a-delhi-battalion-over-100-results-awaited/story-i0RfyXXzet1xoPiKOD5KKN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||12 lakh Himachal residents benefited from home delivery services during lockdown||The 1,706 vendors enrolled by state government to provide home delivery services across the state during the lockdown imposed to contain Covid-19 benefitted 12,82,334 residents.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government was ensuring that essential items were provided on people’s doorsteps so as to restrict their movement during lockdown.REGULAR DELIVERY OF MEDICINES ENSUREDIn order to ensure regular supply of medicines during the lockdown period, 575 vendors have been authorised for home delivery in the state. The vendors include 20 vendors in Bilaspur, nine in Chamba, 32 in Hamirpur, 44 in Kangra, 19 in Kullu, one in Lahaul-Spiti, 93 in Mandi, 125 in Shimla, 165 in Sirmaur, 40 in Solan and 23 in Una district.As many as 1,507 people in Bilaspur, 550 in Chamba, 1,472 in Hamirpur, 14,542 in Kangra, 23 in Kinnaur, 387 in Kullu, 73 in Lahaul-Spiti, 2,267 in Mandi, 7,111 in Shimla, 1,936 in Sirmaur, 14,101 in Solan and 404 in Una have benefited from home delivery of medicines.610 VENDORS PROVIDED GROCERIES The CM said the state required in every household and 610 vendors have been enrolled to maintain supply of grocery items in all parts of the state which has benefited 1,61,955 people . Similarly, 526 vendors have been enrolled for home delivery of fruits and vegetables, which has benefitted 10,75,572 people. Besides, 130 people availed home delivery of cooked food.The CM also assured everyone that there was enough stock of food, medicines and other essential commodities in the state and nobody should worry as uninterrupted and continuous supply chain of all commodities was being ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-lakh-himachal-residents-benefited-from-home-delivery-services-during-lockdown/story-ol2Ok8FqKTADTJVdro4c1N.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Mother, son killed in lightning in Gorakhpur||A 50-year-old woman and her son were charred to death on Friday when lightning struck them in Hata of Kushinagar district.The deceased were identified as Aarti and her son Krishna. The bodies had been sent for autopsy.SDM Promod Tiwari and MLA Pawan Kedia rushed to the site with police personnel.Aarti and her 13-year-old son, belonging to nomadic Nat community, were living on roadside in a plastic tent when lighting fell on it, leaving them dead.Police said that Kanhaiyya, the family head luckily escaped as he was out in the field.BJP MLA Pawan Kedia said, “The deceased were not permanent residents of this region and did not possess any Aadhar cards. I will ensure that monetary assistance is given to family of deceased by opening their bank account.”Meanwhile, a dense fog enveloped Gorakhpur on Thursday night. The foggy condition lasted for almost three hours.The visibility reduced to 500 meters due to the dense fog. Some residents also confused it with fogging or chemical spraying by local authorities to disinfect the locality. Some people also complained about itching in their eyes during the period.When approached, Govind Pandey, professor department of environment science at Madan Mohan University of Technology (MMMUT) said “It is attributed to risen humidity caused by sunshine after rainfall on Thursday. Also, burning of some agri-waste added to smoke. The moisture in air and smoke led to smog like scene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mother-son-killed-in-lightning-in-gorakhpur/story-Uzk1hJPDZxz5j3ondUCfXI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress leaders demand roll back of fresh taxes, bus fare hike||Slamming the BJP-JJP government in Haryana for the hike in the prices of diesel, petrol, bus fares and imposition of market fee and HRDF on fruits and vegetables, the opposition Congress on Friday demanded revocation of ‘anti-people’ decisions.Addressing a joint press conference, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja and AICC communication in-charge Randeep Surjewala said that the people of the state were expecting relief from the state government but ironically have been burdened in times of economic uncertainty.“When the state governments across the country are trying provide relief and financial help to people with good policies and public-friendly decisions, the Haryana government has imposed huge taxes to earn more revenue during the Covid-19 epidemic. The state government should stop levying this ‘jaziya tax’ on people of state,” the Congress leaders said.Criticising the state government, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said during the all-party meeting on Thursday he had suggested that government provide immediate relief to people in form of payment of electricity bills, loan payments, rent and taxes. “The state should take loans to provide relief to those caught in distress. However, I am surprised that not only has the government overlooked the suggestions made by the opposition, the government has increased taxes,’’ Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-congress-demands-roll-back-of-fresh-taxes-bus-fare-hike/story-UPQINS12uvTnzd6poeZxGO.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||CDRI, IITR and BSIP to begin corona testing from today: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said microbiologists and other manpower have been made available to Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) and Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP) and testing for Covid-19 samples would begin there from Saturday.Giving their consent to carry out Covid-19 testing, the premier research institutes had recently requested the government for microbiologists and other manpower for the job.Reviewing the lockdown situation at a meeting here on Friday, Yogi also gave directives for pool testing and said world-class quality test kits for coronavirus should be considered to expedite testing work in the state.The chief minister directed sending of additional administrative officers and dedicated medical teams to Agra and Kanpur Nagar and said protecting medical teams from infection was a must to defeat the virus. He said police was working in the forefront in the battle against coronavirus and arrangements for their training should be made to protect them. He said PPE kits and N-95 masks etc should also be given to them for protection. He said master trainers should be appointed to carry out training work and added that patients should be admitted to L-1, L-2 and L-3 Covid hospitals after making an assessment of their condition.Yogi said emergency health services should be started in all districts and list of government and private doctors for consultation should be published in newspapers. He said masks and gloves should be provided to UPSRTC drivers bringing migrant labourers back to UP. He said the state government was committed to bringing back migrant labourers/workers and steps have been taken for their return to the state in a phased manner.The chie minister said about 4 lakh migrant labourers/workers have returned from Delhi while 12,000 have been brought back from Haryana. He said the state government would ensure that migrants from other states, too, returned safely. He said steps should be taken to bring back migrant labourers/workers from one state at a time and name and contact numbers of all those returning must be recorded. He said all those returning should be tested and mandatorily be put in quarantine. He said adequate arrangements for quarantine centres and community kitchens should be made for the labourers.Yogi said Uttar Pradesh’s border with other states should remain sealed and no entry should be allowed from there. He said the chief minister’s help line should connect with village pradhans and corporators to ensure that no one returned without giving proper information as such people may be possible corona carriers.He said digital banking should be promoted to avoid crowding in banks and added that RuPay card should be encouraged for digital transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cdri-iitr-and-bsip-to-begin-corona-testing-from-today-yogi/story-kjr7ggp1PTl1dRGMDxTMyN.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Area of containment zones may be reduced for industrial activity in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government is planning to redefine the area of containment zones, from the existing 3 km to a lesser area, to enable industries in such zones also to start operation whenever permissible, said Navneet Sehgal, principal secretary, MSME, on Friday.“This move will help industries in containment zones in Noida, Greater Noida and rest of the state to start functioning,” said Sehgal while speaking to industrialists during a webinar organised by PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.At present, in any area designated as hotspot due to a large number of Covid-19 cases, no activity is allowed in a radius of 3 km, which is also defined as containment zone.Informing about the portal ‘msmesathi’, Sehgal said: “It will be launched in the next two days. Here industrialists can report all issues which will be addressed.”Also present at the event, MSME minister Siddharth Nath Singh assured the industrialist all help from the state government.“New guidelines are likely come from the centre for industries to help restart production,” said Singh.He also stressed on retaining the existing workforce or else it would be difficult for industries to find replacements.Industrialist DK Agarwal suggested actual charges for electricity and water consumption in industries instead of fixed charges for the next six months. Industrialist Lalit Khaitan suggested resumption of production in liquor units as they contribute most to the state exchequer.Businessman Mahesh Gupta stressed on reopening of service sector to enable sale of manufactured goods.“Sale of goods is equally important. If we manufacture goods and there is no sale then there is no point in starting industrial activity,” said Gupta.Businessman Gaurav Prakash took up the issue of converting lease land into free hold plots in industrial areas across the state. ED Park, a representative from South Korea, suggested that the state government must set up a dedicated UP Chapter (or help desk) in Noida to help South Korean companies, who want to relocate from China, set up units in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/area-of-containment-zones-may-be-reduced-for-industrial-activity-in-up/story-wrF7rsyyn2Apogc6bMOgyH.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi will never have a flâneur like RV Smith, friends remember the man of the world||Before heritage walks became a trend, before the term street food was coined, before it became fashionable to be a flâneur, there was an unassuming man who redefined the way one looked at their city. RV Smith to the world, and Ronny to his friends, he died in the early hours of April 30. He was 83. Those close to him say that he was hospitalised for two days and had been ailing for some time. RV Smith, the chronicler of our great city Delhi passed away this morning. His work kept alive the stories and memories of our city. It's a huge loss especially for Delhiites. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. RIP Author, chronicler, food connoisseur, qissago (storyteller), Smith donned many hats in his lifetime, each with perfection. He had a small circle of friends whom he hosted with the generosity of someone who can be called a man of the world. His life was as colourful as the stories he culled out from the gulleys and koochas of the Capital city. It wouldn’t be entirely wrong, then, to call him the King of Queens. His friends recall their memories with him, and how he would win hearts in just one fleeting moment.Author Rakshanda Jalil, says, “He was very fond of food. He could recall flavours, tastes and textures. He remembered in minute detail the gulleys and mohallas of Delhi, and that set him apart. Always an anecdote, a qissa on his fingertips that he would recall from memory. He was, in true sense, a flâneur. He discovered the city by walking around; his feet have discovered Delhi. He was not very tech savvy and continued writing on his typewriter. He would have to go to an internet café to open an email.”  He loved the company of kind, beautiful women, especially when they happened to be writers... writer Sadia Dehlvi and writer Rakhshanda Jalil with Delhi chronicler RV Smith, who died this morning... captured this memory a couple of seasons ago... somewhere in Delhi #memoryA post shared by  Mayank Austen Soofi (@thedelhiwalla) on Apr 29, 2020 at 10:28pm PDTAuthor Sadia Dehlvi, says, “He was a very simple, hardworking, humble person. I have known him since I was 18 years old and had just started writing. Even Khushwant (Singh) would say that he is the best chronicler of Delhi. He was there and it was comforting to know that he was there. I would check my facts with him when writing on Delhi. He would host a Christmas lunch every year which would always have biryani and qorma. Ronny would write hand-written articles and wasn’t into marketing. He lived in his own world; he didn’t belong to this world. His stories were legendary and he was very popular with women before he got married.”Author Rana Safvi, says, “Delhi is bereaved because it has lost its chronicler and beloved son. Whenever I wanted to find something very uncommon and unknown about Delhi, I would turn to his works. There is a Bheem ka Patthar in Mehrauli about which there is no mention in history books and which probably no one has ever seen. It remains largely a part of folklore, but when I wanted to write about it, I referred to his work. Things you could not find anywhere were available in his books. He has chronicled things which no one else could reach. We look at a place from the point of view of history, but he saw it through the lens of folk tales and qisse-kahaaniya.”   Remains of a Writer... what will happen to the lovely Underwood typewriter of Delhi chronicler RV Smith who died this morning... he wrote on it every day... it was given to him by his father... saw this precious scene of him at work... somewhere in Delhi #writerA post shared by  Mayank Austen Soofi (@thedelhiwalla) on Apr 30, 2020 at 12:22am PDTPublisher Priya Kapoor of Roli Books, says, “He was very old world. We never met during the whole process of publishing the book because he had sent us the submission in hard copy. He would correspond over hard copies, landline phone calls or postcards. The last postcard I received from him was over a year and a half ago.”Interact with Etti Bali at @TheBalinianFollow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-will-never-have-a-flaneur-like-rv-smith-friends-remember-the-man-of-the-world/story-mtONsQZVFXxqnsZoQYxSaM.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt to send fleet of buses to evacuate 1,000 students stranded in Chandigarh||The Himachal Pradesh government will send a fleet of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses to evacuate around 1,000 students stranded in Chandigarh amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In a notification issued late night on Friday, the government said the Himachal government has pressed sanitised HRTC buses into service in order to evacuate students and those without a means of transport stranded in Chandigarh and adjoining areas. The buses will ply from Sector 28D.STRANDED PEOPLE MUST REGISTER THEMSELVES ONLINEThe Himachal Pradesh government has launched an online portal for people stranded outside the state who do not have a conveyance. The data will be used to devise a comprehensive plan to ensure interstate movement of stranded students. Those stranded people can register themselves on covid19epass.hp.govt.in.Of the stranded students 184 are from Kangra, 50 from Chamba, 41 from Una, 88 from Hamirpur, 58 from Bilaspur, 184 from Mandi, 36 from Kullu, 128 from Shimla, 36 from Solan, 22 from Sirmaur and 13 are from Kinnaur.The government has also launched a special campaign to medically examine people entering Himachal Pradesh from other states. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the campaign will be launched on analogy of the active case finding campaign launched to ascertain the health status of people residing in both rural and urban areas.The chief minister directed all officers to ensure strict compliance of guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs and to make arrangements to bring people back Himachal Pradesh residents stranded in other states. The CM said the state government had appointed an adequate number of supporting officers with the nodal authority to coordinate movement of the migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons both within and outside the state.He urged representatives of panchayats and urban local bodies to keep an eye on people who had returned from other states and persuade them to strictly follow home quarantine norms. He said Himachal Pradesh was in a comfortable position till now and it must be ensured that this situation is maintained.RESTART ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN GREEN ZONES: THAKUR Jai Ram Thakur said that efforts should be made to start economic activities particularly in the green zones. He said that special thrust must be laid on providing smooth movement of essential commodities and farming equipment.He said people should also wear face masks and face covers as this could check spread coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-to-send-fleet-of-buses-to-evacuate-1-000-students-stranded-in-chandigarh/story-GmJHSiAL0I4tMvkIzQNsMI.html
02-05-2020||Ranchi||Migrant workers reach Jharkhand’s Ranchi on special train; welcomed with roses, food packets||The first batch of migrant workers, who arrived in Jharkhand’s Ranchi from Lingampalli in Telangana on board the special train around midnight on Friday, were greeted with roses and packets of food before being sent for their forward journey to their home districts.Ch Rakesh, South Central Railway’s chief spokesperson, had said a “one-off special train” was run on the request of the Telangana government. Later on Friday, the Union home ministry allowed interstate movement of labourers, students, pilgrims and others stuck across the country by special trains, widening the scope of a previous order that said such transportation can happen only by buses.The Indian Railways said it decided to run ‘Shramik Special’ trains to move stranded migrants following demands of the state governments to run special trains. The railways said the Shramik Special trains were meant for “nominated people” identified by state governments.The other special trains to run on Friday were from Aluva in Kerala to Bhubaneswar, Nasik to Lucknow, Nasik to Bhopal, Jaipur to Patna and Kota to Hatia. These trains were scheduled to run non-stop and cover the distance to the destinations in 12 to 24 hours.The special train from Telangana reached at Hatia railway station, a satellite station of Jharkhand capital of Ranchi, where all arrangements for their arrival and departure for the forward journey in buses were made. “Arrangement of roses and food packets was done so that they can feel at ease. It was placed at the temporary kiosks at the station for the administration and health workers who handed it over to the workers besides conducting their thermal scanning,” a Ranchi district official said. Most of the 1200 stranded workers who arrived belong to Palamu and Garhwa districts, around 200 kilometres northwest of the state capital. These workers boarded the buses outside Hatia station after registering their details with the waiting administration officials. The data has been shared with the respective district administration who would transport these workers to their natives and do the needful of their medical examination and putting them quarantine, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/migrant-workers-reach-jharkhand-s-ranchi-on-special-train-welcomed-with-roses-food-packets/story-ieaj3923VsVkVj1o4zkbbM.html
02-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan has 2,678 Covid-19 cases, 65 fatalities||Rajasthan’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covi-19) climbed to 2678 after 12 new cases were reported from across the state on Saturday morning, ANI reported citing officials of the health department.Three people have also died in the desert state, taking the number of fatalities to 65. According to the health department, 1,116 people have recovered while 714 have been discharged to date.Jaipur had five of the 12 new Covid-19 cases, Jodhpur and Dholpur have two each, Ajmer, Chittorgarh and Kota and one each. There were two deaths in the state capital and one in Jodhpur.The numbers came a day after Union health ministry data showed there were fewer districts in the red zone in Rajasthan. Rajasthan has eight districts in the red zone, 19 in orange and six in the green zone. On April 15, the Union health ministry designated districts as hotspots/red-zones, orange zones and green zones based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. In the current list, districts have now been designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts.A district will be considered under the green zone if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district.According to the latest classification, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Bharatpur, Nagaur, Banswara and Jhalawar are in the red zone. Tonk, Jaisalmer, Dausa, Jhunjhunu, Hanumangarh, Bhilwara, Sawai Madhopur, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Udaipur, Dholpur, Sikar, Alwar, Bikaner, Churu, Pali, Barmer, Karauli and Rajsamand are in the orange zone; and Baran, Bundi, Ganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi and Pratapgarh, in the green zone.With 2293 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s tally now stands at 37,336, according to the health ministry data on Saturday morning.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am, India has 26167 active cases and 1218 deaths related to Covid-19. There are 9950 people who have been cured or discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-has-2-678-covid-19-cases-65-fatalities/story-6oBjTqnmDhjKDpXFS9aBAN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kharar woman tests positive, taking Mohali district’s Covid-19 count to 93||A 27-year-old woman from Desumajra in Kharar tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali district on Saturday, taking the district count to 93.The woman stays with her husband on rent in Desumajra village. Hailing from Himachal Pradesh, she had returned to Kharar on March 1 and was looking for job. Her husband is working in a factory in Mohali. “She had not been keeping well and thus had visited the Kharar civil hospital. Her samples were collected at the flu corner set up in the hospital as she was displaying flu-like symptoms,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. Eleven of her immediate contacts, including her husband and neighbours, as well as people at two shops she had visited have been traced. As many as 95 houses in the locality have been screened, but so far no one is showing symptoms, said Dr Singh.Samples of four people have been sent for testing. The area has been sealed and the woman’s husband had been quarantined at home, while the woman was shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Of the total 93 Covid-19 cases reported from the district, 57 are active. While 34 have been cured, including four discharged on Saturday, two have died. Nineteen of the active cases are pilgrims who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, while 46 belong to Jawaharpur village, a hotspot in Dera Bassi town of the district.Dr Singh said 766 people are currently under quarantine while 2,488 have completed it.Gurdaspur man undergoing treatment in Mohali also tests positiveMeanwhile, a 67-year-old man from Qadian, Gurdaspur, under treatment in a private hospital in Mohali has also tested positive.The health authorities after reporting two positive cases from Mohali on Saturday clarified that the 67-year-old man belongs to Gurdaspur district. The patient’s son who is taking care of him is living at SBI Officers Colony in Phase 10, Mohali. He came to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, from Gurdaspur on April 24 before moving to a private hospital in Mohali.The Mohali health department has done contact tracing, sampling and the police have cordoned off the area. Samples of five immediate contacts were taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-take-district-count-to-96/story-6YU3TTxLpwWiWLszerCo1L.html
02-05-2020||Patna||Bihar braces for massive influx of migrants; CM Nitish Kumar asks officials to pull up their socks||A massive influx of migrant workers is expected in Bihar in the near future and arrangements must be in place for their mandatory 21-day quarantine, medical tests, treatment and economic rehabilitation, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said.At a marathon meeting here on Friday which lasted for close to six hours, Kumar asked officials to pull up their socks as the migrants, students and pilgrims, said to be in millions, seem poised to return home in droves on board special trains run by the Centre.Besides other modes of transport may be arranged upon mutual agreement between the states concerned to facilitate their return, he said.“We must ensure that the quarantine centres have excellent food, shelter, sanitation and medical facilities.The isolation centres must be in place at block and panchayat levels.“If needed, we shall set up more centres as the number of people returning could be huge,” Kumar said at the meeting.Click here for Covid-19 updatesThe meeting was attended, among others, by his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar and Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey.District Magistrates and Superintendents of Police across the state were also connected through video conference.“There must be adequate number of vehicles in place for ferrying people from railway stations to quarantine facilities close to their homes. There should be awareness drives in villages, with messages blared on loudspeakers about precautions needed in the current situation,” the chief minister said.The incidence of coronavirus outbreak in the state was low, initially, but there has been a spike of late, partly because of people coming from outside Bihar, carrying the infection, he said. Bihar has reported 466 Covid-19 cases till Friday.“Now, we must brace ourselves for the situation that may arise out of a large influx that is expected in the wake of the Centre’s revised guidelines with regard to the lockdown,” he said.The chief minister also said, “We must now have many more testing centres. If required, these should be available at the district level. Accordingly, testing kits too must be arranged and adequate supply of medicines should be ensured.” At present, testing of samples is being conducted at only six places the RMRI, an ICMR centre here, AIIMS, Patna, besides state-run hospitals PMCH and IGIMS, both situated in the capital city, in addition to SKMCH at Muzaffarpur and DMCH at Darbhanga.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe seventh testing facility at Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Bhagalpur is scheduled to become functional from Sunday.Kumar also took note of the economic distress that awaited the migrant workers who eked out a living in far-off places and are returning home as stalled economic activity following the nationwide lockdown has rendered them jobless.“Many projects underway in Bihar happen to be labour- intensive. Once the dust settles down, a survey should be conducted to assess the skills these migrant labourers might have and they should be absorbed in the workforce accordingly,” he said.He also expressed distress over the social media being replete with “fake news” and malicious content that tended to stigmatise individuals and communities.The chief minister ordered officials to keep a close watch and take stern action against those found to be involved in “vitiating the atmosphere”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-braces-for-massive-influx-of-migrants-nitish-asks-officials-to-pull-up-their-socks/story-mcu0GL6w53yF0LjASQOTvK.html
02-05-2020||Kolkata||8-year-old boy, nurse test positive for Covid-19 in Kolkata hospital, 11 medical staff down with fever||An eight-year-old boy, admitted to the Institute of Child Health (ICH) here with respiratory distress, and a nurse at the facility have tested positive for Covid-19, sources at the hospital said on Friday.At least 10 more nurses at the hospital’s neo-natal unit and a ward boy are currently down with fever, the sources said. It is not known whether they are also infected with the coronavirus as their samples have not been collected yet.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe boy, a resident of Karaya Road, was rushed to the hospital on Thursday morning after he complained of uneasiness and breathing problems. His samples were sent for examination shortly thereafter.His father, when contacted by PTI, said the boy had been suffering from breathing problems since birth and had no recent travel history.“Ours is a small family of four and no one is ill. It’s surprising and shocking that my son got infected,” the father, a bank employee, said.A senior official at the ICH said the boy’s parents were told to take him to MR Bangur hospital on Friday morning after he tested positive for the disease. His nose and throat swabs were sent to the Tata Medical Centre in Rajarhat for examination.Click here for Covid-19 updatesThe 34-year-old nurse, who was also found to have contracted the disease, is a resident of Jibantala in South 24 Parganas, ICH sources said.The mother of a six-year-old has been working at the neo-natal unit of the ICH.All 10 nurses, who are down with fever, are her colleagues at the unit, sources said.A nurse at the facility, speaking on the condition of anonymity, complained that medical workers, who chose to stay back at the hospital amid the lockdown, were living in cramped quarters without proper protection.“At least 26 of us are putting up in a cramped room at the hospital. We have not been given any mask or protective gear. We don’t know what’s in store for us. We are quite scared,” she said.Nobody from the hospital administration was immediately available for comments.Over 35 health workers, including doctors at the Sagar Dutta Medical College and Hospital, have been placed under quarantine after two of their colleagues tested positive for the disease, health department officials said. Meanwhile, Alipurduar district reported its first Covid-19 case on Friday, as four people tested positive.According to the district’s Chief Medical Officer Puran Sharma, all the four patients had recently returned from Delhi, where they had gone for treatment.Upon their return, they were sent to quarantine centres and their samples tested. “We got the reports today and all four were confirmed to be positive. We have placed them and their family members under quarantine,” the CMO said.A woman in South 24 Parganas Canning also tested positive and was sent to M R Bangur Hospital in Kolkata for treatment. Her husband and children have been sent to a quarantine centre, a district health official said.Earlier in the day, the West Bengal government wrote to the Centre, emphasising that there are four red zones in the state and not 10, as mentioned in the list presented during a video conference of the cabinet secretary with representatives of states.Till Friday evening, the state reported a total of 744 Covid-19 cases, out of which 572 are active.At least 105 patients diagnosed with Covid-19 have died in West Bengal -- 33 due to the disease and the rest because of comorbidities, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/8-year-old-boy-nurse-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kolkata-hospital-11-medical-staff-down-with-fever/story-eGpqwFD9GWuyBwdPLfB0yM.html
02-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 lockdown: Around 1400 migrants sent from Karnataka’s Hubli via buses to neighbouring districts||Around 1400 migrant workers from neighbouring districts, working at brick manufacturing factories in Hubli were sent to their respective districts on buses, amid coronavirus lockdown on Friday. Dr Purushottam, Nodal Officer, Covid-19 task force said, “Total 1473 labourers from eight neighbouring districts, working in the brick manufacturing units of our district were sent by 74 buses. 876 labourers are from Kalburgi where we are sending 44 buses, 350 labourers are from Vijaypura where we are sending 27 buses.”Follow latest updates on coronavirus here He continued saying that 20 persons will be accommodated in a bus while maintaining social distancing. “Before the labourers boarded, the buses were disinfected. NWKRTC officials took a special interest in doing so. The District Collector has written letters to the concerned DCs regarding shifting of labourers in every bus, one Nodal Officer will handover them to the local officials,” Dr Purushottam added. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On Friday, the buses were sent to seven districts and one bus will be sent today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-lockdown-around-1400-migrants-sent-from-karnataka-s-hubli-via-buses-to-neighbouring-districts/story-KkzxahwuKI2A4m1zARQkSN.html
02-05-2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 lockdown: Jharkhand students stuck in Kota set to return home||The Jharkhand government is facilitating the return of students stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota -- the coaching hub for engineering and medical aspirants -- following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19.“Resident Commissioner, Jharkhand, M R Meena, is on his way to Kota to facilitate the return of the stranded students,” an official release here said.Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said two special trains carrying students of Jharkhand will be flagged off from Kota tonight.“On behalf of the people of Jharkhand, I thank the central government and the Rajasthan chief minister for this support,” Soren tweeted.His Rajasthan counterpart, Ashok Gehlot, also expressed happiness over the development.“I am happy that students from Jharkhand are leaving by train from #Kota, #Rajasthan to Jharkhand and they would soon reunite with their families. My best wishes to all the students,” Gehlot said in a tweet. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday had said that stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students would be allowed to move with conditions during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/covid-19-lockdown-jharkhand-students-stuck-in-kota-set-to-return-home/story-i2a9zrQSxZJP7K4juKvwdP.html
02-05-2020||Kolkata||2300 students stranded in Kota amid lockdown return home to Bengal’s Siliguri||Hundreds of students studying in Rajasthan’s Kota returned to Siliguri on Friday via buses. A total of 2300 students arrived in Asansol, Kolkata and Siliguri in West Bengal via 84 buses .The students were stranded in Kota amid the lockdown and the guardians had appealed to the West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take steps to bring back those students.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Speaking to ANI, Pallavi Roy, an engineering student said, “I am very happy to be back in my hometown. In Kota, Covid-19 cases are surging so several States were taking initiatives to bring back the stranded people.”“We were thinking that why our government is not taking any initiative. So we were requesting our State government to take some steps. I am grateful to Rajasthan and West Bengal Governments,” she added.Eagerly waiting for her daughter to arrive here, Ravi Kant Tiwari said that his family was worried about their daughter who was stranded in Kota amid Covid-19 crisis. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySpeaking to ANI, Goutam Deb, State Tourism Minister said, “Mamata Banerjee has taken all initiatives to bring back the stranded students from Kota. She contacted the Rajasthan chief minister. Total 2300 students via 84 buses have come back to West Bengal from Kota.” The move comes after, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday granted the permission for movement of the stranded people, including migrants labourers, workers, students, tourists, and provided the procedure for the same.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Meanwhile, the lockdown, which was scheduled to end on May 3, has been extended by another two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-2300-students-stranded-in-kota-amid-lockdown-return-home-to-bengal-s-siliguri/story-YrzxKHUAM7KdDDxGaNUmvI.html
02-05-2020||City||Day after biggest single day spike, Ludhiana sees 22 fresh cases||A day after registering the biggest single-day spike with 48 cases, Ludhiana detected 22 fresh cases on Friday. With this, the district’s tally has risen to 99. Sharing the information at 11.30pm, information officer Prabhdeep Singh stated that 22 fresh cases were reported from the city even as an evening bulletin mentioned no new cases. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that people should take the lockdown seriously and the sudden spurt in Covid-19 was a matter of concern.17 INMATES QUARANTINED As many as 17 elderly inmates, who came in contact with an inmate in the women’s jail who tested positive on Thursday, were today rushed civil hospital, said DC Agrawal.Besides, five personnel of the jail staff have been sent into home quarantine.Due to the heavy rush of people visiting the hospital for sampling, the swab samples of the inmates could not be collected. 20-DAY-OLD GIRL RUSHED TO HOSPITAL Seven members of a family, including a 20-day-old girl child were rushed to the hospital in an ambulance on Friday night. The group that consisted of five-year-old boy, her patents, grandparents and a paternal aunt was rushed to the hospital after the newborn’s father developed Covid-19 like symptoms. He had been working at an automobile store in Jalandhar.DC URGES RESIDENTS TO STAY INDOORSAgrawal has appealed to Ludhiana residents to stay indoors to win the battle against Covid-19.He said there is a need to break the chain and that can be done only if residents follow the government’s instructions. Thanking residents for their support so far, he said if any person feels that he or she is developing symptoms of Covid-19, they should visit their nearest health centre for checkup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-biggest-single-day-spike-ludhiana-sees-22-fresh-cases/story-o5oK2LXHq13Ap87y6OYP9O.html
02-05-2020||City||Venture out only if absolutely necessary, Ludhiana police chief to residents||Two days after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh announced a four-hour curfew relaxation in the state, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal took to Facebook to clear residents’ doubts. In a Facebook live session, Agrawal asked residents to stay indoors and venture out only if absolutely necessary. Stating that the government has announced a relaxation from 7am to 11am, Agrawal said, “But that doesn’t mean people should venture out everyday. The relaxation is only for buying essential items from nearby shops.”He also asked shopkeepers to take the responsibility of ensuring social distancing between customers. In case of violations, the shop would be sealed, he warned. Police have seized two shops so far for violations. He also advised residents to opt for home delivery of groceries and other necessary items.He also informed that the Ludhiana police have marked four containment zones in the city.ON SHOPSOn residents’ queries about opening of shops, the police commissioner said that only standalone shops will be permitted to open. Village shops can also open but they should follow all guidelines issued by the government. ON ELECTRICAL REPAIRSThe police chief also added that those involved in the repair of water purifiers, ACs and other electronic gadgets can do so after availing their e-pass. Replying to a query on opening of barber shops, the police chief replied that such shops cannot be allowed to function as social distancing goes for a toss at such places.The police chief also added that they have received many inquiries from labourers who wanted to return to their native places. Such people can reach out to authorities through COVA app and fill in their details, such as district where they are based, and the government would arrange for their transportation. ON INDUSTRIAL UNITS STARTING WORKA Facebook user Dalbir Singh asked question on functioning of the dying industry. The police chief said that both essential and non-essential industries can start functioning but on the condition that they follow the guidelines issued by the government and ensure proper physical distancing between labourers, arrange accommodation for them on factory premises or provide proper transport facility. The industry also has to arrange proper medical facility for the labourers. The factory owners can apply for passes for labourers through the industry department.VOLUNTEERS ON CURFEW DUTYAnother Facebook user complained about “misbehaviour” by volunteers. In the reply, the police chief said that the department is taking stern action against volunteers found guilty. He also said that the department is also taking care of health of volunteers, who proved great support to the police in curfew duties.The police chief said that courier and post service is on. Taxi service and other shops have to wait for the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/venture-out-only-if-absolutely-necessary-ludhiana-police-chief-to-residents/story-4tEfJ20POa9EFhXOjbALjP.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||9 Maharashtra seats to go to polls on May 21||The Election Commission said on Friday that polls for Maharashtra’s legislative council seats will be held on May 21, clearing the way for a process crucial to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s position since he has to become a member of either houses of the legislature by May 27 to remain in power.Polls for the council – the upper house that is elected by members of the legislative assembly – were initially set to be held in April but were pushed back due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, which has triggered a near-complete ban on the movement of people. The government announced on Friday that some people will be allowed to move between 7am and 7pm from the next week.This will be the first election for the CM, who heads the Shiv Sena. The decision for him to head the government was taken after elections results on October 24 threw up a split verdict, which led the Shiv Sena to ally with rivals Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress in a coalition that has been named the Mharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA). According to India’s constitution, a minister needs to be elected to a legislature within six months of taking oath in the government. “In terms of the numbers, the MVA has them. The nine seats to the council are to be elected by 288 members of the assembly. The voting is done by preferential vote method and as per a formula adopted for these elections, roughly 29 votes are needed to elect one member. Based on the strength in assembly, BJP would get four seats, Sena and NCP would get two seats each, while the Congress party would get one,” a Sena functionary said, asking not to be named. He added that the paperwork for nomination has been initiated.The notification for the election will be issued on May 4. According to the schedule, the last day to file nominations is May 11, polling will be held on May 21, and counting of votes would be done on the same day.Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut called the decision the victory of “truth and justice”. He also thanked the Centre and EC for the decision which, he said, “saved” the state from a political crisis.“I, on behalf of Shiv Sena, thank the Centre and the EC because this decision has put a stop to the atmosphere of uncertainty in Maharashtra. There were unfounded fears that if Uddhav Thackeray is not elected to the House, he would have to resign; the government would collapse, President’s Rule will be imposed. The government under Thackeray was never going to collapse,” he said.MVA partner Nationalist Congress Party also welcomed the decision. Without naming opposition leaders, Maharashtra NCP president Jayant Patil said attempts by them to get “a backdoor entry” vanished with the EC’s decision. “Many people were hoping that the government would become unstable and they could attempt [to get back in power]. But the declaration of the election has answered all their questions,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9-maharashtra-seats-to-go-to-polls-on-may-21/story-MHum0CPPgSawJIhYoGa6RL.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin man in UK admits to starting fire in commercial centre||A Punjab-origin man is due to be sentenced on June 12 after pleading guilty to deliberately starting a fire in a busy commercial centre that destroyed several shops and traumatised people in the east Midlands town of Leicester, the local police said on Friday.The fire started by Parvinder Singh, 28, became a blaze in the Belgrave Commercial Centre in January 2019. There were people inside the complex but no one was injured. He pleaded guilty in the Leicester Crown Court.The police said initial inquiries determined that the fire had been started deliberately and an investigation was launched. CCTV footage showed a man with a bag sat on some crates in the area prior to the fire.The Leicestershire police said: “The man was then seen to crouch over before standing up and walking off - noticing a flame coming from where he had been as he left. The fire was then seen to ignite on the CCTV and the man left the area”.The image of the suspect was issued in a public appeal and through leaflets which were handed out in the area asking for information. The inquiries led to Singh being identified as the man in the CCTV, and he was arrested in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-origin-man-in-uk-admits-to-starting-fire-in-commercial-centre/story-gjgH9yfuGnLwZY2tPUJjZK.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||State found wanting in testing: Only 876 reports of Nanded returnees in 5 days||Contrary to Punjab government’s claims on increasing its testing capacity to between 1,600 and 1,800 samples a day for Covid-19, the state health department has got results of a mere 876 high-risk Nanded returnees to date. Over the past five days, since these persons started arriving from April 26, the state has taken 3,443 samples of these persons and 240 have been found positive. The total number of persons who have returned from Nanded is 4,060. The figures are from a state media bulletin released at 7pm on Friday that puts the total number of positive cases at 585. A careful perusal of the media bulletin also confirms that the testing is lower than the government claims. On Friday, the department took 1,971 samples, but the pendency of reports showed an increase of 930 to 4,369 samples from 3,439 in Thursday’s 7pm figure. The total number of tests conducted till Thursday was 21,205. A senior government functionary involved in Covid-19 management admitted that on average only 1,000-1,100 tests had been carried out over the past three days. Punjab health Minister Balbir Sidhu said the sudden arrival of Punjabis from outside the state could be the reason behind delay in testing. “We have adequate testing capacity and test are also being done in already earmarked containment zones.” The state government has testing facilities at Government Medical Colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot and in DMC Ludhiana. Samples from Punjab are also being sent to PGIMER, Chandigarh, and the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh. The health department also roped in a private player ‘Lal Path Labs’ to collect samples in Fazilka district. Over 11,000 have returned in 5 daysFigures with health department reveal that more than 11,000 Punjab natives have entered Punjab over the past five days. In addition to around 4,000 Nanded-returnees, the figure includes 7,000 from other states, and 732 from Rajasthan, including 150 students from the coaching hub of Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/state-found-wanting-in-testing-only-876-reports-of-nanded-returnees-in-5-days/story-KeU559t1ZvsMzqAQzjGGMN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC dismisses plea of Punjab cop accused of demanding bribe||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of a Tarn Taran cop, who is accused of promising curfew passes during Covid-19 outbreak in lieu of bribe.The HC bench of justice Anil Kshetarpal observed that the cop at the time of the alleged incident was a member of a disciplined force.The HC was dealing with the petition of constable Harjinder Singh, who had sought anticipatory bail upon registration of FIR by the Patti police against him. The FIR was lodged upon internal probe by Tarn Taran SSP after a video of a cop demanding and taking bribe in exchange of curfew passes was circulated on the social media. The FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered on April 4. The internal probe had identified the cop as a petitioner. And as per FIR, he has been dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-dismisses-plea-of-punjab-cop-accused-of-demanding-bribe/story-E7FkRROjfu5ZUU0ZpiadHO.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Nanavati hospital under BMC radar following plaints of overcharging patients||Nanavati Hospital, one of the major hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 treatment in the city, is overcharging patients, said patients’ rights activists in a complaint to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). While the hospital has denied the allegations, BMC officials are set to inspect the hospital on Saturday. BMC health officials have received several complaints regarding the matter. Bills issued by the hospital, made available to HT, show several discrepancies, including charging over ₹8,000 for one unit of personal protective equipment (PPE). Activists have highlighted the case of a 31-year-old man who got admitted at the hospital on April 11 after testing positive. He was first admitted to the general ward and was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) on April 13. When he was discharged on April 15 the hospital bill amounted to ₹2,39,379; of which ₹66,699 was for medicines and ₹67,400 was for Covid care. As per the bill, which is available with HT, the hospital has charged him ₹8,900 for each unit of PPE.“There is no fixed rate for PPE at the hospital. For some patients, they charge ₹6,500 while for others it goes up to ₹9,500 per unit. The hospital, however, is procuring the same for only ₹750 each unit,” said Jitendra Janawale, a local politician who has filed a complaint against the hospital with BMC.Vishwas Mote, municipal ward officer, said, “We have received the complaints, and will conduct an inspection on Saturday. As it was a public holiday today, we had to postpone it.”In another case, a 60-year-old male patient from Versova, who was admitted at the hospital on April 8, was charged ₹5,51,607.A 69-year-old Covid positive woman, who has a medical history of Parkinson’s Disease, was admitted at the hospital on April 7 and was discharged on Friday with a bill of ₹6,97,756. Her daughters said while shifting the patient from Wockhardt Hospital, which closed after cases of Covid-19 among medical staff, to Nanavati Hospital, the hospital asked for a deposit of ₹50,000. The daughters further said, “My mother was in ICU but was kept only on oxygen support. I don’t know how the bill shot up so much. We had to take help from my cousin to pay the bill amount. The government needs to provide concession to elderly patients.” Health advocates have criticised the hospital for making unreasonable claims. According to the bills, the hospital is charging ₹2,000 per day as staff management charges, and ₹800 for Covid-biomedical waste disposal. It is also claiming ₹1,000 as nursing charge, ₹2,000 for resident medical officers and ₹2,600 for Covid consultations per day. Dr Abhijit More who works with Jan Aarogya Abhiyan said, “PPE is used for several patients in Covid wards, but hospitals do not split the bills and charge patients individually. Same with waste disposal system, the staff use the same gloves and bio waste bags. Patients are responsible for paying for their treatment, not for staff management.”The hospital has also been pulled up for not providing adequate safety gears to staffers with 26 employees contracting the infection. Kirit Somaiya, a politician, has written a letter to BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi seeking action against the hospital. “The hospital is not only looting patients but is also being negligent about the care of the patients. They are discharging in-house staff within five days, while outside patients are kept for 10-12 days,” he said. Manpreet Sohal, chief operating officer (COO) of the hospital, has denied the allegations. He said, “We have already submitted our clarifications to BMC and are coordinating with them.” The hospital has refused to make any comment on the email sent by HT. However, a source from the hospital said though the bill mentions ‘one quantity of PPE’, it represents per day usage of PPE.Despite repeated calls, Pardeshi didn’t respond.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Central government after hearing a petition seeking regulation of Covid-19 treatment costs across private and corporate hospitals in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nanavati-hospital-under-bmc-radar-following-plaints-of-overcharging-patients/story-QeEJ2dIzPlbQin5ykHboRP.html
02-05-2020||City||Cop made to wait for four hours for admission; hospital denies claims||A 57-year-old Mumbai Police personnel, who has tested positive for Covid-19, was allegedly first denied admission at Fortis Hospital, Vashi and was asked to pay ₹2 lakh to get him admitted. However, the personnel was admitted at the hospital after four hours following intervention and authorisation from municipal commissioners of Navi Mumbai and Panvel.The assistant sub-inspector (ASI), posted with the Protection Branch of the Mumbai Police, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Since he lives in Kamothe, senior police officers asked him to get admitted at Fortis Hospital in Vashi. Another policeman, who accompanied the ASI to help with admission formalities, said, “The hospital refused to admit him citing jurisdiction issues, and asked me to take him to either a private hospital in Ghansoli or DY Patil Hospital in Nerul.” He also added the hospital administration had asked the ASI’s daughter, a pharmacist, to pay ₹2 lakh. The hospital, however, denied the claim.When the policeman relayed the issue to his seniors in Mumbai, a team from Vashi police station was sent to request the hospital staff to allow admission. “The hospital staff, however, refused to budge and only agreed when the Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner (Annasaheb Misal) asked them to allow admission,” the officer said.The ASI was finally admitted at Fortis Hospital around 1am following a payment of ₹20,000 as hospital charges.Misal, however, said the hospital was following the guidelines to get him admitted in his corporation jurisdiction. “As per government guidelines, every corporation must set up a Covid-19 treatment facility, hence they (Fortis Hospital) asked the policeman to get admitted in a hospital in their (Panvel municipal) corporation. But since he was a police officer, we have allowed him to be admitted last night,” said Misal.Misal also added that 25 beds have been reserved for police personnel at DY Patil Hospital for Covid-19 treatment.The hospital in its statement said it was following the guidelines issued by the governing bodies about admitting Covid-19 patients. It further added that if a person from another municipal corporation wants to get admitted, there has to be separate authorisation, following which the patient can be admitted. “Claims about the hospital demanding ₹2 lakh for admission are completely baseless. The patient was admitted under MPKAY (Maharashtra Police Kutumb Arogya Yojana) scheme. The patient had to wait for approval from the authorities, and not because of financial commitment,” the statement issued by the Fortis Hospital read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-made-to-wait-for-four-hours-for-admission-hospital-denies-claims/story-SHCicPbwOvDiGESEe0j9OO.html
02-05-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: 5 more held||The Maharashtra Criminal investigation Department (CID), which is investigating the April 16 Palghar lynching case wherein 3 people were murdered, arrested five more accused including two senior citizens on Thursday night. So far a total of 115 people, including 9 minors who have been sent to the children’s remand home in Bhiwandi, have been nabbed in the case. Irrfan Shaikh, deputy superintendent of police, CID, said the accused were produced before the Dahanu court on Friday and have been remanded in CID custody till May 13.Of the 110 accused, who were arrested before, 101, excluding the nine minors, have been remanded in judicial custody in the murder case and in police custody in another case, on Thursday. Kasa police has filed three Firs in the case, however, the third FIR was not produced before the court. Victim’s counsel seek transfer of case to NIAArun Upadhaya, counsel for the three victims, has written to Palghar SP Gaurav Singh complaining about Kasa police for not taking timely action, and urged for dismissal of relevant police personnel for dereliction of duty. He further said transferring 35 policemen and suspending five officers was not the solution, and that the case should be transferred to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Upadhaya accused Kasa police for suppressing facts in the lynching case, and sought explanation regarding the time taken by the police to reach the spot after receiving a complaint about the lynching incident. He has also questioned why different FIRs were filed in the same case two days after incident had taken place. When HT contacted Kasa police, they refrained from making a comment as the case is being probed by the CID.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-5-more-held/story-iHgHm7v9GDIWm9JaQduupI.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||VIDC scam: ED starts probe under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has begun a money laundering probe based on some FIRs filed in the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) scam, popularly referred as the irrigation scam.Maharashtra’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has cleared deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the allegations in connection with the irrigation scam, according to an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court (HC) late last year.Sources said ED has recently filed cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and are probing few FIRs linked to the scam. The irrigation scam involves 44 projects spread over Vidarbha and Konkan, and the probe has so far led to 24 FIRs and 5 charge sheets.The scam was one of the political issues in the run-up to the 2014 state elections. Shortly after his victory, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis opened the case against Pawar.The ACB had earlier accused Pawar, who was the irrigation minister between 1999 and 2009, of presiding over a regime in which “procedures were bypassed, pecuniary benefits were passed on, sub-standard work was allowed, leading to drain upon public exchequer”. However, in recent affidavits, the ACB has given him a clean chit saying he had no role in the cost upgradation or the mobilisation of advance. ACB had further said there was no evidence of money trail linking Pawar and suggested that the scam was a result of procedural irregularities, departmental lapses and deviations for which the minister could not be held responsible.The irrigation scam came to the fore in 2012 wherein it was revealed that even after spending ₹42,500 crore for a decade, the state had brought only 0.1% of the targeted land under irrigation. It was revealed that a nexus of contractors, officials and politicians had milked thousands of crores meant for irrigation projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vidc-scam-ed-starts-probe-under-pmla/story-O9UtwXCCbkDOG2MWV9DzgN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Claiming Central bias, Cong workers raise national flag on roof-tops||Punjab Congress’ call to protest against the Centre’s alleged discrimination with non-BJP ruled states in allocation of resources for fighting the covid-19 pandemic received a mixed response on Friday. The Congress had said people should protest by raising a national flag on their roof-tops. In Bathinda, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal led the protest by raising the Tricolour at his office. Manpreet said, “To date, Punjab has received only Rs 71 crore to fight the pandemic. All other money received was already due to the state and we were entitled to it, even if there was no outbreak of the disease.” In Ludhiana, public participation remained low with local Congress leadership staging a protest near the statue of BR Ambedkar on the Jalandhar bypass. In Amritsar, the Congress rank and file, including state ministers, the MP, MLAs, and councillors raised the flags on rooftops. In Jalandhar, party MP Santokh Singh, along with MLAs Pargat Singh, Hardev Singh Laddi, Bawa Henry, Rajinder Beri and others unfurled the Tricolour at the local Congress office to express solidarity with all covid warriors and to honour the sacrifices of workers on the Labour Day.Tewari, Sidhu call for Centre to release GSTMohali/Rupnagar Party workers also protested against the Central government in Mohali, seeking the release of the state’s arrears of GST of around Rs 4,000 crore. State cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who led these protests, also demanded the release of a grant from the Centre to contain covid-19. Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari, who held a meeting, via video-conference, with party workers, MLAs, market committee members etc, also demanded that the Centre should release GST arrears of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/claiming-central-bias-cong-workers-raise-national-flag-on-roof-tops/story-U1TqsZe1bHfy32uJafjSfI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Easing of restrictions in Chandigarh depends on lifting of containment order||The Central government on Friday extended the countrywide lockdown from May 4 to May 17 to prevent the spread of Covid-19, easing restrictions according to red, orange and green zones, but how Chandigarh fares depends on whether the administration lifts its containment order of April 18.The home affairs ministry’s Friday order extending the lockdown said no restrictions will be lifted in the containment zone except for essential and emergency services, but some restrictions will be eased in red zones outside such areas.“We will be following the Central government directions on relaxations to be introduced. A number of relaxations have been allowed in the red zones outside the containment zone by the latest ministry of home affairs order,” UT adviser Manoj Parida said.Consequently, the administration is actively considering limiting the containment zone to a few affected pockets rather than the entire city, he added. The administration is also likely to revoke the city-wide curfew and continue with the lockdown.“The final decision on the extent of containment zone and relaxations will be taken by May 3. Nearly 70% of suggestions from city residents and different stakeholders to the Sinha Committee have advocated relaxations to be introduced and containment zone to be demarcated,” Parida said.The adviser-appointed committee, led by AK Sinha, has been set up to recommend the post May 3 relaxation plan for the city.The city was declared a containment zone by the administration after the Central government designated it a red zone on April 15. Curfew orders imposed here on March 24.Covid-19 positive cases have also surged sharply from 27 to 88 in the last six days between April 25 and May 1. Administration has so far declared six ‘affected pockets’ in the city. 60% of city’s cases are from two pockets – Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30. Mohali’s Nayagaon and Jawaharpur and Panchkula’s Sector 15 have been declared containment zones even as Chandigarh’s sister cities were designated orange zones. The administrations of Panchkula and Chandigarh are yet to issue orders after the lockdown extension even as Mohali has allowed several relaxations.BOXWHAT’S ALLOWED, WHAT’S NOTWhile Chandigarh remains in red zone, the satellite cities of Mohali and Panchkula have been demarcated as orange zonesRESTRICTIONS WITHIN CONTAINMENT ZONENo economic activity such as industries and commercial establishmentsEven neighbourhood shops can open only during curfew relaxationNo unchecked influx of populationActive search for cases through house-to-house surveillance by special teamsAll people must install Aarogya Setu mobile applicationRELAXATIONS OUTSIDE CONTAINMENT ZONE RED ZONEMovement of individuals and vehicles, only for permitted activitiesIndustrial establishments in urban areas, manufacturing units of essential goodsConstruction activities limited to in-situ and renewable energy projectsAll standalone, neighborhood shops permitted, without any distinction of essential and non-essential, including liquor vends, but excluding barber shops, spas and saloonsE-commerce activities permitted in respect to essential goodsPrivate offices can operate with up to 33% strengthORANGE ZONEIn addition to activities permitted in Red Zone, taxis and cab aggregators will be permitted with one driver and one passenger onlyInter-district movement of individuals and vehicles will be allowed for permitted activities onlyFour-wheeler vehicles will have maximum two passengers besides the driver and pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/easing-of-restrictions-in-chandigarh-depends-on-lifting-of-containment-order/story-airoHMaGhmJjXIkw2D6JDO.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Students stuck in Kota reach Mumbai on Friday||City students stuck in Kota finally reached Mumbai Central around 10.30pm on Friday. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), on Wednesday, had sent 70 MSRTC buses from Dhule in Maharashtra to Kota to get students back. The parents of students were permitted to pick students up from Mumbai Central. These students will now be put in home quarantine for the next two weeks.According to state transport minister Anil Parab, 1,780 students from Maharashtra were stranded in colleges and coaching institutes in Kota, Rajasthan, during the lockdown. Students in Kota boarded buses that left Kota on Thursday night and Friday afternoon. Some districts, like Raigad and Beed, also sent privately-run buses.“Some buses arranged by the Maharashtra government left from Kota on Thursday night and reached Shirpur [in Dhule district] on Friday morning. From there, students were divided into separate buses based on their destination city,” said activist Sudha Shenoy who is also a parent of a medical student. As many as 1.5 lakh students join coaching institutes in Kota every year. “Most state governments started bringing back students stuck in Kota in April itself. We are glad the Maharashtra government woke up to this now our kids are back home safe and sound,” said Roshan Jaiswal, another parent.With the ongoing lockdown, there is little clarity regarding the status of engineering and medical entrance exams this year. As of now, bodies conducting these exams have said that the exams will be held this year. However, no dates have been announced..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/students-stuck-in-kota-reach-mumbai-on-friday/story-Uh42FpN9phF10HkxT9gnoJ.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: Court extends CBI custody of Wadhawans till May 8||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court, on Friday, extended the custody of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited (DHFL) promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who were arrested in connection with Yes Bank fraud case, till May 8. CBI had arrested the brothers on April 26 and the duo has been in custody since then. CBI will also be probing 150 shell companies which are said to be under the control of Wadhawan brothers.CBI in its FIR against the Wadhawan brothers had alleged that Yes Bank had invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures in DHFL, which has not been redeemed till date, for which the Wadhawans had paid a kickback of ₹600 crore to Rana Kapoor, former chief executive officer and managing director of Yes Bank, in the form of a loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd – a company registered in the name of Kapoor’s daughters.CBI officials produced the Wadhawan brothers before the court and sought further custody for a period of seven days claiming that they needed to probe the role of other directors in DHFL along with other Yes Bank officials. It also contended that custody is required to find out details about more than 150 shell companies being controlled by the duo. The agency also said they need to probe their email accounts to get more details on the conspiracy.The agency is looking at the role played by the other accused in the fraud, and are investigating if any kickbacks were received by DHFL or Yes Bank employees. These employees will be asked to join the probe once the lockdown is lifted, said CBI sources. The court after considering the seriousness of the case extended the CBI custody of the two brothers till May 8 to facilitate CBI in further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-court-extends-cbi-custody-of-wadhawans-till-may-8/story-CvGoQboP17FM2ZBxUFwteL.html
02-05-2020||City||Respite for Uddhav as EC to hold polls for 9 Council seats on May 21||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday said it will hold elections for the nine vacant seats in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the upper house of the state legislature, on May 21, paving the way for chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to enter the legislature as a member. Thackeray needs to be elected from one of the nine seats by May 27 to retain his post at the helm of the state. Shiv Sena and its partners in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition welcomed the decision.Friday’s development ends a period of uncertainty following the deferring of polls on April 3, owing to the coronavirus outbreak. The seats have been lying vacant since April 24. The 288-members of the Maharashtra Assembly will vote to elect the members to the upper house. “Elections to the posts of nine members of legislative council (MLCs) have been cleared,” a senior poll official told HT. “The commission has decided to hold the election on May 21. Normally, the counting is done on the same day. The results will also be declared then,” a second official added.Sena leaders are now trying to ensure that the election is held without any hindrance and unanimously. A Sena functionary said that it would be a “smooth” election for Thackeray, who would be the second to contest an election from the Thackeray clan after his son, Aaditya, who contested the Assembly elections.“In terms of numbers, the MVA has them. The nine seats to the council are to be elected by 288 members of the Assembly. The voting is done by preferential vote method and as per a formula adopted for these elections, roughly 29 votes are needed to elect one member. Based on the strength in the Assembly, BJP would get four seats, Sena and ally Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) would get two seats each, while the Congress would get one,” a Sena functionary said. He added that the paperwork for nomination has been initiated. The notification for the election will be issued on May 4. According to the schedule, the last day for nominations is May 11. Polling will be held on May 21, and the counting would be done on the same day.Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut called the decision the victory of “truth and justice”. Raut also thanked the Centre and EC for the decision, which “saved” the state from a political crisis.Calling it an “excellent” decision, Raut said, “I, on behalf of Shiv Sena, thank the Central government and the EC because this decision has put a stop to the atmosphere of uncertainty in Maharashtra. There were unfounded fears that if Thackeray is not elected to the House he would have to resign; the government would collapse, President’s Rule will be imposed. Many theories were floated, which caused fear in the minds of the people. The state government under chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was never going to collapse. It was thought that some technical and constitutional tangle would be created. The Central government and Election Commission has saved a big state like Maharashtra from going in the direction of a crisis.”The NCP also welcomed the decision. Without naming Opposition party leaders, Maharashtra NCP president Jayant Patil said that attempts by them to get a backdoor entry vanished with the EC’s decision. “The state cabinet had recommended Uddhav Thackeray’s name to the governor twice, but no decision was taken. Subsequently, the three parties wrote to the EC, requesting it to hold polls on the nine seats as there is a chance of uncertainty in the state. Our request has been accepted by the EC. Many people were hoping that the government would become unstable and they could attempt [to get back in power]. But the declaration of the election has answered all their questions,” said Patil.There is an apprehension among the ruling coalition that there could be an attempt to. create a legal hindrance in the legislative council election. However, a Sena leader said, “There is a Supreme Court ruling that once elections are declared it cannot be stayed. So if there is any plan of foul play, it is not going to work.”In his address to the people on social media on Friday afternoon, Thackeray said: “If someone loves us, we reciprocate but if betrayed, we show them their place.”Raut added that they hope that the issue would not be politicised at a time when the state is battling the Covid-19 outbreak. “We are of the opinion that nobody should do politics at a time when Maharashtra is fighting a huge battle against the coronavirus and nowhere attempts should be made through political intervention. This is a time when the government and the opposition should work together for the people of the state. The people are expecting things from the opposition as well,” he said.The ruling party is looking at making attempts to fill the vacant seats unopposed. In the past, there have been instances when political parties have ensured that the Rajya Sabha or Council seats are filled unanimously to avoid horse-trading. “We will see if the election on all nine seats can be held unopposed, considering the current coronavirus crisis. It would be an example for the rest of the country. Let’s see, nothing can be said if it would happen as of now,” he said.On Thursday, Maharashtra governor B Koshyari had asked the Commission to hold the polls “at the earliest”. In a letter issued by Raj Bhavan, the governor said that elections to the vacant seats will help end the “uncertainty” prevailing in the state. The seats have been lying vacant since April 24. The governor urged the EC to take note of the fact that the Centre had allowed for various relaxations in the second phase of the lockdown. “As such the elections to the Council seats can be held with certain guidelines,” Koshyari said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/respite-for-uddhav-as-ec-to-hold-polls-for-9-council-seats-on-may-21/story-WF4UPrXXKxtcySgEtegIRN.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha reports highest one-day spike with 1,008 Covid cases||In a first, Maharashtra recorded more than 1,000 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a day with 1,008 new infections on Friday, taking the number of patients in India’s most ravaged state to 11,506, even as the government announced relaxing lockdown restrictions in some districts. The country’s worst-hit city, Mumbai, too, recorded its highest single-day jump of cases with 751 new infections, increasing the tally to 7,812. However, of the 751 patients, 399 are those who tested positive in private labs across the city between April 25 and April 28.Maharashtra also recorded 26 deaths, taking the toll up to 485. On Friday, Mumbai recorded five deaths, taking its toll to 295, while ten were reported in Pune, three in Jalgaon and one each in Pune rural, Sindhudurg, Bhiwandi, Thane, Nanded, Aurangbad and Parbhani. One death of an Uttar Pradesh resident was recorded in Mumbai. Of the deaths, 14 of them were above 60, while 11 were between 40 and 59 years of age. Fifteen of the patients had high risk comorbidities, the health department said.In 24 hours, the state carried out 7,327 coronavirus tests, 13.75% of which turned positive. The state has conducted 1,53,125 tests so far.On Friday, which was Maharashtra Day, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address through Facebook Live, said the lockdown in the state would be lifted gradually after May 3, when the second phase of the national lockdown ends. However, restrictions will not be lifted in Mumbai and its surrounding areas, along with Pune and its surrounding areas, as they fall under the red zone. Comparing the red zone areas to an active volcano, Thackeray said that lifting restrictions is “not in our interest”.“The red zone is like an active volcano, orange zone is like a dormant volcano, and the green zone is where the volcano will not erupt. Naturally, Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR), Nagpur and Aurangabad fall in the red zone as cases are increasing daily. Here, to start something is not in our interest. In orange zones, there are a few active cases in some areas; we are looking at lifting restrictions, leaving aside areas where there are more cases. In the green zone, we have already started lifting restrictions gradually.” He outlined that lifting of restrictions will be done “cautiously”.“Some restrictions will be eased after May 3, based on the zones. But, there must be no haste, while doing so. I know everyone has pending works to attend to. At the same time, we must take cautious steps to ensure the infections do not flare up again and the present gains are not lost, while normalcy is being restored. Normal life has to be restored carefully,” Thackeray said.Maharashtra has six districts in the green zone. Gadchiroli and Wardha have no Covid-19 patients, while Gondia has not reported any new case in the past 35 days. Osmanabad has three cases, while Sindhudurg and Washim have two cases each.Sixteen districts (Raigad, Ahmednagar, Amravati, Buldhana, Nandurbar, Kolhapur, Hingoli, Ratnagiri, Jalna, Nanded, Chandrapur, Sangli, Latur, Parbhani, Bhandara and Beed) have less number of cases in their rural parts — in single digits. Some of them have not recorded any new patients in the past 14 days. The state government may continue with the lockdown restrictions only in the urban areas. According to state officials, some of the districts (like Chandrapur) from the list can be shifted to the green district list. “The state governments have been given powers to do so by the Centre,” the officer said.The Centre has put 14 Maharashtra districts in the red zone. The state government wants the lockdown to be strictly implemented in some of these districts, including Mumbai, Mumbai suburbs, Pune, Thane, Palghar, Nashik, Nagpur, Solapur, Aurangabad until May 17. However, in the remaining districts — Yavatmal, Satara, Dhule, Akola and Jalgaon — the restrictions can be partially relaxed, according to government officials.Of the 1,53,125 tests across 45 laboratories in the state, 14,0587 of them were negative. 1,63,026 people are currently under home quarantine, while 11,677 are under institutional quarantine. A total of 10,849 teams of health workers have screened 45.34 lakh people for suspected infections after having come in contact with positive patients. A total of 1,879 patients have fully recovered from various hospitals in the past six weeks.“We can tighten the restrictions imposed by the Centre, but cannot relax them. Our notification, however, can exclude rural areas as has been allowed in the Central notification,” the official said.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government will issue its notification before May 3 on the lines of an extended lockdown and the relaxations in green and orange zones. “There will be no restrictions for the activities within districts in green-tag districts, while in orange districts, too, large-scale relaxation can be given, barring hotspots. We are also thinking about relaxations to some extent in big cities like Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, barring containment zones. A detailed notification will soon be issued,” he said.State transport minister Anil Parab said, “The railways ministry has informed us about the arrangement of special trains for migrant workers stuck in the state. We have started registering the workers who want to go back to their respective states. Each of the trains will have a capacity for 1,000 passengers, who will be allowed only after medical certifications. The migrants will be allowed to board trains only after getting no-objection certificates from receiving states.”Those who want to travel within the state will have to form groups of 25 passengers. “The groups will be allowed to travel after they comply with formalities and furnish health certificates. However, the people from MMR, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur will not be allowed to travel under these relaxed norms,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government revised its notification issued on Thursday for migrants, pilgrims, students and other people who are stuck and want to travel intra-state and inter-state. The powers to approve the travel plan have now been given to the police commissioners in cities and collectors in rural areas. It has been clarified that strict restrictions for moving out of the red-zone districts will remain intact.Tope said that the state’s recovery rate has improved to 20% (from 14.91% on Tuesday), while mortality rate has dropped to 3.5% from (7.41% on April 12). “Our doubling rate is better than that of national rate and the state has the distinction of highest tests (over 1.50 lakh) through 45 labs, including 20 private labs. We are also started use of portable pulse oxymeters for speedy diagnostics and for better recovery rate. We are focusing on senior citizens and people with comorbidities, so that they are quarantined institutionally if the need be,” he said.While talking about the bed facilities in Mumbai, the minister said that an additional facility of 2,000 beds at Worli, Powai and Goregaon has been created and if the need arises, the schools and colleges too can be utilised for the same. Tope also announced to extend the government mediclaim scheme –Mahatma Phule Janarogya Yojana — to all the citizens in the state for free treatment at Covid and non-Covid hospitals. “Maharashtra is the only state to extend free health services to all its citizens. We have also taken cognisance of the complaints of overcharging and profiteering by some private hospitals in Mumbai and Pune. The private hospitals will not be able to charge more than the rates ascertained by the General Insurance Public Sector Association, irrespective of the class of services given to the patients. In rest of the state, the rate card finalised under a third-party agreement will have to be followed,” he said.CM Thackeray added that the lockdown had helped arrest the spread of the coronavirus. He said that the “speed-breakers” has helped contain the spread, which would have been exponential had the lockdown not been imposed. “Many feel cases have increased despite the lockdown. I would call the lockdown a speed-breaker. The Singapore PM termed it a circuit-breaker, which breaks the transmission chain. The lockdown helped to break this transmission chain or else the virus would have multiplied much faster than what we can imagine. Still, the numbers are rising because of the contacts of patients who were infected initially,” he said.He said that 75% to 80% of the Covid-19 cases in the state do not show any symptoms or show mild symptoms of the disease.Outlining the work done by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Thackeray said that in the past few days, the civic body has screened two lakh people in the slums for low oxygen levels and other diseases, including diabetes, high blood pressure, etc. Such people are vulnerable to the coronavirus.“In Mumbai, 272 people have been found with low oxygen levels and other ailments. BMC is not only providing oxygen, but doctors are treating their other ailments,” he said.Thackeray said that besides ramping up the capacity of beds in the state, doctors and nursing staff have been inducted. He said he has received responses from 10,000 people, including from doctors, nurses, etc, to volunteer in the fight against coronavirus. “I am very proud to note that after my appeal to ‘COVID Yoddhas,’ thousands came forward. Over 20,000 expressed their desire, around 10,000 said they were actually ready to work and some are being trained. It is not as if we are only increasing the number of beds sans any doctors. Doctors and nursing staff are also being trained,” he said.The Central and Western Railway will operate outstation trains for movement of migrant workers only on the demand of the state government. The Maharashtra government had requested the railways to operate trains for migrant workers, from Nashik to Lucknow and Nashik to Bhopal.According to railway officials, the state government has to get permission from other state governments in order to facilitate movement of workers. The Maharashtra government reportedly did not get permission for the operation of a train towards Lucknow. The railways will operate a train from Nashik to Bhopal. The railway ministry on Friday evening further extended cancellation of all passenger trains, including local trains, till May 17||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-reports-highest-one-day-spike-with-1-008-covid-cases/story-Q2gTDh5uE5tEVVhKJ1HMSP.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay reports first Covid-19 case on campus after staffer’s health worker wife tests positive||The first case of Covid-19 at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) was reported on Thursday after the wife of a staffer tested positive for the virus.According to the institute authorities, the infected woman worked as a health worker at a government hospital in south Mumbai and had likely contracted the virus from a Covid-19 patient. Her husband, who is an employee of IIT-B, and their two children, have been quarantined in a separate facility on campus.“The woman is a health worker at a hospital and her husband works at our institute. They lived on campus. Once she tested positive, she was moved to a hospital and her family was quarantined in a special area on campus. She is doing fine and is undergoing treatment,” said institute director Subhasis Chadhuri. Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) visited the campus on Friday and standard operating procedures were followed.“On our part, we have sanitised some of the common areas such as the lift and lobby of the building the patient was residing in. Neighbours have been asked to follow BMC directives for quarantine. We will cooperate with the state authorities on the matter,” said Chaudhuri.Chaudhuri has also urged residents not to panic. “Although there is nothing to panic about as yet, we hope there are no more positive cases on campus,” he said. All academic and research activities remain suspended on campus since mid-March and early summer vacation has been announced. Students were asked to vacate the campus in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and summer vacations will end on May 31. Four buildings at the IIT-B campus were earlier converted into quarantine facilities for asymptomatic flyers coming into the city from different international destinations, following the collector’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-bombay-reports-first-covid-19-case-on-campus-after-staffer-s-health-worker-wife-tests-positive/story-Ae2qDR2m0ak70NJxdBmoRN.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus cases rising, but recovery rate surges to 16% in Mumbai and Maharashtra||Despite the drastic surge in the total number of coronavirus cases in the city and the state in the past 15 days, the number of patients who have recovered has more than doubled from 205 on April 16 to 1,180 on April 30, data by the state health department has revealed. In the state, 1,773 patients have been cured until April 30, as compared to the 300 patients who had recovered until April 16. The recovery rate in the state and Mumbai stands at 16% on April 30, a surge from 9% recorded on April 16.HT asked Dr Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s disease surveillance officer, if the surge in the number of recoveries is owing to any change in discharge policy of patients which is leading to the surge in recoveries. He said, “There is no change in our discharge policy. We are discharging patients only after 14 days of admission, provided their two consecutive tests come negative. Also, with the total number of cases increasing, the recovery rate is also bound to go up.”However, two corporations – Solapur and Panvel – which have recorded 92 and 47 cases respectively – has not recorded even a single case of recovery.According to the health department, the surge in the number of recoveries in Mumbai began from April 22, when the city had 483 cured, even as the total number of cases was 3,683. On April 26, Mumbai recorded 728 recoveries for 5,407 until then. The number of cured patients surged to 885 on April 28 when the city had 6,169 cases.On April 29, the recovery count crossed the 1,000-mark after 1,024 patients had been recovered, even as the cases stood at 6,644.According to the state health department data, the recovery rate is highest in cities such as Mumbai and Pune, which also have the highest number of cases in the state. Of the total 1,773 patients who have recovered in Maharashtra, 1,395 are from Mumbai and Pune alone. However, in terms of recovery rate, smaller cities have been performing better than Mumbai and Pune. Thane for instance has recorded 28 recoveries (58%) until April 30 of the total 48 positive cases reported in the city. Likewise, Pimpri-Chinchwad has recorded around 50% recovery rate, with 34 of 72 patients recovering. Meanwhile, Nagpur has a recovery rate of 29 % with 39 patients of 133 patients having been cured. At Raigad district, of the 24 cases, 14 patients have recovered, while the Mira -Bhayandar district, which has seen 126 cases, recorded a recovery rate of 25%. Neighbouring Vasai-Virar district has witnessed a recovery rate of around 20%, with 26 of 128 patients having been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-cases-rising-but-recovery-rate-surges-to-16-in-mumbai-and-maharashtra/story-K0vH0DMJQEegfNoAtImfJI.html
02-05-2020||City||751 new coronavirus cases in Mumbai, 399 are from tests between April 25 and April 29||The city on Friday recorded 751 new cases, the highest in a single day so far, taking the total to 7,812, even as five more deaths brought the toll to 295. However, of the 751 new cases, 352 are patients whose tests results arrived on Friday, while 399 are patients who tested positive in private labs across the city between April 25 and April 28.The fatality rate in Mumbai is now 3.77%. Of the five deaths, two were above 60 years of age, one was below 40 years, and the other two were in the 40-60 age group. Three of the five had co-morbidities.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday also issued an advisory for citizens not to panic, to remain in their homes and visit the nearest clinic, dispensary or Covid-19 Care Centre in case of fever, cough, or slight breathlessness. It also urged everyone not to stigmatise the patient or family which has tested positive. The BMC also announced that Covid-19 positive patients who are asymptomatic do not need to rush to major hospitals and wait for the health department’s guidance.So far, the BMC has spent ₹120 crore from its contingency fund for Covid-19 preparedness in hospitals, healthcare units, on food and personal protective equipment for the frontline staff. Mumbai now has 1,576 containment zones, up from 987 containment zones on April 24. Of them, 904 are either in slums, chawls, or congested buildings and areas, or buildings and localities that have common toilets.The BMC on Friday called for 100% attendance from its staff, to buff its resources to trace high- and low-risk contacts, manage and strengthen quarantine centres, and manage other logistics to contain the outbreak. However, the BMC has exempted staff members above the age of 55, and who have co-morbidities, from the ranks of Class 3 and 4, for the next 10 days. Senior officers, however, have to report to work even if they are above 55 years of age, but they will not be given any Covid-19 related work, the circular said. This order only applies to staff members working in non-essential services department, as those working in essential departments such as health, solid waste management and drinking water supply are already working at their usual capacity.Within the past few weeks, the BMC has floated tenders for at least three big-ticket infrastructure projects in Mumbai. This includes the ₹21,000-crore tenders floated to upgrade six sewage treatment plants, from the present facility of primary treatment to tertiary treatment of water. The plan has been stuck for more than five years.P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner incharge of projects in BMC, said, “The tender cost includes maintenance cost for a period of 15 years since construction.”The BMC on Wednesday also floated ₹4,000-crore tenders for construction of twin tunnels for its ambitious Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (GMLR) project, which will run under Sanjay Gandhi National Park. These tenders include the design and build operations for the twin tunnels. A few weeks ago, the BMC floated tenders for the pumping stations and Mogra and Mahul.Leader of the Samajwadi Party in BMC and Bhiwandi MLA Rais Shaikh criticised the BMC for going about non-Covid business and said on social media, “In times when the entire state is concentrating and fighting the pandemic, BMC has had time to float STP tenders worth Rs 21,000 crores, by giving only one month period to bid. These tenders have been due for past two years. Wonder what is the hurry and who are they trying to accommodate?”In response, Velarasu said, “Only tender documents have been floated. The entire process takes up to five months to complete, and has only been initiated now. Newspapers are working, so contractors can view the tender documents and prepare their bids during this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/751-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-399-are-from-tests-between-april-25-and-april-29/story-CwYgltGSEyvk5nWtQhZKPI.html
02-05-2020||City||Biker killed in Kharar road mishap, truck driver booked||A truck driver has been booked after a biker was killed and the pillion rider injured in a road mishap in Kharar on Friday.Police said the two victims were on way to work at a firm on the Kurali road when a truck hit their bike from the rear. The deceased, who was riding the bike, has been identified as Bhupinder Singh of Badala village in Kharar, while the injured has been identified as Harbans Singh. Police said the victims were immediately rushed to the civil hospital in Kharar. While Bhupinder was declared brought dead, Harbans was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, in Chandigarh.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against truck driver Sandeep Singh at the Kharar (city) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-killed-in-kharar-road-mishap-truck-driver-booked/story-2kMXa84ekprBHhQbCkB6eO.html
02-05-2020||City||Cases spike in Chandigarh, Mohali: Panchkula seals its border points||Cautious of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and Mohali district, the Panchkula administration on Friday ordered complete sealing of its borders from Saturday, while restricting cross-border movement in a more stringent manner. Panchkula at present has just one active case, with 17 patients cured. All entry and exits points will be sealed from Saturday morning. In case of emergency, the commuter will be thermal screened before being let in. Rapid testing for symptomatic people entering Panchkula has been advised.Apart from this, commuters need to compulsorily download the Aarogaya Setu App.As per the order, people who need to travel to Panchkula for work have to be accommodated within their home districts by their employers. Panchkula residents working outside the district will also have to make similar arrangements with their managements.The four-page order issued by deputy commissioner Mukesh Ahuja said these steps were needed as the number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and Mohali had climbed suddenly.Cases in areas bordering Panchkula remain a potential threat to residents in the district, it added.EXEMPTIONSAs per the order, authorised government officers and staff from the Punjab and Haryana high court and other courts, and government health professionals will be allowed movement.Those provided restricted movement passes by the governments of India, Haryana, Punjab and Chandigarh are exempted.Transit logistics movement on national highways or state highways for cargo/raw material/finished goods is allowed. However, such vehicles will not be allowed to halt in Panchkula district.Essential services, including vehicles carrying vegetables, fodder for animals, medicines and medical equipment, and logistics movement of essential and non-essential services will be permitted with one driver and one helper or security guard.Ambulances, ATM cash vans, LPG and oil containers are also exempted, while media personnel can move about with specifically issued restricted movement pass.These orders may be reviewed in future as per the prevailing circumstances, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-imposes-stringent-cross-border-movement-as-cases-spike-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-YzIGtAWFsidKmf9AEHAQZM.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delineating city into smaller containment zones on Chandigarh admn’s mind||Facing flak for declaring the entire city as a containment zone and with more than 60% coronavirus cases reported from only two residential pockets out of 100 so far, the UT administration is considering re-demarcating the containment zone after May 3.The modified criteria for delineating containment zones, announced by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday, will ease the administration’s job of redrawing the boundaries of the smaller containment zones.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “We are thinking of smaller containment zones. Entire city cannot be sealed for months together. Industry, trade and service sector have to resume work with social distancing.”The city has been under curfew since March 24. It was designated a containment zone on April 18 after the central government declared it a hotspot (red zone) on April 15. On Thursday, the Centre retained the city under red zone after a sharp increase in positive cases.60% CASES FROM TWO AREASThere are 100 residential pockets in the city, including 57 sectors, 22 villages and 21 colonies. Of these, 19 pockets so far have reported coronavirus cases. But, only two pockets – Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30 have contributed more than 60% of the cases. Bapu Dham has recorded 37 cases so far.Of particular concern for the administration are the colonies with 50% of the city’s total population of around 12 lakh. Several such colonies, including Bapu Dham Colony, Mauli Jagran, Ram Darbar, EWS Colony in sectors 30 and 38, Sector 52 Rehabilitation Colony and Dhanas, have already reported positive cases. Two – Bapu Dham and Dhanas Kachi Colony — have already been designated as ‘affected pockets’.NEW CRITERIA FOR CONTAINMENT ZONESAs per the modified criteria communicated by the health ministry to all states and union territories on Thursday, a residential colony/mohalla/municipal ward or police-station area/municipal zones/towns can be designated as containment zones in urban areas.The containment zones in these districts have to be delineated based on mapping and geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area with well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability.“The area should be appropriately defined by the district administration/local urban body with technical inputs at the local level,” the communique said.WHY CONTAINMENT ZONE MATTERSNo economic activity - opening of industrial and commercial establishments - can take place in a containment zone.Not even neighbourhood shops, as allowed by the Ministry of Home Affairs, can be opened except during curfew relaxation.A containment operation is deemed to be over 28 days from the date the last case in the containment zone tests negative.All people in the containment zone must install Aarogya Setu mobile application, which informs user in case they have crossed paths with someone who has tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delineating-city-into-smaller-containment-zones-on-chandigarh-admn-s-mind/story-OAX7YhdIbqLUzAcY6hHgpM.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||4,000 enrol in Punjab to go home, 96,000 more expected in 48 hours||Around 4,000 stranded persons, mostly migrant workers, registered with the Punjab government on Friday stating they intend to return home. The registrations were done online after the state government started the exercise through ‘Cova App’, a central app for all covid-19 related information and management, to allow them to return to their home states. “The registration will remain open till May 3 and we expect another 96,000 to register in the next 48 hours,” said a senior officer. Lakhs of migrant labourers have been stranded in different parts of the state without work since the imposition of curfew on March 23.A large number of migrants in the state are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Another 1,000 persons have registered to return to Punjab from other states. Additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra also wrote to divisional railway managers (DRMs), Ambala and Ferozepur, on Friday for making arrangements for the movement of stranded persons, stating that over 1 lakh of them are expected to get themselves register by May 3. “As a pre-emptive measure, adequate arrangements must be made by the railways to create adequate facilities at Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda railway stations in order to ensure smooth travel,” he wrote, urging them to appoint nodal officers at each of these railway stations to monitor and coordinate the travel arrangements. “Once the registration is completed, the state government will intimate the exact number of railway stations and place with specific indents for passenger trains on a point-to-point basis. All necessary arrangement to ensure smooth movement of stranded persons, including issuance of medical certificates, security social distancing norms will be made by the district authorities,” Chandra added. Though the railways have also agreed to run special trains to take the stranded migrants, students and others home, the first such train is unlikely to leave the state before May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-000-enrol-in-punjab-to-go-home-96-000-more-expected-in-48-hours/story-IJCjSctJcYyexyN0VBV2vK.html
02-05-2020||City||Curbs eased in Mohali, but residents remain indoors||Day 1 of curfew relaxation between 7 am and 11am on Friday saw Mohali residents preferring to continue to remain indoors amid the continuing threat of the coronavirus pandemic.The district administration has allowed all shops to remain open during the four hours in the urban areas, following which shops offering essential supplies, such as groceries, vegetables, milk, meat and medicines, can continue to deliver orders at home, only with requisite permissions. Further, shops will operate on rotational basis - those with even SCO/SCF/booth numbers will be open on even dates and those with odd numbers on odd dates.In rural areas, all shops, irrespective of shop number, can remain between 7am and 11am.A visit to Phases 3B2, 5, 7, 10 and 11 revealed only a few grocery, chemist and hardware shops open. In some places, shops selling non-essential products, like garments and cycles, were also open.Some shopkeepers claimed they were not sure whether or not to open their shops.“The idea is to give some respite to the public and shopkeepers after the curfew of five weeks. We had been getting requests to allow shops to reopen, so the relaxation was allowed. It was the first day today, more residents may reach out to shops in the coming days,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.All markets will remain completely closed on Sundays, he said, but, e-commerce orders and phone orders through local stores can be delivered.Shopkeepers in both rural and urban areas will have to ensure social distancing and all workers must wear masks and use hand sanitisers.Shops are not allowed to open in Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi and Nayagaon, which have been declared hotspots.Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.TRADERS SEEK CHANGE IN RELAXATION HOURSStating that 7am was too early for residents to step out, shopkeepers have sought the relaxation hours be changed to 9am to 1pm. Phase 3B2 Market Welfare Association president Jatinder Pal Singh said they had requested the authorities to change the timings, as no one will come to the markets at 7am. He said most shopkeepers were not aware of the relaxation notification, so it will take some days for their operations to streamline.MOHALI OUT OF RED ZONE NOWAssigned the red zone tag after sudden spurt in cases in April, Mohali has been moved to the orange zone in Centre’s revised list.While red zones comprise cities with major outbreaks, orange zones include places showing a decline in number of new cases. At present, Mohali has 92 patients of Covid-19, of which 30 have recovered and two have died. The district has two hotspots - Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi and Nayagaon, with 46 and nine cases, respectively. Nayagaon has reported one Covid-19 death.POLICE DOWN SHUTTERS IN DERA BASSIIn Dera Bassi, shopkeepers complained that police did not allow them to open their shops, leading to confusion.Complaints poured in from shops on Lohgarh Road and in Shiva Enclave. The furniture market in Zirakpur also remained closed. Sunil Kumar Sethi, who runs a shop on Lohgarh Road, said when he had just opened the shop at 7am, police arrived and asked him to pull down the shutters. “The shops are allowed to open on odd-even basis. The market association have been asked to chalk out the plan,” said Kuldeep Bawa, SDM, Dera Bassi. KHARAR SHOPS TO OPEN TRADE WISEIn Kharar, shops have been divided on the basis of trade and allocated days to open up to avoid rush.Shops in Group A are hardware, sanitary fittings, cement, building material, furniture, fabrication, automobiles, cars, accessories, optical shops, spare parts and mechanical shops, medical labs, repair workshops, ayurvedic shops, scrap and junk dealers.Group B includes shops sellings electronic appliances, CD, DVD repair, apparels and tailoring, jewellery, toiletries, cosmetics, footwear, sports, sportswear, books, stationery, toys, mobile phones, utensils, money transfer, confectionery, sweet shops and departmental stores.“Shops under Group A will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and those under Group B on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday,” Himanshu Jain, SDM, Kharar said, adding that shop owners will paint their shops depicting Group A or B by May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curbs-eased-in-mohali-but-residents-remain-indoors/story-uU5rQj0u7x7GTyDif18FCO.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Wind, rain damage mobile tower atop building, hoarding||Untimely rains accompanied by gusty winds on Friday in Pune in Maharashtra dismantled a mobile transmission tower on top of a building while a hoarding fell to the ground near a hospital, officials said. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city saw 19.7 mm rain fall mainly in Shivajinagar, bringing the maximum temperature down to 38.3 degrees Celsius from 40 degrees Celsius which the city has been witnessing for the past three days.A mobile tower atop a residential building in Somawar peth came crashing down, with rain lashing out in the city followed by gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph). A hoarding fell near Sancheti Hospital on JM road, blocking roads leading to Shivajinaga. In Model colony, large trees fell damaging parked vehicles.A wall crumbled under pressure of a falling tree at Kasturi chowk and an old banyan tree fell outside Yerawada jail, said officials. According to an official from IMD, “The influence of the cyclonic circulation over south Andaman Sea has formed a low pressure area over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal. This associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 4.5 km above mean sea level. It is very likely to become more marked over the same region during next 48 hours, concentrate into a depression over Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours and likely to intensify further thereafter.” The city will continue to witness wind, thundery activity on 2 May too with the maximum temperature at 39 degree Celsius and minimum at 24 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/wind-rain-damage-mobile-tower-atop-building-hoarding/story-C0m6rfMSmPOABFudmHBqAM.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow hospital employees protest against govt proposal||The employees of different hospitals of Lucknow abstained from work and held a candlelight protest at 1 pm, on Friday, against the government proposal to deduct various allowances.At the civil hospital, employees including pharmacists, technicians, data operators gathered at OPD area and lighted candles maintaining social distance, said Akhilesh Srivastava, UP medical and public health ministerial association.“Six different allowances have been removed from our salary and the DA has been put on hold. We are working hard during lock-down, particularly the ones in health services hence our allowances should not be deducted,” said Srivastava.Meanwhile, at KGMU also the employees including president of the employees’ council Pradip Gangwar, vice president Priya Yadav, along with other office bearers lighted candles. “Employees protested without coming close to each other. The staff of different departments remained in their departments and lighted candles maintaining distance,” said Gangwar.“If a staff gets salary around ₹50000, the minimum deduction will be around ₹3000 and more for the higher-income group,” Sunil Yadav, said the national spokesperson of the Indian public service employees federation.We understand that Covid-19 has put a lot of pressure upon the governments across the countries and we are ready to work extra for the patients but the government should also understand the need of the employees, said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-hospital-employees-protest-against-govt-proposal/story-gbG0HPchEwEPa5YSxL3kZL.html
02-05-2020||Mumbai||Police to make list of migrant labourers, pilgrims, students stranded in the city||All stations under the Mumbai Police on Thursday started the exercise of updating the list of migrant labourers, pilgrims, pilgrims, tourists, students and other stranded people under their jurisdiction, excluding those who have tested positive for Covid 19, to send them back to their hometowns. However, police sources said, apart from creating a list there is no clarity on which mode of transport will be used. Police are also asking the stranded people if they have personal means of transport that can be used. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and Mumbai Police spokesperson did not respond to calls and messages. As testing is not possible, a mandatory screening will be done for all migrant labourers. They will also be asked to produce a certificate from a registered medical practitioner, stating they are not showing any symptom of the novel coronavirus disease. The procedure will take at least three to four days to complete, said police sources.Police have released an application form for migrants to fill in their name, Aadhaar details, mobile number, address and medical certificate. The list is being prepared under the guidance of 13 zonal deputy police commissioners (DCPs) in Mumbai Police. Each zonal DCP will forward the records to a nodal officer appointed by the collector’s office. The officer will verify them and send the reports back to the local DCP’s office. A police officer, posted in Malad (East) area, said, “We have been asked to get in touch with migrant labourers and make a list of them. We know about 850 migrant labourers live under our jurisdiction and are further updating our list. We are also verifying who is a migrant labourer and who is not.” Once the list with their details--name, age, village, state, mobile number, photo identity card and the medical certificate -- is collected, a police officer will conduct a verification process and update the zonal DCP with a list of such labourers. To ensure social distancing during the exercise, a senior police officer from the central region, which is worst hit by the virus, said they are taking details of only 25 labourers per day. “We have migrants in jurisdictions of every police station. A majority of them are settled in Nagpada, Wadala, Dharavi, Byculla, Sewri and Reay Road. Every police station has been assigned a job of gathering details of 25 migrants daily. The list will be submitted to the DCP of the zone. This will not result in any chaos,” he said. Crime branch asked to supplement forceAfter police personnel above 55 years of age were sent on leave along with officials suffering major ailments, the Mumbai Police commissioner on Thursday directed 15 units of the crime branch, including anti-extortion cell (AEC), criminal intelligence unit (CIU) and property cell to assist the local police stations in handing critical containment zones in their respective zones. Joint commissioner of police Santosh Rastogi confirmed that around 150 officials from the crime branch have been deployed for Covid 19 bandobast. “The crime branch officials were deployed for bandobast which require extra force,” said Rastogi. “The crime branch is an investigation agency and is ordinarily not deployed on such duties, but due to shortage of staff in the police stations, around 150 crime branch officials from all units were deployed in most affected areas under their zone,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity. (Inputs from Manish K Pathak, Suraj Ojha and Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-to-make-list-of-migrant-labourers-pilgrims-students-stranded-in-the-city/story-qSDqX4EZfoJzQua7rmabhO.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Postal deliveries, orders in Chandigarh down by 93% amid Covid-19 lockdown||As public movement has been restricted by the curfew, the postal services have taken a substantial hit in the city. The postal orders have gone down by 96% whereas postal deliveries have been reduced by 91%, taking the overall postal services down by 93% in a month itself.In April only 6,230 speed posts, registered posts and parcels were booked at various post offices of the Chandigarh division, whereas in March this number was 1,58,180. In the lockdown period so far, only 25,424 postal orders have been delivered in the city in comparison to the 2,99,267 deliveries made in March.The office of the senior superintendent of UT post office informed: “Customers are visiting the post offices for booking of essential items including life-saving medicines, Covid-19 related medicines, equipment and kits,” adding that, “the priority is given to booking and delivery of such items.”“The delivery of mails has also been affected due to closure of various institutions and offices. However, delivery of medicines is being made on a priority basis. Other articles are delivered to the customers based on their suitability.”DOOR-TO-DOOR ATM BY POSTMENIn this hour of need, doorstep banking services are being provided through India Post Payments Bank, informed Manoj Kumar, senior superintendent of post offices, Chandigarh Postal Division. Aadhaar enabled payment service (AEPS) is another unique service being provided at doorsteps to the customer of any bank, using which they can withdraw money up to ₹10,000 provided Aadhar is linked to the bank account. “Amid the lockdown, an amount of ₹2,67,44,281 has been disbursed at doorsteps of beneficiaries using AEPS,” said Kumar.WORKING WITH ONLY 50% STAFFAs per instructions of the Government of India, only 50% staff is attending the office on a rotational basis. There are 52 post offices under the Chandigarh division, with a staff strength of 634 people. “All post offices are functional and provide all kinds of services. Only two post offices in Dappar and Aerodrome, located in the defence area, have been temporarily closed owing to an advisory issued by the authorities,” said Kumar.For any help on booking postal orders in Chandigarh, residents may dial customer care numbers 0172-2711765, 2703325. Help can also be sought through the Postinfo mobile application. For cash withdrawal at doorstep, the nearest post office or the area postman can be contacted through the mobile app. The Chandigarh India Post Payments Bank branch manager can also be reached at 9417111654.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/postal-deliveries-orders-in-chandigarh-down-by-93-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-2aGlSLSHFoyzapM9Zy1yGL.html
02-05-2020||Lucknow||Banthra slaying: Suspicion, greed lead killing of six||Suspicions of illicit relations of a sexagenarian father, greed for property, constant humiliation by a younger brother and the mother being a mute spectator to it all triggered the sensational killing of six members of a family, in a Banthra village, on Thursday evening.The six killed were identified as Amar Singh(68), Ram Sakkhi (65) his younger brother, Arun Singh (40) his wife, Ram Dulari (35) and their children – Saurabh( 9) and Sarika (2). The police arrested Amar Singh’s elder son, Ajay Singh (46) and his 19-year-old son, Avinash Singh, for executing the sensational killings.Krishna Nagar assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Deepak Kumar Singh, who was among the first responders to the incident, said it was a loathsome scene outside the house of Amar Singh in Guduali village of Banthara, when he reached the spot after getting information about the incident at around 7.30 pm.“Blood-soaked bodies of Ram Sakkhi, Arun, Ram Dulari and the two children were lying outside the house. The bodies of Ram Sakkhi and the children were found near the doorstep as if their assailants attacked them without giving a chance for them to escape. The bodies of Arun and Ram Dulari were lying some distance away which shows that they tried to escape but were attacked from behind after being chased a few meters,” he added.The body of Amar Singh was found in the farming field nearly 300 meters from the house. The ACP said that Ajay Singh and his son Avinash confessed to their crime and a sickle and a country-made firearm used in the crime have been recovered from their possession.“Ajay revealed during the interrogation that he suspected his father had illicit relations with his younger brother (Arun)’s wife, as the former used to give all his money to her, had purchased her ornaments recently, and was planning to transfer his entire farming land to her name. His younger brother, Arun, used to humiliate him whenever he used to stake a claim to the property.“Ajay often had arguments with his father and brother over the issue and even had a confrontation over selling some part of the family land for ₹ 8 lakh only a few days before the lockdown,” said the ACP.He said that around 15 days ago, Ajay had approached his mother requesting her to intercede on his behalf, so that he could get his share in the property but she refused to get involved.“Amar was feeling betrayed by his parents and brother and had planned their elimination since then. He first convinced his teenage son to assist him in the crime and then made all the preparations to commit it,” the ACP said.He said that Ajay planned to commit the crime in the evening as he was aware that no villager would turn up to help them, as all remain indoors at that time due to the lockdown. He procured a firearm from a local goon and handed over the sickle to his son before leaving to commit the crime.“The post-mortem of the bodies confirmed that all had injuries of a sharp-edged weapon but Arun’s body also sustained a bullet injury,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/banthra-slaying-suspicion-greed-lead-killing-of-six/story-A1CFls6fxniHI1d3PBeMCN.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn launches helpline for stranded migrants, tourists||With the Central government allowing the movement of migrant workers, students and tourists during the lockdown, the Chandigarh administration has created a portal for registration of those stranded in the city and residents stranded in other states.The administration has to prepare a list and register such persons, and thereafter arrange for their transportation. A stranded person has to log on to http://chandigarh.gov.in or http://admser.chd.nic.in/migrant, fill in the basic details and submit after giving the OTP received on his/her mobile phone. Alternatively, those unable to do so can call on the helpline number 1800-180-2067 where the details can be provided telephonically (from 8am to 8pm) daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-launches-helpline-for-stranded-migrants-tourists/story-WEpwmVPx2ioriKZ2WeJzDP.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Wireless communication, commercialisation of technology discussed during webinar at Panjab University||Wireless communication and commercialisation of technology were discussed during a webinar organised by the department of electronics and communication engineering of Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) on Friday.The webinar was sponsored by the third phase of technical education quality improvement programme (TEQIP-III).Professor Sunil Joshi from Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur, spoke on the tkey components of the channel response and commonly used empirical models such as Hata Model.Professor Arvind Kumar from National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, spoke about the massive MIMO technology to grow 5G capacity.During the third session, Surender Singh Saini from CSIO-CSIR spoke on the commercialisation and transfer of technology. He also spoke on challenges at individual-level, technology-level, organisation-level and national-level. He said commercialisation of the technology was not a one-time phenomenon, but a continuous process for sustained technological growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wireless-communication-commercialisation-of-technology-discussed-during-webinar-at-pu/story-MoEakVh9XklZSaO4Vl5wMN.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||School body seeks clarity on govt order, deadline for late fee payment||The Haryana Progressive School Conference, a consortium of private schools, on Thursday, wrote to the chief minister demanding that the government issue appropriate clarifications and directions regarding fee payment by parents in the absence of which schools would be dependent on government reimbursement for paying salaries of employees. While the parents have sought a fee waiver, the district education department reiterated that all stakeholders must comply with its last order. On April 23, the state government had ordered that private schools could only seek monthly tuition fee till the time the lockdown continues. HPSC, however, claims that the government order had been misinterpreted by some parents who were hoping for a fee exemption. The HPSC said the government needed to clarify that no fee exemption had been directed and only deferment of payment of fee components other than ‘Tuition Fee’ had been granted for the duration of lockdown. In the absence of clarifications, schools will not be able to pay for the salaries of employees, said HPSC.“At ground level, the order is being misinterpreted by parents who think that no fee other than ‘tuition fee’ can be charged at all, even at a later date. It is our appeal that either the government provides aforementioned reimbursement or issues the directions requested to prevent a situation where schools are pushed to the wall and left with no other option but to stop salaries of their entire staff, teachers, admin staff, drivers, conductors, maids, guards and all employees, who would lose their livelihood,” states the letter.HPSC senior vice-president Colonel (retired) KR Pratap Singh said school will not be able to pay salaries of employees if fee deferment continued for long. He added that some schools had failed to pay the complete salaries to employees due to financial hardships. “The government has said that schools should not put pressure on parents to pay. We are complying with the order, but the cash flow needs to be maintained. If all parents decide to not pay, schools will have no other option but to depend on government reimbursements for paying salaries of employees,” said Singh.The HPSC also asked the government to clarify the last date for fee payment and suggested that June 30 be treated as a deadline, following which fee-defaulters can be removed from the school records. The April 23 order issued by the government mentions no last date for fee payment and clearly states that no student’s name can be struck off the roll for non-payment of fee.“Moreover, it should be made mandatory for such parents who can pay fee, to pay the fee on time,” the letter stated. Kailash Sharma, general secretary of Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said the government needed to remove the word deferred from its previous order and issue new orders stating a waiver. “The government has only deferred the payment of fees which means that schools would charge an exorbitant fee after the lockdown. Parents need to be given a waiver in light of the job losses and financial distress that they are facing,” said Sharma.District education officer Indu Boken said all stakeholders were expected to abide by the last order on fee payment, issued on April 23. “The government had issued an order on April 23. Since then, no new order on fee payment has been given. The last order mentioned that fee payment of certain components had been deferred. Moreover, schools cannot take punitive action for non-payment of fee,” Boken said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/school-body-seeks-clarity-on-govt-order-deadline-for-late-fee-payment/story-AojYAlWoWhAtGBjFD6Mt2K.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram reports 6 new cases of Covid-19; all patients had links with Delhi||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reached 63 in the city after six new cases were reported on Friday. Health officials said that all the six people, who have contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, had links with Delhi. “Three persons from Dundahera, two from Sector 18 and one from Jyoti Nagar tested positive for the virus. Investigation and contact tracing revealed that they all had visited Delhi or met with Covid-19 positive residents of Delhi,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO).The man from Dundahera had visited Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for get treatment for his epileptic son. “The man returned to Gurugram on April 22 for a day while his son was undergoing treatment in Delhi. He got himself tested in Delhi before he came to Gurugram and returned to Delhi the next day. On April 25, he was confirmed positive for the coronavirus and was admitted to AIIMS, Jhajjar. Doctors in Delhi informed us about the case. Our teams collected the samples of all those he had come contact with. Three of them were tested positive for Covid-19,” said Punia.A young male, a resident of Jyoti Nagar, who worked for a referral ambulance service in Delhi, was also confirmed positive, while two men from Sector 18, who run a self-finance company, came in contact with a Delhi-based coronavirus positive patient this week after he visited Gurugram for some work. “The two men got themselves tested after their contact in Delhi was confirmed Covid-19 positive,” said Punia. Of the 63 cases reported in Gurugram, 38 have been discharged and 25 are currently undergoing treatment.In Faridabad too, eight new cases were reported on Friday. Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner(DC), Faridabad, said of the eight new cases, six are contacts of two vegetable vendors who had tested positive before, one is an auto driver with a travel history to Mathura, and one is a pharmacist at a private hospital in Delhi. 61 cases have been reported till now, out of which 42 have been discharged and 18 are undergoing treatment.The state government has sealed Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar borders with Delhi, on the grounds that the cases reported in these districts had links with Delhi. Except for movement for essential items and services, public movement has been restricted across the borders.RAPID TESTINGThe district health team has started the rapid antibody testing in Jharsa, using the recently procured South Korean Rapid Testing Kits (RTKs). A total of 88 people were tested, of whom all were reported to be negative,said the health officials. The team visited a hostel where 350 nurses of Medanta Hospital were residing. Of these, 20 nurses were on leave while some of them were on duty. The health team collected 54 samples from Khandsa vegetable mandi (market) after conducting surveillance of 1,254 people. These samples have been sent to PGIMS, Rohtak for the RT-PCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-reports-6-new-cases-of-covid-19-all-patients-had-links-with-delhi/story-QEfXBONaWR76sYtTgOWS3J.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 update: Gurugram classified as ‘orange zone’ as lockdown is extended||Gurugram on Friday was classified as an orange zone, from earlier red zone, by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. An orange zone includes districts where new cases are emerging, but at a decreasing rate. A red zone is a hotspot area where cases there is a steady jump in cases frequently. Green zones are areas where no confirmed case has been reported in the last 21 days. The new colour code for Gurugram, however, is unlikely to spell any relief in terms of relaxations in lockdown norms, unless the state government frames specific guidelines regarding the same, district administration officials said. Districts in orange or red zones in the state will continue to work towards breaking the chain of transmission through effective and stringent containment measures. The Central government on Friday had extended the Covid-19 lockdown, which started on March 25 last month, by 14 more days. “Central government has changed the classification of red and orange zones by redefining the parameters. But the new classification won’t lead to relaxation till the state government gives its own orders based on the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs for measures that need to be taken in red, orange and green zones in the extended lockdown,” said VS Kundu, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), who is also the monitoring in-charge for Covid-19 in Gurugram.In Haryana, two districts — Faridabad and Sonepat — continue to be in the red zone, while Gurugram, Nuh, Palwal and 15 other districts are under orange zone. Only Mahendergarh and Rewari are under green zone. Till now, 357 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state, of which 112 are undergoing treatment. Gurugram, Nuh, Palwal and Faridabad have been the most affected districts. At least 63 cases have been reported from Gurugram, 61 from Faridabad, 58 from Nuh and at least 34 from Palwal.There has been a change how colour coding is decided, with the Union government now factoring in other aspects — like doubling rate of Covid-19 cases, testing and surveillance — instead of just looking at cumulative number of cases. In Haryana, cases are doubling after every 20 days. On Thursday, Union health ministry had written to all states and said state government can designate additional red and orange zones but they cannot relax rules in the districts already classified as red or orange zone by the Central government. The colour-coding of districts will remain a dynamic process as it will be revised weekly. Currently, there are 130 red zone districts across the country, 284 orange zones and 319 green zones.As per the MHA guidelines, in an orange district like Gurugram maximum precautions will be taken in the containment zones, with restriction on public movement — except for medical emergencies and for supply of essential goods and services. Even in areas outside the containment zones, interstate movement will be restricted. Schools, colleges, cinema halls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, theatres, bars and other public places will continue to remain closed. However, taxis and cabs will be allowed to ply with a driver and two passengers. Inter-district movement will be allowed only for permitted activities.Being an orange zone, the Gurugram administration has already permitted 513 industries to operate.Lav Agrwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, on Friday said, “Districts under the red and orange zone will have break the chain of transmission through effective and stringent containment measures.” He said that these districts will have to be delineated based on mapping of cases and contacts, their geographical dispersion, stringent perimeter control, like setting up clear entry and exit points, restricted movement — except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services — no unchecked influx of population, active surveillance, contact tracing, clinical management of all confirmed cases. Also, in the buffer zone, people infected with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) will have to be monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-classified-as-orange-zone-as-lockdown-is-extended/story-I0JhiWLFkhFlTr2IUkZAEO.html
02-05-2020||Noida||Crime in Noida drops by 93% in April ’20 compared to 2019||Noida city has seen 93% fewer criminal cases get filed this April over the same period last year. The suicide rate, too, has gone down by 40%, shows police data with officials attributing this sharp decline to the ongoing nationwide lockdown declared to check the spread of highly contagious novel coronavirus that attacks the respiratory system. According to the data from six police stations of zone 1 (sectors 20, 24, 39, 49, 58 and Expressway), the number of crimes has gone down from 209 cases in 2019 to 14 in 2020 between April 1 and April 28.“There has been a significant drop in crime this month compared to the previous year; the major reason being the ongoing lockdown. The trend is same for all major crimes such as snatching, vehicle theft, kidnapping, rape etc,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Sankalp Sharma.The exceptions this April were a single case each of murder, one attempt to murder and public disturbance. Last April, no cases were filed under these heads.There was 100% reduction in cases of rape, kidnapping, serious assault, fraud and robbery as compared to seven, 12, three, 14 and six cases of each, respectively, last year.Cases for snatching went down from 15 to just two this month while those for vehicle theft went from 108 to three; theft cases went down from 44 to six.Among the police stations, sectors 24 and 59 saw a 100% reduction in crime with no cases registered at either of the police stations. The Expressway police station registered one case, of theft, compared to total 11 cases in this period last year, sector 49 registered two cases of vehicle theft and one murder compared to total 49 last year. Sector 20 police station lodged three cases (two of theft and one snatching) instead of 45 last year, while sector 39 police filed eight cases (one each of snatching, fraud, attempt to murder, vehicle theft and public disturbance and three for other thefts) from 43 last year.“The number of suicide cases have also seen a drop of 40% from 10 last year to six this April,” said the DCP.In 2019 five men and women ended their lives whereas this year three people committed suicide, one each in sectors 39, 25 and 49, respectively.Other zones have also shown a reduction in the crime cases in April.“Crime has gone down by more than 90%. There have been a few calls of mental disturbance or depression where police provided guidance and counseling,” DCP (zone 2) Harish Chandra said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/crime-in-noida-drops-by-93-in-april-20-compared-to-2019/story-UNtVSXwmSb3K2A2NHo23wJ.html
02-05-2020||Noida||Noida: Trucker, 35 others nabbed while attempting to flee to Bihar||At least 36 people were nabbed by Noida police on Friday for allegedly attempting to flee to Bihar from a Covid-19 hotspot, under Sector 20 police jurisdiction.The incident was reported from Sector 8 which is currently a red zone hotspot. A person dialled the police and said that a truck driver was offering to take people to Bihar.The suspect was identified as Rakesh Kumar who drives a mini truck for a transporter. According to police officials, he was charging passengers Rs 2000 each for a lift till Bihar. Kumar is also a native of Bihar.“He was nabbed from near Sector 8 power house at 12.50 am following a tip-off from an informant. The passengers were all migrants living in shanty clusters in Sector 8,” said RK Singh, station house office, Sector 20 police station.Police officials said that the driver had used his local contacts to tell people that he was willing to ferry them back to their hometowns for a certain sum of money. Being from the same area, Sector 8,  he knew most of his passengers, police said.Apart from the driver, there were 35 passengers who were nabbed. The driver was booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code as well as relevant sections of the epidemic act 1897 and the National Disaster Management Act 2005. The truck was also seized by police based on section 207 of the motor vehicle act.The passengers were only booked under section 188 for violation of the guidelines of the lockdown.“All the suspects, including the driver, were granted interim bail according to the provided provisions after which they were sent back to their homes in the hotspot area,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.Noida police has been cracking down on violators of the lockdown. Since March 23, the district police has arrested more than 4300 people for various violations like unauthorized gatherings or not wearing masks in public while more than 1,200 cases have been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-trucker-35-others-nabbed-while-attempting-to-flee-to-bihar/story-M5lzJN1l6wC3DRsMhQAA2H.html
02-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar reports 17 new Covid-19 cases, 11 from JJ slums||The Gautam Budh Nagar district reported 17 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Friday afternoon when the total number of cases touched 155 of which 65 are active. Officials had received reports of 333 swab samples, out of which 17 were positive while 316 came negative. Eleven of the 17 who tested positive reside in the slums of JJ Colony, spread chiefly across Sectors 8 and 5 with its peripheries also touching sectors 10, 9 and 4 in Noida. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases from Sector 8 has reached. Since April 8, officials have shifted around 400 persons from slums in sectors 8 and 5 to government quarantine centres as a precautionary measure after four persons—one of whom was linked to fire safety solutions firm Ceasefire—tested positive for Covid-19 in the Sector 5 JJ Colony.Others who tested positive include a 36-year-old man from Sector 9, two senior citizens—a 71-year-old man from the Ace Golfshire in Sector 150 and a 76-year-old man from Sector 55—the wife of a Sector 55 patient, a 55-year-old man from Advocate Colony in PI 1st area of Greater Noida and 35-year-old from Skytech Matrott society in Sector 76. All the Sector 8 residents who tested positive on Friday were already under institutional quarantine, which has helped in containing the spread of Covid-19, health department officials said, adding that keeping people under institutional quarantine also helped stop community spread in slums of Sectors 8 and 5.They are yet to identify the exact source of infection among the 28 persons from Sector 8 but suspect the virus was first transmitted by four Sector 5 residents linked to Ceasefire company or the people who had direct or indirect contacts with those who had attended the religious congregation in last March in Delhi.“All the persons found positive for the infection were already under quarantine. In the past also, people who were found positive were under quarantine at our center. There are over 8,000 families living in the slums of sector 8 and 5 and we have managed to successfully contain the spread there through contact tracing,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Meanwhile, two Covid patients, including a 9-year-old girl and a 39-year-old man (Ceasefire emplouee), were discharged from Sharda Hospital. The man is the only patient till now who had developed pneumonia and needed a ventilator. He was discharged after 37 days of successful treatment.By Friday night, the health department had notified 2,161 travelers. Officials collected 3,618 samples and 697 persons remain under institutional quarantine.HOT SPOTSThe health department declared 10 new hot spots as these areas had no Resident’s Welfare Associations to stop spread of Covid in these high-density areas.Villages in Greater Noida, including Tilpata, Bisrakh, Aichhar village in Dadri, Begumpur in Kulsera and Jaunchana in Jewar, are among the 10 identified hot spots where there are no RWAs. The remaining areas include Nithari, Chautpur, Kakrala, Sector 9 and 10 in Noida. Sectors 5 and 8 and Chauda village were already red zones.The police department has been asked to ensure that social distancing is followed strictly in these areas and action should be taken against violators as per protocol. Health teams will be visiting these areas to survey each and every house to identify people with Covid-like symptoms and to spread awareness about the virus. Suspects will be put under institutional quarantine and samples will be collected as per the protocol. Development authorities have been asked to increase sanitization of these areas.THREE PREGNANT COVID CASES AT GIMSA Bisrakh woman, who is in her last trimester of pregnancy, was admitted to the GIMS after she tested positive for Covid-19 in Ghaziabad, where she lives in her marital home. After testing positive, the woman, travelled to her maternal house in Bisrakh. She then went to the Sharda hospital for a regular check-up. As per protocol, she was suggested she take the Covid-19 test to which she informed the healthcare workers that she had already undergone this test and showed her report. The woman was immediately shifted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, where two other pregnant women are being treated for COVID-19; one has delivered a baby who was Covid-negative and sent home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-reports-17-new-covid-19-cases-11-from-jj-slums/story-eUmr33zOpJ9K8jvYvRLARL.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Graded easing of curbs to give most relief to low-risk regions||The Union home ministry’s order of extending the nationwide lockdown till May 17 has opened some room for conditional relaxations in the Capital. Movement of limited people in private vehicles, opening of essential shops in markets and shopping complexes, partial operations of private offices, in terms of physical attendance, industrial activities in notified estates and industrial areas, and in-situ construction activities could soon become a reality.However, none of the relaxations would be applicable to the containment zones. Till Friday, Delhi had 3,738 cases of Covid-19 and 96 containment zones.As on May 1, all 11 revenue districts in Delhi were hot spots or red zones. The fresh order, however, has listed seven broad areas in which even districts categorised as red zones can permit certain activities with conditional restrictions, but not inside notified containment zones.Operation of public transport, taxi services, autorickshaws, barbershops, spas and salons are explicitly prohibited in the red zones. The order also continued the ban on the sale of non-essential items by e-commerce companies.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that the Capital, so far, has managed to turn four containment zones into green zones. However, these areas continue to be within districts that have mostly been categorised as a red zone or a high-risk zone.“Before scaling down restrictions in any locality, we will conduct thorough medical screening of each and every resident in the area. The relaxations, accordingly, will be based on the medical results of the population in that area,” said Jain.The health minister said that the Delhi government will soon come out with its own order to clarify allowed activities during the extended lockdown. State governments have been empowered to not allow any relaxation or impose stricter restrictions, if it deems fit, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city.Under the MHA’s order issued on Friday, states can allow movement of individuals and vehicles (with a maximum of three occupants in cars and one occupant on two-wheelers) under permitted activities. “We need some clarification from the Centre on whether ‘permitted activities’ can extend essential services,” a Delhi government official said.The order stated that all stand-alone and neighbourhood shops, and those in residential complexes, irrespective of essential or non-essential goods, are allowed to remain open, but social distancing and wearing of masks by the staff are essential.Private offices can operate with 33% staff strength physically present on the premises and the rest working from home, the order states. All government officials, of deputy secretary rank and higher, can function with 100% staff, while 33% staff strength is allowed for other ranks.“We were already deliberating on opening some services under the public service sector, that include basics such as the issuance of birth certificate, death certificates, income certificates and caste certificates. The order provides room for that,” said another government official.Some of the enlisted activities that can witness scaling down of restrictions are reiterations of old guidelines, for instance, allowing activities in notified industrial areas and construction activity at sites that provide for accommodation of workers.Alcohol shops in Delhi are not likely to open, said senior officials, adding that the provisions regarding scaling down curbs on alcohol shops are applicable in public places, which essentially mean areas within orange and green zones. Delhi currently has none of them.Under the fresh order, states have been tasked with evaluating categories of districts in terms of red, orange and green zones, every seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/graded-easing-of-curbs-to-give-most-relief-to-low-risk-regions/story-WDpfUHGo3Jc7ITfHYjPOiP.html
02-05-2020||Noida||Noida authority to expedite work on industrial plot allotment scheme||The Noida authority on Friday said that it has decided to expedite the work on an industrial plot allotment scheme, which was delayed due to the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25. Now the authority has decided to carry out all the formalities related to the scheme in the month of May so that the remaining work can be started right after the lockdown ends.The Noida authority had in January 1, 2020 started the process of allotting industrial plots of size more than 5 acres. These plots will be allotted through lucky draw after all applications are screened and interviewed, said officials. Many applicants have submitted their applications for the industrial plots. The authority was supposed to allot these plots in March. But due to the imposition of the lockdown, the process was halted. Now the authority wants to finish the process to accept the applications. The authority has roped in UP Industrial Consultants Limited (UPICO) as a consultant, which has started screening all the applications. “We have asked the UPICO to examine all forms by May 6 and inform applicants if there are any discrepancies in the form. Once it is done, the remaining process should be finished by May 20 so that further work can be started right after the lockdown ends,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer(CEO), Noida authority. The authority has a limited number of plots under this industrial plot scheme, which is meant for large-sized industrial units. These plots fall in areas such as sectors 157, 158 and 159 and those located along the Noida Expressway. The authority has a total of 350 hectares of industrial land that has not been allotted so far. Noida, a Delhi suburb spread across 20,000 hectares of land between the Yamuna and Hindon rivers, has grown into a residential town with 47% of its total area meant for residential purposes and 13% for industries. Noida was established in 1976 with an aim to encourage industrialisation and job-creation. The focus shifted from industrial to residential in early 2000s. Now, however, the authority wants to focus solely on industrial growth to fuel the local economy and create jobs in order to make up for the loss in the real estate sector, which is seeing sales plummet to an all-time low, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-to-expedite-work-on-industrial-plot-allotment-scheme/story-AOScdYT8JaNq5C7FimFYNO.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Cases higher in Delhi due to scaled-up testing, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the number of Covid-19 cases in the national Capital is high because his government has scaled up testing for the disease and said there is nothing to rumours that say plasma therapy trials in Delhi could be stopped. The CM added that the trials are going on “in full swing” and that the government has identified over 1,000 more donors. In a digital address to the media, Kejriwal said Delhi is conducting as many as 2,300 Covid-19 tests per million population, which is higher than the national average of around 500 tests per million. At present, Delhi has conducted over 50,000 tests, of which about 7,000 are in the containment zones.  Delhi’s dashboard on Friday stood at 3,738 positive cases. The city-state has 96 containment zones, spread across all 11 districts that have been marked as red zones.“When we see that Delhi has recorded over 3,500 cases till now, the number may appear to be very high. But, this is because we are testing aggressively. That is also why we are setting up so many containment zones so that the detected cases can be isolated and the chain of transmission can be broken,” Kejriwal said. He also said that analysing the national data, Delhi has more recoveries and fewer deaths than other states. As per ICMR data until April 30, Delhi had the lowest fatality rate, 1.7% of total cases, among the five states with the highest number of cases. The national average is 3.3%.Rajasthan, however, had the highest recovery rate, of 34.4%, followed by Delhi, at 31.1%. The national average 25.19%.PLASMA THERAPY TRIALAsserting that initial results of the plasma therapy trials have been positive, the chief minister said that these will not be discontinued. “A few days ago, the Central government had made some remarks (about the use of the therapy) after which many people asked me if Delhi is discontinuing the trials. No, we are not. In fact, trials are going on in full swing,” he said. His reference is to the health ministry’s clarification that the experimental treatment can only be done as a trial, and with requisite regulatory approval. Kejriwal also said that “almost all” the 1,100 people who recovered in Delhi are willing to donate plasma.“We got permission from the Centre to conduct plasma trials at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. The first patient to have recovered has been discharged. He was very serious and was in the ICU (intensive care unit). So, the initial results are very promising,” the chief minister said.MORE RATION FROM THIS MONTHOn the occasion of the International Labour Day, Kejriwal announced that the Delhi government will be increasing the free ration quota to every cardholder from this month. “We are increasing the quantum of ration from 7.5kg to 10kg per person from this month and it will continue to be free. Usually, ration cardholders were entitled to 5kg of ration at subsidised rates. Last month, we had made it free and increased it by 1.5 times to 7.5kg. So, this month we have doubled people’s ration quota from what it was during non-Covid times,” he said. The chief minister also said that the government will soon begin distribution of kits having oils, rice, chillies, salt, soap, etc. He also urged the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers to help the needy people in their respective areas.MOVEMENT OF STUDENTS AND MIGRANT WORKERSThe Delhi government on Friday sent 45 buses from Delhi to Kota, to ferry back students stranded in the Rajasthan town. Senior government officials said that at least 800 students are expected to return to the Capital.“I am hoping that by tomorrow, these buses will come back,” Kejriwal said. “The Centre, last week, allowed inter-state movement of students, migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and others,” said Kejriwal, adding that the Delhi government is in talks with Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana and Jharkhand to facilitate the movement of migrant workers, pilgrims and others who want to go return to their home town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cases-higher-in-delhi-due-to-scaled-up-testing-says-kejriwal/story-qg5HV9JEoDTvRBxCDf9FEN.html
02-05-2020||Pune||PCMC’s tech-driven Covid-19 ‘war room’ gives updates at a glance||When the national lockdown to deal with the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemic was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 23, Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar realised that this would mean more than just a government order.The police force alone would not be able to enforce it on its own but would require the support of other departments. Realising this, Hardikar said, “We quickly put a team together that first outlined the plan. We were already working on building a Smart City for Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), but realised that what an epidemic needed was a ‘war room’. “A war room is a concept of managing an exigency under a central command.The goal of the war room was to integrate human interface with data and technology with intelligence to plan strategically.Work began on March 15 and it was ready by March 23. “We started with one computer, but now we are full-fledged and the daily reporting comes out systematically from our dashboard,” said Hardikar.The war room has eight screens, a dashboard and a huge network to keep a watch on the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Every clinic, every diagnostic centre (including three government institutions and seven private facilities) are connected to this facility at the PCMC.“Anytime a doctor examines a patient and suspects that he may be infected with Covid-19, the data is noted and sent to the central war room. After testing, the reports are notified. Patients who are advised to self- isolate are tracked via a GIS (Geographic Information System) encrypted within the system. Every time he ventures out, the information is visible on one of the eight screens and action is initiated,” said Hardikar.“Apart from tracking patients, even a gathering of people in these curfew times is immediately noted for further action. Police and medical teams keep a constant vigil on the screens and the dashboard,” he said.The dashboard shows all the information needed to keep a watch on the epidemic. “One look at the dashboard and it will tell us how many positives, how many are admitted to hospitals in PCMC and outside; how many patients are not from PCMC, but admitted in our hospitals and how many recoveries, discharged, deaths,” he said.”It also tells how many are quarantined so that our team can make field visits. “Our team visits a containment zone every alternate day,” said the PCMC civic chief.The dashboard also throws up real-time info on hotspots that are linked to the GIS which help in taking decisions related to sealing of various zones. With surveillance cameras, our police teams can take action on violations, added Hardikar.In addition to this PCMC has a call centre linked to their app, Saarthi, as well as a ChatBot on WhatsApp where residents can register a complaint. The ChatBot has a location tracker and that helps in geo-fencing their residence if need be.What is a war room and how does it work?A war room is a concept of managing an exigency under a central command.The war room has eight screens, a dashboard and a huge network to keep a watch on the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. Every clinic, every diagnostic centre (including three government institutions and seven private facilities) are connected to this facility at the PCMC.The dashboard shows all the information needed to keep a watch on the epidemic.The dashboard also throws up real-time info on hotspots that are linked to the GIS which help in taking decisions related to sealing of various zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pcmc-s-tech-driven-covid-19-war-room-gives-updates-at-a-glance/story-4HIJlPKJheH9zsL4TMBzPO.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Kho Kho athletes miss crucial ground practice, says chairman of the Maharashtra kho kho association||The month of April and May is packed with summer camps and private tournaments for kho kho athletes in the city. However, this year kho kho action has been put on hold due to covid-19 restrictions.The camps are a great opportunity to spot raw talent especially in the under-14 age category, according to Sachin Godbole, chairman of the Maharashtra kho kho association.“Summer camps are something which are conducted on a large extent in Maharashtra during these two months. Many camps also take place in villages across the state,” Godbole added.Prior to the lockdown, the city was geared up to conduct the mayor’s kho kho cup where athletes from across the state had assembled at the Sanas ground hostel. However, the tournament was cancelled last minute. Most athletes have returned home from Pune.It is difficult to explain kho kho techniques over video conference, according to Godbole.“On the ground, you can quickly give a demo and players comprehend it,” he said.More than the association, individual coaches and umpires are currently in touch with the players and many of them are sending athletes videos of fitness drills on a daily basis.“What I have asked the coaches to do is to keep the athletes mentally fresh because many players may overthink in the current scenario and keeping them motivated is very important at the moment,” added Godbole.The association is currently focusing on conducting online practice exams for umpires and coaches.“A few days back we just announced an online practice exam for umpires. The idea behind it was to keep umpires in touch with rules. We have received a good number of entries and many new entrants tried to crack it. Now, we will be doing a similar thing for coaches,” Godbole said.Normal season predictionMost of the kho kho tournaments are conducted in September, October and November annually and the association is hoping that things will return to normal by September this year.“The months of June, July and August are generally an off season for kho kho players where most of them focus on fitness. Due to the rainy season, grounds in the city are not available so our players prepare themselves in these three months and stay ready for the tournaments,” added Godbole.Funding challengesKho kho is a traditional sport that attracts funding from most political parties, however with a large number of donations going to covid-19 response this year, it may hurt the sport.“How much leaders would be able to support sports, we cannot say at the moment. Even if they are willing to do it, they need to check their budget and currently there are many other priorities than sports,” Godbole said.The Maharashtra kho kho association has made a contribution of Rs 1,11,000 to the chief minister’s relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kho-kho-athletes-miss-crucial-ground-practice-godbole/story-S4lCM1zbKH4vKFBhWONcQO.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune reports seven deaths, 93 fresh cases on Friday||The city reported seven deaths due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) and 93 fresh cases on Friday. The death toll in Pune city is now 92 and the progressive positive count of Covid-19 is 1,611. Fifty-one patients were discharged also after being declared as completely cured of the virus taking the count to 325 people who have been discharged, said officials.The seven deaths include three deaths from Sassoon hospital. The first death was of an 80-year-old woman from Kavadi Malwadi, Pune who died due to Covid-19 on April 30 at 11.45 am. Her swab report came early on Friday morning. She had bilateral pneumonia and obstructive uropathy. The second death was reported of a 65-year-old male, a chronic alcoholic from Tadiwala road Pune who was symptomatic since April 16 and admitted to the hospital on April 21 and tested positive on April 22. He was declared dead on May at 1 at 7:15 am. The patient also suffered from bilateral pneumonitis, acute kidney disease, myocarditis. The third death was of a 71-year-old female, residing at Tadiwala road who was reported dead on May 1 at 12.35 pm. She was suffering from acute respiratory failure, bilateral extensive pneumonitis, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and obesity.Two deaths were reported from Bharati hospital, one of a 68-year-old male from Nana peth reported with reported bilateral pneumonia, diabetes and hypertension. He was declared dead on Thursday night and another 75-year-old male from Parvati Darshan who suffered from multi-organ failure refractory shock Covid-19 and pneumonia. He was declared dead on Friday morning. One death was reported from Symbiosis hospital of a 75-year-old male residing at Siddharthnagar who was reported dead on May 1 at 5:30 am and also suffering from fungal sepsis with renal dysfunction with septic and a 51- year-old male from Laxminagar, Yerawada reported from KEM hospital reported dead on May 1 at 8:30 am also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Currently, 1,057 patients are still in various hospitals undergoing treatment for Covid-19 out of which 64 are critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-reports-seven-deaths-93-fresh-cases-on-friday/story-sTpHwwODCfVBxzATy2uVcJ.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Home surveys help detect 25.69% of Covid-19 positive cases in Pune||Data published by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has revealed that of the 1,518 positive persons in the city as of April 30, 42.2 % (642) were cases identified through first contact tracing of the positive patients.Home surveys helped in the detection of 390 cases (25.69%) while 10% cases (152) were detected through mobile ambulances. People with foreign travel history accounted for just 1.2% (19) of the cases; 0.3% (5) through flu clinics set up by the PMC and 20.42% (310) through other sources.About 16 per cent (246) of the positive patients were traced to the Nizamuddin Markaj event in Delhi or were their close contacts or sub-contacts.This event emerged as a hotspot after multiple attendees tested positive across the country. As per the data, only 1.2 percent or 19 positive patients had a foreign travel history for the infection which originally came from outside the country.Younger age group now most affectedWhile earlier maximum number of cases were being reported from an age group of 31-40, the bar of most infected age group has now shifted to the 20-30 age group. Out of the 1518 cases reported, 291 are from the age group of 20-30, while as of April 25, the age group of 30-40 age group was the most infected, currently the latter age group has 283 positive cases. Most deaths, 24 out of 85, have been recorded in the age group of 50-60.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/home-surveys-help-detect-25-69-of-covid-19-positive-cases-in-pune/story-KYSEFBihOrR6ZUHw9JkHvL.html
02-05-2020||Pune||‘From towing the two-wheeler to on spot repair, we are offering free service’||Harish Angolkar, president, Scooter, Motorcycle Repairer Research Association People associated with emergency services required in the fight against Covid-19 (coronavirus) do not have to worry about being stranded if their two-wheelers develop a technical snag. A call to the Scooter, Motorcycle Repairer Research Association (SMRRA) will help locate mechanics in the area. The association’s president, Harish Angolkar, 57, says that all repair work is free of cost. Angolkar who is a mechanical engineer also has a garage called Automaint in Model colony. The association has 450 members in Pune.What exactly is your role in this crisis?Our garages have been shut March 21, however, we would receive numerous calls from essential workers regarding technical sag in their vehicles. After a video call with the members of the association,we decided to help them. From towing the two-wheeler to repairing on the spot, we are offering them free service, we only charge for the parts which need replacing. We have created a team of 25 members who have the garage and the house together to save travelling out. We have covered areas like Bibvewadi, Kothrud, Karvenagar, Model Colony, Shivajinagar, Sadashiv peth, Shaniwar peth, and Deccan gymkhana. We directly went to the police with our request and they not only supported us but also guided us on how to reach a spot immediately when needed. We have offered help to 350 people so far out of which 40 per cent are police officials. The first case was that of a doctor from Ratna hospital, near my garage in Model Colony.How does your day begin and roll out?I am a professional badminton player hence I exercise on my house terrace. I start taking calls post 9 am. Once I get a call, I confirm if the person is an essential worker and then coordinate with the association member in the area. This continues till 4 pm. We have also received distress calls at night.What precautions are you taking?We always wear masks, jackets and gloves. We do not allow customers to stand with us while we are doing repair work, We ask them about the problem on call and tend to the vehicle alone. We use a sanitiser before and after the repair work is done.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis n Pune? How is it unfolding?The civic administration is doing a very good job, but some people do not understand the graveness of the situation. In peth areas, people are using the time period, which is given to purchase essential products, to roam around instead of sitting at home. I appeal to people to not misuse this time period.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?A lot of people are not receiving credible information and hence believe in rumours which creates panic. Recently in Wadharwadi someone mentioned that free food grains were being donated and people gathered in the chowk, causing problems for the police. People should be firm and only buy essentials at one time, it not necessary to go out every day, plus they should take advantage of weekly or 15-day food packages which are sold by many green grocers and vegetable sellers to reduce the number of outings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/from-towing-the-two-wheeler-to-on-spot-repair-we-are-offering-free-service/story-EBWTRrQDf0dKdVLiq7N5MN.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Swach makes alternate arrangements for garbage collection in Aundh Bopodi, Ghole road||The waste collection system of Pune Municipal Corporation has suffered a disruption in some localities due to the Covid-19 lockdown in Pune city.Nearly 45% of the conservancy staff lives in the Patil Estate slums in Shivajinagar which is one of the hotspots with a high number of Covid-19 positive cases.Since these waste-pickers cannot move out of their areas, the localities affected are those under the Aundh and Ghole road ward office.Priya Kathuria, manager operations, Swach cooperative said the Swach staff will assist the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in assigning alternative collection system through PMC vehicles as far as possible.“PMC and Swach are working together to ensure the inconvenience caused to the citizens is minimized,” she said.“We have a total of 303 wastepickers out of which 140 are from Patil Estate, covering from Bopodi to Balewadi, servicing 36,000 households , and 250 Swach members out of which 108 are from Patil Estate servicing 16,080 households in the Ghole road ward,” she said.She said waste is now being collected alternate days, with the help of Ghanta Gadi, and where the Ghanta Gadi cannot reach, ragpickers on duty are doubling their duties of collecting garbage. “It has been only two days that this system in place,” she added. Residents have been advised to compost their biodegradable waste at home, so that delays or disruptions will not cause too much inconvenience to the citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/swach-makes-alternate-arrangements-for-garbage-collection-in-aundh-bopodi-ghole-road/story-0MaLvG8SRo4l3rUlgmEGHL.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Pune residents living in hotspots follow lockdown restrictions, stay indoors||With a spike in Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases in the city, the Pune police implemented strict restrictions on Friday in hotspots that fall under the jurisdiction of 10 police stations. These restrictions will be applicable from May 1 to May 3.The ten police station include Samarth police station, Khadak police station, Faraskhana police station, while specific areas under Swargate police station, Lashkar police station, Bundgarden police station, Sahakarnagar police station, Dattawadi police station, Yerawada police station and Khadki police station.On Friday, a visit to Bhavani peth, Pune Cantonment and Kasba peth revealed that the residents in these areas did not step out of their homes. Only those engaged in social work like distributing of food were seen on the roads. Strict police bandobast was put in place to ensure that citizens stay indoors. The area residents completed their early morning chores in the specified period and returned home within window given by the administration.Prateek Kamble, a resident of Bhimpura in Camp said that citizens responded well to the stricter lockdown. “Residents must realise that they should not step out of their homes in any circumstances. The new restrictions will be helpful in curbing the spread of the disease in our entire area,” he said.Nandini Shirke, a resident of Kasba peth said, “We know that strict restrictions are causing issues related to ration, milk and other essentials. All this is temporary and it will end soon as the order has been taken in the interests of public health.”Bhavani peth resident Shameem Shaikh said, “We have bought provisions in advance so that we don’t have to step out for the next three days as our area has been declared containment zone. We will abide by the directions of the state government.”The Pune police on Thursday announced additional restrictions in areas under ten police stations between May 1 and 3 in the wake of the density of population and increasing Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases caused due to Sars-cov-2 virus.In these areas, milk shops were operational from 6 am to 10 am.Besides milk shops home delivery of milk will also allowed. Medical shops, hospitals and movement of patients in need of urgent medical attention was also allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hotspot-residents-respond-to-clarion-call-stay-indoors/story-IFbrKWok8QCBcRC4kpKLyL.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Hit by lockdown, commercial property owners, tenants in Pune settle rentals amicably||With no income during the last 40 days of lockdown imposed amid Covid-19 (coronavirus) crisis, the issue of collecting lease rent from business enterprises has become tricky for commercial property owners in the city.In a number of cases, the property owners and their clients have tried to work towards an amicable solution as the loss of business has been sudden and due to reasons beyond anyone’s control.Sanjay Sangamnerkar who operates a hair salon at Padmavati, said, “For the last one-and-half months, my shop is closed and routine expenses at home have to be met such as payment of utility bills, payment to my workers and other expenses at home. I am paying rent of Rs 18,000 rent for my shop and I have requested the owner to give me two months time to pay the rent. The owner has agreed.”Sangamnerkar said, “I cannot ask the owner to waive the rent for the entire month as he is a senior citizen and the rent from the shop is a part of his retirement earnings. He too has been cooperative and so I have decided to pay the full rent but over a period of two months or so.”Lakhan Yadav who runs a sweet shop on Satara road said he has been paying a monthly rent of Rs 24,000 for a 200 sq ft area. “I do not wish to deprive the owner of his rent,” said Yadav, noting that he had earned well during the festival seasons and the owner had not asked for anything extra on that occasion.Sunil Shah, owner of two shops near Mukundnagar said he uses the rent amount to pay the bank loan instalments towards that property. “Considering the situation we are in, I have told my tenants not to worry and make deferred payment as and when their cash starts flowing back. “I don’t think banks are going to waive off our EMI (equated monthly instalments),” he said.Santosh Kumar who runs a laundry near Dhankawadi said like all others who are running small businesses, he too had no work for the entire month due to the lockdown. “There is no question of people giving clothes for washing and ironing. I have taken to selling fruits and vegetables in the meantime to earn some money. I requested my owners to defer the rent and he has agreed. I did not ask for my rent to be waived fully or partly as the owner is supportive,” he said.Anis Shergadwala, real estate agent of Sofiya Properties in Undri, who looks after 100 commercial units of mostly non-resident Indians, said, “ Post lockdown we have advised all our clients to give minimum fifty per cent concession in monthly rent which they have agreed. The concession must be given to the tenants as they have been paying regular rent and looking after the commercial properties of the investors.”“We have even advised them to consider waiving off the rent as the establishments are completely shut,” he said.Sanjeev Singh of Tailspin Properties said, “The shops are closed for an indefinite period. The tenants have informed their landlords that they will pay the arrears once their establishments start the business and it stabilises. The tenants have requested the owners that their contracts must not be terminated as it would lead to unemployment and loss of business.”Mahesh Salian, a property broker from NIBM road, said “ The tenants have taken their landlords into confidence and told them that once the business starts operating, they will ensure that the rent is paid. At the same time, we have also requested the landlords to take a considerate view of the tenants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hit-by-lockdown-commercial-property-owners-tenants-settle-rentals-amicably/story-y2YipjVbGrRjCm0LBkyVEJ.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Dr Alka Chaudhari: When she’s not treating patients, the ‘doktarni’ at Delhi’s first mohalla clinic feeds families of 35 daily-wagers||Dr Alka Chaudhary, 48, has been working in the city’s first mohalla clinic in Peera Garhi since it started five years ago. In that time, she has grown to know each and every family in the neighbourhood, where she is referred to as ‘doktarni’. Her patients visit her with all their problems, which range from fever, cough and cold, to family disputes.So it was natural for them to come to her when the government first announced the biggest lockdown in the world to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in March.“Soon after the lockdown in March, this boy Imtiaz came to me and said, Doktarni, help me get to my village. He said, there is no work and why should we stay here and go hungry? This is a slum area and most people are daily wagers – some are rickshaw pullers, others carpenters and plumbers – all their livelihoods have been severely impacted. But I told him it wasn’t safe to travel and the government was making arrangements for food,” said Chaudhary.However, after speaking to the families in the area and the ASHA workers under her, she realised there was a problem. They were getting food twice a day through the government’s food distribution drive, but most did not get any dry ration as they did not have Delhi ration cards. “I realised two meals a day are just not enough when there are children in the house. Children, especially the very young ones, asked for food during the day. So, I thought I should give whatever I can,” she said.Dr Chaudhary got some grocery from her house to give the first family in March, and has since taken 35 families under her wing. One of the families is of Karn, who had come to her two weeks ago looking emaciated.“He was this tall guy, but weighed no more than 30 kg. He was collapsing; he had no strength. A test report he had got from some private clinic showed that his blood sugar levels were 406 (normal levels are about 140 mg/dL after eating),” said Alka.She immediately went to the local police station and asked for their help to hire an e-rickshaw to get the man to a hospital. On Thursday, he came to meet her and thank her for her help.“I have made packets of weekly supplies. I have also fixed a milkman for some of these families that have very young children. I pay the man at the end of the month. I cannot do this on my own and I have asked my family to help out. I have told those in corporate jobs to give me some money, anything that they would donate to temples or other causes. I have told them that it would go to the needy,” she said. She has also been helping people with filling out the ration coupon forms on her phone.Her family understands what she does, but is still bothered by her routine. Every afternoon, after finishing up at her clinic, she goes to the nearby areas to speak to the people and check how they are doing. “My mother asks me whether I would get an award for doing this, she asks me to wear the neela thaila as she refers to the PPE kits. She is very disappointed that I do not get it. My sister says that she prays that I get wise and my niece tells me that I should get a room in the jugghi itself. One of the nurses jokes that we should just put Fevicol on madam’s chair so she can’t leave,” said Dr Chaudhry. Adding to the worries of her family, she is a diabetic herself.She moved out of the house where her elderly in-laws live since the Covid-19 outbreak started. She lives with her husband. Her in-laws still do not know that she goes to the slum area after her clinic.Whenever someone comes to her, she tells them about the invisible enemy and explains why they should remain indoors. “But they live in small houses without much ventilation. It is not possible to stay indoors throughout the day. So I tell them when you feel like stepping out, at least cover your nose and mouth with a dupatta and sit at a distance from your friends,” she said. She took the help of some of the local boys to put on a small skit, where they dressed up as ‘Yamraaj’ and explained how people will die if social distancing was not followed.“If I did not tell them what social distancing was and why they needed to follow it, who would? Because they do not see people dropping dead, they do not understand why there should be a lockdown and why they should stay at home” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dr-alka-chaudhari-when-she-s-not-treating-patients-the-doktarni-at-delhi-s-first-mohalla-clinic-feeds-families-of-35-daily-wagers/story-0DYFwZI7KLjo8NqjcqDwEK.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Traders crowd Ghazipur market, social distancing norms flouted||Social distancing norms went for a toss at the Ghazipur fruit and vegetable wholesale market in east Delhi, as people crowded the market on Friday morning. Around 6am, traders started queuing up to enter the market and the barricades set up at the entry and exit points, to regulate movement, were pushed aside by the crowd. Some people were also seen without masks, despite government mandating it.Market officials attributed the rush to the changed timings and new guidelines issued by the district administration, according to which visitors are allowed to shop between 6am and 11am, after goods are unloaded between 4am and 6am.SP Gupta, chairman Ghazipur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), said, “Normally, traders from nearby markets in Shahdara and Geeta Colony start coming to the mandi from 3am and return by 6am. But due to changed timings, mandi gates were closed for traders till 6am, due to which long queues formed, which later swelled into a huge crowd.”The police registered five cases of lockdown violations against traders on Friday.Ghazipur Mandi is the second-largest wholesale vegetable and fruit market in the city. It is spread over an area of one square kilometre area and receives supplies from around 400 trucks per day.A police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that the traders who had come to the market from 3am to 6am were not allowed to enter and they started queueing up.“Many small traders and vendors used to start selling vegetables in their vehicles at the mandi itself, which led to a crowd. Social distancing norms were completely flouted. A similar situation had arisen on Wednesday when the footfall at the mandi had almost tripled because of the coronavirus cases reported from other mandis. On Thursday, we held meetings with state administration officials and civic authorities, and, as a precaution, decided that wholesale buyers and traders would be allowed inside the mandi only after 6 am, once the trucks are out,” the officer said.The police used public announcement systems to inform those who were waiting about the revised timings. Traders were peacefully controlled and the small vendors, who are not allowed entry, were dispersed. There was no violence or law and order escalation reported, the police officer said.The deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said that five FIRs were registered against shopkeepers for not wearing masks, flouting mandi guidelines, violating lockdown and for unauthorised vending.At least 24 FIRs were registered for violating the lockdown at Ghazipur mandi in April.A senior district administration official said that as wholesale markets are vulnerable to the spread of coronavirus disease, arrangements were made to ensure social distancing.“Since the order was released Thursday evening, many vendors and buyers were not aware of the new guidelines, which led to confusion and crowding. We have now disseminated the information about the new system at the mandi and are closely monitoring the situation. The mandi is expected to function smoothly from tomorrow (Saturday),” the official said.Azadpur MandiAs many as 16 traders at Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi tested Covid-19 positive and 43 contacts were quarantined till Friday evening. Test results of over 100 persons associated with the market are awaited, while over 500 have been screened. Around 25 shops in the wholesale market have been sealed. On Thursday, the number of Covid-19 positive cases was 15.Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman Azadpur APMC, said that the wholesale market was functioning normally and it received 6,000 tonnes of vegetable and fruits on Friday. Normally, nearly 8,000 tonnes of fruits and vegetables are supplied to the market every day.“There is no need to panic. Two medical teams have been deployed in the wholesale market to conduct health checks of traders and shoppers. These teams are stationed at two mohalla clinics on the mandi premises,” Khan said.Okhkla marketThe Okhla wholesale market was shut on Friday and Saturday for sanitisation, said officials. No positive case has been reported at the market. From Sunday, it will be open all hours of the day, throughout the week||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traders-crowd-ghazipur-market-social-distancing-norms-flouted/story-ObJG5SCsuBVQ7GREPYZwpL.html
02-05-2020||Gurugram||Ggm border sealed, 1,200 stopped, turned back to Delhi||Hundreds of commuters were stopped and turned back from the Gurugram-Delhi border on Friday after the district administration sealed the border and issued an order stating only people who had been issued restricted movement passes by Central and state governments will be allowed to cross.Residents of the two cities, who have been travelling across the borders daily for work, were asked to stay wherever they were at present. All the 11 borders had been closed from 10am on Friday and will remain shut till further orders. The restriction will be reviewed on a periodic basis, said police.The decision to seal the border completely was taken after a sizeable number of Covid-19 cases reported in Gurugram were traced back to Delhi. Till Friday, 63 Covid-19 cases had been reported in Gurugram.On Friday, confusion reigned supreme, with more than 1,200 commuters at Sirhaul border being told to return back to the capital despite having permissions from Delhi police to travel, police said .Commuters were seen crying and requesting police personnel to let them cross the border but to no avail. More than 200 people had parked their vehicles on Friday morning near the barricades and tried to cross the border walking but were not allowed.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF) who was deployed at the Sirhaul border, said it was challenging to control the situation as more than 1,200 commuters in the morning had to be turned back to Delhi and were not allowed to cross despite having valid permission from district administration of the capital. Around 234 vehicles were allowed to cross. “All the old permissions have been cancelled and the employees working in Gurugram were asked to make arrangements in the city if they are involved in essential services units,” he said.Police said they were also monitoring the number of vehicles crossing the border and those that returned. The daily report will be submitted to commissioner of police every evening, said a police officer.Police officers also said that vehicles ferrying vegetables, fruits, grains, poultry and other eatables, fodder for animals, medicines, medical equipment and raw materials used in manufacturing protective gear, sanitisers and ventilators were being allowed to cross the border. The vehicles can have only one support staff, besides the driver.However, food delivery boys, lab assistants and other employees were denied entry into Gurugram.Vansh Khurana, a pet dealer who supplies pet food in Gurugram said he was denied entry despite having all valid permissions. “I used to visit every day as food for pets fall under essential items. But police refused entry to me. I was carrying orders for more than 20 families, but now I will have to return and the clients will have to manage with some substitute,” he said.The police, however, refuted the allegations and said no individual deliveries will be allowed. Onlytrucks or vehicles with permission can cross the borders. “More than 100 delivery boys carrying food and poultry items were denied entry as they were individuals and were suppling to independent clients, which is no longer allowed. People can buy essential stuff from super marts and groceries stores which are open,” said Goel. To ensure inter-state and inter-district supply chain is not affected, the movement of vehicles carrying essential and non-essential items will be allowed to cross the national and state highways. However, these vehicles will not be allowed to halt in Gurugram. For movement of any other vehicles, except those exempted, permission has to be sought from the deputy commissioner’s office.Deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Amit Khatri, on Friday said that he has asked government and private organisations in Gurugram and Delhi to make lodging arrangements for their employees — including essential staff such as health and sanitation workers — to avoid any undue hardships. “We have deployed duty magistrates at all police posts and all the borders, starting Friday,” he said. Khatri said that rapid antibody testing of suspected cases will also be conducted at the Delhi-Gurugram borders, besides thermal scanning, from Saturday. Drivers and helpers undertaking cross-border movement will have to remain in isolation at dedicated facilities, on their return to Gurugram. Those moving across borders have been asked to install the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones for contact tracing and monitoring their locations.Mohammad Akil, the Gurugram commissioner of police, said all police posts and checkpoints will implement the restrictions strictly. “The monitoring at the borders will be conducted under the supervision of an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and magistrate under continuous video surveillance,” he said.Any violation of the restrictions will invite criminal proceedings under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.People with restricted movement passes, authorised by officers of Centre or Haryana government, ambulances, vegetable, and milk suppliers, LPG and oil tankers, ATM cash vans and such similar essential goods and services have been exempted from the restrictions.The district has only allowed essential services and goods as well as some government officials to cross the border. Officers from Union ministry of home affairs, Union finance and defence ministries and those from Department of Post, Disaster Management, National Informatics Centre, FCI have been exempted, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-border-sealed-1-200-stopped-turned-back-to-delhi/story-WvNc9ghduPSwHUapPe77SJ.html
02-05-2020||Delhi||Govt takes back order seeking explanation from infected health care staff||The Delhi government on Friday suspended an order that asked medical directors of all its hospitals to seek a written explanation from health care workers who get infected or come in contact with Covid-19 positive patients, after attracting fierce criticism. “All Medical Directors are directed to obtain written explanation … as how these persons got infected or become a contact in spite of wearing required protective gears, maintaining safe distance and following precautions prescribed for healthcare workers,” the order read.This was done as medical directors of non-Covid hospitals were “indiscriminately” sending doctors, nurses, paramedics and other staff members to quarantine either at hotels or their homes for 14 days, leading to a shortage of staff, according to the order.“It seems, it is happening because either hospitals are not following standard SOPs [standard operating procedures] or such persons are not following guidelines prescribed for healthcare workers,” according to the order.So far, at least 293 health care workers — doctors, nurses, technicians, ambulance staff, sanitation workers, and hospital security — in the city have tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them worked either in non-Covid-19 hospitals or areas of hospitals that accept Covid-19 patients.At Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital in Jahangirpuri, at least 75 staff members have tested positive for the infection. At the nearby Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital around 45 staff have tested positive, with the medical director also having to go into quarantine.“Delhi government should stop issuing ill-advised circulars targeting health care workers. Stop victim-blaming when hospitals are not ensuring the availability of appropriate PPE [personal protective equipment] despite a Supreme Court order,” said Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary of the Resident Doctors’ Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.“It is the hospitals not adhering to safety guidelines, not designating separate areas for Covid and non-Covid patients, and poor planning and execution that has resulted in the infection spreading to health care workers. The government should stop blaming health care workers as a cover for its deficiencies. If every hospital is asked to declare its PPE utilisation per health care worker and the status of stock, along with the quality of PPE, it will be evident who is at fault,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-takes-back-order-seeking-explanation-from-infected-health-care-staff/story-EilbE3sSA4KF0SIyUN3nMM.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Congress protests against Centre’s ‘discrimination’ against non-BJP-ruled states||Alleging discrimination against states where the Bharatiya Janata Party was not in power, workers of Punjab Congress staged a protest near the statue of Bhimrao Ambedkar near Jalandhar bypass here on Friday, and also asked residents to hoist the Tricolour on their rooftops in solidarity. The response, however, remained lukewarm in Ludhiana. “The central government is discriminating against the non-BJP states even in the time of a pandemic. It has not extended any help to the Punjab government to fight this challenging situation,” said local Congress leader Ashwani Sharma.Slamming the BJP leaders, who also protested against the Congress-led state government by keeping a fast on Friday claiming discrepancies in distribution of food grains to the needy, Sharma said that the BJP leadership is playing dirty politics. “They should instead should urge the Centre to release the pending GST instalment of the state and announce a special package for Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-cong-protests-against-centre-s-discrimination-against-non-bjp-ruled-states/story-CgoeQo9blKOg968uPRK0UK.html
02-05-2020||City||Focal Point dyers donate 15 ACs to Ludhiana civil hospital||For the convenience of doctors and nurses who have to wear full PPE (personal protective equipment) suits, the Focal Point unit of the Punjab Dyers Association donated 15 air conditioners (ACs) to the civil hospital on Friday. The ACs would be installed in the nursing station. The medical fraternity has been long complaining that it really difficult for doctors and nurses to work while wearing PPE suits amid the rising temperature. There have also been several reports where doctors fell ill on account of working in such a difficult condition. Rahul Verma, a member of the association, said there was no AC installed in the station as there is no provision for installing the same under government rules. When the association came to know about the same, it decided to donate 15 ACs..Verma also appreciated the efforts of the team installing the ACs by wearing PPE kits.Verma said that four ACs have already been installed and the others would be installed in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/focal-point-dyers-donate-15-acs-to-civil-hospital-in-ludhiana/story-yGocczvkiM2YJuDLyvk51O.html
02-05-2020||City||Lacklustre Labour Day: Ludhiana workers facing heat of lockdown, not receiving proper ration, salaries||The International Labour Day or May Day is observed each year on May 1 and is a public holiday in many countries, including India.Organisations used to take out processions to highlight labour issues, organise events to honour labourers for excellence and distribute gifts, but no such event could be organised this time due to the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.Out of work and on the verge of starvation, all they want is to go back to their native places and want the government to make special arrangements for this.Ludhiana, being an industrial hub, is home to over 7 lakh migrant workers, hailing from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and several other states. After the lockdown was announced on March 23, these migrant workers were the main sufferers as most of them depended on daily earnings to meet their everyday family needs.After 40-day lockdown, the government has now given partial relaxation to open some industrial units with conditions, but still thousands of daily wage workers, school bus drivers, those working in shops, eateries and in markets, rickshaw-pullers, etc are still sitting idle at home and waiting for the lockdown to end.“It is difficult for us to explain how we are surviving these days. In the past 40 days, we have spent what we had saved. Now we are not earning anything,” said Moji Ram, 38, residing in a labour quarter at Focal Point.Ram, who hails from Damoh district of Madhya Pradesh and is residing here with his wife and five children, said, “Since the lockdown, I have received a ration kit only once and the kit contained 10 kg wheat flour, 2 kg pulses and 2 kg of sugar. “How a family of seven members can survive with this kit for 40 days?,” he questioned, adding that the kit ration lasted for just 10 days, and after that we were left with nothing to cook.He added, “I was working in a garment manufacturing unit near Cheema Chowk and have not received salary for April. Earlier, we were paid leave on this day, but this time we have no work at all.”In the labour quarters, there are around 20 families with each family comprising a minimum of five members. Around eight of these families belong to Madhya Pradesh while others are from Bihar.Another migrant worker, Sarita Devi, 37, of Patna (Bihar) who was working in an iron rod manufacturing unit in the Focal Point, also shared the same problem. She added her employer used to pay half of the salary on May 1, and remaining in the middle of the month, but this time, she did not get anything.“My husband is a daily wage labourer and he has been sitting idle at home since March 22. We have already run out of cash to purchase essentials. During initial days of curfew, some NGOs were serving langar here, but now they have also stopped coming and it has become difficult for us to survive,” she said, adding she does not know how to support her three children.Sarita said, “Recently, my family members deposited Rs 2,000 in my account and I purchased some ration. But, I shared this ration with some other families in the quarters who had nothing to eat. We are now worried about our future.”The labourers, residing in other labour quarters in Ranjit Nagar of Focal Point, claimed that the ration was also not being distributed by the government in a proper manner. Some families have not even received a single kit so far, they alleged.Neeraj, 30, of Patna, who was working in a garment shop, said he had not received any salary after lockdown and the employer was even not picking up the calls.He said, “What Labour Day? Labourers were misused by employers all the time. Earlier, they used to make us work for 12 hours and paid a meagre amount of Rs 10,000 per month and, now when our employers should help us during these days, they are only ignoring us.”AITUC HIGHLIGHT PLIGHT OF WORKERSThe All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) observed the day by gathering and holding placards highlighting the plight of workers at Haibowal Kalan, Rishi Nagar, Barewal Road, Pakhowal Road, Dhandran Road, Salem Tabri, Rahon Road observing all the guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks.The day was also observed by employees of Punjab Roadways, PRTC, MC Zone A and D, PAU and PSPCL. They demanded immediate supply of ration to the needy, payment of Rs 6,000 each to all the workers. They also wanted ration to all the workers without any pre-conditions.They also demanded special trains so that labourers could go to their respective native places instead of starving here.DP Maur, vice-president of the Punjab unit of AITUC, said, “Workers are at the receiving end because of lockdown, daily wage-earners are the worst hit. “They are not receiving any ration. The government officials, instead of making tall claims, should check the realty at the ground and come to the rescue of these workers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lacklustre-labour-day-ludhiana-workers-facing-heat-of-lockdown-not-receiving-proper-ration-salaries/story-Uvy9ZF94H7QwMhjMNPqzML.html
02-05-2020||City||Yoga teacher held for stealing vehicles in Ludhiana||A yoga teacher was arrested on Friday following the recovery of two stolen scooters from his possession. The accused, identified as Yadwinder Yadav, 31, hails from Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh,and was working as a part time pizza-delivery boy and living in a rented accommodation in Pritam Nagar.The accused had stolen the scooter of a school principal on April 27 from Satsang Road, while wearing the uniform of a police volunteer, said the police.Inspector Jarnail Singh, Division Number 8 station house officer, said, “The accused was arrested from Upkar Nagar on the basis of a tip-off. He was riding the scooter that he had stolen on April 27. We have also seized the vehicle.”Following the information provided by the accused, another scooter was also recovered from his possession which he had stolen from Sarabha Nagar in May, 2019.The inspector added that the accused intentionally wore the uniform of a police volunteer to avoid being stopped and checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yoga-teacher-held-for-stealing-vehicles-in-ludhiana/story-ApM5rkQmwRFw3y3mGt1VJP.html
02-05-2020||Ranchi||‘If necessary govt will fly stranded migrants back home’: Jharkhand CM Soren||With a special train carrying 1200 stranded natives on the way to Hatia from Telangana and another train all set to start for the state from Kota tonight, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday said the government, if necessary, would help migrant workers even fly back home.“The government will reach out to all the pravasi mazdoor (migrant workers) to bring them back by busses, small vehicles, trains and if necessary, even by flight,” Soren said, adding the state was eager to welcome them.They have started coming back to the state and they will be welcomed and taken to their destinations, Soren told reporters after chairing a meeting of the ministerial sub- committee, appointed to monitor the lockdown situation and offer suggestions.The first batch of 1200 migrants are scheduled to arrive around 11 pm at Hatia railway station from Lingampally in Telangana, giving them relief of over one months hardship following the lockdown that was enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19.Sanitized buses will take them to their respective destinations as per the guidelines enshrined in the Disaster Management Act.Another special train is all set to start journey from Kota to Hatia, on the outskirts of Ranchi, tonight.Soren thanked the centre and Telangana government for their support.The Jharkhand chief minister has observed that there are around five lakh migrants from the state held up outside during the coronavirus-induced nationwide shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-necessary-govt-will-fly-stranded-migrants-back-home-jharkhand-cm-soren/story-6uSOzHe9GYOuVSjzByZrhI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Improvement Trust donates Rs 5L to CM Covid-19 Relief Fund||The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Friday contributed Rs 5 lakhs towards the Punjab Chief Minister Covid-19 Relief Fund.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and estate officer Kuljeet Kaur handed over a cheque of Rs 5,00,715 to cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.The LIT chairman said that he and other senior officials of the trust have donated their salaries towards the relief fund.“Regular sanitisation drives are being conducted in the areas that fall under LIT and efforts are being made to contain the disease as per the guidelines issued by the state government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-improvement-trust-donates-rs-5l-to-cm-covid-19-relief-fund/story-imvIYdOiZaduVeRouaVjAL.html
02-05-2020||Pune||Lockdown may be eased in parts of Pune after May 3, says civic chief||Even as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Friday that the lockdown restrictions will not be lifted in Mumbai and Pune as it falls under the red zone, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun the planning for easing restrictions in the least affected parts of the city.Speaking to journalists on Friday, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that barring five wards in the city which are the worst affected, the lockdown restrictions would be eased in the remaining 10 wards.“PMC is identifying micro-clusters from where the maximum number of Covid-19 cases is emerging in the city. While the containment strategy would be enforced strictly in these micro-clusters, restrictions in the rest of the city would be eased,” he said.The precise details would be announced later once the guidelines are received from the central and state governments, he said.Pune is the second worst-hit city by the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra after Mumbai with 86 deaths, and 1,518 positive cases as of April 30.Most of the cases are emerging from slum pockets in five of the 15 wards, namely, Bhawani peth, Kasba-Vishrambaug, Dhole Patil, Shivajinagar and Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori.“PMC is identifying micro-clusters from where maximum Covid-19 positive cases are emerging and restrictions would continue in these areas. These hotspots would be converted into micro-clusters,” he said.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said that a meeting has been called with the police, district administration and civic officials to finalise the micro-clusters on Saturday.“PMC is preparing a plan on what restrictions should be relaxed and what precautions should be followed by the citizens. The final plan would be in place after receiving the new guidelines issued by the central and state governments,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-may-be-eased-in-parts-of-pune-after-may-3-says-civic-chief/story-e7Vc4mp3BSLiuQfS7bRCcP.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Contractual nurses, Class-IV employees go on strike at Ludhiana civil hospital||Demanding a hike in salaries and job regularisation, the contractual nursing staff and class-IV employees, who were deployed at Covid-19 duty at the civil hospital, went on an indefinite strike here on Friday.As many as 50 employees, who sat on dharna, rued that they have been working on very less wages for many years. Also, during this challenging time, they are made to work overtime on meagre salaries, they added. “We have been forced to protest. Many of us are risking our lives and doing our duty for a mere salary of Rs 6,500. The class-IV employees are working in the same unit for a salary of Rs 4,500,” said a protesting nurse.The protesters said government should give them permanent jobs and all the employees should also be covered under the state’s insurance policy.“We are working overtime on meagre salaries, but no effort has been made by the government to put us on permanent roll,” she added.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) AS Bain pacified them and assured them that all their demands would be forwarded to the state government, but they refused to lift their dharna.Meanwhile, the protesting staff also got the backing of the opposition party after the BJP leader Pravin Basal joined the protesters and sat with them on dharna. However, despite repeated attempts the civil hospital authorities could not be reached for the comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/contractual-nurses-class-iv-employees-stage-protest-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital/story-Kw8Vqx19gbyun4NARdfo8I.html
02-05-2020||City||Teen ends life in Ludhiana after classmate ‘blocks her number’||A Class-12 student of a private school was arrested three weeks after his classmate allegedly hanged herself after he blocked her number.The boy, a resident of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar of Mundian, was arrested for abetment to suicide on the statement of the victim’s mother and produced in the court from where he was sent to 14-day judicial remand.The girl had hanged herself at her house on April 9. The teenager’s mother in her police complaint mentioned that she could not file the FIR sooner as she was initially not aware about the reasons that propelled her daughter to take the extreme step. She said her daughter and the boy were friends, however, he started abusing her and also blocked her number. “The incident had left my daughter depressed, forcing her to end her life on April 9,” she added. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harbhajan Singh, In-charge of Mundian police post, said that earlier the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC after recording statement of her parents, they have registered a suicide case..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/classmate-held-for-abetting-suicide-of-18-year-old-ludhiana-girl/story-i0R99XIVh113iW2fGrEFkN.html
02-05-2020||City||Postmen return, this time as tech-enabled bankers providing money at doorstep in Haryana’s Hisar division||The long-forgotten Indian postman is back in the picture amid the Covid-19 lockdown, but this time playing a more critical role. Equipped with a smartphone and Aadhaar biometric system, he is delivering money at people’s doorstep.In Hisar division, which includes Sirsa, Fatehabad and Hisar districts, the postmen have so far delivered Rs 1.94 crore to people under the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS), which was started by the government of India to facilitate seamless money transactions through unique identity number authentication.“As time changed and the emailing trend took over, postmen were completely forgotten. But after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced, they again started playing an important role in the society, this time by distributing money to those in need, but unable to go outside of the house,” said Anil Kumar Rose, superintendent of post offices, Hisar division.According to the data of Hisar zone, total 7,088 transactions have been carried out in these districts. Of this, 2,726 transactions have been made in Hisar district wherein the postmen have provided Rs 81 lakh to the residents till so far. In Sirsa, Rs 66 lakh were given to the people in 2,532 transactions, while postmen delivered Rs 47 lakh in 1,830 transactions in Fatehabad.Rose said, “The government of India had started India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) on September 1, 2018. Just after one year, AEPS was also launched. The main benefit of AEPS is that any customer, whose Aadhaar number is linked with his bank account, can withdraw his money from any post office using this facility.”He added that with the help of biometric devices, the postmen were facilitating money transactions and other financial services at the customer’s doorstep. The limit of withdrawal is different for each bank. “This facility is being used by over 7,000 people in the Hisar zone by staying safe in their homes and not having to visit ATMs or banks for cash withdrawals.He also said that though there are very nominal charges to withdraw money using this system, due to the lockdown the facility has been made totally free for everyone.There are two head post offices in the division, one in Sirsa and another in Hisar, 66 sub-post offices and 445 branches in these districts. Rose said that the postmen were also delivering money to widowed and old-age pensioners and farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/postmen-return-this-time-as-tech-enabled-bankers-providing-money-at-doorstep-in-haryana-s-hisar-division/story-ymevKoek0w5W0axd6Sg3HI.html
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||14 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh; 12 of them are from hotspot Bapu Dham Colony||Fourteen people tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday taking the total number of confirmed cases in Chandigarh to 88. Amid the rising number of infections, the doubling rate in Chandigarh dipped to 4.7 days, from 30 days a week ago.Twelve new cases were reported from the congested Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, and one each from Sectors 15 and 30.In Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for 37 cases so far, the chain of transmission was first detected when a 30-year-old operation theatre attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, who resides in the area, tested positive last Friday. The fresh cases are scattered over four households with six persons belonging to one household and remaining six to three different households.They include a 36-year-old woman and 12-year-old boy, who are community contacts of a positive person. Five males, aged 5, 9, 17, 30, 35, and a female, aged 27, who are family contacts of another confirmed case, have also been found infected. Also, three infected males, two of whom are aged 40 and one 17, are household contacts of another confirmed case. A two-year-old boy, who is a family contact of another patient, is among those tested positive from this colony.Also, a three-and-a-half-year-old child, who is a family contact of a positive case, has been found infected in Sector 30. A 67-year-old man from Sector 15, who was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s emergency ward on May 30, has also tested positive. His source of infection is being investigated. His eight family contacts and 13 community contacts have been identified for isolation.Meanwhile, 65 more people have been identified for Covid-19 testing from Bapu Dham Colony. They will be sampled at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Dr G Dewan, director, health services, said that 11,153 people in 2,541 households have been covered under house-to-house survey in the colony so far.Also, inmates of Aashreya, a permanent home for the orphaned, destitute, abandoned and differently abled persons in Sector 47, tested negative on Friday. They were tested after a sweeper working there tested positive a day earlier. In a worrisome trend in Chandigarh, out of every 14 people tested, one has been found to be Covid-19 positive. It translates to test positivity rate of 7.02%, much higher than the national average of 3.8%. According to data available till 5pm on Friday, out of every 25 people tested in India so far, only one person had tested positive. In all, 1,252 people have been tested in Chandigarh, of which 1,131 tested negative and 88 positive. Reports of the remaining suspected cases is awaited. HOME QUARANTINE OF PATIENTSMeanwhile, during the daily review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, it was decided that Covid-19 patients having no or mild symptoms wanting to stay at home instead of hospital will be allowed to do so, provided they have infrastructure for physical social distancing.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, said regular coordination meetings are taking place with all the medical institutes with regards to such developments. Doctors of various medical institutions again expressed their apprehension regarding patients from outside coming to Chandigarh for emergency cases without prior Covid-19 checking. The administrator has directed Gupta to prepare a list of such cases, so that the matter could be taken up with the neighbouring states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-12-of-them-are-from-hotspot-bapu-dham-colony/story-WUCOwgscEEdNBqklbGn8GL.html
