03-05-2020||Delhi||81-year-old dies of Covid-19 after being made to wait 12 hours for an ambulance||An 81-year-old man died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, after being made to wait for nearly 12 hours for an ambulance to arrive after his samples tested positive on Tuesday night, his family members alleged.The man’s son said they spent the excruciating hours, between his test results returning and an ambulance arriving at their Rohini residence, making frantic phone calls to the national Covid helpline, the Delhi helpline, as well as the CATS emergency ambulance number — to absolutely no avail.“We knew of the various helpline numbers. When we called the national helpline number, we were given the Delhi state helpline number. Thereafter, we called the number hundreds of times, but no one would take the call,” the son said.They called the CATS ambulance helpline number multiple times, but no one received their calls, he alleged.He said umpteen tweets to several government officials too went unheeded. Even after an ambulance arrived on Wednesday morning to take him to Lok Nayak hospital, the family alleged that the man was made to wait in the ambulance for nearly an hour, without even being admitted to the hospital. His family claimed he died in the ambulance itself.A government official said, “The man was already dead by the time a doctor arrived at the scene.”Health officials HT spoke to claimed few ambulances were in service, as most drivers had parked their vehicles and did not want to report to duty, for fear of contracting the contagious disease.“We have been trying to persuade ambulance unions to send men to work, but they are refusing. However, while there could be hours of delay in providing ambulance service, we can only assure the patients that they will eventually arrive,” said the official.The official, however, refused to comment on any specific case. Another official from CATS too did not respond to queries related to the alleged delay and death.A nightmare of 12 hoursThe family’s travails began more than two weeks ago when, on April 18, the 81-year-old man, a retired teacher, developed a fever and cough. He lived with five other family members, in Rohini Sector 15, and since the lockdown, only the man’s son would step out to buy essential items.With no inkling that he could have contracted the coronavirus disease, his family gave him medicines for the fever and cough syrup. “We thought it was the usual old-age ailments. The thought that he could be infected with Covid-19 didn’t occur to us,” said his son, a businessman.When his condition didn’t improve, they got in touch with the family physician, who prescribed further general medication.Finally, on Monday, the family got him tested for Covid-19. “On Tuesday, around 10 p, we received his test result that said he was positive,” his son said.Their problems only mounted from here on.Family said they spent the 12 hours desperate, trying everything they possibly could.“For much of that time, my father was speaking to us. He felt weak, but he was alive and conscious. He could have lived had we received timely help,” his son said.“We were afraid to take him to the hospital in our car. We had no protective equipment, except face masks,” he added. The man’s grandson tweeted of their plight, tagging government authorities, but was met with only silence. He finally tweeted on Wednesday morning, “My grandfather is corona positive and there is no reply from govt authorities hence I will take him to hospital”.By Wednesday morning, the family had geared up to move him to hospital in their own car. As a last ditch, they contacted a surveillance officer in the area who helped arrange a CATS ambulance, which arrive around two hours later, the son said.But the ambulance only brought more trouble with it. “Two men wearing PPEs [personal protective equipment] arrived outside our home in an ambulance around 10am, but they asked us to bring my father downstairs from our flat on the second floor. They just refused to help,” he alleged.A video shot by a neighbour showed the elderly man sitting on the staircase as a few members of his family tried to lift him up to take him downstairs. “We decided to ignore our own safety to save my father. The ambulance staff neither helped get my father on the stretcher, nor lift the stretcher into the ambulance,” he alleged.The health official said many of the ambulance staff who continue to provide their services are afraid to go beyond their “basic duties”.The family said that as the ambulance drove away with the sick man, his son and grandson ran back into their home to bathe and decontaminate themselves before driving to the hospital in their car.“When we reached Lok Nayak Hospital, I found my father lying motionless in the ambulance. No one attended to him, and he wasn’t even admitted to the hospital. By the time a doctor arrived, my father had died. The doctor glanced at my father from a distance and declared him dead,” the son alleged.While the hospital refused to comment on the specific incident, a doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital who asked not to be identified, said the standard procedure is to first record the case histories of the patients and their attendants before admitting them. “We are adhering by the guidelines when it comes to admitting patients,” said the doctor.While refusing to comment on this specific case, the health official said it was “unlikely” that a delay in hospitalisation had caused the death. “There is no treatment for this disease. Even at the hospital, there wouldn’t have been much that we could have done to save such a patient,” the official said.As for the dead man’s family, they believe the death was avoidable. “I don’t think my father died of Covid-19. He died due to an avoidable delay,” the son said. He was cremated later in the day.The 81-year-old is survived by his wife, his son, the son’s wife, and two of their children and all five now face a wait for their test results to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/81-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-after-being-made-to-wait-12-hours-for-an-ambulance/story-guEdz2oDfTerFfTUmECM1L.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha govt allows shops selling non-essentials, liquor to open||Liquor shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities are allowed to open with certain conditions even in red zones across Maharashtra, the government announced on Sunday via a revised notification. The revision came a day after the state announced it will continue with the stricter norms of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Malegaon. Containment zones in these cities, however, have been excluded from the exemptions. The decision will come into effect from Monday, the beginning of the third phase of the lockdown and which will be in force till May 17.Maharashtra on Sunday reported 678 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, taking the total to 12,974. It registered 27 deaths, taking the toll to 548. Of the new cases, 441 were from Mumbai, which also saw 21 deaths on Sunday. Of the other deaths, four were in Pune and one each in Bhiwandi and Navi Mumbai. Fourteen of the patients who died on Sunday were above 60 years of age, while 13 had high-risk comorbidities. The mortality rate in the state stood at 4.23%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths is increasing with 270 deaths in the past ten days. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.25%.Excise commissioner Kantilal Umap issued a circular on Sunday announcing that wholesale and retail liquor shops will remain open between 10am and 6pm across the state. The circular has also stated that the manufacturing of liquor in MMR, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad will not be permitted during the lockdown restrictions.On the lines of the exemptions given by the Centre in the third phase of the lockdown, the state has extended relaxations to commercial and industrial activities in the big cities too.According to the notification issued on Saturday, Maharashtra government had, contrary to the Central order, continued the restrictions in these activities. By revising it on Sunday, the state has allowed stand-alone shops and establishments dealing in non-essential services to open. These establishments, however, will be regulated by local authorities (municipal corporations and police) to ensure that no more than five shops (excluding the establishments dealing in essential commodities) in a lane are open at a time.The state government has, however, not allowed private and government offices to open in MMR, Pune, Pimpri-Chichwad and Malegaon. The government offices in these cities will operate with 5% workforce. The state government has also allowed construction activities in these cities to resume. “They will, however, have to ensure that their workforce is available in-situ. The Centre had allowed construction activities after completion of the first lockdown on April 14, however, we had banned those for the past two weeks,” said Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary, Maharashtra government. “The change in the notification is to ensure the resumption of economic activities, which had come to a standstill, affecting the state’s economy badly. We will ensure that lockdown is strictly followed in the containment zones. By allowing these activities, we also want to retain the migrant workers who have been insisting on going back to their homelands,” said a senior state government official. An official from the excise department said that the state was losing revenue of around ₹68 crore a day earned from excise duty and sales tax on liquor. “Secondly, by imposing the ban only in certain areas, there was fear of smuggling of liquor from the areas it is allowed,” said the officer.Containment zones will be demarcated by the district and municipal corporation authorities. “The boundaries are defined by taking into account the various factors including mapping and geographical dispersion of cases and contacts and perimeter. The zone may vary from a building, colony, ward, mohallas to town and cluster of villages,” the notification stated.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a video conference with district collectors and divisional commissioners on the eve of the commencement of the third phase of the lockdown and relaxations given for commercial and industrial activities. “District authorities have been directed on the strict implementation of the lockdown, especially in the containment zones. With relaxations extended in the third phase, the containment in the affected areas has become very important. The district collectors were directed to implement it strictly,” said an official from the government.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 9,047 coronavirus tests and 678 people have tested positive, which is 7.49% of the total people tested. The number of tests state touched 1,70,139 on Sunday. 1,56,078 of them were negative. 1,81,382 people are currently under home quarantine, while 13,158 are under institutional quarantine. 11,048 teams of health workers have screened 51.05 lakh people for suspected infection after having come in contact with patients. 2,115 patients have fully recovered from various hospitals after testing positive in the past six weeks. The state government has stated that its testing rate is 1,237 per million against the national rate of just 803.E-commerce deliveries, however, will continue to be under restrictions of dealing in essential commodities. In green and orange zones, all e-commerce activities are allowed, clarified state government officials. Salons, spas, barber shops, taxis and autorickshaws will not be allowed in red zones. The state government has also clarified that it has no intention of plying any train from Mumbai or Pune in the near future for stranded migrant labourers. “As of now, there will be no trains originating from Mumbai and Pune for migrant workers. We have run four trains, three to Uttar Pradesh and one to Madhya Pradesh for stranded migrant workers. There are no plans to run trains from Mumbai and Pune, looking at the severity of the infection in these cities,” Gagarani said.Of the total Covid-19 cases in the state, 89.19% (10,968 of 12,296) and 85.6% of the deaths (446 of 521) are from the MMR, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad as on Saturday. Malegaon municipal corporation area has been added as a hotspot with 219 cases and 12 deaths reported till Saturday.Meanwhile, CM Uddhav Thackeray has requested the railway ministry to waive off the fare from migrant workers who are travelling in special trains being arranged from Maharashtra. He said the workers are not in a position to bear the cost . He also has directed district collectors to keep the lists of the migrants who want to return to their respective states ready, so a to avoid last minute hassles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-allows-shops-selling-non-essentials-liquor-to-open/story-0OLlAkhawHx5R7s0EWjvgL.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||After Azadpur mandi, Okhla market too to stay open 24x7 from May 4||The agricultural produce market in south-east Delhi’s Okhla will open all hours of the day throughout the week from May 4, as the lockdown extension comes into force, senior government officials said Sunday.“The decision was taken so that the supply chain of fruits and vegetables in the city is not disrupted, and retain prices do not increase at any cost. The market was sanitised today (Sunday) for round-the-clock operations. The government will deploy sanitation workers and an adequate number of civil defence volunteers to ensure social distancing,” a senior government official said.The Okhla wholesale market largely caters to retail the populace of south and south-east Delhi.Previously, when the lockdown was extended till May 3, the Delhi government had made the Azadpur market operational round the clock. However, traders in Azadpur raised concerns after 15 of them tested Covid-19 positive and one of them died in April. More than 100 persons have so far been quarantined following contact tracing.At the Okhla market, 500 individuals — from traders to accountants and labourers — were screened and at least 25 of them, who exhibited symptoms, were tested. Their reports are awaited, said Adil Khan, chairperson of the agriculture produce market committee (APMC).Azadpur is Delhi’s lifeline for fruits and vegetables. It receives supplies from around 3,300 trucks every day, on an average, and accounts for 80% of the total supply in the city. The markers at Ghazipur and Okhla, which receive supplies from around 350 trucks and 200 trucks per day, respectively, said officials of the APMC.Government officials said that they are yet to take a call on the round-the-clock operation of Ghazipur market, which was in the news last week due to violation of lockdown norms by a crowd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-azadpur-mandi-okhla-market-too-to-stay-open-24x7-from-may-4/story-80m85qW2PZpp8fgnAMrzyI.html
03-05-2020||City||Staffers were properly screened before leaving for Nanded: PRTC||The Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) claimed on Sunday that five of its staffers who brought back the pilgrims from Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, in Maharashtra and were found to have contracted coronavirus were screened properly before being sent to the southwestern state. This comes after allegations of the roadways staff being infected before starting their journey to Hazur Sahib. “Our drivers and conductors were healthy. We took all precautionary measures and there was no lapse on our part,” said PRTC general manager Surinder Singh. On April 25, the PRTC flagged off 32 buses to bring back the Punjab pilgrims stranded at Nanded amid the countrywide lockdown.These were part of state’s fleet of 80 buses sent for evacuation purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staffers-were-properly-screened-before-leaving-for-nanded-prtc/story-c7EkxzSwgRwKk2SWO66PsN.html
03-05-2020||City||Corona warriors felicitated at Ludhiana Military Station||All health workers on the frontline were felicitated at the Ludhiana Military Station for their services amid the coronavirus outbreak.Posters and ‘thank-you’ cards made by the family members of all personnel were given to members of the medical fraternity.Station commander Brigadier Manish Arora lauded the corona warriors and urged them to keep the Ludhiana Military Station a corona-free zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-warriors-felicitated-at-ludhiana-military-station/story-SrQ2HbTjM8QPzMdQ0CWniM.html
03-05-2020||City||Ggm can open for business today with strict social distancing norms||Gurugram: A majority of business establishments in the district, including shops, IT and ITes companies, and industrial units, can resume functioning from Monday with restricted number of employees and in accordance with the prescribed social distancing norms, senior government officials said on Sunday. As per the directions issued by Haryana principal secretary, IT and ITes companies, general industries, units in rural areas, e-commerce companies and industrial units in urban and municipal area shall be allowed to operate after registering on the government’s Saral portal, depending on the risk profile of the area viz red, green or orange.Haryana has 18 districts, including Gurugram, in orange zone, while two each are in red and green zones. Employees of manufacturing units, IT companies, and private firms will be issued passes after the establishments register themselves on Saral portal, and permissions will be accorded instantly once the applications are submitted, said the officials. The Gurugram district administration said that apart from above said organised businesses, shops in neighbourhoods, standalone shops, markets developed by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), and shops inside the sectors/private colonies are also allowed to remain open from 7am to 7pm on the condition of strictly following social distancing norms. Salons and beauty parlours in the district can also start operation, but large markets like Sadar Bazar, shopping malls, Galleria market and similar establishments where crowds gather shall remain closed, the administration added.Liquor shops, however, will remain closed, said the excise department. Educational institutions, cinema halls, and restaurants shall also remain closed. Cab aggregators will also be allowed to operate locally, a senior official said, adding that maids can go to work and residents can start their morning walks. However, interstate movement of people will not be allowed and the borders with Delhi will remain sealed, he said.The Gurugram police said that movement of people between different districts of Haryana will be allowed and employees from neighbouring cities like Faridabad, Rewari, and Jhajjar can come to Gurugram for work but they must carry passes. “In the first week of the third lockdown from May 4 to May 10 (in orange zone), operations can be resumed with 50% and 75% staff and in the next week the staff strength can be increased to 75% and 100% for IT/ITes and general industries respectively,” said the state government order issued on Sunday. Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “All the business establishments will have to follow social distancing norms strictly to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The directions from the government mean that majority of businesses and industrial units in Gurugram would be allowed to resume operation with limited staff . These industries and shops should be outside the containment zone and located in IMT Manesar, industrial area in Udyog Vihar, Industrial Development Centre, rural areas and municipal areas.As per the direction issued by Haryana government, the business establishments will also have to give an undertaking that they will comply with standard operating procedure issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).VS Kundu, additional chief secretary, Haryana, and nodal authority of Gurugram for Covid-19 preparations, said, “Borders will remain sealed until situation shows positive signs. Industries are being opened slowly for betterment of workers and to revive economic activities in larger interest of the people. The government will keep assessing the day-to-day development with regards to Covid-19 cases and actions will be taken accordingly.”The district police, meanwhile, said that only interdistrict borders will witness relaxation, but the situation with the Delhi borders will remain the same. The employees from Delhi and Gurugram will not be allowed to cross the borders. “Only those with fresh permissions from district administration will be allowed to cross the border. Anyone else who has some personal emergency or medical emergency will be exempted, rest the situation remains the same,” said Muhammad Akil, police commissioner, Gurugram.Akil said the lockdown curfew during the day (between 7am and 7pm) will witness relaxation, but nights will remain the same.Passes to the employees shall be granted on weekly basis with fixed validity from May 4 to May 10 and from May 11 to May 17, the officials said.The applicants will also have to provide details of their ancillary units to seek support from state in reinstating their supply chains, the order said.Triangular marked passes shall be issued for essential goods industries and their employees in the containment zones. Rectangular passes shall be issued to employees in other zones and no passes will be required for workers on industrial and construction sites, the government order said. “The movements will be relaxed for intercity and inter districts starting Monday. People working in Gurugram , and travelling from Faridabad, Palwal, Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh, Rewari and Mehendergarh, will be allowed to resume their offices but they need to carry permissions given from offices, and will have to ensure they maintain social distancing,” Akil said.The district administration has also started issuing fresh passes for critical emergency movement outside Gurugram and for employees working in private companies which have taken permission to start their operations starting Monday.Deputy commissioner Khatri said they were using the SARAL movement pass system, an online application developed to allow travel during the lockdown. The administration on social media issued an advisory that stated that only a limited number of passes were being approved daily.“No essential supplier will be stopped and neither will companies who are handling IT services involved in Covid-19 work,” Khatri added, adding that everyone will need to have their documents verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ggm-can-open-for-business-today-with-strict-social-distancing-norms/story-MfcHYW42mWdraWbQUiesIL.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||City reports six new cases, focus fully on contact tracing||The district health team on Sunday confirmed six new cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including a man who committed suicide last week after his wife tested positive for coronavirus earlier this week. Other positive cases have been reported from Sector 80, Ardee City Sector-52, Basai Enclave and Islampur village, taking the total tally of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 to 73, of which 44 have been discharged and 29 are undergoing treatment. “The man who committed suicide last week has been confirmed Covid-19 positive. His wife was first confirmed Covid-19 positive on April 29. Next day, we took samples from the body to investigate how the lady contracted the virus. Since, the deceased is confirmed positive, we will now be tracing his history too,” chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said. On April 29, a 54-year-old man died when he allegedly hanged himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Sector 12 hours after he was informed that his wife was Covid positive. Around a week ago, the woman was taken to a hospital after she complained of distress in her stomach. She was later referred to another hospital in Sector 9 where she was tested for Covid-19.On Sunday, an autopsy was conducted and the body was handed over to his family. Civil Hospital forensic expert Dr Deepak Mathur said, “Once we were informed that the deceased tested positive for the coronavirus, we took all the necessary precautions and did an autopsy. The body was sterilized after it arrived at the mortuary. We wore full body PPE suits, including gloves and masks, during the examination.” A man who was a driver with Delhi Police, resident of Basai Enclave, also tested positive for Covid-19, Dr Punia said, adding, “We collected his sample after we were informed that the man was in contact with three Covid-19 positive patient in Delhi.” Meanwhile, a resident of Ardee City in Sector 52, contracted Covid-19 after visiting hospitals in the city to get treated for haemorrhoids. A resident of Islampur village, who worked in a mess at the Air Force Station in Rajiv Chowk has also been tested coronavirus positive. “We are still investigating the source of infection in a few of these cases,” Dr Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-reports-six-new-cases-focus-fully-on-contact-tracing/story-kRhyrh1fEU5e1LKscrcoUJ.html
03-05-2020||City||Faridabad reports highest spike in Covid-19 cases in a day, total tally reaches 73||Gurugram: Ten people, including three health care workers, were found positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Faridabad on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 73 in the district. This is the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours in the district, health officials said, adding that 11 areas have been declared containment zones.In a containment zone, the health team covers a radius of 3-km from the epicentre of the infection and conducts screening, sampling, and testing of suspected cases.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad, said that the new cases included two male nurses and a 42-year-old auxiliary nurse midwife, commonly known as ANM, working at a community health centre (CHC) at Kheri Kalan village. Besides, there are three patients, already under treatment for other ailments at Faridabad’s ESIC Medical College and Hospital, the officials said. Among the patients is a woman who had delivered a child a couple of days ago. “The others who are found infected with the deadly virus include a 24-year-old woman residing in Mujesar area of Faridabad and relatives of a pharmacist who had tested positive last month,” Yadav said.The deputy commissioner further said, “We had sent the samples of 3,497 people, of which 73 have tested positive and the results of 158 are awaited. As many as 30 people are currently hospitalised.” The infected people have been admitted to the ESIC hospital, the officials said, adding that at least 4,351 people are currently under home quarantine in the district.According to the officials, the police personnel are distributing face masks to those who are seen moving without them in Faridabad.Faridabad had sealed its borders with Delhi last month, prohibiting the entry of all commuters, including essential workers, until May 17.PALWAL REPORTS TWO MORE CASESOn Sunday, two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Palwal where no such cases had been reported since April 19, said Dr Brahmdeep Sindhu, chief medical officer, Palwal Civil Hospital.A Haryana policeman posted on the Nuh-Palwal border and a Palwal resident working in Faridabad were tested positive. This takes the district’s tally of positive cases to 36, of which 32 have already been discharged from the hospital.Sindhu said they hold three meetings in a day to discuss the next plan of action and to check the progress of cases. “We need to discuss the ongoing preparation and check the data compiled by the people who return from the field in the evening. We all are connected through WhatsApp group and also keep a check on all the movements of the doctors and staff members,” he said.As many as 2,172 people are under home quarantine, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-reports-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-total-tally-reaches-73/story-wHt2646ZatZR0FL3O1pbUP.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||Liquor shops to remain closed till further orders||Liquor shops in the city will remain closed until further orders as district excise and taxation department has not received any fresh directive from the government in this regard, officials said.With Gurugram opening industries and businesses from Monday, it was expected that liquor shops would be opening in the city but people were disappointed after they heard that liquor shops in Gurugram will not be opened.H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that they have not received any orders yet to reopen the liquor vends in the district. However, they have received more than 100 calls on Sunday after chief minister had announced that shops will reopen from Monday. “We are likely to open the liquor vends in the coming week. However, we have not decided on a date yet as we haven’t received any orders from the state,” he said.The Haryana government on March 26 had decided to temporarily shut down all the liquor vends across the state till further orders as part of its preventive measures to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, said officials.The decision was taken after the deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolios of excise and taxation, held a video conference with all the deputy excise and taxation commissioners (DETCs) of the state and ordered them to get the vends shut by the midnight of March 26.249 liquor vends in Gurugram had remained open even as malls and other non-essential stores were shut to contain the spread of coronavirus in the first week of March, said the officials.The officials said outlets across the state selling both countrymade and Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) were shut. A major chunk of state’s revenue comes in the form of excise duty, which was ₹6,600 crore last year.All liquor godowns in the city are also shut, the officials said, adding that there has been a major dip in the sale of liquor in the last two months which is more than ₹one crore.The police had recovered more than 10,000 cases of IMFL liquor from Sohna, Pataudi and the city area in the last two months which were being smuggled in trucks with vegetables, said the police.“The closure order was issued keeping in mind the safety of public health and to ensure social distancing. Though we did not receive any complaints, we want to take precautionary measures in the wake of coronavirus,” Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/liquor-shops-to-remain-closed-till-further-orders/story-O82NI4SfAdDiuCUmNNofwM.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||28-day no-Covid observation period must to unseal containment zones||Containment zones in the district will be denotified only if no new case of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is reported in the said area after the 28th day since the last case tests negative. Earlier, an area could be unsealed if no case was reported for 14 days.In a statement released by the district administration on Sunday, chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said that the containment operation in a zone will be considered complete when the report of the last positive case is negative for 28 days. “If a new case emerges in this duration, the containment zone will not be opened and status quo will be maintained,” he said. A 3-km zone around the place where a Coronavirus case is found will be declared a hot spot and turned into a containment zone. No movement of people, even to but essentials (milk, vegetables and medicines), is not allowed. Hospitals and healthcare centres in containment zones remain open, but can only be accessed in case of medical emergencies. For contact tracing, the health department conducts a door-to-door survey and sample testing to detect Covid-19 infections and the area is regularly disinfected.As of now, the district administration has 24 containment zones, created on recommendations of the Containment Zone Committee and District Disaster Management Committee. In Gurugram block, the containment zones are – Fazilpur in Jharsa village, Jharsa village, Sector 39, Sector 47, Devi Lal Colony, Sun City Sector 54, Sarhaul Village, Tyagiwara Badshahpur, Meghdoot Apartment Sector 10 A, and Om Nagar.Sohna block has the following containment zones: Gehlot Vihar, Javed Colony, Pahar Colony, Nut Colony, ITI Colony, Mohalla Bhood Para, Mohalla Thakurwara, Tripat Colony, Shiv Kund, Bhagat Wada, and Raipur village. In Pataudi block, Wards 11 and 14, and Ganpat Vatika are completely sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/28-day-no-covid-observation-period-must-to-unseal-containment-zones/story-YPiK6DONUmdzD5FfjTkJxH.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||Permission to domestic helps by RWAs remains under confusion, contention||Though the announcement of 15-day lockdown extension with relaxations, on Friday, was followed by issuance of a set of guidelines by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the relieved, but confused, residents of Gurugram found themselves asking key questions—can house helps come and should they? To answer this question inclusively, many RWAs have started taking online polls of members and send the feedback to the district administration so an informed decision can be taken. Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri has said, “An advisory in this regard will be issued soon.”On Saturday evening, after reports surfaced that the decision to allow entry of domestic help rests with respective RWAs, the residents’ body of DLF 2 did a four-hour-long online poll asking residents to give their views on the matter. In the poll, 68% of residents voted against allowing entry of domestic helps.“We decided to do a poll to give our views to the district administration regarding the matter so they can make a decision by factoring in the views of a larger group of people. Once the polling was finished, we compiled a report and forwarded it to the district administration. We will oblige with whatever order they issue on the matter,” DLF 2 RWA president Gaurav Wahi said, adding that the poll took place between 6 pm-10 pm on Telegram app on Sunday. A total of 185 people voted; DLF 2 has about 4,500 residents.As per the new guidelines, domestic helps will be allowed in all areas that are not containment zones. Gurugram district has 24 containment zones with 11 in Sohna, 10 in Gurugram and three in Pataudi.As most Gurugram colonies are serviced by individuals living in nearby slums, commuting with continued ban on public transportation is not a hindrance. However, what now worries residents is the possibility of contracting the viral virus from their helps who live in high-density areas. Vice versa, the help stand the possibility of contracting the virus at work and then taking it back to these areas. Some slum clusters, such as Jharsa village, mix-income high-congestion area of Sector 39 and nearby Islampur village, have reported 13 cases over the past fortnight. Even as the contract tracing exercise is on, officials said they expect more cases to emerge as many medical health care workers live here. All the 13 cases, so far, have been of health care workers contracting Covid-19, the disease caused by the vital coronavirus.In Princeton Estate, DLF 5, after receiving several queries from residents regarding the movement of domestic helps, the RWA informed that status quo would be maintained until any specific direction is issued by the state government or the district administration.“On Friday, we had issued a circular to all residents informing that restrictions within the condominium, including ban on entry of domestic help from outside, will remain until the district administration issues an order stating otherwise,” Arati Pandya, joint secretary, Princeton Estate Condominium Association said, adding that they plan to meet Monday evening (today) to discuss this matter and take a call on the steps to be taken. Nilesh Tandon, president of Fresco RWA, Nirvana Country, also said the RWA is waiting for clarity from the state government and are hoping that the onus of allowing domestic help would not fall on the RWAs.“We are hoping that the district administration or state government issues an advisory clarifying their stance on the entry of domestic help into residential areas as we too are confused. We hope they do not put the onus on RWAs, as is the case in Delhi, because it will put us all in a Catch22-like situation,” said Tandon.“Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) direction makes it very clear that people, including domestic help, can move between 7 am-7 pm. People would not need a pass to move around during this 12-hour period. They would have to strictly observe precautions, such as wearing masks and maintain a minimum physical distance (1 metre from people),” additional chief secretary and nodal officer for Covid-19 VS Kundu said.With the need for caution to be practiced by individuals at the centre of the district’s fight against Covid, it must be remembered that on April 10, the district administration had made wearing of a mask in public places compulsory under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Public urination and spitting are also punishable with an on-spot fine of ₹1,000, as ordered by the MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/permission-to-domestic-helps-by-rwas-remains-under-confusion-contention/story-G62VVpBnqNVitwWjzfeNKN.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||Office spaces, work culture in city to see paradigm shift in post-pandemic era||A large majority of corporate executives, IT workers and those in the service sector might still have few more weeks to return to their offices, but company leaders in the city have already started to plan and anticipate the changes they will have to incorporate when people return to their jobs in the post-lockdown pandemic-affected world. Architects, HR personnel and those involved in running and managing these offices agree that there is going to be a radical shift in how these spaces look and operate in the time to come.In the last two decades, Gurugram has emerged as an IT and ITes hub and is home to more than 300 Fortune 500 companies based in India.Experts engaged in planning and designing offices suggest that in the long run, hands-free features and functionalities will be the order of the day, like mobile operated light controls, automatic doors and copper-coated metal/plastic handles (as several research papers mention that bacteria stays on copper only for four hours, as opposed to 24 hours on stainless steel).“I am not suggesting we will go back to cubicles like the 1950s but I do think the density in offices will change. We will move away from the open-plan, the height of workstation separators will increase, there will be more natural ventilation along with less use of upholstery like carpets and chairs,” says Mudita Dhankhar, an architect and associate director, sales and projects at Garage Society, a co-working space provider.In the shorter run, experts envisage an increased focus on disinfecting premises, cleaning doors, tables and maintaining social distancing. According to them, the use of elevators will be controlled with only three or four people allowed to enter, not including a member of staff operating it.Human resource leaders from different companies say that caution would be the keyword when work resumes—the entire workforce will not be called in at once when the lockdown ends. Discussions would be held within firms and strategies would be changed to meet the challenges of the post-pandemic world, they add.Shilpa Narang Jerath, director of human resources, Oppo India, says that only those employees whose jobs absolutely cannot be managed from home will be asked to get back to work if they can. “If the employee says that they don’t think it is safe, we will not ask them to come. We are people first, so he or she will get to choose if they want to come back to the office then. But until the situation is completely safe we will keep checking and assessing the situation,” she adds.HR personnel also predict that there would be significant changes in how workers travel, socialise in canteens and cafes, and hold discussions in meeting rooms.“Workers might not be able to huddle together and chat. Minimum distance has to be maintained for their own good and of others. Meeting rooms will have fewer participants. For example, if it is a 12-seater room, then it will be reduced to a five-seater one. When the lockdown is lifted, everyone will not be able to rush to their respective offices at the same time. Offices are also going to open up in a graded manner—initially, companies are going to operate with 20% or 50% of the staff,” Pravin Kutty, vice president and head of HR, Snapdeal, says.In IT companies, where the usage of workstations and dedicated computers is critical, companies are planning to ask workers to come in on alternate days, introduce staggered timings and ask employees to sit at alternate desks. “We will focus on fewer meetings in closed spaces, eating food at work stations will be allowed, coffee breaks can be taken in open spaces and other SoPS for sanitisation and disinfection will be a priority,” Mamta Yadav, practise leaders, talent acquisition, IRIS Corporate, an HR systems company, says.Workers could also be asked to come on alternate days, say HR leaders. Professionals engaged in designing corporate office spaces further opine that going forward, offices will tend to become more flexible and agile from a space-planning aspect to accommodate any change in terms of a safe environment and safe distancing. “While there will be higher value around spaces where people can come together, the attention towards securing those spaces in terms of minimising touchpoints, materiality, establishing distance norms and maintaining overall hygiene will be equally critical,” Titir Dey, design director, Space Matrix, says.For companies located in Delhi-NCR, managements are considering the plausibility of access to public transport for employees post the lockdown. Employees commute across the region to reach their offices. With the government still not clear on when Metros, buses and cab services will resume operations, companies are keeping the work-from-home option open for employees.“Once the lockdown is lifted, we think that public transport might still be restricted and/or risky. Therefore, we are likely to make work-from-home an option for all employees until the situation is completely back to normal,” Sudhir Kamath, CEO and co-founder, 9Stacks, a tech-based gaming company, says.Businesses that engage in manual work in the city are taking into account the efficiency of washing hands periodically to beat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). They are also considering adding washrooms with bath facilities to ensure employees shower before they start working. “Earlier, we had a dry locker facility, now we are working on a wet locker facility wherein as soon as the employee enters the premises, they can take a shower—we have made this mandatory. Also, the employees who do not handle food will be given a separate locker room to change in a different area,” Chef Karan Talwar, managing director of Kitchen Kraft Luxury Catering, says.He adds that the company is also following standard procedure wherein all employees wash their hands every two hours.The work-from-home phenomenon, which was thrust upon companies, has been providing better than expected results, particularly for IT firms. Companies are likely to stick to this as they reduce spending on expensive real estate and maintenance. “The post-pandemic world will see a new work culture evolve, leading to firms reducing their office space footprint and also help workers spend less time on commuting. The cost of air-conditioning and running glass and chrome offices is significantly high,” Sanjay Sharma, a real estate consultant based in the city, says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/office-spaces-work-culture-in-city-to-see-paradigm-shift-in-post-pandemic-era/story-EHZ3lgGWTYFcVl7zmXYoOO.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Surveillance, more beds, contact tracing: Gzb readies for a world with Covid||After the relaxed lockdown guidelines were announced on Sunday, state officials issued strict directions with regard to containment zones/hot spots and told the health and administration officials to beef up surveillance activities. Officials added that for better contact tracing every person in every household will have to download the Aryoga Setu app and training would be given to residents, if needed. Restrictions on movement remain if the person is over 65 years of age, officials said. The officials estimate that stricter measures would be needed once the relaxations comes into play from Monday. Accordingly, the state is also preparing to handle more cases as people start stepping out for work. The UP chief minister recently directed all districts to increase the capacity of Covid and quarantine facilities. He also told districts to make arrangement of another 15,000-20,000 quarantine beds and 52,000 beds in the Covid L1, L2 and L3 hospitals. “We have asked two private hospitals (in Ghaziabad) to reserve a part of their wards for Covid-19 beds and hand it over to us or they start functioning as Covid hospitals and charge patients accordingly. At present, the Covid treatment in government facilities is free of cost. There are certain patients who want admission in private hospitals so we are making arrangements,” the CMO said.The state has 155 L1 category hospitals, 69 L2 and 19 L3 category dedicated Covid hospitals to deal with positive cases.“The CM has directed that we need to identify bigger facilities where 1,000-1,500 beds can be accommodated. At present, we have a total of about 1,400 quarantine beds. We are also trying to add 200 more beds for isolation/Covid against about 695 available at present,” CMO added.PEDAL ON CONTACT TRACING “There has to be contact tracing of every Covid-19 patient, mapping of the case is mandatory and complete compliance is a must. The officials will also have to check the geographical spread of the cases and see where the contacts of the positive patients have spread to,” UP additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said.“As per the fresh guidelines, a containment zone will be a 1km radius from epicentre in urban and rural areas, if there are more than one cases. For just one case, containment zone will be 400 metres. So, these areas will range from minimum of 400 metres to 1km. This is for better management of hot spots. Further, every person in every household will have to download the Aryoga Setu app. The officials will check and will also train residents if needed,” Awasthi added.The officials have also asked for beefing up of door-to-door surveillance in hot spots. They added that if anyone is found suffering from influenza like illness (ILI), flu or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), the medical teams will conduct tests and take appropriate medical action.According to officials, the number of Covid-19 active cases in UP stood at 1,838 till Sunday evening while 698 other persons were discharged and 43 deaths taken place so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/surveillance-more-beds-contact-tracing-gzb-readies-for-a-world-with-covid/story-oNofnHGh4fcHSLQl2fAasK.html
03-05-2020||City||Yeida to build and repair roads to engage 500 stranded migrants||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority(Yeida) on Sunday said that it has decided to complete under-construction roads and finish the remaining construction work in order to employ at least 500 migrant labourers, who have been rendered jobless due to the nationwide lockdown.The authority has decided to finish stuck projects so that the labourers do not remain jobless and can keep earning their livelihood. After the government of India extended the nationwide lockdown till May 17, around 500 migrant labourers were staring at uncertainty as most of them did not want to go back to their respective home towns. Two more weeks of joblessness would have costed them dearly, said officials. “We have decided to finish our incomplete projects, including the construction of two roads, repair work, and other developmental works so that we can give these migrant workers a source of engagement. We will start work from Monday onwards,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO, Yeida.The Yeida said that earlier in March, they had already processed the tendering process for two roads — one connects Greater Noida with Jewar and some patches on the service lane that runs parallel to the Yamuna Expressway. But they could not start the work after the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid 19 was put in place on March 25, 2020. The Yeida had allocated a budget of around ₹60 crore for these two roads.However, the Yeida wants to start work now after the ministry of home affairs relaxed lockdown conditions. The Yeida will also finish small works of roads, drains, and parks in sectors 18 and 20, which are the new developing urban areas. However, the Yeida will ensure that the construction work happens strictly in compliance with social distancing norms. Senior officials from the civil department and the administration will monitor these projects so that social distancing is followed. “Top officials will keep a watch to ensure that labourers follow social distancing to avoid the spread of Covid-19 infection,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yeida-to-build-and-repair-roads-to-engage-500-stranded-migrants/story-0hIoc73ekUQfzh4M1JUqbN.html
03-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad doctor puts up notice barring entry of cops to his clinic||Ghaziabad: A doctor at the Raj Nagar District Centre on Sunday put up a board at his clinic where he disallowed free consultation to police persons after a member of his staff was allegedly harassed by cops during a checking operation in Raj Nagar.“The cops seized the motorcycle of my laundry person while he was going home after taking clothes from the clinic. He told me that police officers abused him and also demanded money. It was after this that I put up a notice at my clinic where I denied entry to policemen who come to my clinic. Usually I give free consultation and even free treatment to defence personnel and policemen but after this incident I will abstain from attending to policemen,” said Dr BP Tyagi.However, police officers from the Kavi Nagar police station denied allegations of use of abusive words or any demand of money made by the policemen on duty.“The staff member was riding a two-wheeler with a pillion rider along with a bundle of clothes. This was a violation of lockdown norms. He was stopped during checking and he could not produce documents of the vehicle. The vehicle was seized but it was later released after the staff member arrived with documents. Later, there were allegations that our personnel demanded money and harassed the man. However, this was not the case. We just stopped him for checking. We spoke to the doctor and the matter was resolved. He also removed the notice from his clinic later on,” said Mohammad Aslam, SHO of Kavi Nagar police station.Police bring cake for 71-year-old, celebrate his birthdayOn Sunday, the Kavi Nagar SHO made a surprise visit to the house of 71-year-old RN Chaturvedi, who lives with his wife at their house in Govindpuram. Sunday was Chaturvedi’s birthday and the cops brought him a cake.“It was a pleasant surprise for him and the couple were very happy that we brought them a birthday cake. Their son and his family stay in Hong Kong. I received a call on Saturday that the 71-year-old has his birthday on Sunday. From this number, I again received a reminder call at 2pm on Sunday. Within half an hour, I arranged for a cake and went to their house. It was a surprise for them and they were all praise for the police,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-doctor-puts-up-notice-barring-entry-of-cops-to-his-clinic/story-w7J5tzXnXIacFr3z5CCBRK.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Noida police arrest 3 history-sheeters after encounter||Two criminals, wanted in at least a dozen of robbery cases and those related to the Arms Act in the district, were arrested by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police, after an encounter in Maicha under the Dadri police station on Saturday late evening. The police have also arrested another gang member involved in looting truck drivers at the Peripheral Road. The other had managed to escape to Dayanagar village under Jarcha police station on Sunday.GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said that despite drastic fall in crime rate in the district in the recent past, the police have been conducting continuous raids to nab history-sheeters. “Acting on a tip-off, the police team intercepted four motorcycle-borne criminals near the forest area of Maicha peripheral underpass. When the criminals started indiscriminate firing on the police, they had no option than to fire back. As a result, two of them suffered minor bullet injuries and were nabbed by the police team. Two countrymade pistols and live cartridges were recovered. One of the other two criminals, who had managed to escape, was also arrested with one .32-bore pistol and live bullets,” he said.The arrested criminals have been identified as Ravinder Singh alias Rambhu, Sahil, who is known by his first name, and Jayveer Gujjar. While Ravinder and Sahil have been admitted to the district hospital by the police, Jayveer has been forwarded for judicial custody. “Ravinder and Sahil have been named accused in more than one dozen cases related to the Arms Act, attempt to murder, robbery and loot, lodged at different police stations of the district. Jayveer, too, is wanted in at least four cases of the same nature. Cash and mobile phones, looted by them, have also been recovered from their possession,” the official sources said.According to the police, on the night of March 29, these criminals had snatched three mobile phones from a truck driver and his helper on the expressway. The truck driver Lokendra Singh said that he was going to Ghaziabad with some essential commodities when the truck broke down a few kilometres from the toll plaza. “I had parked the truck on the roadside when three criminals reached the spot and snatched my three mobile phones. They also smashed the windshield of the truck, when I resisted,” he said. The Dadri police have registered a case of robbery under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code(IPC).The police also recovered a stolen motorcycle from the suspects’ possession. The motorcycle owner, Khadak Singh, a resident of Rampur village, told the police that he had parked the motorcycle outside his house on May 1, when the suspects stole it and used it in committing crimes.“We have recovered six stolen mobile phones, two countrymade guns, two live cartridges, and ₹6,600 in cash from their possession. The suspects were already wanted in cases of theft and robbery. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the DCP Greater Noida Rajesh Kumar Singh. The police have launched a search for the absconding criminals.The police chief said that with limited options to move around during the ongoing lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, it is a good time for the Noida police to nab the most-wanted criminals and history-sheeters of the district. “Our boys are already on their heels. They are either enforcing the lockdown or conducting frequent raids to nab the criminals. We don’t want to give them any chance to give us a slip,” he said.Singh also said that the police have also been keeping a close eye on the activities and physical locations of the criminals, who had recently been released on parole from Kasna district jail, as per the Covid-19 guidelines. “During this drive, it was found that out of 165 accused, who were released on parole, 15 were not present at their locations provided. Out of 98 accused named in different cases of loot and robbery in the district, 23 were found absent from their residential addresses provided to the jail and police authorities. Of these 23 accused,10 are from Noida zone, while nine and four are from central Noida and Greater Noida respectively. We are trying our best to send these absentee accused behind the bars again,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-arrest-3-history-sheeters-after-encounter/story-Ezs9K6cWbb8nAs83dkgHzJ.html
03-05-2020||City||Noida: All COVID-19 patients of Ceasefire trail discharged||Noida: All patients suffering from the coronavirus (COVID-19) disease from the trail of the first two clusters in Noida district have been discharged. Officials said that 42 of those which had direct or indirect contact with cases related to private firm Ceasefire in Sector 135, and seven members of a family from the Nirala Greenshire society in Greater Noida West, including their domestic help, have been discharged after testing negative.By Sunday evening, 101 patients were discharged from the three COVID-19 hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar district -- Sharda Hospital and Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, and Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Noida’s Sector 30.Ceasefire and Nirala Greenshire were the first two clusters of COVID-19 infection in Gautam Budh Nagar. The family from Nirala Greenshire had contracted infection from a 37-year-old member of the house who had returned from Denmark. The seven patients included an 11-year-old girl and the domestic help of the family. No new case has come up from both the trails as of late, officials said.At Ceasefire, the managing director had returned from the UK on March 1, while another employee had returned from abroad on March 7. They had also hosted a visiting auditor from London for three days in the third week of March. All the three persons jumped their quarantine period and were attending office, which allegedly led to the spread of Sars-Cov-2 among other the employees and then to the employees’ family members.The MD has also been discharged now, from the Super Speciality Hospital where he was recuperating.The last patient from the Ceasefire trail was discharged on May 1 after spending around 36 days in the hospital. The 39-year-old had developed pneumonia as well, which extended his stay at the hospital for so long. The 42 persons include employees, their family members and domestic helpers.The health officials said they are happy that all the patients from the two important trails of COVID-19 have been discharged. “We are relieved that all the 42 patients from the Ceasefire trail and seven from the residential society of Greater Noida West are discharged. These two were the first two clusters which were identified in the district. Over 150 employees of the company were put on surveillance and we identified 42 persons positive from the trail that had direct or indirect contact with the company,” said a senior health official, who is leading the contact tracing of COVID-19 patients and suspected patients.Officials said that over 1,000 people were put under surveillance, who come in direct or indirect contact with the Ceasefire employees.The Expressway police had lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under Section 45 (Punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR was lodged on the orders of the chief medical officer of the district for hiding foreign travel history allegedly by some employees of the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-all-covid-19-patients-of-ceasefire-trail-discharged/story-S4XdB1e70YQELqJMYxwQAI.html
03-05-2020||City||Nearly 1,200 stranded students leave GB Nagar for their native places in UP||Noida: Nearly 1,200 students, stranded in Gautam Budh Nagar due to the Covid-19 lockdown, on Sunday left for their hometowns in 45 different districts of Uttar Pradesh aboard 51 state-run buses arranged by the district administration.“A total of 1,184 students are being sent back to their native places in 51 buses,” said MN Upadhyay, additional district magistrate (finance), who is the nodal officer.However, for now only UP students are being evacuated, officials said, adding that the arrangements for students of other states will be done eventually.The UP government had last week ordered the district administrations to arrange transport for stranded students, after which an online link was shared by the district administration on May 1 with a form for the students to fill in the requisite details and apply for the permission and facilities to go back home in UP and other states.“Every bus has been sanitized. The driver and cleaner tested, and two home guards are there in each bus. All necessary precautions of social distancing are being maintained. Students have been given masks, food packets and water bottles,” said Upadhyay.The students were picked up from seven points in the district -- Botanical Garden metro station, City Centre metro station, Gaur City/Kisan Chowk, Electronic City metro station, Sector 51 Metro station, Advant Crossing in Sector 142 and Ghanta Ghar in Surajpur. All the students were taken to India Expo Mart in Knowledge Park area of Greater Noida, from where the buses left for the different parts of UP. “All respective district administrations have been provided with the list of students. Also, the students have been asked to stay in quarantine for 14 days when they reach home,” said Upadhyay.The move comes as a relief for the students who had been stranded here for almost two months now.“I am from Maharajganj. I had been staying with my elder brother in Noida Sector 30. He is a doctor. Every day when he came back home, I feared that I might contract the Coronavirus. As I am leaving Noida, my family would be very happy now,” said Dharam Raj Yadav, a final year engineering student of a private college in Greater Noida.All educational institutions in the district had been closed even before the national lockdown was announced on March 24.“The hostels were shutting, so I moved to a friend’s paying guest accommodation in Sector 15. Finally, I am going home. My parents had been worried for the past two months,” said Renu Singh, a final year MBA student who comes from Varanasi.The students received mails with the travel information, after which they reached respective pick-up points. However, the situation did not turn out well for everyone.“I got to know about the link today. I first went to the nearest police station who directed me to the DM office. When I went there, I was told that the registration had closed. So, I have missed my chance to go back home, and no one knows when the opportunity will come back again,” said Deepak, a student living in Sector 53 who is a native of Deoria district.The officials said that the link would re-open in a couple of days, but they refused to give the exact date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-1-200-stranded-students-leave-gb-nagar-for-their-native-places-in-up/story-WM4xN9a3H2cBtd5wxWFiiM.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad yet to decide on lockdown relaxations, action-plan being chalked out||With Ghaziabad in the orange zone, the district administration said it was working on a set of guidelines that would define how economic activity would resume while ensuring strict compliance of all measures needed to contain the spread of the Coronavirus disease. “The action plan will be ready by May 4 and will be made public. A meeting was held with officials of different departments… Everything directed by the state government will be put in place in a coordinated manner,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.The guidelines issued by Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday were based on guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs last Friday. The letter issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, listed the zone-wise permissions and prohibitions. UP has adopted the complete ban on all activity between 7pm to 7am. “It is an appeal and order that people above age of 65 years, those with comorbidities, children under 10 years and pregnant women should stay home,” UP additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said. Among the enterprises allowed to function are standalone liquor shops across zones but outside containment zones from 10am to 7pm with strict adherence to physical distancing. “In containment zones, OPD and medical clinics will not be allowed to open. These will be permitted in Red, Orange and Green zones with the help of health department guidelines. For emergency services, we have given permission to individual hospitals,” Awasthi said.The guidelines allows opening of standalone shops selling essential and non-essential items, but market complexes and markets will remain shut. The officials said that private four-wheelers with a driver and two passengers, and two persons on a two-wheeler are permitted in Orange zone but within the district. “Inter-state and intra-city bus operation will not be allowed in Orange zone,” they added.“The industrial activity in urban areas is permitted in Special Economic Zones, export-oriented units and industrial estate/townships. Other industrial units operating at present will continue operation. The factory premises will have to be sanitized and disinfected. In Red and Orange zones, units with more than 50 workers will have to arrange for transport facilities and vehicles will function at 50% of its passenger capacity,” Awasthi added.“Units with more than 50 employees will also have to get random testing of at least 5% employees (maximum 25) through RT-PCR kits,” he added.Officials also allowed for operation of private offices with 33% employees and work from home for remaining staff.The Covid-19 is a highly contagious disease caused by the virus Sars-CoV-2, which attacks the respiratory system. So far, 83 people have been infected in the district. Pan India, the number stands at 40,244, as per the Union Ministry of Home Affairs website late Sunday night. The number of curbs on human movement amid the Covid-19 pandemic is fewer in the orange zone than red but more than green. Neighbouring districts of Noida, Meerut and Delhi are under the Red zone.The district of Ghaziabad, on Sunday, reported eight more cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With this, the tally, which includes the husband of a woman councillor from Vasundhara who had tested positive on April 30, has reached 83, of which 31 are active.“The husband of councillor from Vasundhara also tested positive and he has been admitted to the ESI Hospital in Sahibabad. We are also trying to trace his other contacts. Further, wife and nephew of a Covid-19 patient from Vaishali have also tested positive. A man from Dasna Gate tested positive besides four other persons who were already in a quarantine facility. The four persons are from Islam Nagar and contacts of a positive patient,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta.The chief medical officer also said that 12 contacts of a driver of the district fire department tested negative for Covid-19 on Sunday.“The driver is at ESI Hospital in Sahibabad and had tested positive three days ago. All his contacts tested negative on Sunday,” he said. Chief fire officer Sunil Kumar Singh confirmed that the driver had turned positive and all his 12 contacts were negative after test reports received on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-yet-to-decide-on-lockdown-relaxations-action-plan-being-chalked-out/story-0FbQFXfA1AxFr8B03q1u6L.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Lockdown 3.0: Commercial activities to begin in ‘red zone’ GB Nagar district||The Uttar Pradesh government has given its nod for industries in urban areas , export oriented units , industrial estates and industrial townships of Gautam Budh Nagar to begin functioning from Monday onwards. However, as Gautam Budh Nagar falls under the red-zone category, no vehicles, other than those related to essential services and carrying bona fide passes, will be allowed to enter or exit the district till the lockdown ends on May 17, 2020. This rule will be valid for both inter-state and inter-district movement of vehicles.District magistrate Suhas LY, on Sunday, said that other industrial activities permitted are manufacturing units producing essential goods, including drugs, pharmaceutical products and their raw materials. Production units requiring continuous process, supply chain, manufacture of IT hardware, units producing packaging materials, construction activities with employees on site and construction of renewable energy projects have also been allowed. Units having more than 50 employees will have to ensure timely pick-up and drop of their employees within the relaxation hours (7am to 7pm). While shops selling non-essential goods in malls, markets and market complexes will continue to remain shut, all standalone shops, colony shops and shops in residential complexes have been permitted to stay open. E-commerce activities will only be allowed for essential goodss,” he said.The district magistrate further said that intensive surveillance mechanism, as outlined in the standard operating protocol (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), will be strictly adhered to across the district. “It has been mandatory for all the residents carrying smartphones to install Aarogya Setu app on their phones, for better contact tracing and proper monitoring of all cases with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), influenza like illness (ILI), and other symptoms,” he said.Stating that the movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, has been strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am, in accordance with Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code as the district falls in red zone category, the DM said that persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidit conditions, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years, will have to mandatorily stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. “Out-patient departments (OPDs) and medical clinics have been permitted to operate in the district, if they are not located in the containment zones,” he said.The DM also said that even liquor shops, outside the containment zones, have been permitted to open, with a condition that the last customer reaches his/her home before the 12 hour curfew time beginning at 7pm every day. “Standalone liquor shops will be opened. But, the licencees have been asked to maintain the two yard social distancing norms and ensure that the last customer reaches home before the curfew starts,” he said.Suhas also said that private offices have been allowed to operate with maximum 33% strength, with the remaining staff being asked to work from home. “The working hours of the industrial and commercial units can be increased with mutual consent of employers and their respective workers. Plying of rickshaws and auto rickshaws; running of taxis and cab aggregators; intra-district and inter-district plying of buses, besides standalone barber shops, spas and saloons are not allowed in the district,” he said.The district administration has also decided to permit all industrial and construction activities in rural areas, including MNREGA work, food-processing units and brick-kilns. “All agriculture activities, including sowing, harvesting, procuring and marketing operations in the agricultural supply chain are permitted. Animal husbandry activities and fisheries are also allowed,” the district magistrate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-3-0-commercial-activities-to-begin-in-red-zone-gb-nagar-district/story-wr5zULb6XVlkpj92f15xuM.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Unsung corona warrior walks 8 km daily for maintenance of rail engines||Due to the lack of availability of public transport amid nationwide lockdown, a mechanical fitter working in the locomotives maintenance department of the Central Railway, Babloo Kumar, walks 8 km every day to reach Kalyan electric locomotive shed.Kumar resides close to Chinchpada village in Kalyan and takes a 4-km walk to his work where he repairs locomotives and then walks back to his home. Kumar has worked on 22 locomotive breakdowns since the starting of the lockdown from March 21. Locomotive or rail engines are important as railway uses its freight and parcel services for transportation of goods amid lockdown.“There is no public transport system available from the village I stay at since the starting of the lockdown. Private cars are very minimal and are not available,” said Babloo Kumar.Kumar has been working with the Central Railway in the locomotive maintenance department since 2016. “Initially I thought it would be difficult to cover the distance by walking. However, the timely operation of parcel and goods trains is very necessary during the lockdown as they carry essential commodities. That is why I decided to walk,” said Kumar.Central Railway is scheduled to operate 310 parcel trains carrying essential commodities across states. The railways have operated 210 parcel trains since the beginning of the lockdown.“Kumar is one of the numerous people working behind the scenes. We give a big salute to all the railway warriors and thank them for their continuous and non-stop efforts that help in the operation of goods and parcel trains,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/unsung-corona-warrior-walks-8-km-daily-for-maintenance-of-rail-engines/story-GY4O2tUdMMHIgFZ8bKugAI.html
03-05-2020||City||Migrants seek help from activists, police for passage on special trains||Lakhs of stranded migrants from Panvel are now hoping to return to their hometowns after the government announced travel arrangements to the respective states. These migrant workers are now turning to social activists, police personnel, and civic officials for help.“We just came to know that we can go to our home but have no idea how. Hence, we got in touch with social activist Deepak Singh who has been supplying food grains to us for the past 15 days. He explained the procedure of approaching the police and getting the form filled for travel,” said Brajesh Mishra, 45, from Madhubani in Bihar.Singh said that since the announcement, he has been getting panic calls from migrants. “They want to know where to get the form, what the charges will be, and train timings,” he said.Nodal officers have been appointed to get the forms filled and the police have been coordinating with migrants. On Sunday, more than 500 migrants flocked to Kharghar police station to collect travel forms.“Since morning the queue of migrants is not ending. We have ensured that they follow social distancing norms,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.Subodh Rana, 30, a migrant from Jharkhand who used to work at a construction site in Kharghar, said, “I have been stuck here for so long. Though we could manage food, life has been difficult as there are many other requirements as well. Now that information is out that we can go, I am sure somebody will reach me with details of what to do,” he said.Rana has been staying with 15 other migrants at an under-construction building in Khargar.While many want to go back, some labourers want to stay in the city. “We have been helped and are given everything for survival. We are sure this phase end. Also, I don’t want to be in the quarantine center once we reach our hometown as the probability of getting infected is high. I feel safer here,” said Subodh Kumar, 40.Sundeep Sharma, a political activist, and social entrepreneur said, “The migrants are being sent home and necessary arrangements are made. Only those people must be sent. The trains are being run from all major stations and it is important to manage the crowd.”Jameer Lengarekar, additional commissioner, Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “We have spread the word about forms being available with the circle and nodal officers for different states. People can take the forms and fill all the details if they wish to travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-seek-help-from-activists-police-for-passage-on-special-trains/story-m8jnDEWIfSBncOSEn2BvDK.html
03-05-2020||City||Kalyan police make list of 7,500 migrant workers to be sent home||Kalyan zone 3 police have prepared a list of around 7,500 migrant workers who were stranded in Kalyan Dombivli due to the lockdown and are willing to travel to their hometown.“We have prepared a list of more than 7,500 workers, divided them based on their states and collected their information. The process of finalising the list is at an initial stage. It will take a few more days to send them home,” said Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Kalyan zone 3.Of the 7,500 migrants, 210 are from Madhya Pradesh, 3,145 from Uttar Pradesh, 1,725 from Jharkhand, 100 from Gujarat, 88 from Rajasthan, 222 from Telangana, 12 from Orissa, 766 from Bihar, 300 from Karnataka, 481 from west Bengal while the rest from other states.Once the list is finalised, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will carry out medical check-up of these migrants to ensure they are healthy and have not contracted the Covid-19. Following the check-up, the registration will be done online. Meanwhile, ward officials will also check if the workers are from non-containment zones and certify them accordingly.“After these procedures, they can be allowed to travel to their hometown. The civic body will start conducting medical check-up in one or two days. Most of these workers live at construction sites, but we have found 250 workers who did not have a shelter. All of them are being provided with food by the civic body,” said Pansare.Meanwhile, around 75 migrant workers from Mahatma Phule police jurisdiction have hired three buses to travel to their hometown in Rajasthan and Gujarat. A senior inspector from Mahatma Phule police station said, “We are carrying out medical check-ups of these workers. As they have arranged the buses, once the check-up is done the ward officer will provide them with no objection certificates for travel. If the process gets complete, they can leave from Kalyan in the night.”1,000 people given forms at Vashi police stationAround a 1,000 migrant workers, cancer patients and others wanting to travel to their hometowns gathered at Vashi police station ground on Sunday to get forms. The forms are to be submitted by Monday, following which travel passes will be issued to the migrants.Sanjeev Dhumal, senior inspector at Vashi police station, said, “The migrant workers will have choose a group leader who has to take their responsibility in submitting the forms.” He added police officers ensured the assembled migrants follow social distancing and provided them with water.(With inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-police-make-list-of-7-500-migrant-workers-to-be-sent-home/story-gBspgQxbvaaamp0F92fCxJ.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Repairs of 88 roads come to a standstill amid lockdown||The lockdown following Covid-19 outbreak has brought the construction work of 88 roads to a halt in the city and deadlines of many of the ongoing projects are likely to be extended by a few months.To avert any trouble to Mumbaiites during the monsoon, the civic administration commenced over 400 roads construction and repair works. Of these, works on 68 were completed and construction of 247 projects was in progress. However, 88 projects are affected due to the hotspot restrictions in the city. “Yes, it is true that projects have been affected by the coronavirus pandemic and we have lost a bit of time, but when the problem is over we shall resume construction,” deputy municipal commissioner (infrastructure) Sanjay Darade said.He further explained that currently, they are unable to move construction machinery from one place to another due to the coronavirus outbreak that has affected traffic movement in the city. “We have now lost precious time, but we will start work as soon as possible to finish the work,” he added.Out of the 88 affected projects, 52 projects were from the city, 10 projects from eastern suburbs and 26 from western suburbs. The civic body has deployed 1,511 labourers on these projects.Furthermore, availability of construction raw material including sand, steel and cement also needs to be factored in, added the official. The state and the civic body is handling the critical situation on a war footing.Coronavirus has affected the road construction projects from Jijamata Nagar Worli, Dharavi, Andheri, Kurla and Goregaon. Even after the lockdown is revoked on May 17, the civic work will take another 15 more days time for workers to come back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/repairs-of-88-roads-come-to-a-standstill-amid-lockdown/story-Mr42Yrfa0VAKFae2BjXTsN.html
03-05-2020||City||Thane records 17 new cases, 1 death||A 52-year-old man from Mumbra died after testing Covid positive while 17 new cases were reported from Thane on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 389.No new case was reported from CP Talao, which has become a hotspot.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “A 52- year-old resident of Mumbra died on Saturday night. He was admitted to Kalsekar hospital in Mumbra on May 1 after he complained of cold and cough. He was shifted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital the same day. He was diabetic and tested positive for Covid-19. Sixteen people have died so far.”Kalyan and Dombivli saw 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number cases to 195.The newly infected persons include five who travelled to Mumbai for work. A 44-year-old traffic police posted in Mumbai is among those who tested positive for coronavirus.Navi Mumbai crossed the 300 mark on Sunday with 25 new cases, taking the total tally to 314.Fifteen of the new cases are related to APMC market traders or the business there. These include four family members of an APMC trader who had tested positive earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-17-new-cases-1-death/story-EjIthUTqLw205kIFHdoYkK.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||First in Maharashtra: Pune medical college gets ICMR nod to start clinical trials for convalescent plasma therapy||BJ Medical College, Pune, has become the first medical institute in Maharashtra to receive an approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to run clinical trials for the convalescent plasma therapy. The blood sample of the first donor has been sent for antibody titre to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.Convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting patients with plasma from the blood of recovered patients. In this process, the plasma with antibodies is transfused into an infected person to boost his immunity response to the novel coronavirus.To start a clinical trial, a medical institute has to undergo a four-stage approval process — permissions from the institute, ethics committee, drug controller and lastly ICMR. In Mumbai, Lilavati Hospital at Bandra tried to treat a Covid-19 patient through plasma therapy. However, they are yet to receive the final approval from ICMR.“BJ Medical College is the first medical institute to pass through all four stages of approvals. We will now run clinical trials that will help establish if plasma therapy is effective for the treatment of patients,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, Medical Education and Drugs Department.ICMR, however, has made it clear that it does not recommend plasma therapies as treatment outside clinical trial settings. In the absence of a vaccine or a specific drug, plasma therapies have been tested globally, albeit in limited numbers, as a treatment for patients who show severe complications due to coronavirus.Dr Mukherjee explained that there is at present a belief among medical fraternity that antibodies developed among recovered patients may help neutralise the virus—Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19. “The theory can be established by testing it (with approval) on patients through clinical trials,” he said.Murlidhar Tambe, Deputy Dean of BJ Medical College said that all the patients who will participate in the trial will be covered under insurance. Without disclosing much information, he said, “We have procured equipment to run the trial. But we are waiting for the final insurance reports of the patients to go ahead with the trial. We need cured people to come forward to donate their blood for the therapy”The college has collected blood from a male donor in his late 20s who has recovered from Covid-19 for over a month. The blood has been sent to NIV for extraction of the plasma. Once they get a green signal from the laboratory, they will transfuse it into a Covid-19 patient. As per sources, the first transfusion will be conducted on Monday. The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has already permitted the plasmapheresis (the process in which plasma is separated from the blood cells).Normally, before starting with the clinical trials, it is tested on animals. But as plasma therapy is already an established form of treatment in other diseases, initial testing on animals is not needed.“Patients will be invited to participate in randomised control trials with their approval. Once we can confirm that it is effective on humans with Covid-19, the therapy will be scientifically considered for the treatment of patients with novel coronavirus,” Mukherjee added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-in-maharashtra-pune-medical-college-gets-icmr-nod-to-start-clinical-trials-for-convalescent-plasma-therapy/story-O4zfqd195zzFBlxRiUyMzL.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra saw 9,000 more cases at the end of 2nd lockdown||Maharashtra saw around 9,000 more Covid-19 cases and 330 deaths during the second lockdown, according to data from the state health ministry. The state health department feels the situation would have been far worse without the lockdown.At the end of the first lockdown, on April 14, the cases in the state stood at 2,684, with 178 deaths. By the end of the three weeks of the lockdown on May 2, the cases are 12,296 with 521 deaths. In Mumbai, the case count was 1,756 with 112 deaths on April 14, which went up to 8,359, with 322 deaths on May 2.On May 3, 678 new cases were reported, taking the state tally to 12,974 and death toll touched 548. Mumbai recorded 441 new cases on Sunday taking tally to 8,800 with 343 deaths.Dr Pradip Awate, state disease surveillance officer, said, “The government has enforced the lockdown measures very well. The cases have increased, but we can’t ignore that we have controlled the doubling rate of corona cases from 2.5-3 days to 9 days. Without it, the situation could have been far worse and the numbers higher. The lockdown is helping us break the chain. We have also successfully managed to keep our mortality rate at 4.24%, better than the world’s 7.04%.”According to the state health department, among the 551 deaths, 368 (73 per cent) had comorbidities or other serious diseases. Till May 2, around 2,000 people have recovered. In the last one week, the state has witnessed a huge jump in the cured category. The administration has also been creating containment zones wherever cases are rising to check local transmission. The spike in the cases in the last few days has been sharp, with a rise of 1008 cases reported on Friday and an increase of 790 in the next 24 hours.The official, however, turned down the possibility of community transmission. “We can say the infection is being transmitted locally and not on community level. The cases are increasing in areas where people are not following social distancing norms seriously. I urge people to do that,” said Dr Awate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-saw-9-000-more-cases-at-the-end-of-2nd-lockdown/story-uTVqfNNGEFQvkywIMqMa2O.html
03-05-2020||City||Punjab changes relaxation timings, Mohali sticks to 7am to 11am||Even though the Punjab government has changed the curfew relaxation hours to 9am to 1pm, the Mohali administration is sticking to the old 7am to 11am timings.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had not received the written order to change the timings. “These may arrive on Monday and we will act accordingly from Tuesday onwards,” he added.He reiterated that the administration will not allow vehicular movement at any cost unless a person was in acute need. During relaxation hours, people are advised to visit nearby markets on foot and avoid using four- and two-wheelers, he said. In Mohali city, the shops can remain open during relaxation hours on odd-even basis. Shops with even or odd SCO/ SCF/booth numbers will open on alternate days in line with even or odd date. In Kharar and Zirakpur, shops have been divided into groups on the basis of trade and will open on alternate days as per classification.In rural areas, all shops can remain open between 7am and 11am while adhering to social distancing and wearing masks. Only a single person of a family is allowed to visit the shops in any area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-changes-relaxation-timings-mohali-sticks-to-7am-to-11am/story-ATiIBacxk9eJkQphjJXV2J.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Haffkine gets approval for clinical trial of anti-TB vaccine for Covid patients||After almost a month of waiting, Haffkine Institute, Parel has got permission to run clinical trials on the anti-tuberculosis vaccine to treat Covid-19 patients. However, the trial will be conducted at BJ Medical College, Pune. Covid-19 is a new strain of coronavirus which doesn’t have any vaccination or specific medications. To find a solution, Haffkine Institute, last month submitted a proposal to conduct a clinical trial to use the anti-tuberculosis Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, as a treatment. On Friday, they received a nod from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI).“The vaccine helps to improve the immune system among people, so it is believed that it can be used as a treatment for patients with Covid. Preliminary research has shown that it has helped to neutralise the virus to some extent,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary, Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD).Around 35 people with moderate and severe infection will be part of the trial. Usha Padmanabhan who currently heads the Department of Cell Biology at Haffkine Institute will be in-charge of the trial. Dr Rajesh Deshmukh, managing director of the Haffkine Institute said, “Unlike other new drugs, it would be easier to treat patients as this vaccine is already available in markets. We have already set up the laboratory for the trial at the college.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/haffkine-gets-approval-for-clinical-trial-of-anti-tb-vaccine-for-covid-patients/story-W4LC3aFo2K0TbClM5CIgkN.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC asks private medical practitioners to issue fitness certificates to migrant workers||In order to avoid crowding at civic-run clinics and hospitals and ensure social distancing, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday issued a circular allowing private clinics and nursing homes to issue fitness certificates to migrant labourers and those stranded in the city. Having a medical fitness certificate is one of the mandatory criteria required to be fulfilled for migrant labourers willing to go back to their hometowns amid nationwide lockdown. The move comes after a huge crowd of migrant workers was observed outside Bhabha Hospital among other civic hospitals and clinics on Sunday. The Mumbai Police had earlier started distributing forms to migrant labourers and those stranded in the city. However, several private clinics and nursing homes were reluctant to issue fitness certificates in the absence of clarity or guidelines from the BMC for the same.The civic body on Sunday issued a circular prescribing a format in which all civic-run and private medical professionals are expected to issue a medical fitness certificate. The circular reads, “All registered medical practitioners practising in Mumbai can issue such certificates after taking history and clinical examination of the persons wishing to travel that he/she does not have influenza-like symptoms.”The circular added, “For identification of persons please check any government identity card and keep hard/soft copy for record. Regular patients should be treated on priority.”After the Central government announced the evacuation plan for migrant workers, all state governments were asked to have a standard operating procedure for the allowing of travel. However, in Mumbai, the migrant labourers were facing issues as private practitioners were not issuing medical certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-asks-private-medical-practitioners-to-issue-fitness-certificates-to-migrant-workers/story-GWN58US0TaRAvY57bXp0AN.html
03-05-2020||City||Took all precautions on migrant train from Bhiwandi, says CR||Around 1,100 migrant workers from Bhiwandi boarded a Shramik Express train which left the Bhiwandi railway station at 1am for Gorakhpur, on Sunday. Central Railway (CR) informed that all safety precautions were carried out during the boarding process. Several more migrants have now gathered at the police station in Bhiwandi, as the Thane police update a new passenger list for the special outstation trains. “The train was scheduled at around 9pm from Bhiwandi, as per directions from the state government, after receiving bookings for over 1,000 passengers. However, the train was delayed by four hours from the originating station as passengers had to be thoroughly checked by the police, and were required to wear masks and maintain social distance,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway, Mumbai.“Meals and water were provided by CR to the passengers throughout the journey. To maintain social distance, 50 passengers were accommodated in each coach, as opposed to the 70-plus passengers. The train was sanitised and passengers were directed to form a queue to board. A total of 1,104 passengers were permitted to travel in the train after their essential papers and fitness certificate were verified,” said Sutar.Migrants still stranded in Thane gathered outside the office of local corporator in Gokul Nagar area of Thane on Saturday, to get their fitness certification.“The queue of migrants has been noticed since yesterday evening. Over 250 migrants have approached us to get their fitness certificates. The list of people who have no health issues has been prepared by our volunteers from the area. The same list will later be handed over to the local police station,” said Krishna Patil, corporator, ward No 11, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC).“The fitness certification is being conducted in coordination with the local police teams and with the help of doctors who are also residents of the same ward which consists of areas like, Gokul Nagar, Shrirang society, Vrundavan, Azad Nagar, Kolbad, and Kolshet in Thane,” said Patil.Thane police are now taking a detailed survey of labourers stranded in the city during the lockdown, who want to return to their hometowns. Police teams have already started taking their applications and within the next two days, they are going to complete the survey to make further arrangements.Suraj Kumar, 30, came to Mumbai from Gondia, Maharashtra, for the first time four months back. He got a job at a construction site in Bhiwandi but was let go in in March when the construction site closed. “After lockdown started I hardly had ₹300 with me. It was a really difficult time as for two to three days I didn’t have food. Later, I met a few people from my village and they helped me to get food. I desperately want to go home. Living in this city is expensive,” said Kumar. “We heard that the Gorakhpur train has taken 1,104 labourers and it increased our hopes. We have managed to collect money for the ticket and are waiting for the next announcement,” he added.Maloji Shinde, senior inspector, Narpoli police station, said, “Our team is collecting data of each labourer and taking their detailed applications so that we will get an idea of how many others are still waiting to leave.”Labourers who left the city on Saturday were happy and grateful to the officials. Kishan Kumar, one of the passengers who travelled on the Shramik Express, said, “We all were worried till the train started, but after that, we all are feeling so happy and just waiting to reach home. We didn’t have enough money, nor did we have jobs. At least we can save money that we are spending here for shelter. We will come back once everything gets settled.”1,200 migrants from Vasai leaves for GorakhpurAround 1,200 migrants from Vasai left for Gorakhpur, on another Shramik Express train on Sunday morning. The migrants, who were staying at camps, were issued tickets and charged around ₹740 for the trip.Rahul Bhalerao, district information officer (DIO), Palghar, said, “We took details of the migrants and also conducted medical tests for coronavirus symptoms. Social distancing norms were followed and around 48 passengers were allowed in each coach of the train which left at 4.15am. Each passenger was provided with food packets, water, masks, and sanitiser for the 1,806-km trip which should be covered within 30 hours, as the train would have limited halts.” Bhalegao added that around 5,500 migrants are stranded in Palghar district, as per official data.District collector Dr Kailas Shinde and other officials were present at the railhead to send off the migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/took-all-precautions-on-migrant-train-from-bhiwandi-says-cr/story-YDidskI32AuJNyrhurVkSM.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Social distancing a challenge for restarting PGIMER OPDs, panels formed to gauge options||Social distancing in the outpatient departments (OPDs) at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), closed since March 20, will remain a major concern once open, probably soon, as hospital authorities have set up two sub-panels to examine standard operating procedures (SOPs) to restart the service.A panel headed by Dr GD Puri, dean academics, set up earlier by Prof Jagat Ram, PGIMER director, had recommended the number of patients to be allowed at the OPDs in pursuance of social distancing norms.“We cannot go easy on the precautions while providing services. The basic thing is to restrict the number of patients, otherwise the situation can go out of control,” Prof Jagat Ram said.Dr Puri’s committee had recommended a system of pre-appointments for patients to help the institute prepare the OPD accordingly. “This will give the institute control over the number of patients expected to come for consultations,” a senior official said.Strengthening of telemedicine services was also suggested.The two-subpanels will formulate SOPs for restarting OPD services after factoring in the recommendations. The sub-panel will be headed by Dr SK Gupta, head of neurosciences department and include members from the pulmonary medicine department and hospital administration, an engineer from the construction division, OPD nursing superintendent and nursing association leaders.The second panel for modalities regarding functioning of radiology and laboratories will be headed by Dr Naveen Kalra from the radiology department and Dr Arnab Pal from the biochemistry department.Meanwhile, no decision has been taken to restart the OPD at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16 and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said it could take time.Meanwhile, dispensaries are functioning routinely, officials said.The PGIMER OPDs, including the new OPD building, advanced paediatric centre, advanced eye centre and advanced cardiac centre have a footfall of 10,000 average patients in a day, with a major chunk of patients from the neighbouring states seeking super-specialty consultations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/social-distancing-a-challenge-for-restarting-pgimer-opds-panels-formed-to-gauge-options/story-CijZpjaHzIUN0jDMp0EIaO.html
03-05-2020||City||Nanded pilgrims express satisfaction over facilities at isolation centres||The pilgrims, who have been brought back from Nanded (Maharashtra) by the Punjab government, have shown satisfaction over the arrangements being made at the isolation centres set up in the city. The pilgrims, as well as others, staying at these centres, said they have been getting food three times a day, along with tea with biscuits twice, fruits and potable drinking water, etc.A visit to the isolation centre set up at the Meritorious School here showed that the people have been staying in designated rooms.Dalbir Singh from Manuke village near Jagraon, whose family was stuck at Nanded for almost a month, thanked the Punjab government for bringing them back. He said they are getting all the facilities in the centre and thanked the district administration for making these arrangements.Manpreet Singh from Chahlan village, who is a combine operator, and had returned from Madhya Pradesh, along with a group of 11 other persons, also said that the rooms are equipped with beds, pillows, sheets, buckets and mugs for bathing, besides other facilities.Amrinder Singh Malhi, SDM, Ludhiana (West), said the bathrooms in the facility are cleaned twice daily and said an adequate number of staff has been deputed here to ensure that people do not face any problems.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the pilgrims, who have returned from Nanded, have been provided all the facilities to their satisfaction. He said food, tea, fruits and other essential items are provided to the pilgrims three times daily and said that he is personally monitoring the situation.He said senior officials of the administration have been made in-charges of the quarantine centres to ensure that the people staying there do not face any problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nanded-pilgrims-express-satisfaction-over-facilities-at-isolation-centres/story-mLP8NdgCpesDKYpVAXAdMP.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases double in three days, Punjab among 10 worst-hit states||The Covid-19 cases in Punjab are doubling in three days following a spike triggered by pilgrims from Nanded town in Maharashtra.The doubling rate of infected cases was 18 days on April 25 and then slipped to 13.1 days on April 29 before crashing to three days as more and more returnees entered the state and tested positive. The total number of coronavirus cases in the state stood at 380 – 1.15% of the total 33,021 cases across India, on Wednesday, but surged to 977 in the next three days, taking its share of positive cases to 2.44% of the total 39,911 on May 2. On Sunday, the state’s tally rose to 1,128.The sharp spike has put Punjab among the 10 worst-hit states in the country, according to data compiled jointly by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The nine states which have more covid-19 cases than Punjab are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. With the jump in positive cases, the death or mortality rate has also come down to 2.17% from close to 7% more than two weeks ago. There have been 24 Covid-19 deaths – three of these were reported on Sunday – in the state so far.ONE IN THREE RETURNEES TESTS POSITIVEA total of 4,169 people returned or were ferried to the state from the Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded in the past week. Though the state health department has taken the samples of all of them, 1,785 samples have been tested so far, out of which 609 – one in every three – returnees have tested positive, as per the official figures at 6pm on Sunday.The pilgrims were at Nanded since March 25 when the national lockdown was announced to stem the coronavirus spread. After frantic appeals from them and some political leaders across the political spectrum, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had written to Union home minister Amit Shah and his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray to help evacuate the devotees. However, no one had anticipated that their return would trigger the second wave of the virus that has pushed the state’s count into four digits. These fresh cases are posing a serious challenge even as the state is relaxing the curfew restrictions in most districts from Monday.AMRITSAR, HOSHIARPUR LATEST HOTSPOTSThe Union health and family welfare ministry had classified three districts – Jalandhar, Patiala, and Ludhiana – among the 130 red zones on Thursday night, but most of these new cases have been reported from other areas, except Ludhiana where the number of cases has jumped from 29 on April 29 to 111 on May 3, an increase of 283%.Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Muktsar, and SBS Nagar are among the districts where the positive cases have also grown exponentially in the past few days. In Amritsar, there were only 14 positive cases till April 29 but increased to 214 – 198 of them returnees - in the next four days. Among the green zones till April 26, Tarn Taran now has 40 positive cases – all of them Nanded returnees. In addition to the three districts listed in the MoHFW’s list of red zones, the state health authorities added six others – Amritsar, SAS Nagar, Hoshiarpur, Ferozepur, Moga, and Pathankot – in this category as per their status report of May 2, as these nine districts accounted for 86% of the total cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-double-in-three-days-punjab-among-10-worst-hit-states/story-OoL9zQCJvqVBxJMcvF2vDO.html
03-05-2020||Ranchi||Chhattisgarh records 14 new Covid-19 cases, take state’s tally to 57||Fourteen migrant labourers, including two women, in Chhattisgarh tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 57.“Eight people tested positive for Covid-19 in Durg district, while 6 others are from Kabirdham district. We have sent them to AIIMS Raipur,” officials from state health minister’s office said. All 14 labourers, who are now in their home state Chhattisgarh, have returned from different parts of the country.“The samples of all 14 taken at All India Institute of Medical Science Raipur came out positive this evening. All are now admitted in AIIMS,” a Public Relations Officer of AIIMS, SS Sharma.As of Sunday, total number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 57, of which 36 were discharged from hospitals following their recovery.“We have total 21 active cases, including a health worker in Raipur,” said Sharma.At present seven patients - including three migrant labourers, a nursing officer of the AIIMS and a police constable are undergoing treatment at AIIMS,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/chhattisgarh-records-14-new-covid-19-cases-take-state-s-tally-to-57/story-ScF1ONgG1uMCkJ8f8caRjO.html
03-05-2020||Patna||36 more Covid cases take Bihar tally to 517||Thirty-six cases of coronavirus were reported from Bihar Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 517, with four deaths so far in the state.Seven cases were reported from Munger, taking its tally to 102. Bhagalpur reported six, West Champaran and Aurangabad five cases each, East Champaran (4), Buxar (3) and one each from Katihar, Kaimur, Sheohar Siwan, Arwal and Saran.Siwan’s hopes of climbing down the Covid-19 severity list were dashed when a 60-year old male from Basantpur village tested positive on Sunday. The district last reported a Covid-19 case on April 23, when a 20-year-old man from Goreakothi village tested positive for the virus. A coronavirus super-spreader had accounted for 22 of the 30 cases in the district.“A district will be considered under green zone, if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district,” Union health secretary Preeti Sudan had said in her letter dated April 30 to chief secretaries of states and union territories, while releasing the classification of districts based on incidence rate, case doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback.As per the zone-wise classification, which comes into effect from Monday, Munger, Rohtas, Buxar, Patna and Gaya are under the red zone. Twenty other districts are under orange zone and the remaining 13 in green zone.Till Saturday, Bihar had reported 231 Covid-19 cases during the last one week, as per government data.Meanwhile, 12 patients were discharged from government facilities on Sunday, said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh. “Our recovery rate is almost 25%, with 119 patients having recovered so far,” he added.Of the 119 recoveries, 74 patients were discharged from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital, eight Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (Bhagalpur), two Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital (Gaya) and one from the AIIMS-Patna, besides facilities at Gopalganj, Chapra, Siwan, Nawada, Begusarai and Nalanda.The 516 Covid-19 cases were spread across 31 of Bihar’s 38 districts, with Munger topping at 102. It was followed by Buxar (56), Rohtas (52), Patna (44), Nalanda (36), Siwan (31), Kaimur (28), Gopalganj, Madhubani, Bhojpur (18 each), Aurangabad (13), Begusarai , Bhagalpur (11 each), West Champaran (10), East Champaran (9), Saran (8), Gaya, Sitamarhi (6 each), Darbhanga, Katihar, Arwal (5 each), Lakhisarai, Nawada, Jehanabad, (4 each), Banka, Vaishali (3 each), Madhepura, Araria (2 each), Purnea, Sheikhpura, Sheohar (1 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/36-more-covid-cases-take-bihar-tally-to-517/story-6EjbGs19gISqfOCTjJEctK.html
03-05-2020||City||Bihar BJP chief’s FB post sets off war of words in NDA||PATNASpread of Coronavirus pandemic has once again brought the differences within the NDA to the fore in Bihar, which if all goes well, will go to polls later this year. Top state BJP leaders, including state unit president, have raised serious questions over the style of functioning of the state government.On the contrary, BJP’s alliance partner, the JD (U) has defended the “Nitish Model” of dealing with lockdown as the most effective.The latest spark flew after BJP’s Bihar president put out a post on his Facebook and questioned state government’s “lacklustre approach” in dealing with migrant issue. “The problem with Bihar government is that none of their officials clarify before the media as to which types of shops will open in which zone or which train is coming to Bihar and where to get registered. As a result of state government’s attitude, people are posting on social media whatever they want. The state government should take lessons from Yogi government in UP. UP chief secretary briefs media very well,” Jaiswal, the West Champaran MP, said in his post.The BJP state president’s post, coming at the time of pandemic, has caused ripples in NDA with many BJP leaders questioning the timing of such statements. Only on Saturday, the state government had issued clarifications on reports that nodal officers are incommunicado and released fresh helpline numbers. The state government also announced details of trains which would be coming with migrants and students. A section of BJP leaders, led by MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav, tried to do the damage control by praising CM Nitish Kumar. “There is no better CM in country than Nitish Kumar,” he said and refused to draw parallels with UP CM Yogi. “I do not know anything about Yogi government’s work. He is a better CM, that is why BJP is supporting him,” he said.The JD (U) came out in defence of Kumar and said that the Bihar CM does not believe in “populist measures.’“Bihar didn’t commit the mistakes which states like UP or Punjab did. Bihar’s CM measures have been more protective, more answerable than his counterparts of UP and Punjab. Had he not adhered to the centre’s guidelines, the numbers of positive cases would have been more,” argued JD (U) national principal general secretary, K C Tyagi. “Bihar model has saved Bihar,” he added and said that every party has the right to place its view.Jaiswal’s barb has given the opposition another opportunity to attack the Nitish government.RJD spokesperson Bhai Birendra said the government needed to reply on the issue raised by the BJP president. “When we raised the issue, it irked JD (U) leaders. We had been demanding extraction of students but the Nitish government turned it down citing lockdown norms,” he said. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said that the state government has no definite action plan to bring people stuck in different states. “The nodal officers have switched off their mobile phones or cannot be reached. The state government is also charging tickets from migrants,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-bjp-chief-s-fb-post-sets-off-war-of-words-in-nda/story-q0jPzssK2SDiP0HFGAPJVO.html
03-05-2020||Patna||Choppers showering flowers on Bihar hospitals lifts mood of medics, patients alike||Doctors, nurses and other staff at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna were a delighted lot on Sunday as choppers showered flower petals atop their building as part of the exercise to express gratitude towards the front line warriors against the coronavirus pandemic.The NMCH and AIIMS-Patna are among the four medical college hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 in the state.Doctors, nurses, paramedics and housekeeping staff lined up at the two hospitals outside the outdoor patient department (OPD), while some stayed on terrace of indoor patient department (IPD), wearing hospital uniform and personal protective suit, and maintaining proper physical distancing, to acknowledge the gesture.“It was an unprecedented and unimaginable gesture. They (personnel of the Indian armed forces) are the true warriors, but a situation has come up now where we (as doctors) have also been labelled as warriors. So, it was one warrior saluting another. It was undoubtedly a wonderful gesture which has boosted our morale further,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh, director AIIMS-Patna.At the NMCH, the first dedicated facility for Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar, the atmosphere was truly electric as the entire hospital staff, including doctors, nurses, paramedics and housekeeping employees, basked in the glory they all richly deserved for serving the patients day in and day out with a commendable recovery rate.Attired in personal protective suit and wearing masks, they all took a small break to accept the respect the Indian armed forces showered on them from blue skies, waving Indian Tricolour, cheering, clapping and singing patriotic songs.As the reverberating sound of the helicopters approached, all eyes were looking in the skies. The NMCH ground was full, with everyone apparently overwhelmed with emotions and eager to capture the moment in their mobile phones.“It is a great morale booster for all those involved with healthcare in one way or the other. It is a big day for us. The symbolic appreciation for the healthcare staff from the Indian armed forces on such a scale is something we don’t remember having ever seen. It is a great feeling that the Indian armed forces and the people are looking to us with positivity,” said NMCH nodal officer Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha.Sinha, flanked by doctors, said it was also time to realise that in the midst of pandemic, there was no place for negativity. “I am always optimistic that Coronavirus will also go, like it happened with other viral attacks in the past. But till it goes, everyone should maintain social distancing and encourage it as part of social responsibility,” he said.Dr Mukul Kumar of the NMCH said it was a great honour for all healthcare personnel and it would remain etched in their memory for lifetime. “Indian forces are always on the front line, saving our borders. Their appreciation for us means a lot,” he added.The nurses also seemed energised by the recognition, as they sang “Veer tum badhe chalo ...” as the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters showers flowers from above. “It was a fantastic feeling. It makes us feel special. We are discharging our responsibilities in the midst of the pandemic with full devotion, but we never expected such a big honour,” said senior nurse Mamta Sinha, Anuradha Chourasia and a group of nurses, overpowered by emotions.The patients admitted at the hospital, too, seemed energised as they looked at the spectacle through the windows and singing paeans to the hospital staff for all the care. “Now I am more confident that my relative will be recovering soon to get back home. The doctors and healthcare staff deserved it, as they are the ones who are risking their lives to save others,” said Alok Kumar, who was outside the hospital at the gate.Of the 119 Covid-19 patients to have recovered in Bihar so far, 64 were discharged from the NMCH and one from the AIIMS-Patna. The hospitals have reported two deaths each of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/choppers-showering-flowers-on-bihar-hospitals-lifts-mood-of-medics-patients-alike/story-Y7gQBaKpbKQQ7U9xbCM0SP.html
03-05-2020||Patna||No green zone, only red and orange ones as Bihar goes for strict lockdown norms||The state home department on Sunday issued fresh guidelines on lockdown by deciding to classify 38 districts in the state as red and orange zones only and contending that there was need for more strict implementation of the ongoing restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19 in view of the rise of number of Corona cases in new areas and return of migrants, students from other states.The order issued by additional chief secretary, home, Amir Subhani, on Sunday evening said the state would have only two zones with red zones districts to be declared as per laid down norms of the central government from time to time while rest of the districts to be considered as orange zones.The new order said lockdown norms, as laid by the central government, would be applicable in red zones as usual with clause 7(iii)d related to opening of shops to be applicable for shops only for essential commodities. The order said the DMs of respective districts in red zones could take a decision on allowing shops of other non-esesential commodities by assessing the requirement and ground situation of the area.In districts in orange zones, activities like purchase of goods and delivery through e-commerce ( essential and non-essential) , construction activities ( all types) , industrial activity would be allowed. The new activity allowed in orange zones is operationalisation of barber shops, salons and spas.“All other restrictions and orders would be applicable in orange zones as like red zones,” the order stated. The new guidelines indicated how the Bihar government is not in favour of lifting restriction in place as a precaution to contain the spread of the virus , amid reports of spike in cases of positive cases. The state’s total number of positive cases crossed 500 on Sunday with four deaths reported so far.As per the order issued by the union government on April 30, Bihar had five red zones including Patna, Rohtas, Munger, Gaya and Buxar while 20 districts had been put in orange zones while rest 13 in green zones. But now there are likelihood more districts would be classified in red zones while rest in orange zones in the state.Earlier in the day, home secretary said new guidelines on lockdown were being prepared as per the central government orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/no-green-zone-only-red-and-orange-ones-as-bihar-goes-for-strict-lockdown-norms/story-Af1oneTq0qCSxadvml2WWL.html
03-05-2020||City||Amritsar: Border farmer booked as 2.3kg heroin seized from field||The rural police have booked three persons, including a farmer, after the Border Security Force (BSF) recovered 2.3kg heroin from his agricultural land situated across the India-Pakistan border fence on Saturday.The accused have been identified as Pal Singh and his two accomplices Karaz Singh and Sukhdev Singh of Daoke village in Ajnala sub-division.A case has been registered against the three under sections 21-61-85 of the NDPS Act at the Gharinda police station.Gharinda police station house officer (SHO) Amandeep Singh said, “An assistant commandant of BSF’s 71-batallion seized 4 parcels of heroin containing 2.3kg heroin from Pal’s land when he, along with Sukhdev and Karaz, was harvesting wheat on May 1.”“The accused are absconding and raids are being conducted to nab them,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-border-farmer-booked-as-2-3kg-heroin-seized-from-field/story-qWX5KUM4jIqHCv4yLwPXvO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab forms panel to look into pay revision for RMOs||Chandigarh Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Sunday said a three-member committee had been formed to look into the implementation of 4-9-14 pay scales for rural medical officers (RMOs) and for regularisation of scales for pharmacists and Class-4 employees associated with them. The committee members are department officers Kuldeep Singh Banwait, Sanjeev Garg, and Deepak Ohri and it would present its draft report by May 4 and final report by May 5. The 4-9-14 scheme means assured career progression scheme after these many years of service. The committee is required to consider implementation of 4-9-14 scale of pay for RMOs and regularisation considering increase in financial load, overage and ineligible employees and relevant basis, like policy, guidelines, rules of state government and salary enhancement for pharmacists and Class-4 employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-forms-panel-to-look-into-pay-revision-for-rmos/story-6gT21bcGdFWbhhtNydakAN.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four held for sacrilege of Sikh scriptures in Amritsar||The city police on Sunday arrested four persons for allegedly committing sacrilege of gurbani pothis (scriptures) and gutkas (gurbani handy book) in Mohalla Guru Nanak Pura locality here.The desecrated gurbani scriptures were found in the garbage collected by a municipal corporation vehicle. This vehicle was moving in Fatahpur area when some people saw the holy books lying amid the waste. They immediately informed Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) officials.Following this, SGPC office-bearers and officials arrived at the spot and took the desecrated pothis and gutkas into custody. They informed the police and the accused – Mangal Singh, his two sons and a relative – were arrested in the presence of SGPC functionaries, including senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Roop Singh, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhoora and additional manager Rajinder Singh Ruby.Police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the matter will be thoroughly probed to unearth the conspiracy behind the sacrilege.Meanwhile, advocate Jaswinder Singh, president of ‘Akal Purakh Ki Fauj’, has sought a fair probe fearing the involvement of a particular community’s preachers in the incident.A case has been registered against the accused under Section 295-A of the IPC, said Kot Khalsa SHO inspector Sanjeev Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-held-for-sacrilege-of-sikh-scriptures-in-amritsar/story-K4GAMmcBOY4KZDq7jia7sL.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD, Congress trade barbs as over 600 Nanded pilgrims contract coronavirus||A war of words erupted between Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday as the state’s coronavirus count crossed 1,000 with over 600 Sikh pilgrims returning from Maharshtra’s Nanded testing positive for the infection. While Majithia accused the state government of “mismanaging” the return of the pilgrims from the Nanded’s Hazur Sahib gurdwara and sought the minister’s sacking, Sidhu hit back at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), daring its leaders to apologise for their “misleading propaganda”. So far, 609 of the 4,000 pilgrims who recently returned from Nanded have tested positive for coronavirus. Health Minister Sidhu in a statement here said the pilgrims contracted the disease before entering Punjab while stressing that ‘sewadars’ of the gurdwara have also tested positive for the virus. Religious leaders have testified that Nanded pilgrims were tested in Maharashtra but the Punjab government did not receive any test report from the state government till now, said Sidhu, who is under fire from the Opposition. Lashing out at SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Sidhu accused them of “indulging in political one-upmanship” over a sensitive issue, that too “without verifying facts”. “These leaders unnecessarily hyped this issue by spreading this propaganda that pilgrims are being labelled as coronavirus positive as part of a conspiracy,” said Sidhu. By politicising this issue, Akali leaders were not only trying to demoralise all frontline warriors who are going beyond their call of duty to save Punjab but also giving false and fabricated comments over such a sensitive issue, Sidhu alleged. Sidhu said there is no need to worry or panic after the spike in cases with the return of pilgrims. He said the pilgrims have been given the best treatment and also assured that the state will recover from the challenge just as it did first from situations arising out of the return of foreigners and then Tablighi Jamaat members. Meanwhile, Majithia asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to sack Sidhu from the cabinet. Majithia alleged that Sidhu had started defaming the pilgrims by stating that they had spoiled all the good work done by the Punjab government in controlling COVID-19. Stating that the “good work” of the Health Department has already been exposed by health workers who had “failed” to get PPE kits and facilities like ambulances and ventilators, the Akali leader said Sidhu has proven to be “utterly incompetent” and should quit his post immediately. Majithia claimed that it was a fact that the Punjab government did not follow the ICMR guidelines while repatriating the pilgrims. He said air-conditioned buses were used against established norms. “Social distancing was not followed. The buses came through red zones and it was because of this mishandling that pilgrims, who were in good health in Nanded for more than one month, tested positive for COVID-19 on their return to Punjab”, claimed Majithia. He said this had also been borne out by the statement of Congress minister from Maharashtra Ashok Chavan who blamed the Punjab government for the plight of the pilgrims. Majithia said the Congress-led government had first targeted NRIs and was now targeting Sikhs. “If the state government commits mistakes in repatriation by mishandling the operation, it should not try to put the blame on others,” he said. He also sought from the Punjab government to shift the pilgrims to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ‘sarais’ for quarantine purposes. He claimed that the pilgrims from Nanded have been quarantined in unhygienic government facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-congress-trade-barbs-as-over-600-nanded-pilgrims-contract-coronavirus/story-E7UzYOhB300s1cg4cTxhpI.html
03-05-2020||City||Traffic police among 14 new cases in Kalyan||Kalyan and Dombivli saw 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number cases to 195.The newly infected persons include five who travelled to Mumbai for work. A 44-year-old traffic police posted in Mumbai is among those who tested positive for coronavirus.“A total of 65 patients have been discharged from Covid hospitals set up by the civic body. We are not sending any cases to Mumbai for treatment. All patients are treated in our Covid hospitals,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-police-among-14-new-cases-in-kalyan/story-Co5WEtypxtsMTYE9wbZKvK.html
03-05-2020||City||After 3 years, Gian Sagar allowed to admit 150 MBBS students this session||Three years after being closed in 2017 due to a financial crisis, the Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital will admit 150 students in its MBBS course from this academic session. A team from the Medical Council of India (MCI) had inspected its facilities in January this year; now Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, has also given its approval. Gian Sagar Educational and Charitable Trust runs the institution. The hospital, attached with the college, is presently working as a covid-19 treatment centre for Mohali, Rupnagar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. A spokesperson of the trust said the college was gearing up to admit students on the basis of the central admission test. He added that the outpatient departments (OPDs), indoor patient departments (IPDs), and operation theatres (OTs) were functional.In 2017, the college was closed, when trust chairperson Nirmal Singh Bhangu, was arrested by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Pearl chit-fund scam. Due to non-payment of salaries to staff, the college was shut, and students had been shifted to government-run medical colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-3-years-gian-sagar-allowed-to-admit-150-mbbs-students-this-session/story-U7k711nSR6YWfhieC2UczJ.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Neighbour shoots father-son duo dead in Patiala||PATIALA: A father-son duo was murdered in broad daylight allegedly over a property dispute in Samana, around 25km from here on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as retired assistant sub-inspector Brahm Prakash (68) and his son Sunny (20).Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said the incident took place around 1.30pm, when the accused, Tajinderpal Singh alias Peter, got into a heated argument with Brahm near his residence.“The accused fired shots at Brahm from his licensed .32bore pistol. He then assaulted and shot Sunny for trying to rescue of his father,” Sidhu said.Police said both the victims were rushed to a local hospital where the doctors declared them dead on arrival.“The deceased and accused were neighbours and were engaged in an old property dispute,” he said.Police said the accused tried to flee the crime scene, but was later arrested.A case has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act.The CCTV footage of the incident has surfaced on the social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/neighbour-shoots-father-son-duo-dead-in-patiala/story-gje065LDjXNKRTl59KBODI.html
03-05-2020||City||Southern Command honours Covid-19 warriors||PUNE With the country fighting to control the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, Southern Command felicitated warriors who are fighting at the forefront of the crisis.Lieutenant General CP Mohanty, general officer commanding in chief Southern Command, on behalf of all the ranks of Southern Command, commended the courage, selfless sacrifice and dedication to duty of the Covid-19 warriors that has ensured that we win the fight against this contagion that is causing such devastation across the globe.Lieutenant General Mohanty said, “The Covid-19 warriors are undertaking this challenging task of fighting the pandemic and have demonstrated resolve and grit by which the country has been able to suppress the spread to a large extent. The enthusiasm shown by these brave men/women is unmatchable and surely deserves compliments from all the citizens of our country.”“We all members of the Southern Army, salute the valiant corona warriors for their selfless contribution to the nation,” said Lieutenant General Mohanty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/southern-command-honours-covid-19-warriors/story-eYJOdWm8tDYlGWl6h7AgWN.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Lockdown 3.0: 72 Pune students return home from Kota||Seventy-two students and two parents stranded in Kota, Rajasthan due to the lockdown returned home via a special bus service organised by the state transport on May 1.The passengers left from Kota on April 30 at 3 pm reached the Swargate bus station at 9 pm on May 1, according to officials.Upon their arrival, the passengers along with the bus drivers and conductors were checked by three teams of doctors. As no one was suspected for Covid-19 (coronavirus) symptoms they were advised to home quarantine, stamped and advised to contact the health department if they experience any Covid-19 symptoms in the next fourteen days, said officials.Yamini Joshi, divisional controller of the Maharashtra State Transport service, said, “We had sent 70 buses from Dhule bus depot, with four buses for Pune district. Each bus was sanitised before it began the journey and on every bus, there were 18 to 20 passengers only.”“We had two drivers for each bus as it was a long-distance journey. The buses were sanitised once every passenger had been checked and sent home. The last student left Swargate for his home at 1 am,” said Joshi who also coordinated the safe passage of the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-pune-students-return-home-from-kota/story-8piWTAMogfl5KTO156rvhK.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak man kills parents over monetary dispute||A 26-year-old man allegedly killed his parents with an iron rod over monetary dispute in Rohtak’s Pakasma village on Sunday morning, police said.The victims are Baramjeet Singh, 54, and his wife Sumitra, 50. In his complaint to the police, Sumitra’s brother Ram Mehar said Baramjeet and his son Pawan, alias Boda, had gone to Kharkhauda mandi to sell wheat crop on Saturday, where they fought over money.“When I tried to intervene, Pawan threatened me and his father of dire consequences. On Sunday morning, a man from Nonand village called me to inform that bodies of Baramjeet and Sumitra were found at a secluded place there. I reached there and informed the police about their murders. When I, along with few others went to my sister’s house at Pakasma, we found blood stains on the floor of her room. We suspect that Pawan killed his parents and dumped their bodies in Nonand,” the complainant added.A forensic team visited the spot and collected evidences. ASI Satish Kumar of Sampla police station said they have booked Pawan under Sections 302, 201 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.“We have launched an investigation and a hunt is on to nab the accused,” he added.WOMAN, MAN FOUND DEAD ON TRACKS Karnal: A 20-year-old woman and a 24-year-old man were found dead on railway tracks near Gharaunda in Karnal in the wee hours of Sunday.According to police, initial reports suggest that they committed suicide by jumping before a goods train. The police said they were having an extra-marital affair. Karnal GRP station in-charge Tara Chand said the bodies were sent for autopsy and a case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC. A probe has been launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rohtak-man-kills-parents-over-monetary-dispute/story-q2DD8cNbh3r1Jexr7OAH6L.html
03-05-2020||City||Army honours Covid-19 warriors in Ambala||As a part of the nationwide campaign to thank the Covid-19 warriors, officers of Indian Armed Forces honoured the doctors, police officials, paramedical employees and sanitation workers of Ambala on Sunday.A team led by Station Commander Brig VS Sankhyan reached the civil hospital in Ambala city to facilitate the officials and employees of health and police departments in presence of Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh and others.Sankhyan said, “This was a thank you gift from the nation to all warriors. Earlier, we were called soldiers, but now they are the soldiers of this country.”A similar ceremony was organised at the military hospital in the Cantonment area, he said.A health official at the civil hospital said, “Such events definitely boost our morale. Besides doctors, paramedical employees and sanitation workers, there are many corona warriors fighting this deadly disease at the frontline. I hope we will win over this disease soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-honours-covid-19-warriors-in-ambala/story-8fjNtw4vzlaZTtP7WKYROI.html
03-05-2020||City||17 new cases, 1 Covid death reported in Thane||A 52-year-old man from Mumbra died after testing Covid positive while 17 new cases were reported from Thane on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 389. No new case was reported from CP Talao, which has become a virus hotspot.Three new cases were reported from Padle village in Diva, which did not have a single case till now.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “A 52- year-old resident of Mumbra died on Saturday night. He was admitted to Kalsekar Hospital in Mumbra on May 1 after he complained of cold and cough. He was shifted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital the same day. He was diabetic and tested positive for Covid-19. Sixteen people have died so far.”Thirteen people were discharged from hospitals on Sunday, taking the total number of recovered people to 87.TMC has started free treatment for people with orange and yellow ration cards in Horizon Prime, a private hospital in Ghodbunder road. Two more private hospitals will also provide free treatment to the poor. Malvi said, “Sapphire Hospital in Kalwa and Vedant Hospital on Ghodbunder Road will also provide free treatment to the poor. The poor will be treated under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Scheme in the three hospitals.”:Mayor demands case-wise study of Covid casesThane mayor Naresh Mhaske has suggested the Thane Municipal Corporation to form a committee of experts to conduct a case-wise study of coronavirus patients in the city. According to him, this will help implement effective preventive measures after the lockdown ends.Mhaske said, “We are following specific measures. However, it is important to have a system in place after the lockdown. An expert committee should be set up to do a case-wise study of Covid cases. This study will include the travel history, medical history, lifestyle, treatment of the person among other things.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-new-cases-1-covid-death-reported-in-thane/story-u4s1Q4Jzcn69D1uypJ848J.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt will send back stranded labourers at the earliest: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday assured the leaders of six different labour unions that his government was committed to ensuring safe return of all agricultural and migrant labourers stranded in Haryana to their homes at the earliest.It was decided in the meeting that labourers of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will be sent to their homes in buses, while Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh labourers by special ‘Shramik Trains.“The return of migrant labourers of the remaining states, being relatively lesser in numbers, will be ensured through special trains from New Delhi,” a spokesperson said.Khattar urged the labour unions to spread this message of government’s commitment and having patience to the labourers and their families.It was also decided in the meeting that district-level committees under the chairmanship of DCs with representatives of different labour unions will be set up to review the progress of disbursement of salaries to workers by industrialists. The CM assured that there was no plan on DA cuts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-will-send-back-stranded-labourers-at-the-earliest-khattar/story-Mz5dFKf26cOupOO6lDpGSN.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||14,000 from Punjab, Haryana & J&K stuck on foreign shores||Nearly 14,000 persons, including students and tourists from Punjab, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, are stranded abroad due to Covid-19 situation and many may have to be brought back by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) from the foreign shores, as per an estimation done by the central government.In addition to flights, the central government is also planning to use Indian Navy vessels for the stranded persons’ repatriation.The matter was deliberated at length in a meeting held by the Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba with the state governments on Sunday.As per MEA’s conservative estimates, there are about 8,700 persons from Punjab, 3,600 from Haryana and 1,000 from J&K and Ladakh who are stuck in about 20 countries across the globe. “Most of them are tourists and students,’’ said an official.MEA statistics show that of the stranded Haryana residents, over 200 are in Philippines, 130 in the US and around 30 in Kuwait.A majority of Punjab residents are stranded in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Canada, Australia, Ukraine, Russia, Bangladesh, Kuwait, Qatar, United Kingdom, Mauritius, Italy, United States, Malaysia, Philippines, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Spain, as per the information shared by the Centre.“How many of these persons actually want to come back will be determined only when the MEA begins the process to facilitate their return. Many of them may not want to come back. An MEA web portal will be put in place by Monday to start registration of the Indian citizens stranded abroad,’’ said an official.The Haryana government has also asked the deputy commissioners to collect information of stranded residents from their respective districts and convey it to the home department.WHO WILL BE A PRIORITY RETURNEEOfficials said that MEA will prioritise the return of stranded Indians based on their compulsion to come back. “Those with Covid-free certificates would be given priority,’’ said an official.The central government has indicated that those facing deportation by foreign governments, pregnant women, elderly persons, ones with medical emergencies or seeking treatment for terminal illness, migrant workers who have been laid off, non-permanent residents/ short-term visa holders faced with expiry, tourists stranded abroad, those required to return due to death of family member, students whose educational institutes or hostels are closed will get priority for return.SOPS FOR STRANDED PERSONSThe returnees will bear the cost of air travel and would undergo mandatory quarantine as per the standard operating protocol developed by the Union health ministry. MEA additional secretary (Indo-Pacific) Neena Malhotra has been designated as the coordinator for bringing back Haryana residents while additional secretary Virander Paul is the coordinating officer for Punjab. Joint Secretary Yogeshwar Sangwan is the coordinator for J&K and Ladakh.The Haryana government on Sunday deployed additional chief secretary (home) Vijai Vardhan and IPS officer Haneef Qureshi to coordinate with the MEA for the safe return of Haryana residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/14-000-from-punjab-haryana-j-k-stuck-on-foreign-shores/story-8Dt5Z2CExeXZfDA21dIobN.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Steepest single-day spike in Haryana with 66 new cases||Haryana recorded on Sunday steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 66 new infections reported from its nine districts, which took the state’s tally to 442.As per the health bulletin, 18 of these cases were reported from Sonepat district, where the virus has spread among a section of doctors. Meanwhile, Rohtak PGIMS on Sunday confirmed the death of a corona patient from Gurugram. PGIMS spokesperson Gajender Singh said the infected man was admitted on April 30 and died on Saturday night.According to Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director health services, most of the patients found infected in last few days are either residents of Haryana working in Delhi or Delhi-based people posted in NCR districts of the state. Movement of vegetable sellers, he said, who visited Delhi also led to spurt in infections. Though the state health department mentioned only 18 cases in Sonepat, deputy commissioner Ansaj Singh said the district saw 20 new cases, including those of three resident doctors of Bhagat Phool Singh medical college at Khanpur. Besides, the DC said, one doctor of a private hospital and one from civil hospital also tested positive. “Most of the remaining cases are the contacts of infected patients. All new patients have been shifted to BPS, Khanpur Kalan. We do not plan to impose curfew in the district,” he added. Sonepat was followed by Faridabad with 12 cases, Panipat (11), Gurugram (9), Jind (6), Fatehabad (4) and Jhajjar, Palwal and Yamunanagar (2 each). Health workers infected in JindIn Jind, two women health workers and as many Anganwadi workers have been found infected besides a 60-year-old woman from Julana and three men. Jind DC Aditya Dahiya said eight new cases (six as per the bulletin) were reported on Sunday, including a 50-year-old man from Kishanpur village, who runs a flour mill in Jind.The two Jhajjar cases include a vegetable seller from Jhajjar, who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, and the mother of an infected seller from local vegetable market. Yamunanagar’s two new cases are of a 58-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “The woman had reported to the Covid hospital with flu-like symptoms, while the man is an arthiya at sabzi mandi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/steepest-single-day-spike-in-haryana-with-66-new-cases/story-ovWeW3ZHGjyYmQiEzS8AIP.html
03-05-2020||Pune||At least 20% of people infected with Covid-19 developed symptoms of acute kidney injury: report||At least twenty per cent of the people who have been infected with Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection have developed abnormalities in kidneys, according to a report by International Society of Nephrology (ISN).According to the report these abnormalities manifested as a substantial leak of protein and blood in urine, resulting in the development of Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) in close to 15 per cent patients, hinting that Covid-19 also attacks the kidney.Dr Tarun Jalokha, nephrologist, Aditya Birla Hospital, said, “In the current pandemic, it has been reported and shared on a webcast from Italy and USA that Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT) is the preferred modality of choice for dialysing patients of Covid-19 infection with acute kidney injury.”“At some hospitals in the US, it was shared on a webcast that a load of patients were so huge that they were able to give CRRT only for 12 hours in a patient at a time and shifting to another patient. Hence, in absence of resources or even exhaustion of resources because of the huge and sudden burden of patients in ICUs, other modalities like conventional dialysis, SLED and Peritoneal dialysis also have been used to manage such patients,” Dr Jalokha.“ All these modalities are complementary to each other and as patients improve, alternative modalities between all these can be utilised to get best possible results,” said Dr Jalokha.The current treatment of Covid-19 with acute kidney injury includes general and supportive management and kidney replacement therapy. In the absence of effective antiviral therapy with smaller proportion requiring acute or urgent dialysis, Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT) a term used for a collection of acute dialysis techniques can support these patients for 24 hours in a day especially to the critically ill patients suffering from acute kidney injury or having an overwhelming immune response.Dr Aklesh Tandekar, intensivist, Apollo Hospital, said, “Patients of Covid-19 have severe cytokine storm suggested by elevated IL-6 levels which is responsible for organ dysfunction. Cytokine storm and fluid shifts control can translate into better outcomes.”“Previous studies show that CRRT had been successfully applied in the treatment of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) illnesses related to previously known coronaviruses, which also manifested as respiratory illnesses,” said Dr Tandekar.“At relatively higher doses, it can help clear the immune toxins, thus suggesting CRRT may play a role in patients with Covid-19 with acute kidney injury or high immune toxin load”, said Dr Tandekar.Tandekar said, “In situations where shifts in fluid balance and metabolic fluctuations are poorly tolerated and in situations where other extracorporeal therapies are required, CRRT can be used as an integrated system and is preferred over parallel systems, as was highlighted by a recently published retrospective cohort study.”“In the study, it was found that 36 Covid-19 patients requiring invasive mechanical ventilation, where CRRT was associated with a reduction in mortality than those treated without CRRT. However, the potential role of extracorporeal therapy techniques needs to be evaluated by the treating physician,” said Dr Tandekar.Experts are unanimous that acute dialysis techniques such as CRRT may also be effective in treating patients with Covid-19 and sepsis syndrome irrespective of their kidney function. Considering the ongoing scenario and the increasing rate of kidney involvement due to Covid-19, such extracorporeal therapies may play an important role in the treatment of severely ill patients. Right treatment by the experts at the right time can save the lives of the infected people who are battling between life and death, say experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-least-20-of-people-infected-with-covid-19-developed-symptoms-of-acute-kidney-injury-report/story-6M0OjE2FYx36wkqcTOhcCL.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to develop machines for direct seeding of rice amid labour dearth||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, in collaborate with the state agriculture department is making a machine for direct seeding of rice (DSR) for which 175 units manufacturing agricultural implements in the state have been roped in.PAU has given a prototype to the manufacturers and the agriculture and industries departments are engaging Mandi Gobindgarh-based raw material suppliers for the task.The varsity experts have advised farmers to opt for direct seeded rice variety of paddy in the upcoming kharif season to make up for the shortage of labour in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Around 70 lakh acres of land is expected to be under paddy cultivation in the state in the upcoming season.The new variety, according to PAU researchers, would save the farmers from two labour-intensive steps of traditional paddy sowing — setting up of nurseries and then transplanting the saplings in the puddled fields. PAU’s new DSR technique was successfully tested during the last kharif season.“The machine design is ready and we are tying up with the agricultural implements manufacturing units in Moga, Barnala, Sangrur, Patiala, Nabha and Ludhiana to produce these equipment on war footing,” agriculture secretary Kahan Singh Pannu told HT. He added that under the sub-mission on agricultural mechanisation (SMAM), there will be 40% subsidy on the new machines which cost ₹65,000 to ₹70,000.Recommending PR126 as the direct seeded rice variety, PAU vice-chancellor B S Dhillon said, “In this new technique, the fields are levelled and irrigated to create good soil moisture conditions. Then, paddy is sown using these machines.”The PR-126 variety has shown best results and the yield is as much as transplanted paddy, he added saying that the trials were conducted for the past three seasons.“After harvesting and procurement of wheat, the next worry for Punjab farmers is paddy sowing. Amid the Covid-19 lockdown, labourers engaged in paddy transplantation have gone back to their native states. Now, Punjab farmers are left with no option but to adopt alternative sowing techniques,” Dhillon added.“At least 500 Korean and Japanese machines are also available for direct sowing and as many additional machines will be developed in two months. These machines could sow paddy on 1.25 lakh acres of land. The government is offering 40% subsidy on them,” the VC said.MODIFIED HAPPY SEEDERS, ZERO TILL DRILLS FOR SOWINGPannu said there are 2 lakh machines in the state for sowing wheat such as happy seeders, zero till drills and other drill machines which could also be used for paddy sowing with minor alterations. “We have experimented on a few wheat sowing machines and it cost ₹1,000 to make them compatible for direct paddy sowing,” said Pannu.FOOD DEPT TOLD TO TEST DSR VARIETYChief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has directed the food and civil supplies department to test the PR126 DSR variety so that it makes a good crop for procurement and lifting for the public distribution system in the country. Department joint director (procurement and storage) Anjuman Bhaskar said she would study the details of the said crop’s trials. “Any wheat or paddy crop sown on a large scale needs to be compatible for procurement as well,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-develop-machines-for-direct-seeding-of-rice-amid-labour-dearth/story-SEKWxdd62shivVoBkippjJ.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||108 cops, 7 PGI docs to get Punjab DGP’s award||In continuation of its endeavour to honour police personnel and doctors delivering exceptional services in the battle against covid-19, Punjab Police has selected 108 police personnel, 3 state health department doctors, 1 social worker and 9 PGI doctors/nurse for the prestigious ‘Director General of Police Honour & Disc for Exemplary Seva to Society. Overall, 121 persons have been chosen for the award, and also includes a social worker from Faridkot. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said four ASPs; 14 DSPs; 14 inspectors; 13 SIs; 21 ASIs and 42 constables/head-constables spread across 27 revenue and police districts of the state were among the awardees.Four PGI doctors of the plastic surgery department being awarded are Dr Mohsina Subair; Dr Gowtham Kampalli, Dr Anshu Tiwari; Dr Tarush Gupta. From the anaesthesia department Dr Nidhi Panda; Dr Rashi Sarna and Dr Konica Chittoria have been selected. The PGI staff is credited with two successful surgeries on April 12 and 14 and the post-surgical treatment and care, leading to the early discharge of SI Harjit Singh, whose hand had been chopped by miscreants, while he was on curfew duty. A team from these PGI departments had been awarded earlier. Dr Aman Sharma, who is posted as medical officer in Police Hospital in Ludhiana (rural); Dr Sunita Rani of Fazilka; Dr Bidhi Lord Singh, posted as district epidemiologist in Tarn Taran and Parveen Kumar Kala, an active social worker of Faridkot are among those honoured. The names of ASI Rafi Mohammed of Amritsar Rural helped distribute ration among the needy with head constable and Amrik Singh of Batala Police district saving the life of person who suffered a heart attack, also figure on the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/108-cops-7-pgi-docs-to-get-punjab-dgp-s-award/story-gzh9HSRsretWjIBcIBoNQM.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana bans paddy cultivation on panchayat land in 8 blocks||In an attempt to arrest the water table decline, the Haryana government has banned the cultivation of paddy on panchayat land ahead of the sowing season.These eight blocks include Assandh in Karnal district, Pundri in Kaithal district, Radaur in Yamunanagar district, Ambala-I and Saha in Ambala district, Thanesar in Kurukshetra district, Narwana in Jind district and Gannaur in Sonepat district.The government has issued directions to the deputy commissioners concerned to ensure that the panchayat land lease out to farmers is not used for cultivating paddy in the coming season.As per the officials in the state agriculture department, the move will help the government achieve its target of diversifying around 1 lakh hectares of land, out of the total 12.50 lakh hectares under the water-guzzling paddy crop in the state.They said the government was also considering increasing the amount of cash incentive provided to farmers adopting crop diversification on their own land.“The decision will not only help save the ground water, but also reduce the number of incidents of stubble burning in the state as most of the blocks indentified for this project are known for cultivating paddy, said Surender Yadav, deputy director of state agriculture department.However, the decision has evoked a mixed response from farmers as many claimed that the move would affect landless and small farmers, who depend on panchayat land.Some sarpanches in the identified blocks opined that the decision would reduce panchayats’ income as the farmers would hesitate in taking the land on lease due to the alternate crops not being profitable enough.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said, “We have issued the directions to village panchayats in the Assandh block and the farmers will not be allowed to grow paddy on the panchayat land here.”“After the notification, the auction of panchayat land has been deferred and will be held after May 10 as per the government’s instructions,” said Yamunanagar deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar.Last year, the state government had introduced ‘Jal Hi Jeevan Hai’ diversification scheme with a target to shift about 50,000 hectares of land from paddy to other crops in seven out of the aforementioned eight blocks. Even cash subsidies of ₹4,500 per hectare were awarded to the farmers besides free seeds and free crop insurance cover for adopting the crop diversification technique.Last month, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had urged various union leaders to encourage farmers to adopt crop diversification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-bans-paddy-cultivation-on-panchayat-land-in-8-blocks/story-mied4iYCBT2Ql2RftKoIdP.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sends plan to Centre to set up four new labs||State conducted 10,000 tests till April 25; doubled this number within a week to 20,000 by May 2, says additional chief secy Vini Mahajan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-sends-plan-to-centre-to-set-up-four-new-labs/story-6SOLVGSQIo3prVvziJqJ4O.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Not sure Bapu Dham party information was authentic: GMCH doctor to police||The community medicine department head at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, treating the 30-year-old Covid positive OT attendant of the hospital, has told the police that the patient’s contact list, which features 123 names, includes people whom he had met in the weeks preceding his infection.His statement comes 10 days after hospital director-principal Dr BS Chavan said that the patient had picked up the infection outside the hospital, and had hosted 123 people at his wedding anniversary party on his rooftop in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.In response to police queries, the community medicine department head said in a written statement, “The OT attendant at the GMCH-32 was found corona positive on April 24. Some of his neighbours commented that the party was organised either on April 17 or 23. However, we are not sure that it is authentic information.”Earlier, Dr Chavan’s disclosure had sent the UT administration and police in a tizzy, prompting UT administrator VP Singh Badnore to order an inquiry into the matter and also directing director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal to initiate criminal proceedings against the patient for violating curfew orders and not observing social distancing norms. Official explanation regarding lapses on their part is awaited from Sector 26 station house officer (SHO) Narinder Patial and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Dilsher Singh Chandel, even as the Bapu Dham police post in-charge Gurmeet Singh has been replaced.‘HOUSE NOT BIG ENOUGH TO HOST OVER 100 PEOPLE’On inspecting the patient’s neighbourhood, senior cops found that he lived with 19 family members in a house built on a little over a marla (27 square yards). “The rooftop where the party is being claimed to have taken place is 9 feet by 30 feet in size. It cannot accommodate more than 100 guests,” said a senior official, familiar to the matter, requesting anonymity.So far, 43 people from the OT attendant’s contact list have been tested positive in Bapu Dham Colony. The area has been declared an “affected pocket”, with just one entry and exit point, which is being manned by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/not-sure-bapu-dham-party-information-was-authentic-gmch-doctor-to-police/story-KYkd55vnPAMxYhxb7axX3O.html
03-05-2020||City||Over 6 lakh migrants in Punjab apply on govt portal to travel home||Over six lakh migrants stuck in Punjab amid the lockdown have applied on the government portal, Covid Help Punjab, expressing their desire to travel back to their home states. While the count was around three lakh on Saturday, it doubled within 24 hours, taking the number to six lakh on Sunday, the last day for registration.As per chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, there are around 10 lakh migrants in the state, of which around seven lakh are based in Ludhiana.Of the total applicants, 3.3 lakh are in Ludhiana while around one lakh are in Jalandhar and 40,000 each are in Amritsar and Mohali.In terms of their destination, there are around 5 lakh people who have applied for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar while 9,000 of the total applicants are for Jharkhand and the remaining for other states and union territories.Sumeet Jarangal, nodal officer for the helpline, said that till Sunday over six lakh migrant workers have applied to travel back to their states and a letter has been sent to the governments of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand in this regard. “We are waiting for their response on whether they are ready to accept the migrants population or not. After receiving their consent, we will share the details with the railways,” he said.Apart from this, Punjab has received around 7,000 applications from persons stranded in other states, including Maharashtra, Haryana and Bihar, who want to come back to their native places in Punjab. “Of the total 7,000 persons, around 1,300 are presently in Maharashtra, 400 are in Haryana while the remaining are in Bihar, Gujarat and some other states,” Jarangal said.RAILWAYS SETS UP TENTS AT STATIONSMeanwhile, the railways has started setting up tents at the stations to accommodate migrants who will start pouring in to take the trains back home. Thirty tents having a total capacity of 1, 200 persons have been set up at Ludhiana railways station. Similar arrangements have been made at Amritsar, Jalandhary City and Bathinda station too.Station director Tarun Kumar said that as of now they have not received any details about the number of passengers from the state government but to be on the safe side, they have made preliminary arrangements.Apart from this, the staff from ticket booking department, reservation department and ticket checking department have been asked to remain on standby as they can be called on duty anytime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-6-lakh-migrants-in-punjab-apply-on-govt-portal-to-travel-home/story-qq8mp92AwktalphFpqJJXK.html
03-05-2020||City||Customs officer kills himself at JNPT||A 49-year-old customs officer killed himself by jumping into the sea at JNPT on Sunday. The police have not found any note.The officer drove in his car to JNPT near the Singapore Port , where the work of landing site is ongoing. He parked his car, walked 100 metres towards the landing site and jumped off.“When the workers at the site saw him jump, they threw a rope and a lifebuoy ring hoping he would catch them. Due to high tide and since the water is deep, the workers could not jump into the sea to save him,” said Pramod Jadhav, senior inspector at Nhava Sheva police station.The officer was pulled out of the sea with a crane and rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead. After contacting his family in Seawoods, the police learnt he was suffering from depression. The police said they are investigating the incident.The officer, who was posted at the Mumbai international airport, is survived by his wife and a 17-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/customs-officer-kills-himself-at-jnpt/story-uYwV9NvHnLPBuTDwsXQVGL.html
03-05-2020||City||Private schools in Panchkula to move to court regarding voluntary payment of fee||A week after the Panchkula Public Schools Association (PPSA) wrote to the director general of secondary education, Haryana, seeking a review of the government orders relating to voluntary payment of school fee by parents amid lockdown, the association is now planning to move to court in this regard. The private schools in Panchkula are yet to pay salaries to employees and are seeking a reply from the department for their representation.In its letter, the association wrote, “We have not asked any parent to pay the school fee immediately; however, a few parents have themselves come forward to deposit the fee voluntarily.”PPSA secretary Piyush Punj said, “There are about 75 private schools in the district and presently, these schools are unable to generate revenue with only 5% to 10% parents depositing the fee voluntarily.”“Those who are able to pay are consciously considering the lockdown period as a fee-free period. The things are becoming worse making it difficult for the managements to fulfill liabilities, including payment of salaries of teachers and other staff,” said Punj.He said that the association will wait for the response till May 10, after which it will decide the further course of action accordingly. “In Pinjore, only a couple of schools have received fee and that too from 5% parents,” he said, adding, “Majority schools in Panchkula have till date not received appropriate fee from 10% students, who have been being given admission free of cost under Section 134A of Haryana School Education (Third Amendment) Rules.Emphasising that schoolteachers should not be made to bear the losses, the association members said, “Teachers have been doing their best despite hectic routines with online classes for the students’ welfare, but they are not being considered among the frontline covid warriors,” while adding that the government should also think about the educators working for the future and betterment of children. and should not be made to bear unsustainable losses.Panchkula district education officer (DEO) Urmila Rohilla said, “The decision and further course of action lies with the head office. There is a separate fee regulatory body and action committee of the directorate that takes a call on such issues. I came across about the representation submitted by the schools association, but nothing on the same has been received so far. However, I have sent notices to some schools seeking reply from them after receiving complaints from few parents regarding the fee issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-schools-in-panchkula-to-move-to-court-regarding-voluntary-payment-of-fee/story-m06mB6xmyOxI2jNKZE5iVI.html
03-05-2020||City||24,000 people stranded in Mohali register to return home||Around 24,000 people from other states stranded in Mohali have registered on covidhelp.punjab.gov.in to return home amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said those who get themselves registered will be screened and they can begin their journeys from May 5. He said that in case of any query, the administration can be reached at 6284264563.He said at the time of receiving screening certificates, people can opt to travel by their own vehicles or by public transport.He said allowing people to travel by public transport will be the prerogative of the district administration.He said people, who opt to travel on their own, will receive an SMS asking them to apply for curfew movement passes on COVA app/link.IDs in the lists finalised by DCs for movement by train will be informed about departure, route and coach number of the train via SMS.The SMS will also serve as curfew movement pass from residence to railway station.Private bus operators, who are willing to ferry stranded people, will be sent an SMS. The SMS will contain details of their numbers along with the upper cap of per km price. The private operator will later be asked to apply for curfew pass through the COVA app/link.Travel advisoryDayalan said a procedure has been outlined for people of other states stranded in Punjab, who want to return home, on their own vehicles. The DC said on registering for inter-state movement, these people will get an SMS to go to their nearest medical screening centre (list available on http://sasnagar.nic.in). He said such people will have to obtain fitness certificates. He said such people will have to apply for an inter-state movement pass and upload the fitness certificate on https://epasscovid19.pais.net.in/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-000-people-stranded-in-mohali-register-to-return-home/story-OwzX3aTJwnmrB02ynNf8AI.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Singing songs, gossiping, Covid-19 patients at Banur hospital keep spirits high||It’s a battle zone all right, but 72 Covid-19 patients at the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, Punjab, are keeping their spirits high by watching TV, checking the latest news on their mobile phones, cracking jokes, and yes, even gossiping.The patients from all parts of Punjab, including Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib and Rupnagar, have been isolated in special wards and are sharing lighthearted banter and stories from home. Most of them are asymptomatic.Things are good, “We get morning tea and healthy meals three times a day and the menu is changed every week. There are around 30 beds and a television set in each ward,” said a patient.The Punjab government had on March 17 designated the 300-bed Gian Sagar hospital as its quarantine centre.Patients are being admitted there since March 25, and 32 have already been released after recovering from the disease.“Our frontline doctors and medical staff always keep the patients in good humour. We have toys for children in the wards and the menu can be changed if they want it so. At present, we have a seven-year-old patient with us. Almost all the patients are asymptomatic and are responding well to treatment,” said Dr SPS Goraya, medical superintendent of the hospital.As most patients have their mobile phones with them, the hospital was planning to provide WiFi services in the wards, Dr Goraya added. A 58-year-old man from Premgarh village who was admitted on April 30 after testing positive upon his return from Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, said “13 of my family members who also tested positive are admitted here. We feel at home over here and most of us spend time watching TV, talking to other family members on the phone and regaling each other with funny stories. We don’t have any symptoms and feel hale and hearty. It’s hard to believe we have Covid-19,” he said.A 55-year-old patient from Amrala village in Dera Bassi said most of the patients were related to each other and passing time talking to each other and gossiping. “We are calling up relatives and also receiving calls from our near and dear ones and others who wish us well.”She says she does miss home, but hopes to go back “as the days are passing by quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/singing-songs-gossiping-covid-19-patients-at-banur-hospital-keep-spirits-high/story-KCQkSm2uiGZGArDoezfFqK.html
03-05-2020||City||30-year-old man hangs self inside truck in Ludhiana||A 30-year-old truck cleaner ended his life by hanging himself inside the vehicle in Pathak Colony on Chandigarh road on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Ratti Ram of Baddi in Himachal Pradesh. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the police got information about the incident on Sunday morning. Aman, the cousin of the victim, was the first to witness the body hanging from a bar in the truck when he came to see Ratti Ram.Aman informed the police that Ratti Ram was depressed since his parents’ death.The ASI said that the police have informed the deceased’s sister about the incident and are waiting to record her statement before initiating further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-himachal-man-hangs-self-inside-truck/story-sahUqT1BpahhAJ8xBxbkUM.html
03-05-2020||City||24-yr-old murdered in Chamkaur Sahib||A 24-year-old youth of Rurki Heerana village falling under Chamkaur Sahib police station was murdered on Saturday night. His cousin has been booked for murder.According to the police, Sukhwinder Singh, who was a drug addict had an altercation with his cousin Jaswinder Singh which led to a scuffle. When Sukhwinder began hurling bricks and stones on Jaswinder’s house, the latter tried to stop him. Following this, he hit Jaswinder on the head with a brick, said the police, leading to grievous injuries. He was rushed to Chamkaur Sahib civil hospital where he was declared dead.Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against Sukhwinder Singh, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-yr-old-murdered-in-chamkaur-sahib-area/story-emapm58XoesNctnBLvjheN.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Using wit and jest, UT adviser tweets clarification about odd-even proposal in Chandigarh||On Saturday night, Chandigarh residents were pleasantly surprised by UT adviser’s dry humour, as he sought to answer their queries. Manoj Parida, took to Twitter, to bring clarity on decisions taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore regarding the lifting of restrictions in the city from Monday onward.Most questions revolved around the unfamiliar concept of odd-even for shops and vehicles. Using witty one liners while acknowledging the confusion, Parida responded to more than 700 questions from his Twitter handle.As per the odd-even formula, shops and vehicles with odd numbers will be allowed to run on dates that end with an odd number, and similarly, those with even numbers can run on even dates.Pointing out the formula’s impracticality, Twitter user Akshit asked Parida that if his shop number is odd and his vehicle number is even, how would he go to his shop? Parida suggested he open his shop every second day, assuming the shop was that of an essential service.When Parida encouraged carpooling, Mitrabh Gupta said he lived in Zirakpur and has a milk business in Chandigarh, which makes it impossible to carpool. To this, Parida said, “Bad luck, wait till we change our orders.”When another Twitter user asked him about the odd-even rule, Parida, in jest, said the person could consider exchanging his car with the owner of a neighboring shop till rules were in effect. He also encouraged people to cycle to their shops rather than use vehicles, something which the World Health Organisation (WHO) has also recommended.When user Anmol Bhardwaj pointed out that shops in Chandigarh villages including those of Palsora village do not have shop numbers, Parida suggested he should “enjoy the confusion”.Finally, Parida assured everyone that the move was only temporary and all stakeholders including the adviser and the administrator will reconsider the decision before implementing it.Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) had also written to Badnore, highlighting the confusion the odd-even rule would bring, suggesting that the odd-even rule be applied to shop numbers only, and not vehicles.Later, during the war-room briefings with UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, on Sunday, the administration decided to forgo the odd-even proposal, citing the confusion that was likely to creates more issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/using-wit-and-jest-ut-adviser-clarifies-chandigarh-s-odd-even-rule-on-twitter/story-EIMnLeqUuv9mwswsazCFyJ.html
03-05-2020||City||As Covid-19 peaks, beware of advertisers peddling false claims regarding the virus||Covid-19 has completely changed our lives- I am not just referring to the lockdown , the social distancing, frequent hand washing and sanitizing surfaces and goods. Today, all our conversation is centred around Covid , just as almost all news is Covid-related.It’s therefore no wonder that advertisers too are trying to somehow link their products directly or indirectly to Covid or the circumstances surrounding it , to make it relevant and attract attention. Some are also using their advertisements for social messaging. But on the flip side, there are also advertisements blatantly peddling products through false or misleading claims related to Covid-19. One such claim that attracted the most attention was of course the Arihant mattress advertisement in a Gujarati newspaper that went viral on the social media for its claim that the mattress was ‘ corona-resistant’ and ‘anti-corona virus’ !. The mattress maker soon found himself booked under various laws including the Disaster Management Act and the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act by the Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration. Besides those that make blatantly false claims and offer ‘cures’ for Covid -19 , there are also advertisements that employ cleverly worded messages and deceptive visuals to misrepresent the importance or the need for such products to fight the dreaded disease.Well, there are several laws aimed at curbing such advertising and protecting consumers. . The Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements ) Act for example, specifically prohibits such false and misleading advertisements relating to drugs, besides remedies claiming magical or miraculous properties. The law prescribes as punishment, imprisonment up to six months or fine or both for the first offence and imprisonment up to one year or fine or both for subsequent offence. False or deceptive advertisements pertaining to food are specifically governed by the Food Safety and Standards (Advertising and Claims) Regulations and enforced by the state food safety officers. Violation of the Regulation attracts a penalty up to Rs 10 lakhs as per Section 53 of the Food Safety and Standards Act.I must also mention that in response to complaints about Covid-related deceptive and false claims , the union ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) has on April 1, issued an order under Section 33P of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, directing the regulatory authorities in states and union territories to “stop and prevent publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 in print, television and electronic media and take necessary action against the persons/agencies involved in contravening the relevant legal provisions …”. The ministry has also asked the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), a self regulatory body of the advertising industry, to monitor and report such advertisements. The Cable Television Network Regulation Act and Rules also prohibit deceptive advertising. The Rules in fact ban television advertisements that violate the Code for Self Regulation in Advertising , formulated and adopted by ASCI.The regulatory body- the Central Consumer Protection Authority- envisaged under the Consumer Protection Act of 2019 has wide ranging powers to deal with all deceptive, false advertisements. Unfortunately, the Authority is yet to be constituted. The consumer courts have the power to order withdrawal of such advertisements, direct issuance of corrective advertisements and award costs and compensation to consumers, but only on a complaint from the consumer or the government. Unlike the Authority, the forums have no suo moto powers.Meanwhile consumers who come across questionable Covid-related claims can complain to the state drug control authorities or the food safety authorities, depending on the nature of the advertisement. They can also register their complaint on the website specifically created by the union ministry of consumer affairs for the purpose—Grievances Against Misleading Advertisements - gama.gov.in One can also complain to ASCI on its website- ascionline.org or on their whatsapp number: 7710012345 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-covid-19-peaks-beware-of-advertisers-peddling-false-claims-regarding-the-virus/story-Gfj9VnT4A6vMJJxyx9bgSN.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister distributes dry ration to 1,100 families in Mohali||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday distributed dry ration packets to around 1,100 needy families in Phase 6 and Sector 70, Mohali. These packets contained oil, rice, atta, and various other items of daily use. The minister exhorted people to extend a helping hand to the needy during the difficult times. He further urged people to stay indoors and take necessary precautions to prevent the deadly virus from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-distributes-dry-ration-to-1-100-families-in-mohali/story-McUt6kYtgucygnWQzl8IbM.html
03-05-2020||City||Man arrested for posting hate comments on social media||A manager of a gems firm was arrested after he posted a hateful message on a video where a West Bengal police team was seen being assaulted. The accused was later released on bail.“The man identified as Ashish Dharne, in his thirties, posted a comment against the police vehicles on a video posted on social media on Wednesday. After Dharne made the comment, he also got into an abusive spat with another social media user over the same,” said an officer from Kalamboli police station.After receiving the complaint from Navi Mumbai cybercell, the local police traced the man to his residence and placed him under arrest.Dharne placed under arrest under sections of Indian Penal Code and The Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act for breach of peace. According to the FIR registered against Dharne, ‘The comment was hateful in nature and may have led to a law and order issue.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-posting-hate-comments-on-social-media/story-amuWfkTcv6PgFhcivtrPLK.html
03-05-2020||City||Congress leader Manish Tewari calls for concerted efforts to safeguard freedom of press||Anandpur Sahib member of Parliament (MP), Manish Tewari, has called for concerted efforts to safeguard the freedom of press.On the occasion of World Press Freedom Day, Tewari said that the mediapersons were facing trying times due to the Covid-19 pandemic and it was the duty of the government to help them tide over the crisis.He said, “Mediapersons are corona warriors, who are doing their professional duty with utmost dedication in the current situation.”“Media has an important role to play and it must play this role with responsibility. It is the day to celebrate the fundamental principles of press freedom, to defend the media from attacks on their independence and to pay tributes to the journalists who have lost their lives in the exercise of their profession,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-leader-manish-tewari-calls-for-concerted-efforts-to-safeguard-freedom-of-press/story-kjg9PFAoINVfyn259cLOIK.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University V-C nominated to UGC sub-committee for mapping Swayam courses||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has been nominated member of a University Grants Commission (UGC) sub-committee for mapping of Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (Swayam) courses.Swayam is an integrated platform for online courses, using information and communication technology (ICT) which covers school (Classes 9 to 12) to postgraduate level.The sub-committee has been constituted by UGC chairman DP Singh under director of IIM, Tiruchirappali, Bhimaraya Metri. The other members include director of SBIM Hyderabad, Ravi Kumar Jain, Prashant Gupta and Ayon Chakraborty from IIM, Tiruchirappali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-v-c-nominated-to-ugc-sub-committee-for-mapping-swayam-courses/story-Kkfr4tHCmj7Duy9zOIg3AK.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to remain closed till May 17||Panjab University and its regional centres, constituent colleges and affiliated colleges will remain closed till May 17, following extension of the nationwide lockdown, registrar Karamjeet Singh said.Also, guidelines issued by the central government in the future will also be applicable, which will be communicated separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-remain-closed-till-may-17/story-GwyF0oK17B0PfoBxytsnVN.html
03-05-2020||City||Congress flays HP govt for mismanagement of evacuation process||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former urban development minister of Himachal Pradesh Sudhir Sharma on Sunday slammed the state government for “mismanagement” of the evacuation process.In a press statement issued here, Sharma said that situation was such that the officers who were appointed nodal officers are not aware of their duties.He said that the government seems to be unable to make proper arrangements for stranded people. “The government has failed to set up a system to bring back people stranded in other states,” he added.He said that some elderly people were crying at Himachal Bhawan in Chandigarh after failing to get seats in the buses sent to bring them home.He said that stranded people including children are being called to designated places in Delhi and Chandigarh. But in both these places, there is a ban on leaving the house in many places, in such a situation, the government did not clarify how people trapped here would be able to reach the designated places.He said that at this time the situation has been made like one during the partition of the country.“Instead of appointing nodal officers, the government should set up a call centre to facilitate the people,” he said.He said that the state should also set up a system to screen all the people returning to the state.Sharma also demanded the state and the Centre evacuate the people stranded in the foreign countries with the help of the Indian Air Force.Restore unemployment allowance scheme: GS BaliSenior Congress leader and former minister GS Bali on Sunday demanded the state government to provide unemployment allowance to jobless youth in the state.In a press release issued here, Bali said that the previous government had started the unemployment allowance scheme under which the jobless youth were being provided ₹1000 to ₹1500 per month.Implementation of the scheme becomes even more important as an estimated 5 lakh youth have been rendered unemployed due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-flays-hp-govt-for-mismanagement-of-evacuation-process/story-aYr0J8QfN8g0Ep5REgR6TP.html
03-05-2020||Kolkata||NIA arrests absconding property manager of Maoists in West Bengal||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested an absconding property manager of Maoists in Hooghly district and several incriminating documents showing immovable properties related transactions were seized from his possession.The accused identified as Manoj Choudhary, 48, was produced before the NIA Special Court in Jharkhand’s Ranchi and was remanded to five days’ NIA custody.“The case pertains to the seizure of a huge cache of arms and ammunition at Akbakitand village, Giridih district, Jharkhand, leading to the arrest of 15 operatives of CPI (Maoists) including SAC member Sunil Manjhi,” the investigative agency said in a statement.During further investigation, more numbers of arms and ammunition and a huge quantity of explosives were recovered from Lugu Pahad in Jharkhand’s Bokaro district.Subsequently, the NIA submitted two charge-sheets against total 17 accused persons including absconding accused Manoj Chaudhary on August 31, 2018, and January 8, 2019.According to the statement, investigation revealed that accused Manoj Chaudhary has been an active member of the banned terrorist outfit CPI (Maoist) and he was instrumental in the investment of proceeds of terrorism into real estate.“He had been in contact with the senior CPI (Maoist) cadres since 2008 and had been channelising their ill-gotten wealth into the acquisition of immovable properties at prime locations in Giridih district of Jharkhand,” it added.Manoj Chaudhary had been continuously evading arrest for more than three years. Further, the investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/nia-arrests-absconding-property-manager-of-maoists-in-west-bengal/story-Ip697bl8j8OXNru6yIqkTP.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||12-hr relaxation will leave shopkeepers vulnerable, says Chandigarh traders’ body||UT administration’s decision to allow sector markets to remain open between 7am and 7pm from Monday left several shopkeepers jittery about their safety.Giving in to demands of shopkeepers, the timings were reduced to eight hours, between 10am and 6pm, during the review meeting on Sunday evening.“Opening shops for more than five hours doesn’t make sense. Shopkeepers will be exposed dealing with the public for such a long time. We will ask the administration to consider this,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. He added that the Beopar Mandal will call a meeting in a couple of days to discuss any issues being faced by the traders.SOCIAL DISTANCING IMPOSSIBLE IN SMALLER MARKETSIn cramped markets, such as Palika Bazaar and Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19 and Krishna Market in Sector 41, shopkeepers claim social distancing was a distant dream. “Most booths here are 8 by 8 feet. Even if we are given the permission to reopen, the market committee may take a decision to keep the shops closed for a few more days,” said Narinder Singh, president of the Sadar Bazaar Market Association in Sector 19.‘SHOULD HAVE TESTED SOCIAL DISTANCING IN SECTOR 17’On the other hand, keeping the shops in Sector 17 closed has not gone down well with some traders. Neeraj Bajaj, president of Chandigarh Business Council, said, “Sector 17 has spacious shops with ample parking and corridor space. Sector 17 should have been the first market to reopen to test social distancing. While the offices here will remain open, the traders are feeling left out.”RESIDENT BODIES DIVIDED TOO Resident bodies have also given a mixed response to the administration’s decision. Chairman of Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “The administration has taken a bold decision and we stand behind it. The city cannot stop just because of Covid-19, and sooner or later, routine life will have to resume.”However, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri said, “Restrictions should have been lifted in a phased manner. 12-hour relaxation is too long when there is no let-up in fresh cases.”“The administration needs to look out for the labour force. Their food service must not stop and they need to be provided gainful employment as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-hr-relaxation-will-leave-shopkeepers-vulnerable-says-chandigarh-traders-body/story-WQptk0vdojzZRcxTHgJuqI.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Environmentalists launch campaign to stop spitting amid Covid-19 pandemic||With the reopening of paan shops in green zones, a group of environmentalists has launched a campaign to stop the menace of spitting in public places, especially dangerous during the Covid-19 pandemic. Through the campaign on social media, activists from NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan (SEAP) have appealed to various civic bodies to impose hefty fines, to the tune of Rs 5,000 per offence, and making violators clean the spit. “The campaign #SirUthakeThuko targets the people who are habitual paan and tobacco chewers and spit in public places,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation. “People have been lifting their face masks and continue to spit on roads,” said Nandkumar Pawar, head, SEAP. “We are being repeatedly told by doctors that the novel coronavirus spreads through droplets. Under such circumstances, spitting is even worse,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head, SEAP. The campaign has been widely shared on social media and representations have been made to the state government by citizens to ensure the penalty is imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/environmentalists-launch-campaign-to-stop-spitting/story-oGwWTaHiPfgp7a5Iz5KeIN.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Absence of foul stench, change in water colour at Thane creek during lockdown: Study||Researchers have recorded an improvement in the water quality of Thane creek, including areas within the flamingo sanctuary, during the lockdown period.An absence of foul order and a change in the water colour were the main observations as industrial waste discharge was negligible but domestic sewage continued.This is the first water quality assessment for the Mumbai region during the lockdown, done by the Maharashtra forest department and Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) released on Saturday. “Areas along the creek that previously had water colour with dark black patches, due to industrial waste, had turned brown. Some portions of the creek even had clear water, and the foul stench, observed during sampling every month, was missing,” said Mrugank Prabhu, scientist, BNHS who led the study.Nathuram Kokare, range forest officer (Thane creek) said, “Bird numbers, including flamingos, have increased at deeper ends of the creek where they did not go before. This is also because fishing activities have completely stopped.”Samples were collected during high tide from 14 locations at the creek along a km-long stretch covering Vitava in Thane till Koparkhairne, Navi Mumbai on the east bank, and Kanjurmarg in Mumbai (part of the flamingo sanctuary) to Vitava on the west bank. Samples were compared with levels during January, February and March. The results (all average values) showed lowest turbidity levels (a measure of haziness in water caused by sediments and algae) in four months during April at 30.7 Formazin Nephelometric Unit (FNU), which ranged between 44.2 and 76.72 FNU in previous months.Deepak Apte, director, BNHS said, “Highly populated areas surrounding the creek drain effluents and sewage when there are no restrictions (like the lockdown). In this case, an industrial effluent reduction is visible but not domestic sewage. This is, however, a preliminary study and we need many more sampling exercises, the status of polluting sources, and impact on local biodiversity to conclude.”The most striking factor was a drastic rise in oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) - a measure the ability of a river or creek to cleanse itself or break down waste - during April. The parameter fell from 45.2 millivolts (mV) in February to 6.86 mV in March and shot up to 148.22 mV in April. “When the ORP value is high, there is a lot of oxygen present in the water. High ORP level means better water quality,” said Prabhu. As compared to the dissolved oxygen level (present in water) was marginally higher than in previous months.Independent researcher and member of the Mangrove Society of India Pramod Salaskar who was not part of the study said, “High ORP is indicative of healthy water quality with low toxicity of metals and contaminants. ORP should read as high as 300-500 mV for the best water quality. However, in this study, the level of dissolved oxygen does not compliment high ORP. We must investigate whether high ORP was caused by effluents as byproducts while producing sanitisers by industries,” he said.According to the mangrove cell, there are over 200 bird species (flamingos and waders being dominant) at Thane creek, which is also home to 68 insects, 29 butterflies and moths, nine mangrove species among other biodiversity. Owing to high water pollution, a Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) study had recorded a drop in fish species from 69 to just seven. In August 2016, the state had declared the northern part of the creek as a flamingo sanctuary spread across 1,690 hectares and proposed a 3.4 sq. km buffer zone around it last year. “The lockdown has allowed us to capture the background water quality levels if the industrial discharge is at its minimum. Based on this analysis and future studies, we will strategise on how to reduce overall water pollution once the lockdown is called off,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/absence-of-foul-stench-change-in-water-colour-at-thane-creek-during-lockdown-study/story-gjIJ2bdHPnXvovIlGn3kJI.html
03-05-2020||City||Follow lockdown, win a prize: Thane civic body||The Thane Municipal Corporation along with the guardian minister of Thane has announced a contest to keep municipal wards free from coronavirus. Mayor Naresh Mhaske said, “Around 80% people are following the lockdown norms. However, Covid cases are increasing because of the 20% who are still not following them. Apart from several other measures, the TMC is encouraging people to stay at home and follow lockdown norms. So, we have come up with the ward-level competition.”The month-long contest encourages residents to follow lockdown rules to be a winner. TMC has also announced ₹50 lakh and ₹25 lakh for wards which do not report a single case and all Covid positive patients are discharged. The contest period will be from May 2 to May 15, May 2 to May 29 and June 1 to June 14 and June 28 depending on the situation.A TMC official said, “The ward which has no positive case from May 1 to 14 and earlier patients recovered will be awarded ₹ 25 lakh while the ward which does not report a single positive case from May 1 to 28 will be awarded ₹50 lakh. The money will be used to improve the basic amenities in the ward.”Residents will have to apply on the Digithane application to take part in the contest.Residents of winning wards will also be given certificates as Covid fighters, while those who work towards preventing the spread will also be felicitated.Mhaske said, “The contest will be judged on how effective the lockdown is being followed. There will not be special teams to visit the wards but we will go through CCTV recordings and take police recommendations.”The contest will also judge on how people behave towards emergency workers. “The corporators and social activists of each ward will create awareness about the contest through social media, without venturing out of the house,” said Mhaske.The residents who have symptoms will have to give a self-declaration and visit the nearby fever clinic. If people hide their illness, wards will lose points.The contest also for individuals. People can take part in best home selfie contest, self-declaration of the disease contest, video contest for best safety practices of individuals and housing societies and new initiatives adopted to ensure safety. People in emergency services can also send a 30-second video of the safety practices they are following.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/follow-lockdown-win-a-prize-thane-civic-body/story-IlsZYzeUiDW2wwQ8mAgzPO.html
03-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan got ICMR nod to use plasma therapy on Covid patients, says CM||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its nod to Rajasthan’s appeal for using convalescent plasma therapy in treating Covid-19 patients, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday.He said the state government has made all preparations for using plasma therapy on coronavirus patients in critical condition as per the protocol set by the country’s apex health research body.“This will be performed in a proper manner in Rajasthan,” the chief minister said. Gehlot said that doctors from SMS Medical College are also conducting plasma therapy research which is being conducted round the globe.Under convalescent plasma therapy technique, plasma from people who have recovered from Covid-19 is transfused to patients who are in severe condition.The centre has, however, said plasma therapy for treatment of coronavirus patients is at an experimental stage and it has the potential to cause life-threatening complication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-got-icmr-nod-to-use-plasma-therapy-on-covid-patients-says-cm/story-0DpkYwF8spzxriQLzMObNN.html
03-05-2020||City||Army pays tribute to jawans martyred in J&K’s Rampur sector||The Army on Sunday paid tributes to two soldiers, who were martyred in the line of duty in the Rampur sector of Baramulla district, a defence spokesperson said.Havildar Gokaran Singh and Naik Shankar Singh Merha died in the line of duty in the Rampur sector on May 1.In a solemn ceremony at Badami Bagh Cantonment in Srinagar, Lt Gen BS Raju, Chinar Corps Commander and all ranks paid homage on behalf of a proud nation, the spokesperson said.The soldiers were manning a forward post at the Line of Control and sustained injuries during the unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Rampur Sector. The soldiers were provided immediate first aid and evacuated to the nearest medical facility, but unfortunately succumbed to their injuries.Havildar Gokaran Singh, 41, had joined the Army in 1996. He hailed from Napper village in Uttarakhand and is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son.Naik Shankar Singh Merha, 31, had joined the Army in 2010. He belonged to Nali village of Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand. He is survived by his wife and a son.The mortal remains of the martyrs were taken for last rites to their native place, where they will be cremated with full military honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-pays-tribute-to-jawans-martyred-in-j-k-s-rampur-sector/story-w3L7xhvmhdX5DHZNgUS6dI.html
03-05-2020||City||Snow leopard which killed 43 sheep, goats captured in Lahaul and Spiti village||A snow leopard that’s believed to have reportedly killed more than 40 goats and sheep in the remote village of Gue, located 10,000 feet above sea level in Lahaul and Spiti district, has been captured by officials of the forest department’s wildlife wing and brought to Shimla.After medical tests to check for injuries the animal was quarantined at the Himalayan Nature Park in Kufri.Special transportation arrangements were made to move it animal due to the Covid-19 lockdown in the stateGue, which is 500 km away from the state capital, is located between the towns Sumdo and Tabo and is famed for a Tibetan monk mummified there that’s believed to be 500 years old. The snow leopard had in four attacks on livestock corralled in the village in the last two weeks killed around 43 sheep and goats. According to the villagers, three days back a livestock owner had walked into a shed at his farm where cattle, horses and sheep were kept and saw the leopard trapped there and sheep carcasses lying on the floor.Frightened he called other villagers to help and they later informed the civil authorities at Spiti after which additional district magistrate, Gian Sagar Negi, dispatched a team headed by the forest ranger to trap the leopard.The officials then trekked for four hours to reach the spot, fixed the wires of the enclosure to make sure the leopard remained trapped, and captured it.“The team adopted standard operation procedures to trap the leopard,” Negi said. Wildlife team members believe the same leopard killed 15 sheep on April 20; 12 sheep on April 29 and 11 goats on April 30.“It is evident that the snow leopard is not fit to prey in the wild and is looking for easy prey in the enclosures. Now that it has been rescued and there’s possibility of internal injury, so it’s not advisable to release it in its natural habitat without a medical checkup,” Negi added.The captured animal was later moved to the Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre, Shimla, in a pick-up van for medical examination before being quarantined.The state animal of Himachal Pradesh, the snow leopard can be found at altitudes of 9,800 to 17,000 feet in high and rugged terrains. It’s range spans the Kibber Wildlife Sanctuary in Lahaul and Spiti to Pangi in Chamba district. A survey done by the wildlife wing with the Nature Conservation Foundation of India covering parts of the animal’s habitat across HP revealed a population of 100 in the region. The animals had been spotted in seven areas, including Miyar, Thandi, Chandra and Bagha in the upper Spiti region of Lahaul and Spiti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snow-leopard-which-killed-43-sheep-goats-captured-in-lahaul-and-spiti-village/story-yw1QQ7JLPI8TIgW97PRaOP.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police file a fresh case against Arnab Goswami||The Mumbai Police on Saturday registered a fresh case against Arnab Goswami, editor and owner of the Republic TV channel. The case of allegedly creating communal hatred was registered was at Pydhonie police station. The complainant, Irfan Abubakar Shaikh, secretary of Raza Educational Welfare Society, has alleged that the channel and Goswami tried to create hatred against the Muslim community and targeted a mosque from Bandra that had no link to a protest by migrants held on April 14. Shaikh, in his statement to the police, said that on April 29, Republic TV channel had telecast the protest of migrants gathered near Bandra railway station and Arnab Goswami was anchoring the show. “We have registered a case against Arnab Goswami and the owner of Republic TV. Further investigation is going on. As part of evidence after taking the statement we have collected the footage of the shows with the clips in a pen drive as evidence,” said a police officer from Pydhonie police station.“There was no link or issue related to the mosque near the Bandra station. The only issue was that the migrants had gathered in the open space near the mosque. But Arnab purposely highlighted the mosque to create communal disturbance in the city,” said Shaikh in his statement to police. “The debate on the channel intended to blame the Muslim community for the spreading of Covid-19. Goswami had made many such hate-filled comments against the community, targeting it,” added Shaikh in his statement. The FIR was registered under sections 153, 153 A, 295 A, 500, 505 (2), 511 and 120 B of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-file-a-fresh-case-against-arnab-goswami/story-0LuMzNRV2TCFTYFwiklEcL.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Now, an app that can remotely monitor Covid-19 patient’s heartbeat||A mobile application, developed by a startup incubated at the Indian Insititute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), can remotely monitor heart and breathing rates of Covid-19 patients. This can help in reducing the burden on both the country’s medical infrastructure and the limited number of health workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Vytal Health Tracker application, designed by startup Vytal, helps clinics and community workers track key health indicators of patients’, using their mobile phones. The application converts smartphones into mini medical devices by offering Photoplethysmographic (PPG) signal, using the smartphone’s in-built sensors. The PPG is a simple optical technique used to detect changes in blood volume.“The Vytal app offers PPG signals using the smartphone’s sensors in a non-invasive way. It doesn’t need external sensors and is independent of ambient lighting conditions. From this, the patient’s heart and breathing rates are estimated,” said Gunjan Jain, co-founder of Vytal, which was incubated at the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship at IIT-B. “Monitoring can continue from home or in the absence of expensive medical devices,” she added. Healthcare and community workers can track symptoms of users through a dashboard on the application that is available in English and Hindi. The tracker will also send an alert to doctors through text messages if a patient’s vital parameters breach the acceptable limits. In case of any signs of distress, the app also connects doctors with patients to provide video consultation. “The app minimises risks to health workers, offers continuous care, and can help individuals or patients in quarantine facilities and those under home quarantine,” said Jain. The startup is in talks with government and civic authorities on the application’s usage by frontline workers. A separate segment on the app takes care of mental and psychosocial well-being of such patients/ individuals through relaxing and meditative games. It also helps curb the spread of fake news by keeping people informed about Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/now-an-app-that-can-remotely-monitor-covid-19-patient-s-heartbeat/story-g0j90G2QAC4qihAA2xE5wJ.html
03-05-2020||City||Himachal to soon become coronavirus free, says CM||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said that due to the collective efforts of several agencies and the support rendered by the people, Himachal Pradesh will soon become coronavirus free.He was convening a meeting of deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers through video conferencing.Thakur directed them to ensure that the persons entering the state from other parts of the country must follow strict quarantine norms.He said that it would be the responsibility of the elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies to ensure that people entering their village does not jump quarantine.As many as 1,314 persons stranded in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali were brought back in 51 buses, which include 609 people of Kangra district, 335 of Hamirpur district, 132 of Una and 238 people of Chamba, the CM informed.He said that all these persons would be medically examined and will be kept under home quarantine.He said that economic activities, particularly in the green zones, have been started and special thrust was being laid smooth supply of essential commodities and farming equipment.1 more patient recoversOne more patient from Una district recovered said additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman on Sunday. The patient, primary contact of Tablighi Jamaat workers, was undergoing treatment at Charitable Hospital Bhota.The patient will remain under observation in an institutional quarantine facility for two weeks and will be sent home if tested negative after the surveillance period is over.One case remains active in Sirmaur and the patient is currently undergoing treatment at Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital, in Katha of Solan district.With this, a total of 34 patients have cured in the state. As many as 20 patients have recovered in two weeks while six have recovered in the last three days.A total of 40 Covid-19 cases, including one fatality, have been reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-to-soon-become-coronavirus-free-says-cm/story-MZhLOZ6KvQmpGRBZn9s0lJ.html
03-05-2020||City||2 die, one doctor tests positive in Ludhiana||Two persons died while a house surgeon, who had recently shifted from Ludhiana civil hospital to Rajindra hospital in Patiala, tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Ludhiana on Sunday. In all, the city saw four fresh cases, as per the daily medical bulletin.The deceased have been identified as Kamla Devi, 62, of Basti Jodhewal in Ludhiana and Nirayan Dass, 65, of Kapurthala who were undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 unit of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H).Kamla Devi was rushed to the hospital in a critical condition on Saturday night. She was suffering from high fear and was experiencing shortness of breath. Hospital authorities collected her samples and started the treatment but the patient did not respond to the treatment and died during the wee hours today. The test report confirmed that besides suffering from Covid-19, Kamla Devi was suffering from an associated heart problem.Narayan Dass, who was suffering from hypertension, was undergoing treatment at the same hospital since May 1, and died this afternoon. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal confirmed that both the deceased were suffering from Covid-19. So far, five people from Ludhiana including, ACP (North) Anil Kohli, have succumbed due to the virus.SETBACK FOR THE HEALTH DEPARTMENTIn a major setback for health authorities, who are already facing a massive staff crunch, a house surgeon who had recently shifted from Ludhiana civil hospital to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, tested positive for the virus. Confirming the development, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the doctor had left the job at Ludhiana civil hospital on May 1 and joined Government Medical College and Hospital (Rajindera Hospital) Patiala. On the last day of work (May 1), she gave sample for testing, and the results arrived on Sunday which confirmed that she was positive for the virus. The department has prepared a list of 30 persons ,including doctors, who had come in contact with the house surgeon, he added. Six doctors have been immediately sent into quarantine at hotel. COPS RECOVERY STATUSMeanwhile, Sunday proved to be a mixed bag for the Ludhiana police department as an assistant sub-inspector and the wife of deceased ACP Anil Kohli’s wife tested negative for the virus in two consecutive tests within a span of 48 hours while the Jodhewal station house officer’s second test results came out positive. The trio had first negative positive on April 30. So far, samples of 115 other police personal have been tested and reports of all have come out negative. Nearly, 30 cops are under home quarantine and will rejoin duty after doctors’ clearance.AMBULANCE STAFF WEARING PPE KIT FALLS UNCONSCIOUSAn ambulance employee, who had ferried the body of a Covid victim to the crematorium near Dholewal Chowk, fell unconscious at the cremation ground. He was rushed to ESI Hospital for treatment and is stated to be stable.Officials said that as he was wearing a full PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) suit, he was unable to breath and fell unconscious due to dehydration. It is the second such incident coming to fore in the city. Earlier on April 30, a doctor had fallen unconscious while collecting samples from a patient. CITY’S TALLY TOUCHES 111As per the health department, the city’s Covid-19 tally has touched 111 as on Sunday.As many as 3,078 samples have been collected so far out of which the reports of 2,385 have been received while the results of 693 were awaited. As many as 2,259 people have tested negative, health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/house-surgeon-who-recently-shifted-from-ludhiana-to-patiala-hospital-tests-covid-19-positive/story-0FFjqQGqB1msAFxoXijifL.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Former top cops donate safety kits to policemen battling Covid-19||Retired police personnel have joined hands to provide safety kits to their juniors, working at the frontline during the Covid-19 outbreak. The retirees include former assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) and senior inspectors of the 1983 batch, who donated face shields, hand sanitizers and gloves, in various districts in the past four weeks. So far, 15 retired police officers have contributed to the cause. Around 2,000 safety kits have been distributed so far. Orders have been placed for 4,000 more kits. “I was in service for 31 years and have seen many critical situations, but nothing can beat this lockdown. When I came to know that some cops have contracted the virus, I decided to distribute the safety gear. I talked to some former colleagues who helped me with the funds. So far, I have distributed over 2,000 safety kits to various police stations like Powai, Sakinaka, MIDC, Sahar, Thane- Rural: Mira Road and Bhayandar division, Palghar etc. My other mates are also joining the initiative and we have placed an order for 4,000 more safety kits,” said D D Wadmare, retired ACP from the 1983 batch. The batch of 1983 has collected around Rs 90,000 to buy the safety kits. Rajan Ghule, former ACP from Dindoshi division, said, “As soon as I came to know about Wadmare’s initiative, I requested to get kits for the officers in my locality. This initiative will boost the morale of the policemen.”Another retired ACP, Popatmaharaj Tiwatne, said,“ Policemen have to travel in the deepest areas to along with the medical team. Their safety is as important as those of doctors. Distribution of these kits will assure them to fight Covid-19 in a better way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-top-cops-donate-safety-kits-to-policemen-battling-covid-19/story-gMZSg8cOxKfnEVz68ThrlK.html
03-05-2020||City||Armed forces salute corona warriors in Jammu, Pathankot||As an expression of solidarity and gratitude to corona warriors, the Indian Armed Forces organised multiple events throughout the country including the Jammu region on Sunday.“Indian Army in Rajouri, Akhnoor, Jammu, Samba, Kathua and Pathankot felicitated all agencies involved in the fight against Covid-19 by organising military pipe band displays as a token of appreciation and goodwill gesture at many places”, said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.In Jammu, Tiger Division organised events at Government Medical College Jammu, J&K Police lines Gandhi Nagar, Govt Hospital Gandhi Nagar, Police Station, Bari Brahmana, Employees State Insurance Corporation Hospital and Bari Brahmana. Banners with encouraging slogans were displayed and senior army officials greeted and interacted with counterparts from other agencies.Miran Sahib Brigade also presented hand sanitisers manufactured by Brigade EME workshop and greeting cards made by children to the corona warriors in Government Medical College Jammu.In Rajouri, the frontline workers were honoured by Ace of Spades Division at District Police Lines, Civil Hospital, Government College and Army Hospital.Similar events were organised in police stations and hospitals by Crossed Swords Division in Akhnoor, Rising Star Gunners in Kathua, Gurj Division and Sub Area in Pathankot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/armed-forces-salute-corona-warriors-in-jammu-pathankot/story-uEk8pToXgTxMDCbikk6xDM.html
03-05-2020||City||Army pays tribute to corona warriors in Kangra||The Dah Division of Indian Army on Sunday paid tributes to the frontline workers battling the novel coronavirus at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda.Defence PRO Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said that the Army expressed gratitude to the selfless gallant fighters from varied fields across the nation fighting coronavirus pandemic.“Army Pipes and Drums Band from Gorkha Rifles unit played patriotic tunes keeping with the solemnity of the occasion to motivate and express heartfelt gratitude to corona warriors of Kangra district,” he said adding that an event was held in strict compliance of social distancing norms.On behalf of the Army, a ‘certificate of appreciation* was presented to Dr Bhanu Awasthi, principal and head of ortho department, RPGMC as a mark of solidarity with the medical fraternity and support staff of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-pays-tribute-to-corona-warriors-in-kangra/story-OatXrCfIil37X4wdf62xhL.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport to resume flights from Terminal 3 post lockdown||Commercial passenger flights at Delhi airport will initially operate from Terminal 3 after the lockdown ends, said a senior official of its operator DIAL on Sunday, adding that entry gates, self check-in machines and check-in bays will be allocated to airlines to avoid overcrowding by air travellers.The airport will keep all food, beverage and retail shops open to avoid overcrowding at one place and use “ultraviolet disinfection tunnels” for all incoming baggage, according to a plan prepared by the GMR group-led Delhi International Airport Ltd.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe plan said the passengers of Vistara and IndiGo would enter the airport through gates 1 and 2 only. These two airlines will have check-in rows A, B and C among them, it said.AirAsia India and Air India passengers will use entry gates 3 and 4. These passengers will then go to rows D, E and F where the staff of these two airlines would assist them check-in, according to the plan.SpiceJet and GoAir passengers would enter through gate 5 towards the staff of these two airlines at rows G and H for check-in.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakPassengers of all other domestic airlines will enter through gate 5 and will head to row H, the plan said.All international airlines’ passengers would be entering the airport using gates 6, 7 and 8. The staff of these airlines would be sitting at rows J, K, L and M for check-in at Terminal 3.The DIAL’s exit plan stated that entry gates, self check-in machines and check-in bays would be allocated to airlines to ensure smooth flow of passengers from forecourt into check-in hall and security thereafter.India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected around 40,000 people and killed more than 1,300 people in the country till now.All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA are allowed to operate.“Initially, once the lockdown is over, the commercial passenger fights will be operating from Terminal 3 only. Later, once the number of flights increase, other terminals will be used,” the DIAL official said.The DIAL would be preparing stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) for food, beverage and retail shops in order to ensure social distancing, the exit plan noted.The operator will promote digital payments and digital menus at various outlets to minimise human contact. Moreover, DIAL would encourage usage of self-ordering kiosks at the food court to reduce queues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-to-resume-flights-from-terminal-3-post-lockdown/story-ABI3KacJvXjaajVJOwU87L.html
03-05-2020||City||Three killed in Shimla road mishap||Three persons including a woman were killed as their car fell into a 200-ft deep gorge near Rampur Bushahr here on Sunday.The deceased have been identified as Harjeet Singh (32), Seema Devi (31) and Tara Chand (58), all residents of Nither in Kullu district.The accident took place on Saturday around 3pm near Kundidhar village when Harjeet Singh lost control of the vehicle and drove into the gorge. While he and Seema died on the spot, Tara Chand was critically injured.Police reached the spot as soon as it received the information and rescued the injured and recovered the bodies.An injured Tara Chand was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex, Khaneri, from where he was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. However, he was declared dead near Odi and was taken to civil hospital, Kumarsain.The bodies were handed over to their families after the post-mortem examination.Rampur Bushahr deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimaniyou Verma confirmed the report and said they were conducting investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-killed-in-shimla-road-mishap/story-gZ64xd5xiN96bKQ54WWNmK.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation mulls swab collection centres in hotspots||The Pune Municipal Corporation is considering setting up swab collection centres in coronavirus hotspots in the central part of the city for people’s convenience, commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said on Saturday. Gaikwad and other PMC officials visited hotspots in areas including Patil Estate, Kaamgaar putla, Tadiwala road and Laxmi Nagar in Yerawada.“During our interaction, several people demanded that swab collection centres be set up in their areas as it would be convenient for them,” Gaikwad said.Once their swabs were taken for coronavirus test, they could stay at nearby schools or marriage halls which the civic body has requisitioned and isolate themselves till the results arrives, people told the officials.The administration is also considering taking over civic schools and marriage halls to house those who await the test results for quarantine purpose. At present, first contacts of any positive person in the area are housed in Rakshaknagar, Kharadi, 15 km away.“The people who test negative come home a day after and those who test positive proceed to isolation facilities,” he said.But many people resist being shifted to an area which is away from their homes.“To make it convenient for people, we will think of setting up swab collection centre in their own areas and after the swab collection, they can be shifted to the nearest school or marriage hall for quarantiningprocess,” Gaikwad said.“Living near their homes will be comfortable for them,” he said. The civic body will also use 300 pulse oximeters to officials who are conducting screening in hotspot areas to identify severe Covid-19 cases. Pulse oximeter, measures the oxygen saturation of the patient’s blood, as it has been observed that Covid-19 patients tend to have lower blood oxygen levels. The test is not confirmatory but it can help detect people with low blood oxygen levels who can then be tested further for virus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-municipal-corporation-mulls-swab-collection-centres-in-hotspots/story-ICie2NMhZ3AGn8mtB9metL.html
03-05-2020||City||Wedding can wait, duty comes first for this Shimla cop||Setting a perfect example of dedication towards her job, a constable posted at the Jhakri police station in Shimla postponed her wedding to be able to fulfil her duties amid the coronavirus lockdown. Naina Devi,24, who was set to get married on Saturday, instead reported to duty on National Highway 5, where she has been deployed to manage traffic and check the travel history of all commuters.When contacted, the cop said, “It is not the right time. People are facing a global health crisis and this is the time to serve the people and fight the pandemic. I wanted to make sure that I can fulfil my duty with dedication and honesty. I can marry later when everything is normal.”Her parents, would-be husband and in-laws have also extended their full support in her decision. Naina is a resident of Taklech village in Rampur Bushahr and is set to marry a resident of Darkali village of the same tehsil.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Rampur Bushahr, Abhimaniyou Verma said, “Police is always working for the safety and security of the people and because of coronavirus, our responsibilities have increased. By postponing her wedding, Naina has set a great example which is appreciable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wedding-can-wait-duty-comes-first-for-this-shimla-cop/story-oT9gZE3O1MLif9mTvIoGyK.html
03-05-2020||Pune||On the frontline: My job is also to keep everyone motivated in the ward, says Dr Aarti Kinikar||Dr Aarti Kinikar, 56, is the head of the paediatric ward at Sassoon General Hospital. With Sassoon being a dedicated covid facility, she speaks to HT about how is she helping children in her ward to cope with Covid-19. Kinikar is also a professor at BJ Medical College.What exactly is your role in this crisis?I head the paediatric ward at Sassoon hospital where we have suspected cases. From the time we have moved to the new building, nine children have tested positive, the youngest being a four-month-old baby, who has recovered. Right now we have two positive cases in the ward. I have been with Sassoon hospital since 2000 and have also been a part of the services during the H1N1 pandemic, where I designed an indigenous ventilator for infants which is now patented. My work involves, seeing the patients and supervising 35 doctors working on a rotation basis.How does your day begin and rolls out? My day begins at 5.30am. I am also incharge of reporting as a nodal person for overseeing the covid activity in Sassoon. I have two resident doctors who first check every patient and gather information. They send it to another associate who combines it and sends the report to me. I read through the report and then this report is given to the dean, district collector and municipal authorities. At home, my husband and I maintain social distance by staying in two different rooms as he is also a paediatrician and we are both closely working with positive patients. My son is in Sweden studying. In our ward, nine babies were born to covid positive mothers, including a pair of twins, and a preterm infant of 1.4 kg. The problem is that all the family members are in quarantine and no one is willing to come as caretakers, thus our doctors, nurses take care of the babies. We also have a human milk bank.What precautions are you taking?I wear a mask at all times and PPE kit, goggles when coming in contact with a positive person. However, one must be happy at all times, eat well and drink a lot of water. I have to also keep everyone motivated at the ward.What is your assessment of the covid crisis in Pune? How is it unfolding?A lot of help has been pouring in from different organisations and collaborations with the civic department are helping too. The distribution of work between all departments including the police is commendable. Other hospital doctors especially intensivists, physicians and paediatric doctors are coming forward to help in the covid ward which is a big bonus.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?There is lack of awareness among public. Patients with co-morbidities must come forward early so as to be treated on time. All the hospitals in the city must start treating patients instead of referring everyone to Sassoon. There are hospitals identified for pregnant women, but are not yet functioning. Till now we have had 15 mothers in very short period and these could have been easily managed from wherever they were referred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-my-job-is-also-to-keep-everyone-motivated-in-the-ward-says-dr-aarti-kinikar/story-EWjfFddVxTdn3Z37Uy9LaO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||45 new cases take Covid-19 count to 421 in Haryana||Rohtak: Forty-five new coronavirus cases were reported in Haryana on Sunday, taking the state’s Covid-19 tally so far to 421.Seventeen of these cases were reported from Sonepat, 11 from Panipat, seven from Faridabad, four each from Fatehabad and Gurugram districts, while two cases were detected in Jhajjar.Jhajjar district, which had managed to save itself from the virus attack till last Sunday, has become worst affected with 42 cases followed by Sonepat with 39 cases and Gurugram with 29 cases.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said of the two patients is a vegetable seller from Bahadurgarh who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi to bring vegetables and another patient is the mother of an infected vegetable seller from Jhajjar.GURUGRAM MAN DIES OF CORONAVIRUS: PGIMS, ROHTAKOfficials of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, on Sunday confirmed the death of a Covid-19 patient from Gurugram.PGIMS spokesman Gajender Singh said that the infected man was admitted at the institution on April 30 and died on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-new-cases-take-covid-19-count-to-421-in-haryana/story-2b1N9rRFCshewzkRbESMtL.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19 cadavers don’t spread infection; just follow guidelines, say Pune doctors||With Pune’s Covid-19 death toll reaching 100 on Saturday, the Poona Citizen Doctor Forum and Prayas health group have sought to create awareness among the public about the precautions that need to be taken by healthcare personnel and relatives of the victim while handling the dead bodies. “It has been observed that due to misinformation, relatives are not coming forward to perform the last rites of the patient and due to this the civic staff has to step in. According to the guidelines by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Covid-19 is a respiratory disease and the spread stops when the patient dies. The only safety measure that needs to be observed is to stay away from the viruses present on the body surface and secretions from nose, mouth,” the press note released by five doctors states.Dr Vinay Kulkarni (Prayas Health Group), Dr Anant Phadke, Dr Arun Gadre, Dr Sharda Bapat and Dr Shriram Geet, all from the Poona Citizen Doctor Forum, have issued detailed guidelines for relatives and healthcare workers. According to their guidelines, for healthcare workers, mortuary staff and others directly handling bodies, these standard precautions involve wearing protective gear like gloves and masks, maintaining good hand hygiene and sanitising everything that the body has touched. For family members, priests and mourners, they involve not touching the body, wearing basic protective gear, and not gathering in groups to pray.“Relatives attending the funeral must wear masks, wash hands, wear gloves, maintain six feet distance, shower when you get home and immerse your clothes in soap water. The virus cannot survive in the ashes after cremation or in the soil where the corpse is buried. Hence, there is no need to spray disinfectant on the ashes or the place of burial. The fear will eventually go away,” added Dr Kulkarni. Precautions taken by PMCDr Kalpana Baliwant from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department said, “We are taking all the precautionary. There is no post-mortem, and the body is sprayed with disinfectants before being wrapped in cloth and then placed inside a zipped plastic bag. The entire procedure post declared dead, takes two hours.”PMC has also authorised two NGO’s to help in burying the dead as many of the relatives refuse to touch or even take the body. “With the numbers increasing, we have sought help of the NGO Muslim Popular Front of India and Mulniwasi Muslim Manch to help our staff in the designated burial grounds,” she added. Designated cremation grounds in PuneElectrical crematorium - Kailash SmshanbhoomiGas Crematoruim - Aundh, Mundhwa, Vaikunth and KatrajBurial grounds- Ramtekdi, Katraj, Kondhwa, Tilekarnagar, Gunjan Talkies Kabrastan, Naidu hospital, Bopodi, Sutarwadi Masjid, Khanewasti road, Ramnagar, Rahimat Baug, Salisbury Park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-cadavers-don-t-spread-infection-just-follow-guidelines-say-pune-doctors/story-abGKbMrMWXcP7X9L1mzVIL.html
03-05-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee govt’s health insurance cover also includes journalists||West Bengal on Sunday announced health insurance coverage of up to Rs 10 lakh for frontline Covid-19 workers, including journalists.“Our government in Bangla has also announced health insurance with up to 10 lakh coverage for frontline Covid workers, including journalists. Press Freedom Day,” state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted.On the occasion of Press Freedom Day, the Chief Minister said the press is the fourth pillar of democracy and must perform its duties fearlessly. “We respect journalists for their contribution to society. Our government in Bangla has many initiatives for the welfare of journalists,” she said.West Bengal has reported 922 coronavirus cases, including 33 deaths, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-govt-s-health-insurance-cover-also-includes-journalists/story-gzrGZ2raiDELvQ5GUPcSCP.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||‘Erroneous, unwarranted’: Pawar on Centre’s decision to set up IFSC in Gujarat||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, called the recent decision taken by the Centre to establish the proposed International Financial Service Centre (IFSC) Authority in Gandhinagar instead of in Mumbai as “egregious, erroneous and unwarranted”.Pawar, citing the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data, said that inspite of Maharashtra’s immense contribution to government securities (G-sec), the decision of establishing IFSC in Gujarat is “egregious, erroneous and unwarranted” and it will also be perceived as a move to shift financial institutions and business houses away from Maharashtra and will create unnecessary political disturbances.“It will not only cause financial damage to the country but also bring International discredit to it by undermining the importance of Mumbai, which has been recognised as world’s top ten centres of commerce in terms of global financial flow generating 6.16 per cent of India’s GDP and accounting from 25 per cent of industrial output and 70 per cent of capital transactions to country’s economy,” Pawar said in the letter. The data published by the Reserve Bank of India, on April 23, states that the Indian banking sector has deposits to the tune of Rs 145,00,000 crore and the share of Maharashtra alone in the said deposits is 22.8 per cent followed by Delhi (10 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (7.8 per cent), Karnataka (7.2 per cent) and Gujarat (5.4 per cent) as per the reserve requirements, every bank has to maintain SLR at 18 per cent of its deposits, in the form of G-sec.Through this G-sec the Central government receives funds to the tune of Rs 26,00,000 crore. Out of such funds Rs 5,95,000 crore is received from Maharashtra alone as against Gujarat’s contribution of Rs 1,40,000 crore, the letter read.Terming the Centre’s move as “shocking decision”, he said the Central government’s decision will be taken as an act of “undermining the strategic importance of Mumbai” that boasts as the nation’s financial capital and claimed even the financial institutions across the world will be taken aback.He urged the government to have a look at statistical information which confirms the former decision to set up the IFSC in Mumbai. “I request the Centre to reconsider the decision to shift IFSC in Gujarat and relocate it in Mumbai on merit basis and I expect the Prime Minister will take a “rational, judicious decision” keeping aside the state politics and consider it as an issue of utmost national importance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/erroneous-unwarranted-pawar-on-centre-s-decision-to-set-up-ifsc-in-gujarat/story-Ahm03bkxHODrE5NODHoKuM.html
03-05-2020||Lucknow||Scenes of joy at Lucknow station, first special train ferrying 800 migrant workers arrives in UP||Mulayam Singh Yadav was among the first to get off the special train as it arrived at platform number 1 of the Lucknow railway station, where health officials, policemen and news photographers waited for them. The 02121 Shramik Special carried over 800 others from Maharashtra’s Nashik, all stranded there for weeks after a lockdown to fight coronavirus was imposed nationwide. While Uttar Pradesh has already brought in several bus-loads of workers back to the home state, Yadav’s group is the first batch to be brought home to the state by train. Thirty-two buses waited outside the station to take the labourers to their onward journey to different districts. Eager to reunite with his family in Janunpur’s Machlishahr, Yadav said, “It is a matter of barely a few hours.” Yadav, in his mid twenties, had boarded the train in Nashik on Saturday morning. It reached Lucknow at around 5.52 am on Sunday. The railways had said it will start “Shramik Special” trains to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded in various parts of the country due to the lockdown. At around 5.34 am, the first announcement of the arrival of 02121 Shramik Special from Nashik on Platform number 1 was made. Railway, health and police officials stood alert. The ticket examiners were deployed on the platform to ensure that the arriving passengers adhere to the norms of social distancing. As the train made its halt, the enthusiastic passengers waved at policemen and health officials. A senior railway official said two exit routes were planned for the passengers. The passengers were allowed to leave the station premises only after their medical check-up was done.Thereafter, they were given food packets and boarded to the UPSRTC buses that would take them to their respective districts. Arun Chauhan, who worked as a driver is Nashik and hails from Azamgarh, was thankful for the arrangements made by the government to facilitate the return of migrant workers to their native places. He, along with his friends Rajesh Kumar, Om Prakash and Neeraj Kumar, boarded the Azamgarh-bound bus and waved at the policemen and other officials as his onward journey to home began. Surya Jaikumar from Sonbhadra said, “We faced no problem of food and water during our journey. Now, I am looking forward to return back to my village.” Mohammed Arif, who hails from Shamli, too was happy to return home. “I worked as a welder. Once lockdown is lifted and travel permission is allowed, I may think of going back. However, till the time lockdown is in place, I will stay in my home,” he said. Pramod, who worked as a daily wage labourer and hails from Maharajganj, was tying his jute bag and covering his face with a green-coloured towel as he was readying himself to board the bus for home. The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation had deployed 32 buses outside the railway station to take the migrant workers home, Regional Manager of UPSRTC’s Lucknow depot P K Bose said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/scenes-of-joy-at-lucknow-station-first-special-train-ferrying-800-migrant-workers-arrives-in-up/story-4Prk8T9R864Szo41WFPI1O.html
03-05-2020||Patna||Nine lakh people undertook virtual tour of Patna zoo in a week: Official||Stuck within the four walls of home amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, lakhs of people, in search of some solace, have logged in to the social media pages of Patna zoo over the past week to take a virtual tour of the menagerie, which houses at least 800 animals and birds.Several wildlife enthusiasts, following their virtual visit of the Sanjay Gandhi Jaivik Udyaan, have also shared their experiences on its YouTube channel and Facebook page.The state forest department launched the initiative a week ago in a bid to keep the locked-down people, especially children, engaged and entertained, its principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said on Sunday.“Within a week of the launch of our YouTube channel -- DEFCC Official -- more than nine lakh animal lovers across the globe virtually visited the zoo. The channel has premiered six episodes so far, featuring tigers, birds, rhinoceros, chimpanzees, giraffes and elephants,” he said.Children, who tune in to the videos on social media, will get to learn a thing or two about animal behaviour, their food habits and habitat, Singh said.“As the Patna zoo is home to 800 wild animals and birds, the campaign has been divided into a series of episodes. Each episode describes the natural habitat, food habits, reproduction cycle and other interesting facts about one animal,” he said The menagerie usually witnesses high footfall round the year, the forest department official said.“The zoo has never remained closed for so long in the past. Just to help people beat lockdown blues, we launched this unique initiative which will allow them to get up close with animals and birds from their homes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nine-lakh-people-undertook-virtual-tour-of-patna-zoo-in-a-week-official/story-cBf2INuWlhIJ1DKSIV1G1N.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two residents in Yamunanagar test positive for Covid-19||Yamunanagar reported two new cases of coronavirus with a 58-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man testing positive on Saturday night. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said, “The woman is a resident of Durga Garden area in Yamunanagar and reported to the Covid hospital with flu-like symptoms.She has no other ailment. The man is a commission agent (arthiya) at Sabzi Mandi and is a resident of the Modern Colony near the Industrial Training Institute. He had gone to a private hospital that referred him to the Covid hospital for sampling.”The two new cases have taken the coronavirus count in Yamunanagar to three.A 27-year-old man, who had returned from Nanded in Maharashtra via Ambala, had tested positive on Saturday.The district had reported three positive cases of coronavirus last month. However, all three patients had been discharged on April 16 and have completed their quarantine period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-residents-of-yamunanagar-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-s9aRUnaH7VpT9vWopOsxRO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two Nanded returnees test positive in Mohali, taking district count to 95||Two men, aged 34 and 47, from Lalru town, who recently returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total count of coronavirus cases to 95 in Mohali district on Sunday.In the past five days, of 61 Mohali residents who have returned from Nanded, 21 have tested positive for Covid-19.Meanwhile, two people from Jawaharpur village, a Covid-19 hotspot in Dera Bassi subdivision, were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, taking the total number of recovered patients to 36 in the district. With two deaths reported so far, active cases stand at 57 in Mohali.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that the 47-year-old man had returned three days ago, with his wife and son, who have tested negative. The patient has been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital.The 34-year-old, who is also from Lalru, had landed in Ludhiana. He has been admitted to the civil hospital there after testing positive. “All patients from Nanded are asymptomatic and responding well to treatment,” said Dr Singh. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-nanded-returnee-tests-positive-in-mohali-taking-district-count-to-94/story-62FcXsHwLOy691vLx4k7uM.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: 450 liquor shops to open in Delhi from Monday as curbs likely to be eased||More than 400 liquor shops will open in the national capital on Monday in areas which do not fall under coronavirus containment zones.These are standalone liquor shops which are not located in malls. There are 450 such shops in the national capital, according to news agency PTI. They are shut since March 22.According to Delhi Excise department, there are 545 liquor shops in the national capital, including those in malls and containment zones.The Delhi government had on Saturday sought a list of standalone alcohol shops in the national capital, following Centre’s nod for opening such shops with conditions.Extending the nationwide lockdown for another two weeks from May 4, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed liquor and tobacco shops to open in the green and orange zones as well as outside the containment areas or hotspots in red zones.All the 11 districts in Delhi are red zones. There are total 96 containment zones in Delhi.Following the MHA’s order, the Delhi excise department on Saturday asked for a list of L-6 (retail vend of Indian liquor in public sector) and L-8 (retail vend of country liquor in public sector) shops which fulfill the MHA’s criteria.All shops of essential and non-essential goods, except in malls and markets, offices with 33 per strength and some business activities are likely to be allowed to operate from Monday in areas which do not fall under coronavirus containment zones in Delhi.Meanwhile, the national capital recorded 384 fresh cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19, the highest spike in a day, taking the tally to 4,122 on Saturday. The death toll mounted to 64 with three more fatalities, according to Delhi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-123-liquor-shops-to-open-in-delhi-from-monday-as-curbs-likely-to-be-eased/story-gmgTkPlHJvjYJg5Zn6UHLP.html
03-05-2020||City||82-year-old coronavirus patient from Chandigarh dies in Panchkula hospital||Chandigarh: Chandigarh recorded its first Covid-19 death after an 82-year-old woman from Sector 18, who tested positive on April 20, died at a private hospital in Panchkula on Sunday morning. Panchkula chief medical officer Dr Jasjit Kaur confirmed the development.The elderly woman was the 27th Covid-19 patient from Chandigarh.Officials in the Chandigarh health department said that the woman had been living in three homes owned by her three sons. Two of them had houses in Sector 18, while one owned a school and stayed on its campus in Sector 12, Panchkula. She was visiting him when she developed flu-like symptoms and tested positive for coronavirus.All family members of the woman in Chandigarh and Panchkula tested negative for Covid-19.So far, Chandigarh has seen 94 Covid-19 cases of which 19 have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/82-year-old-coronavirus-patient-from-chandigarh-dies-in-panchkula-hospital/story-Ah5gBearIAFdDu99ql2MfI.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar sees 200% rise in Covid-19 cases in a day with 57 Nanded returnees testing positive||Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar: Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district in the heart of Punjab saw a 200% rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases after 57 people back from a pilgrimage to Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, tested positive on Sunday.Just a day earlier, five Nanded returnees had tested positive and the district count stood at 28 cases. SBS Nagar civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said that with Sunday morning’s count, the district had recorded a total of 85 coronavirus patients, including 18 cured and one fatality, since the pandemic began in March.Health officials said that a total of 130 samples were collected of persons who returned from Maharashtra out of which 47 tested negative, while the results of eight were awaited and the samples 12 people were being sent again. NO NEED TO PANIC: DCSBS Nagar deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani said that there is no need to panic. “We had quarantined pilgrims at two institutions the day they came back from Nanded as a precautionary measure. Those who tested positive are being sent to the isolation ward of the civil hospital at SBS Nagar. The pilgrims who tested negative have been quarantined in the institutions earmarked for a few days before they are allowed to travel to their native places,” Bublani said. HOTSPOT AND BACKSBS Nagar had reported 19 coronavirus cases in Punjab in March and had become the state’s first Covid-19 hotspot. The district reported its first positive case since March 26 after Balachaur youth who returned from Jammu and Kashmir tested positive on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-shaheed-bhagat-singh-nagar-sees-200-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-with-57-nanded-returnees-testing-positive/story-Ub7BPOQFQYAijdwINKaLgM.html
03-05-2020||Business||RBI cancels licence of Mumbai-based bank||The Reserve Bank on Saturday said it has cancelled the licence of city-based The CKP Co-operative Bank Ltd as its financial position is unsustainable and also not in a position to pay its depositors. The bank is not satisfying the stipulated minimum regulatory capital requirement of 9 per cent, the RBI said while cancelling the licence from the close of business on April 30.Also read: RBI Governor meets heads of banks, reviews economic situation “Consequent to the cancellation of its licence, The CKP Co-operative Bank Ltd, Mumbai, is prohibited from conducting the business of ‘banking’ which includes acceptance of deposits and repayment of deposits...” it said. With the cancellation of licence and commencement of liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors of the co-operative bank as per the DICGC Act, 1961 will be set in motion. “On liquidation, every depositor is entitled to repayment of his/her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of Rs 5,00,000 from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) as per usual terms and conditions,” the RBI said. Giving details, the RBI said the financial position of the bank “is highly adverse and unsustainable”. Also, there is no concrete revival plan or proposal for a merger with another bank. Besides, a credible commitment towards revival from the management is not visible, it added.Also read: RBI gives Rs 50,000 cr boost to mutual funds after Franklin Templeton crisis “The bank is not in a position to pay its present and future depositors,” it said. The RBI further said the affairs of the bank “were and are” being conducted in a manner detrimental to the public interest and interest of the depositors and that the general character of the management of the bank is prejudicial to the interest of depositors as also the public interest. The Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Pune has been asked to issue an order for winding up the affairs of The CKP Co-operative Bank and appoint a liquidator for the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/rbi-cancels-licence-of-mumbai-based-bank/story-QkpwFnYQHMKlHeb5eXDyMP.html
03-05-2020||Bangalore||Bengaluru civic body allows homemade masks to avoid fines||The city civic body, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), has allowed people to wear homemade cloth masks, bandanas and scarfs to adhere to its order of always wearing a mask when outside amid the Covid-19 contagion, an official said on Saturday.“Facial mask could be any mask used to cover nose and mouth and would also include any face cover including a piece of cloth covering nose and mouth fully to serve the purpose of protection,” tweeted BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar.Kumar issued the order to clarify to the people what all kinds of masks can be worn in public to avoid fines.From the civic body, the commissioner has authorised senior health inspectors from the public health wing and junior health inspectors and marshals from the Solid Waste Management Cell to levy fines on people not wearing masks in public.On Friday, the civic body had announced that spitting, urinating, littering and not wearing a mask in public will attract a penalty of Rs 1,000 at first instance and Rs 2,000 on every subsequent violation. The new order has been implemented from Friday. The BBMP collected Rs 51,700 in fines on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/bengaluru-civic-body-allows-homemade-masks-to-avoid-fines/story-OoMZKE1UjX2X3ZtXJJYCUO.html
03-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan promulgates ordinance on Covid-19, 2 yr jail for flouting lockdown norms||Rajasthan has promulgated an ordinance giving wider powers to the government to impose restrictions to deal with the situation arising out of the easing of the lockdown that has been imposed curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The ordinance empowers the state government to screen any person arriving in the state, seal borders, impose restriction on public and private transport and on government and private offices. It provides for imprisonment up to 2 years and a fine of Rs10,000 in case of violations.The ordinance, called the ‘Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020’, was signed by governor Kalraj Mishra and came into effect from May 1. With the ordinance coming into effect, the earlier Rajasthan Epidemic Disease Act, 1957 stands repealed.The earlier act had provided punishment for any violation under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (Disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) which provides for imprisonment of six months and a fine of Rs1,000.The new ordinance states that any person who disobeys any order made under the ordinance will, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a term of two years or with fine which may extend to Rs10,000 or with both.It also provides for punishment for abetment of offences and offences by a company.The ordinance also allows the government to prevent any gatherings, celebrations and worship and to regulate government and private offices and educational institutions.It states that the government may take measures and specify regulations to inspect persons arriving in the state by air, rail road or any other means. It can seal state borders, impose restrictions on operation of public and private transportThe government can prescribe social distancing norms and restrict and prohibit congregations of persons in public places and religious institutions. It can impose restrictions on functioning of shops, commercial and other offices, factories, workshops, and godowns.The government can also restrict duration of services in essential or emergency services such as banks, media, healthcare, food supply, electricity, water and fuel.Rajasthan has reported 2,770 Covid-19 cases including 65 deaths from the disease, as per the Union health ministry figures released on Sunday morning. The nationwide lockdown is in place till May 17. On Friday, the Centre announced a graded exit from the lockdown over two weeks starting May 4. However, in so-called red zones, the most affected or most at-risk parts of the country, many of the restrictions will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-promulgates-ordinance-on-covid-19-2-yr-jail-for-flouting-lockdown-norms/story-wKcuco4u0AtgxMMztefiPK.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: 500 students stranded in Kota reach Delhi in 40 buses||Nearly 500 Delhi students, stranded in Kota due to the coronavirus lockdown, started arriving in the national capital on Sunday morning, news agency PTI reported. The Delhi government had sent around 40 buses to bring back these students.“A total of 480 students have been brought from Kota. All the students are reportedly fine,” PTI quoted Rajiv Singh, ADM (Central) and nodal officer for the operation as saying.Delhi’s Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the students would be sent to their homes from Kashmere Gate ISBT after medical tests.These buses of the Delhi Transport Coporation reached Kota on Saturday morning. The staff is following social distancing norms while bringing back the students.The buses also had a team of doctors and officials accompanying the students.The move to bring back the students from Kota was announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this week.In a tweet, Kejriwal had said: “Delhi government is making arrangements to soon bring Delhi students back home from Kota.”Uttar Pradesh and some other states have already brought back their students from Kota in Rajasthan which is a coaching hub for competitive examinations and students from all over the country come there to study and live, especially for the premier engineering institutes.Kota is famous for its coaching institutes for engineering and medical entrance exams.To tackle these kind of situations where people are stranded, the Centre had recently allowed movement of such students, migrant workers, tourists and labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-500-students-stranded-in-kota-reach-delhi-in-40-buses/story-0AchWhMXUGdYTgcwuX13MO.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||41 test Covid positive in Kapashera building||Fifty-six people, including a three-year-old, from two clusters in Kapashera and Tughlakabad Extension tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in two days, according to the Delhi government.Forty-one cases were reported from a double-storey building in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera. The other 15 cases were reported from across southeast district’s Tughlakabad Extension area.The government and civic agencies have been at work in the areas over the last two weeks to contain the spread of the virus after the first cases were detected there. The respective areas were also declared containment zones when the positive cases came to light. As of Saturday, Delhi has 95 containment zones.The two, however, are not the first clusters to report multiple Covid-19 cases. On April 23, at least 46 people had tested positive for Covid-19 from two lanes of an already-notified containment zone in Jahangirpuri.KapasheraAccording to district administration officials, a woman living in a building in Theke Wali Gali near the deputy commissioner’s office tested positive for the disease on April 18. Consequently, district administration sealed the densely populated building, which houses around 200 people, and declared the lane a containment zone on April 19.The building has now been become a Covid-19 hot spot.Southwest district magistrate Rahul Singh said that though the guidelines mandate sealing of an area when three cases have been reported, the district administration took the “proactive decision” to seal the building with only one case reported, to ensure the virus did not spread any further.Kapashera is also home to thousands of migrant workers who work in different parts of the national capital and share small single rooms with other workers.“We conducted a survey and collected samples of 175 residents of the building on April 20 and April 22. Of these samples, sent to the NIB laboratory in Noida, 67 returned on Friday evening, and 41 were positive. We expect the remaining test results to arrive in a couple of days,” Singh said.He said the test results were delayed due to pendency of cases at the Noida laboratory. “All the individuals who tested positive are asymptomatic, and fresh tests will be conducted to assess their present status,” he added.According to former councillor Anil Yadav, the building has entries in two lanes of the area. The front of the plot houses a two-storey building while the back has makeshift rooms. Yadav said there are 60-65 rooms in all. He said vigilance and sanitisation drives have been stepped up.Tughlakabad ExtnAs many as 15 residents of lanes 24 to 28, which were previously declared containment zones, of Tughlakabad Extension have tested positive for Covid-19. The tests were conducted on April 20 and the results returned on April 30 evening.These tests were also sent to the NIB lab in Noida. Government officials said, 40 more results from here were pending.Lanes 26 and 27 of Tughlakabad Extension were declared a containment zone on April 17, after three people tested positive.On April 19, 35 more people tested positive from the same area, after which three more lanes — 24, 25 and 28 — were added to the containment zone.District administration officials said that during a door-to-door survey, some people displayed symptoms, after which 87 residents were tested.“Test reports of 47 people have arrived, of which 15 have tested positive,” an official said.Administration officials said they had ramped up surveillance in all the lanes, and that the area had been sealed completely.Councillor of Tughlakabad Extension, Poonam Bhati, said disinfection exercises have been stepped up and regular screenings are being conducted. She, however, said tests should be conducted again since the initial reports had been delayed by more than a week. “More samples should be collected,” she said.Meanwhile, two policemen— an assistant sub inspector and a constable from Jahangirpuri police station, who had earlier tested positive for coronavirus— returned on Saturday, said DCP (northwest) Vijayanta Arya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/41-test-covid-positive-in-kapashera-building/story-EvqhG9FT46FmHlmXEkBzrK.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Parts of Delhi receive light rainfall, temperature set to come down||Parts of national capital Delhi received light rain on Sunday morning, in line with the forecast made by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).The regional meteorological centre reported on Sunday morning, “Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would occur over and nearby most part of Delhi, Rohtak, Jajjar, Sohana, Manesar, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballbhgarh, Palwal, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Hapur and Meerut during next two hours.” 03.05.2020; 0730 IST: Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain would occur over and nearby most part of Delhi, Rohtak, Jajjar, Sohana, Manesar, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballbhgarh, Palwal, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Hapur, Meerut, during next 2 hours.Some Twitter users posted pictures of rain in their respective areas. sir light rain and thunder on for past 20 mins in south central delhi आज मौसम बेईमान है।#Rain #Delhi pic.twitter.com/CaKBAjifwg Happy Sunday aur Delhi happy rain pic.twitter.com/ytq5bQXUgrThe MeT department had said on Saturday that several parts of north India, including Delhi-NCR, will receive light to moderate rainfall from May 3-6, while some areas may see hailstorm owing to a western disturbance.“The western disturbance’s effect will continue till May 6-7. Punjab, Haryana, Delhi-NCR, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, north Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh will get rains during this period,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the Regional Meteorological Centre of the India Meteorological Department, said on Saturday.A western disturbance is a cyclonic storm that originates in the Mediterranean and travels all the way traversing central Asia. When it comes in contact with the Himalayas, it brings rains to the plains and snow and rain to the hills. It is usually a winter season phenomenon.During the four days, the temperature is also expected to come down. In Delhi, where the mercury is slowly soaring, the temperature is likely to be around 35 degrees Celsius during this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-receive-light-rainfall-temperature-set-to-come-down/story-gAB9g3WN3hRdz4rVdQaqUJ.html
03-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt warns of fines for not wearing masks in public amid Covid-19 lockdown||Rajasthan Government on Saturday authorised all Executive Magistrates within their respective jurisdiction to impose fine of Rs 200 if any person is found without wearing a face mask or face covered in public or work place. In a notification issued on May 2, Rajasthan Government stated, “In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, the State Government authorizes all Executive Magistrates, within their respective jurisdiction, to compound the offences committed under section 4 of the said Ordinance, by violating the order or regulation prohibiting the actions specified in column 2 (in the notification) of the schedule given below for the amount specified against each of them in column 3 of the said schedule.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government notification said that a shopkeeper will also be fined if he is found selling an item to a person not wearing face mask or face cover.Fine of Rs 200 will be imposed if any person sitting in public place/spitting peek after chewing any paan, tobacco, gutka or other non-tobacco item, while a fine of Rs 500 will be imposed if any person is found consuming liquor in public place. Any person found consuming paan, gutka or tobacco in a public place will be penalised with Rs 200. Fine of Rs 500 will be imposed if a shopkeeper is found selling liquor, paan, gutka or tobacco and not ensuring social distancing or permitting more than five persons in the shop/counter.Any person not maintaining social distancing (minimum six feet from the other person) in public place will be penalised with Rs 100 and organising any marriage related function or gathering without prior information will invite a fine of Rs 5000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-govt-warns-of-fines-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-or-work-place/story-u50kDOFsyJBduDyfCLmtuI.html
03-05-2020||Kolkata||Bengal CM, guv spar over Covid figures||Amid a raging controversy over mismatch in the state’s data of Covid-19 infections, the West Bengal government on Saturday changed the format of its daily bulletin. The day also saw chief minister Mamata Banerjee sending a 13-page letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in response to his letters, accusing him of “dreaming of a dyarchy in the state”.Referring to the data discrepancy, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to social media on Saturday to ask the state government to maintain transparency. “Give up ‘Covid-19 data cover up operation’ @MamataOfficial and share it transparently,” Dhankhar tweeted.Banerjee, in her letter, listed a series of phrases from the two letters that the governor wrote her, and said, “Such words and such communications of such content, tenor and tone from a Governor to an elected CM are unprecedented in the annals of Indian constitutional and political history.” Dhankhar was quick to respond on Twitter. “There are no sane takers for this unseemly scenario. I have held enough close to my chest -- looks like revealing is becoming unavoidable. Reply will be sent as her letter has content to which I cannot subscribe as it eclipses essence of Constitution,” he tweeted.The controversy over data mismatch was triggered by state health secretary Vivek Kumar’s letter to union health secretary Preeti Sudan on April 30, putting the total number of persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the state at 931. However, the figure given by the state during press briefings and in bulletins added up to 816.Even as the discrepancy snowballed into a raging political controversy by evening, the government skipped the press briefing altogether. Bulletins for May 1 and May 2 were published together at about 9 pm on Saturday. The state reported 127 new cases, 15 deaths and 60 recoveries. Neither chief secretary Rajiva Sinha nor health secretary Vivek Kumar responded to HT’s calls. Meanwhile, in Murshidabad, alleged irregularities in disbursement of free ration from a government authorized fair price ration shop in the Salar area led to ransacking and arson in the morning. Hundreds of villagers at Punisha village in Salar as ransacked the home of Halim Sheikh, the ration dealer, and set furniture on fire. They alleged that they were getting lesser rice than their share. Senior officers from the district administration assured the villagers that action would be taken against Sheikh.In a similar incident, villagers staged a dharna outside the local ration dealer’s home at Jashoitala village of Murshidabad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-cm-guv-spar-over-covid-figures/story-QjI7ysJBBYCljU3kYuuOfP.html
03-05-2020||City||Ludhiana Covid-19 cases jump to 122, 67% among them Nanded pilgrims||Health authorities confirmed 23 more Covid-19 cases in the district on Saturday, taking the tally to 122.Among these patients, 67% patients (82) are Sikh pilgrims who returned from Nanded, Maharashtra.Of the 23 patients confirmed on Saturday, eight are from other districts, including one from Haryana. As many as 17 are Nanded returnees. 76% CASES IN FOUR DAYSWhat’s worrisome for the district authorities is that 76% cases have been reported in the four days between April 29 and May 2. While there were 29 cases on April 29, these climbed to 122 on May 2, with more Nanded pilgrims testing positive.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said there had been a major spike in the number of cases due to people returning from other states, including Nanded, Kota, Gwalior, etc.PATIENTS RESIST ADMISSION IN CIVIL HOSPITALAs many as 15 positive Nanded returnees lodged in the quarantine facility established at the Government Residential School for the Meritorious resisted when the administration staff started shifting them to the civil hospital on Saturday. It took assurances by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amrinder Malhi of adequate facilities at the hospital for the patients to agree to be taken there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-covid-19-cases-jump-to-122-67-among-them-nanded-pilgrims/story-8Rs1FcUwSb76NeQEQ90VxO.html
03-05-2020||City||Long queues, endless wait in scorching sun for hungry labourers in Ludhiana||Mismanagement was the order of the day again as hundreds of migrant labourers gathered outside a resort in Moti Nagar to collect ration being distributed by the police on Saturday.The labourers had arrived at the venue after receiving appointments through 1905 helpline, with many saying they had returned empty handed several times in the past with inadequate ration for people summoned there.Helpline number 1905 has been launched by the Punjab government to provide essential supplies to people in need amid the curfew imposed in the state since March 23.Hundreds of migrant labourers, including women, lined up in serpentine queues unmindful of the need for social distancing. The gate was guarded by some volunteers, who were allowing a few workers at a time to walk inside the resort to collect the ration. When a huge crowd tried to enter forcibly, the volunteers lathi-charged them to keep the queues in order.Inspector Varunjit Singh, SHO, Moti Nagar station, said though the police were asking labourers to maintain adequate distance and avoid crowding, they were not heeding to the directions. On the hand, labourers said their patience grew thin as they had been waiting for three hours already, and they were eager to get their hands on the supplies as every visit to the resort in the past had been unfruitfulAjit of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh, who lives in Moti Nagar, said this was his fourth visit to the venue. “I applied for ration on 1905 helpline number, and received a text message with the time, date and location to collect it. I was shocked to see the huge rush on arriving at the resort. On my each previous visit, the ration got over before my turn came,” he added.Another labourer Santosh of Banmankhi town in Bihar, said he worked in a small garment factory and his employer had not paid him since March 22, forcing his family to go without food. “It is difficult to survive for so long without money and food. When we are invited to collect ration, we have to stand in queues for several hours, and even then many return empty handed. Worse, police even thrash us,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/long-queues-endless-wait-in-scorching-sun-for-hungry-labourers-in-ludhiana/story-uc9nGBhgzh9U13B30eWVRM.html
03-05-2020||City||Ambala railway division earned Rs 255 crore in April, 20% higher than last year despite lockdown||The Ambala Railway Division earned Rs 255 crore in April this year amid the lockdown, which is 20% more revenue than the same month last year. The railways has discontinued its passenger services since the announcement of lockdown in March, extending it to May 17 but the freight services are still operating.The division has recorded a total earning of Rs 255 crore (which is also highest ever freight earning in a month) in April this year. Last year, it had earned Rs 211 crore, of which Rs 57 crore came passenger trains and Rs 146 crore from freight earning while Rs 8 crore was categorised as miscellaneous earnings.Ambala division railway manager GM Singh said, “To boost the morale of division, the general manager of Northern Railways has announced a cash award. The division has also dispatched 62 long-haul trains in April, highest ever, out of which 59 were of food grains (Annapurna trains). It has all been possible due to the concerted efforts of our section controllers, station masters, guards, loco pilots and staff of commercial supervisors who are engaged in the smooth operation of freight services.”The division has also managed to load the highest-ever wagons of food grains and fertilisers maintaining the continuity in the supply chain during lockdown across the country.Senior divisional commercial manager, Hari Mohan said “The division is committed to ensure uninterrupted supply of essentials across the country and unloading/loading at terminals despite the shortage of labour/trucks despite restrictions on movements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ambala-railway-division-earned-rs-255-crore-in-april-20-higher-than-last-year-despite-lockdown/story-2oP4jnMPwdjyTzCKg4QdXK.html
03-05-2020||City||3 scribes among 10 tested positive for Covid-19 in Panipat||Ten persons, including four mediapersons, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Panipat on Saturday, taking total number of infected persons in the district to 24.Among the infected persons, three work with a vernacular daily while one works with a YouTube channel. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma told Hindustan Times that random testing of all the mediapersons was done in the district as per the orders of the state government and about 40 media persons were examined. He said that reports of 40 people, including 25 of mediapersons were received and 10 people, including four media persons, were found positive for the virus. Two infected mediapersons belong to Gharaunda of Karnal district while the remaining are from Panipat district. The reports were received late in the evening on Saturday and they were immediately taken to the isolation ward of BPS Government Medical College and Hospital Khanpur Kalan. The CMO said that their contact tracing is underway and the samples of people in their direct contact will also be sent for the testing. The development has increased the worries for the authorities as the number of the infected persons in the district has touched 24..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-scribes-among-10-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-panipat/story-GCYyI7joHv0AkpUoCKFCrI.html
03-05-2020||City||Sudden showers dampen Sirsa farmers’ crop set for purchase||High-speed winds and untimely showers again put Sirsa farmers in distress as their wheat produce got drenched at different procurement centres in Ellenabad area on Saturday evening.Due to the high-velocity winds, many trees fell on the Sirsa-Ellenabad road, severing the electricity wires.Ram Singh, a farmer from Ellenabad, said they did not expect such sudden change of weather as the sky seemed clear. But the rainfall played a spoilsport as their produce, which had finally dried up, got drenched again.Meanwhile, the meteorological department of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University in Hisar has predicted rain from May 3 to May 6.Meteorology and agriculture department head Dr M L Khichar said, “We have already advised the farmers to cover their produce as light to moderate rain is expected in several parts of Haryana. They must also stop sowing seeds for the next cycle of crop. The weather will be clear after May 7.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sudden-showers-dampen-sirsa-farmers-crop-set-for-purchase/story-MHR2w9YLNXeJ7fbnLc9EIJ.html
03-05-2020||City||Several ₹500 currency notes recovered from empty plot in Kaithal||Several currency notes of ₹500 were recovered from an empty plot in Karan Vihar colony of Model Town area in Kaithal on Saturday.As per the police, some colony residents found the currency notes scattered in the vacant plot and informed the cops. Following this, a police team lead by Kaithal city police station in-charge Nanhi Devi and officials from the health department reached the spot. The health officials sanitised the notes before taking them away for counting and testing.Inspector Nanhi Devi said that the currency notes have been recovered and will be sent to the lab for examination where the officials will count them as well.Meanwhile, recovery of the abandoned notes has worried the residents living nearby.Local resident Ashok Kumar said that they have come across posts on the social media saying that currency notes were being used as carriers to spread the coronavirus disease.Reacting over the residents’ concerns, the inspector said, “This is a matter of investigation and the police are trying to trace the source of these notes. There is no need to panic and the case will be cracked soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/several-500-currency-notes-recovered-from-empty-plot-in-kaithal/story-EB4yiuJUmivN5xMSVx1FuL.html
03-05-2020||City||22-year-old Bihar woman tests positive in Panipat||A 22-year-old woman tested positive for coronavirus disease in Panipat on Saturday, taking the number of infected persons in the district to 14.Panipat chief medical official (CMO) Sant Lal Verma told HT that the woman is a resident of Bihar and has been staying with her brother-in-law in Gokul Colony in Sector 11 here for the past one month.He said that she is also suffering from tuberculosis (TB) and has been getting regular check-ups done at BPS Medical College in Khanpur Kalan. Her samples were taken on Friday and she tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, the CMO said.Around 40 of her close contacts have been quarantined and samples of 20 have been sent for the examination. The patient is admitted at the isolation ward of BPS Medical College.However, the health department officials said that the source of her infection could not be traced yet as the woman does not have any foreign travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-bihar-woman-tests-positive-in-panipat/story-E5IEAjfkr9Aqap8O9BA3aL.html
03-05-2020||City||Mumbai Police reach out to migrant workers||Following the relaxation of lockdown norms, the city police have started to visit food distribution points, community kitchens, relief camps and shelters to distribute registration forms to migrant workers, who are stranded owing to the lockdown, to enable them to travel back to their hometown.The ministry of home affairs on Friday allowed inter-state road transport for migrant workers, pilgrims and students after which the Indian Railways announced special ‘shramik trains’ for migrant workers.Mumbai Police officials said that most migrant workers come from poor background and can’t access the internet, which is why the top brass decided to reach out to them in person. According to a senior police officer, after the Bandra railway station chaos on April 14, after more than 1,000 labourers turned up on hearing rumours that train services would begin, they had identified the pockets where most stranded migrants and labourers live to provide them food and other essentials. The clusters are in Bandra and Wadala TT, along with the docks namely Sewri, Mazagaon, Reay Road, Cotton Green, Govandi, Mankhurd, Chembur, north Borivli and Kandivli.“Our men are distributing the form manually to reach out to maximum number of stranded migrant workers, pilgrims and students. Many migrants are given forms at the food distribution points, community kitchens and relief camps and shelters,” said Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general (law and order), Mumbai Police.Public announcements are being made in slums to discourage migrant workers from rushing to police stations or railway stations with the forms. Only one member of a group is allowed to visit a police station with the required documents. “The forms are handed out with the instruction that they must avoid applying for a single person’s travel and instead form a group of 25 to 40 and apply together. They are also being told about the required documents such as health clearance certificate from a registered doctor, Aadhaar card details, etc.,” Choubey said. “Separate teams under zonal DCPs, the nodal officers for the task, will segregate the forms and arrange for the transport in coordination with the Railways and state road transport department. Once we get forms of around 1,000 stranded migrants wishing to go to the same destination, we will approach the railways to arrange a train for the said destination.”However, despite the announcement, migrant workers thronged police stations such as Nirmal Nagar, Vanrai, Dharavi, Nagpada to submit forms. Police officers at these stations had difficulty in making the applicants maintain social distance and manage the crowd. However, the police could not provide the data on the number of applications they have received so far.Migrants stranded in containment areas are not included in this set up, irrespective of their health conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-police-reach-out-to-migrant-workers/story-ciFkvRr5I5fOzyS6a6rKVO.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra locked down, elephant family steps out||Forest officials from Sindhudurg district have been getting daily calls from worried residents reporting the movements of Maharashtra’s only herd of elephants along the state’s boundary with Karnataka. The herd has damaged crops worth ₹16 lakh during the lockdown.Instead of moving after sunset, the five-member herd — two tuskers, a female and two calves — has been moving during the day, which is unusual. “Elephant movement at Tillari zone of Dodamarg during lockdown, especially along arterial and main roads connecting villages, has been observed during the day. This is the most unusual sighting in our district. Human disturbance had forced them only to move after sunset when there was complete silence, but this has changed completely since the last week of March,” said Samadhan Chavan, deputy conservator of forests, Sindhudurg.The forest department has set up awareness campaigns and elephant camps to aid local residents. “The movement of elephants during daytime increases chances of human-animal encounters apart from crop damage. Local volunteers and forest guards are keeping a watch on these developments and informing local authorities,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. According to the forest department’s estimate, the herd has damaged crops worth approximately ₹16 lakh during the lockdown. “We were paying an average of ₹10 lakh per month as compensation for the damage every night before the lockdown. Now, owing to their rapid movement during the day, the area of damage is likely to be twice as much. We are yet to collate the final estimate,” said Chavan.Three elephant camps have been set up in Heware, Bhekuli, and Sateli villages. “Each camp has five volunteers, some with prior experience as mahouts, and their job is to raise awareness among villagers, monitor conflict or crop damage, and elephant movement,” said Chavan.Between April 2019 and March 2020, the Sindhudurg forest department gave ₹1.2 crore as compensation to villagers for crop damage by wildlife (including elephants, bison, deer etc.). The figure was ₹1.04 crore during April 2018 to March 2019.“What is happening at Sindhudurg is truly unique for the state’s only elephant family,” said V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest (Kolhapur). “From 2002 onwards, these pachyderms have dispersed from Karnataka to Sindhudurg in search of food and water resources. Transient movement of a few individuals across both states is regularly observed.” Overall, there are nine elephants in Maharashtra. One more tusker is located near the Tillari dam area, which is cordoned off using bamboo plantations, and the animal does not leave its habitat. There are three more (two tuskers and a female) present in the hilly terrain near Ghatkarwadi village at Ajara, Kolhapur district. “Elephants in the Kolhapur region are more isolated from each other since they are not a family. They mostly stay inside the forest and come out at night,” said Ben. The 38-km long Dodamarg wildlife corridor that connects Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Maharashtra to Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka frequently witnesses elephant and tiger movement.AT SINDHUDURG: 74% TURTLE HATCHLING SURVIVAL RATEAccording to the forest department, the total number of Olive Ridley turtle nests between January and April was 59 in Vengurla, Malvan, and Devgad talukas, with 6,409 eggs and 4,767 hatchlings safely making their way to the sea. This year’s survival rate of 74.3% is higher than that of 2017 and 2019. In Vengurla, 38 nests were recorded in seven villages, with 4,237 eggs and 3,204 hatchlings making their way into the sea (survival rate: 75.6%). At Malvan, 10 nests in two villages had 1,055 eggs and 758 hatchlings (survival rate: 72%). At one village in Devgad, 11 nests had 1,117 eggs and 805 hatchlings (survival rate: 72%). “Between 2017 and 2019, the number eggs may have been more but the hatchlings that made it successfully to sea did not cross 4,300. This year due to less disturbance during the lockdown, the survival rate is better,” said Samadhan Chavan, deputy conservator of forests, Sindhudurg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-locked-down-elephant-family-steps-out/story-W8MXBVaxoBJjBRmlUvh7xJ.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees highest one-day toll of 36; crosses 500 mark||Maharashtra on Saturday breached the 500 mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths after it recorded its highest single-day figure of 36 fatalities, taking the toll to 521. The state recorded 790 new cases — its third-highest 24-hour jump — taking the infection count to 12,296.Of the deaths recorded on Saturday, Mumbai reported 27, three were in Pune city, two in Amravati city and one each in Vasai-Virar, Amravati district and Aurangabad city. Besides these, Mumbai also recoded one person’s death from West Bengal.The mortality rate in the state stands at 4.23%, but the number of deaths are increasing as 198 deaths happened since April 27 alone. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.25%.Mumbai, on Saturday, also crossed the 8,000 Covid-19 cases mark with 547 new infections. Its tally is 8,359. The city, which had crossed the 4,000-mark on April 23, doubled its count to 8,000 in nine days. As cases continue to mount in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, Malegaon, the state government, which issued guidelines for extension of lockdown on Saturday, imposed restrictions in most on these areas.With the third phase of the nation-wide lockdown starting from Monday, the state government has issued relaxation in varying degrees across Maharashtra’s red, orange and green zones to gradually allow businesses and individuals to resume normal lives. In a detailed order, the state government has outlined activities permitted and prohibited in the red, orange, and green zones.The guidelines also stipulated that individuals engaged in non-essential activity shall not move out between 7pm and 7am; and the elderly, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and young children would stay home. It also had detailed instructions on the precautions to be taken in workplaces and public places, with an emphasis on social distancing and the use of masks.As per the order, all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except those permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA); inter-state public transport buses, except those permitted by MHA; inter-district public transport; Metro rail services; passenger train services; all schools, colleges, coaching, training institutions; all cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, religious places; sports, cultural and religious functions and congregations, will remain prohibited irrespective of zones.Maharashtra has 14 districts in the red zone, including Mumbai, Mumbai suburban, Thane, and Palghar districts, where the lockdown will be strictly implemented. Besides these districts, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Solapur and Aurangabad districts are also in the red zones. Yavatmal, Satara, Dhule, Akola and Jalgaon are also in the red zone, but would see fewer restrictions as against the hotpot areas in Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) and Malegaon in Nashik district.In the red zone — which is defined by taking into account total active cases, doubling rate, etc, — autorickshaws, cycle rickshaws, taxi, cab aggregators, intra-district and inter-district of plying of buses, barber shops, and salons will not be permitted.The municipal areas of Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Pune, Malegaon and Pimpri Chinchwad have got several restrictions, including the opening of shops, private offices, and government offices.All standalone shops, neighbourhood shops, and shops in residential complexes — without any distinction between essential and non-essential — can also function, except those in the municipal corporation areas of MMR, Malegaon Municipal Corporation, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). The order makes a mention opening of liquor shops in the annexure, but it has not been clarified whether these shops will open across zones. A senior state government official said that the stores would permitted to open in orange and green zones, with strict compliance of social distancing.E-commerce will, however, be confined to essential goods. Private offices can also now function, up to 33% of their strength, except in MMR, PMC, PCMC and Malegaon. All government offices except in the areas of Mumbai, MMR, Pune, PCMC, and Malegaon will function up to the level of 100%, above the rank of deputy secretary, and 33% below that in red zones.In urban areas, special economic zones (SEZs), export-oriented units (EOUs), industrial estates, industrial townships with access control will be allowed to function except those in the municipal corporation areas of MMR, Malegaon Municipal Corporation, PMC and PCMC.In-situ construction activities in urban areas have been permitted where no workers have to be brought in from outside. While all construction activities are permitted in rural areas, pre-monsoon work related to metro work and other such projects shall be permitted by municipal bodies. Pre-monsoon work of waterproofing of roofs, flood-protection, propping and structural repairs of buildings, demolition of unsafe buildings will be permitted.Sixteen districts (Raigad, Ahmednagar, Amravati, Buldhana, Nandurbar, Kolhapur, Hingoli, Ratnagiri, Jalna, Nanded, Chandrapur, Sangli, Latur, Parbhani, Bhandara and Beed) have fewer cases in their rural parts — in single digits. These 16 districts are in the orange zone, where activities barred in red zone would be permitted.Maharashtra has six districts in the green zone. Gadchiroli and Wardha have no Covid-19 patients, while Gondia has not reported any new case in the past 35 days. Osmanabad has three cases, while Sindhudurg and Washim have two cases each. In the green zone, buses can operate with 50% capacity. However, buses will not be allowed to ply outside the zone.Meanwhile, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope announced that all citizens will be covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), the state government’s health scheme. Tope said that Maharashtra will be the first state to provide free and cashless insurance protection to its people. The health department officials said from now on, the state government, semi-government employees and white ration card holders, which were earlier excluded from availing the scheme, will be able to apply for this scheme.Tope said, “Earlier, 85% people were covered under the MJPJAY, now the remaining 15% have also been brought under the scheme. Now everybody can avail the scheme if they get admitted to the 1,000 empanelled hospitals for nearly 1,000 ailment packages. They would get cashless treatment for Covid and non-Covid treatments.”Meanwhile, migrant labourers from shelter camps in Nashik district were sent to Uttar Pradesh by the special ‘Shramik’ train. According to Nashik collector’s office, 847 stranded migrant labourers were sent back to Lucknow. These workers walked from Mumbai, Thane and other areas to reach their villages in the northern state. They were housed in shelter camps after all state borders were sealed after the lockdown was imposed. Guardian minister of Nashik district, Chhagan Bhujbal, flagged off the train on Saturday. A special outstation train with nearly 1,200 migrant workers left from Bhiwandi Road station on Saturday night. The train will operate between Bhiwandi and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and will not halt at any railway station. A second special train is also likely to depart for Gorakhpur on Sunday late evening. The train is likely to be operated from Vasai Road railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-highest-one-day-toll-of-36-crosses-500-mark/story-KWEzHqWUHlHdbrwaDVY2FK.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh curfew to be lifted at Sunday midnight||The Chandigarh administration on Saturday decided to lift the curfew imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread from Sunday midnight and allow opening of sector markets, government and private offices, resumption of industrial activities and movement of vehicles from Monday morning. These will, however, be implemented under an odd-even formula and subject to certain restrictions.Besides this relief coming after 40 days, the whole city will not remain a containment zone and these will be restricted to the six Covid-19 affected pockets, including parts of hotspots Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30, where no relaxations will be granted.Making the announcement, UT adviser Manoj Parida said even as the lockdown was extended for 15 days, relaxations had been given in consonance with the Central guidelines on red zones as the city remained in that category.“UT, however, has given additional relaxations like new odd-even formula for vehicular movement and general trade based on the feedback from different residential groups,” he said.Parida said the relaxations will not be applicable to contained pockets where UT administrator VP Singh Badnore stressed on the need for continuous and extensive testing of all suspected cases. In a statement on Saturday, Badnore also appealed to the citizens to maintain social distancing and warned that areas in which norms were being violated would be declared containment zones again. ODD-EVEN NEW EXPERIMENTThe odd-even formula will be applicable to shops as well as vehicles, Parida said. From Monday, even numbers for vehicles and shops will be allowed. This will continue on rotation every week. “We may review it if there are some practical issues related to implementation,” Parida said. However these restrictions are not applicable on emergency and government vehicles besides shops providing essential goods.The idea is to have fewer vehicles on city roads and people have been requested to carpool with others till further relaxations are allowed.Personal vehicles of government employees will also be not exempt from rules, Parida added, saying no inter-state pass was required for travel to Chandigarh from 7am to 7pm, but odd-even formula was applicable.Shops will also not be closed on Sunday, he added, with the odd-even scheme also applicable to those operating from residential buildings and commercial areas in rural areas and colonies. TRADERS SATISFIED, INDUSTRIALISTS NEED CLARIFICATIONThe traders were satisfied with the decision to open the shops on odd-even basis, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman Charanjiv Singh said. However, the timings from 7am to 7pm were too long. “I appeal to traders to abide by the guidelines for their own safety,” he added.Pankaj Khanna, president, Industrial Association of Chandigarh, wanted detailed instructions on opening of industries in the city.“We have a lot of doubts about the kind of industry that can be opened up under the home affairs ministry’s red zone guidelines, for which we want the administration to release separate instructions. A workforce of more than 30,000 is involved in Chandigarh’s industrial areas and is waiting for long for some industrial revival,” he said.Hitesh Puri, president, Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation , said the step was welcome but the focus of the people and the administration in fighting Covid-19 should not be diluted. Strict action was required against those who violated the restrictions, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-curfew-to-be-lifted-at-sunday-midnight/story-QVI0UN5i8a6NTgmnoNJURO.html
03-05-2020||City||4 Mohali residents recover from Covid, taking dist’s tally of recoveries to 34||Four coronavirus infected patients, who hail from Jawaharpur and Nayagaon in Mohali district, have recovered and were discharged on Saturday, taking the tally of recoveries to 34 in the district. Mohali has witnessed 93 confirmed cases so far of whom two have lost their lives.Three of the discharged patients—35-year-old Seema, 53-year-old Avtar Singh and 35-year-old Manpreet Singh—hail from Jawaharpur village which has witnessed the highest number of infections in the district, with 46 confirmed cases of whom 20 have recovered.The fourth patient is a PGIMER hospital attendant, Sunil Kumar, 30, resident of Nayagaon who was discharged from PGI after he recovered. His wife, a 45-day-old baby, his mother and his brother-in-law, who all had tested positive are under treatment.Currently, as many as 57 patients who hail from Mohali are still undergoing treatment.Dr Renu Singh, the district epidemiologist, said the Jawaharpur cases had been undergoing treatment at the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur. They were discharged, when after 14 days of treatment, reports of two consecutive tests conducted on them came back negative. As a precautionary measure, they will not be sent home as yet and will be isolated for 14 days at a facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi. They will be sent home once the quarantine is completed. She also said the condition of all remaining patients at Gian Sagar Hospital is stable.Mohali’s civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all doctors, nurses, paramedical staff at the centre are the real warriors who have put their lives at risk to perform their duty with dedication. He urged people to keep social distancing, wash their hands frequently, eat healthy food and most importantly stay at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-mohali-residents-recover-from-covid-taking-dist-s-tally-of-recoveries-to-34/story-EvrCthsbBKP7t5hwt7QlfP.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||3 attacks on policemen across Mumbai during lockdown||Three separate instances of attacks on Mumbai Police personnel, while implementing the lockdown, have been reported in the city on Thursday.In the first case, 29-year-old vegetable vendor Sufiyan Shaikh has been booked for assaulting police sub-inspector (PSI) Ayub Shande, 33, on Thursday around 1pm in Bandra. Shande was patrolling at Behrampada slum area, a containment zone, when he spotted Shaikh loitering in the neighbourhood with his cart. When Shande asked him to go back home, he told Shande that he was distributing vegetables to residents. This lead to an altercation between the duo and later turned into a scuffle. Soon, the other residents intervened and sided with Shaikh, following which the latter had to resort to mild lathi charge. Shashikant Bhandare, senior inspector of Nirmal Nagar police station, said, “We have sent him for a Covid-19 test as he stays in a containment zone, and have not arrested him yet.” In the second incident, a Kurla resident was booked for manhandling a PSI from Kurla police station around 6.30pm. Kakasaheb Nagave, 35, and his team were conducting a march on Kurla pipe road. The accused, Rizwan Memon, a resident of Wafati Lane building, began shouting at the police. “He asked us not to shut any shop on the pipe road and threatened to use his contacts in the National Investigation Agency against us. This led to an altercation, after which he manhandled the PSI and a constable. Some residents crowded the area and Memon managed to escape,” said Dattarey Shinde, senior inspector, Kurla station. In the third incident, constable Suhas Desai, 50, was allegedly assaulted by a 41-year-old autorickshaw driver, Yar Mohammad Kalim Shaha, when the latter was questioned for loitering around at Govandi, around 6.30pm. The accused had also pelted a stone at the police. 2 testing centres for mumbai policeOn Friday, the Mumbai Police started two testing centres for its personnel. The centre inside JJ Hospital premises has been opened for personnel in south, central and eastern suburbs, while the one at Jogeshwari has been opened at a private school near the eastern side of the station for the police personnel at western and northern region. Until Friday, 297 police personnel have been screened at these two centres and 125 swab samples have been collected.2 cops tested positive On Thursday two constables, both aged 32, from Sahar traffic division have been tested positive for Covid-19. The two are Kalyan residents and have been admitted to Vedanta Hospital in Thane. Police said they were infected after they came in contact with a constable posted in the central region control room who stays on their floor. About 10 constables from Sahar traffic division, who were in touch with the duo, have been sent in home quarantine.The Mumbai Police has lost three constables to the virus and has reported 142 cases among its force until Saturday morning. Meanwhile, 342 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in the Maharashtra Police department in which 49 recovered and 290 are under treatment. FIRs dip in city as cases riseWith the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai witnessing a rise, the number of FIRs filed against violators is seeing a decline. On Friday, the police filed 64 against 99 people, of whom 39 have been arrested. Since March 20, the police have filed 5,665 FIRs against 10,683 people. 1 lakh booked in stateThe Maharashtra Police have booked more than 1 lakh people, filed 89,383 first information reports (FIRs) and arrested 17,813 people across the state since March for flouting lockdown orders. Most of the FIRs are for crowding at one spot. The police had also collected fines worth of ₹3.14 crore. A majority of FIRs (14,220) are from Pune city, followed by 10,490 FIRs in Mumbai.(With inputs from Suraj Ojha, Faisal Tandel and Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-attacks-on-policemen-across-mumbai-during-lockdown/story-uaVfBLk26UOrvjrC8cKKhO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Entrance exam for Panjab University rescheduled||The Panjab University has re-scheduled the date of entrance tests for the session 2020-2021 of PU-BA/Bcom, LLB (Hons) 5 years integrated course to June 17; PU-CET (UG) to June 25 and PUMEET to July 5. The prospectus (including application form) and revised schedule for the above-mentioned entrance tests are already available online on the related websites. To apply, please visit the website https://uglaw.puchd.ac.in; https://cetug.puchd.ac.in and https://pumeet.puchd.ac.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/entrance-exam-for-panjab-university-rescheduled/story-6guYSL03vxVsGpOvTVhjAI.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis defends Centre over setting up of IFSC HQ at Gandhinagar||Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday defended the Central government’s move to set up International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) headquarters at Gandhinagar and said it was unfair to blame Prime Minister Narendra Modi for this. He was referring to allegation by state revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat that the move was undertaken to reduce the importance of Mumbai as the financial capital of the country. Fadnavis also claimed that the previous state government, during his tenure, had submitted a proposal to the Centre to allow functioning of two IFSCs in the country – in Mumbai and Gujarat – and added that it was still under consideration. In his tweet, Fadnavis recalled the history of IFSC saying it was the then Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) government which is to be blamed for this as it did not consider the option when it first came up in 2007. “A high-powered committee of the Central government submitted a report in February 2007, recommending creation of IFSC. Neither did the government of Maharashtra submit any official proposal, nor did the Centre consider it,” said Fadnavis. He further credited PM Modi, then chief minister of Gujarat, for offering Ahmedabad for setting up IFSC in 2007, following which work for the same started in 2012.“The headquarters is announced at Gandhinagar because it is the only functional IFSC. Those who are beating the chest now were in power from 2007 to 2014 and did nothing for Mumbai IFSC,” he said. Fadnavis said Mumbai has a natural ecosystem and can still become an IFSC if the state government so desired.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “It is not a secret that PM Modi has always wanted to bring Gujarat ahead of all other states and that he does not look at all states equally. But, the Fadnavis government also mislead people for five years by claiming that an IFSC would be built in Mumbai.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-defends-centre-over-setting-up-of-ifsc-hq-at-gandhinagar/story-qxR4fJIQjAoIbbqOddpfoL.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank fraud: Court refuses bail to eight bank directors||The sessions court on Saturday rejected bail plea of former chairmen of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank Waryam Singh and Surjit Singh Arora along with four directors of the bank. The court also refused to grant pre-arrest bail to Gurman Singh Hothi and Daljit Singh, two other directors of the bank.Special public prosecutor Ajay Missar confirmed the order and said the court while rejecting the pleas of the accused held that prime facie the case is established by the prosecution against the accused. Missar also said the court considered that the case involved huge amount of public money and that the investigation is still in progress.The directors whose bail pleas have been rejected along with Singh and Arora are Jagdish Mookhey, Mukti Bavisi, Ranjit Tara Singh and Tripti Bane. The directors had, in their separate pleas, said they had no role to play in the fraud. Singh and Arora too claimed they had nothing to do with the fraud. The prosecution had opposed the bail plea and argued that the directors and former chairmen of the bank were responsible for the fraud.While the court rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Hothi and Daljit, it extended the interim protection of the duo till June 15 to allow them time to approach the Bombay high court (HC).According to the prosecution, PMC Bank granted loans to realty group Housing Development Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) without following due process. The principle loan amount of ₹2,400 crore snowballed into ₹6,670 crore because HDIL failed to repay multiple loans between 2008 and 2019. Senior management of PMC Bank covered up these irregularities to avoid scrutiny by the Reserve Bank of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-court-refuses-bail-to-eight-bank-directors/story-EUWfCGTOJvGP9lWk37TCFI.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Institutional isolation answer to lack of social distancing in Chandigarh’s hotspot Bapu Dham Colony, suggest experts||With five new Covid-19 cases being reported from one of the city’s oldest colonies of Bapu Dham on Saturday, the area now accounts for 45% of the total positive cases in Chandigarh.Even as the administration is putting in place measures to contain the spread, experts have suggested that the “institutional isolation model” that was recommended for Dharavi in Mumbai by an inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) could work here.Area councillor Dalip Sharma said more than 50,000 people reside in 2,500 multi-storey houses here. On an average a family of five live in one room and over 20 people occupy a 25-yard small house here. Social distancing—a must to contain the spread of coronavirus—is, therefore, practically impossible to be achieved here.A central government official who oversaw the visit of the IMCT, unauthorised to speak to the media, said when there are 70-80% infected asymptomatic persons in every state, the disease will spread exponentially if you leave people in close proximity in a congested place like Dharavi.“The IMCT has emphasised that since there is negligible social distancing, the Dharavi dwellers should be taken out and placed in institutional isolation. Since they have to use community toilets, they can’t be stopped from going out either.’’ the official said.For arresting the spread in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony, the central official said the district administration can shift the residents to a government school, an indoor stadium or a building with toilet facilities.Dr KK Talwar, former director, PGIMER, said: “If the virus has spread in the community, first you contain them there, then you do testing of all those who have flu-like symptoms.”“You let the young stay there, but because the elderly are most vulnerable, they along with those suffering from chronic illnesses should be taken out of these congested colonies and placed safely in institutes, where adequate arrangements are ensured,” he added.A research on institutional isolation published by Lancet in April suggested that the approach was successfully implemented in Wuhan. Though the research primarily focused on those who tested positive for Covid-19, the study said the results show the need for institution-based isolation to reduce household and community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/institutional-isolation-answer-to-lack-of-social-distancing-in-chandigarh-s-hotspot-bapu-dham-colony-suggest-experts/story-QrX4TElpJWxJvdAWTA2L0L.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Another Chandigarh woman recovers, discharged from PGIMER’s Covid ward||A 59-year-old Covid patient from Sector 30 who recovered was discharged from PGIMER on Saturday.The other three members of her family from Sector 30 — her son, daughter-in-law and 11-month old grand-daughter— were earlier cured and discharged from PGIMER.Giving her a ceremonial send off, several members of the PGIMER Covid team came to the NHE Block, which is the dedicated Covid hospital, to congratulate her on her recovery and for her re-union with her family.“I have won my war against the virus but the real warriors are the health care workers. We are indebted to them for life,” she said. Professor Jagat Ram, director PGIMER, said that with the new discharge, the number of patients cured at PGIMER is now 13. Such moments help us tide over the toughest of challenges of our job.”He added, however, that at times even the best efforts do not result in positive outcomes. “It was disheartening when another female patient, aged 63, from Haryana succumbed to the virus. She was suffering chronic renal disease too. Although dialysis was also done but she could not be saved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/another-chandigarh-woman-recovers-discharged-from-pgimer-s-covid-ward/story-GqO3adcNQF8PJCco7RaaLO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 outbreak: Chandigarh tricity crosses 200 mark in 45 days||Chandigarh and its satellite cities of Mohali and Panchkula — collectively known as the tricity — have crossed the 200 mark in Covid-19 cases, with six new being reported in the Union Territory and one in the Punjab district on Saturday.The number of confirmed cases stand at 94 in Chandigarh, 93 in Mohali and 18 in Panchkula, taking the total to 205. However, with a number of recoveries, including five on Saturday, and two deaths in Mohali so far, the active cases are 75, 57 and one, respectively. Of the six cases reported in Chandigarh on Saturday, five are from the congested Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, which now accounts for 45% of the city’s Covid-19 infections with 42 cases, and one is from Manimajra — A 49-year-old man from Shastri Nagar, who is a family contact of an already diagnosed positive case.In Bapu Dham Colony, the chain of transmission was first detected when a 30-year-old operation theatre attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, who resides in the area, tested positive last Friday. The fresh cases include a 14-year-old boy, three men, aged 34, 39 and 42, and a 21-year-old woman, all residents of the colony’s Phase 1.Meanwhile, a 59-year-old woman from Sector 30 was discharged from the PGIMER after she was found to be negative for Covid-19, taking the total number of recovered patients to 19 in Chandigarh. Her son, daughter-in-law and 11-month-old granddaughter have already been cured.In Mohali, a 27-year-old woman from Desumajra in Kharar tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali district on Saturday, taking the district count to 93.The woman stays with her husband on rent in Desumajra village. Hailing from Himachal Pradesh, she had returned to Kharar on March 1 and was looking for job. Her husband is working in a factory in Mohali. “She had not been keeping well and thus had visited the Kharar civil hospital. Her samples were collected at the flu corner set up in the hospital as she was displaying flu-like symptoms,” said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, adding that the woman has been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Of the total 93 Covid-19 cases reported from the district, 57 are active. While 34 have been cured, including a PGIMER employee from Nayagaon among four people discharged on Saturday, two have died. Nineteen of the active cases are pilgrims who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, while 46 of the total cases belong to Jawaharpur village, a hotspot in Dera Bassi town of the district.The Panchkula district, which saw a spike in cases owing to seven men with Jamaat link and nine members of a family residing in Sector 15, is on the road to recovery with only one active case remaining out of 18 confirmed cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-crosses-200-mark-in-45-days/story-g9yVetnJ9zOOZZupHudvkM.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘At frontline without pay’: Peeved MBBS interns in GMSH-16 make a case for stipend||The MBBS interns of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, are being paid nothing despite serving at the frontilne of the corona pandemic. Some took to social media expressing their resentment and have demanded incentive at par with MBBS interns working in Punjab.An MBBS intern working in GMSH-16, a foreign student who has graduated from abroad, said, “I cleared the screening exam and joined the hospital on March 18. From day one I have been posted in the Corona screening ward.”He added, “We are paid nothing. Our only demand is that UT administration should pay us incentives at par with Punjab government.”Another student said he had completed his studies from abroad and cleared the examination, after which he joined the GMSH-16 for practice. “We did sign a contract according to which they won’t pay us any stipend. However, these are very unusual times,” he said.He said: “We are working in Corona screening areas and we deserve at least a stipend. Parents of many interns are not tech savvy and its becoming difficult for them to receive money.”Three female interns took to making a video, wherein they have appealed to authorities to consider their request. said: “We are interns working at GMSH-16 as frontline warriors amid corona pandemic. We have been going to several places for screening in Chandigarh. We have been tirelessly providing health services and request the heath department to provide us with a suitable incentive stipend,” they said.Another doctor said that they had written an application to the deputy medical superintendent but are still awaiting a response.Medical superintendent Dr Virender Nagpal said the hospital does not give them any incentives. “They are students from private medical colleges and ideally, they should be doing an internship from their own college where they can get a stipend.”He added that it was due to the pandemic that the government has allowed them to do internship in the cities where they were located. “This time we have around 171 interns, but we have no rule that we pay them a stipend,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-frontline-without-pay-peeved-mbbs-interns-in-gmsh-16-make-a-case-for-stipend/story-gtHAvjSoN4vUPlqaj4pdJL.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||233 Nanded pilgrims among 268 cases detected in Punjab on Saturday||There is no slowdown in the surge of Covid-19 cases in Punjab as 267 cases were reported on Saturday, of which 241 are Hazur Sahib pilgrims. The state’s tally has now raced up to 977, of which 596 cases made it to the list in the last three days. For the first time on Saturday, the state saw an addition of more than 200 and it was the third straight day when a three-digit number of patients was recorded, most of them Hazur Sahib pilgrims.Hoshiarpur was the worst-hit on Saturday as the district saw a nearly seven-fold increase in infections with 72 patients, 69 of them Hazur Sahib pilgrims. The district tally went up from 11 to 83 in a day. Civil surgeon Jasbir Singh said 157 Nanded pilgrims had been quarantined at two centres.Amritsar recorded 57 fresh cases and all are Nanded pilgrims, taking the district’s tally to 208.Bathinda recorded 33 cases on Saturday and all of them are Hazur Sahib pilgrims.Gurdaspur tally took a sharp spike on Saturday with death, and 24 positive cases, all Nanded-returnees. A kidney patient from Qadian who was undergoing treatment in Chandigarh was also found positive.Ludhiana recorded 23 infections on Saturday, of which 17 were Hazur Sahib pilgrims, taking the district’s tally to 122.In Moga, 22 people, including four ASHA workers engaged in door-to-door survey, were found positive for the virus on Saturday and 17 of them have Nanded link. A man who had returned from Dubai two months ago was also found positive.Jalandhar recorded 15 fresh cases, including a Hazur Sahib pilgrim, on Saturday, taking district’s tally to 120. Health officials said 14 patients were close contacts of those who have already tested positive.Also, five Nanded pilgrims were found positive in SBS Nagar, Four in Sangrur, three in Mansa, two in Barnala and one in Kaputhala.Muktsar’s Saturday tally was three, including two health workers, while the third patient is a combine harvester operator who had returned from Rajasthan recently.Two people, including a 27-year-old woman from Kharar, were found positive in Mohali district. The administration has traced the woman’s 11 immediate contacts, including husband and neighbours. Patiala also recorded one infection in the district.(With inputs from Bathinda, Patiala and Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/233-nanded-pilgrims-among-268-cases-detected-in-punjab-on-saturday/story-gfloHbA900c70vscRL7YHJ.html
03-05-2020||City||Himachal govt to send fleet of buses to evacuate 1,000 students stranded in Chandigarh||The Himachal Pradesh government will send a fleet of Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses to evacuate around 1,000 students stranded in Chandigarh amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In a notification issued late night on Friday, the government said the Himachal government has pressed sanitised HRTC buses into service in order to evacuate students and those without a means of transport stranded in Chandigarh and adjoining areas. The buses will ply from Sector 28D.STRANDED PEOPLE MUST REGISTER THEMSELVES ONLINEThe Himachal Pradesh government has launched an online portal for people stranded outside the state who do not have a conveyance. The data will be used to devise a comprehensive plan to ensure interstate movement of stranded students.Those stranded people can register themselves on covid19epass.hp.govt.in.Of the stranded students 184 are from Kangra, 50 from Chamba, 41 from Una, 88 from Hamirpur, 58 from Bilaspur, 184 from Mandi, 36 from Kullu, 128 from Shimla, 36 from Solan, 22 from Sirmaur and 13 are from Kinnaur.The government has also launched a special campaign to medically examine people entering Himachal Pradesh from other states.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the campaign will be launched on analogy of the active case finding campaign launched to ascertain the health status of people residing in both rural and urban areas.The chief minister directed all officers to ensure strict compliance of guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs and to make arrangements to bring people back Himachal Pradesh residents stranded in other states.The CM said the state government had appointed an adequate number of supporting officers with the nodal authority to coordinate movement of the migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons both within and outside the state.He urged representatives of panchayats and urban local bodies to keep an eye on people who had returned from other states and persuade them to strictly follow home quarantine norms. He said Himachal Pradesh was in a comfortable position till now and it must be ensured that this situation is maintained.RESTART ECONOMIC ACTIVITY IN GREEN ZONES: THAKUR Jai Ram Thakur said that efforts should be made to start economic activities particularly in the green zones. He said that special thrust must be laid on providing smooth movement of essential commodities and farming equipment.He said people should also wear face masks and face covers as this could check spread coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-to-send-fleet-of-buses-to-evacuate-1-000-students-stranded-in-chandigarh/story-aM8O3aKu9XXr3vKnyjsezO.html
03-05-2020||City||Kharar flyover work picks up speed amid curfew, likely to meet September deadline||The restrictions on movement owing to the coronavirus curfew have come as a blessing in disguise for the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover as the work is back on track, with authorities hoping the project will finally be completed by September.Since work resumed on April 20, around 300 persons have been employed at the site and 200 truckloads of fly ash are being used daily to build ramps at the entry and exit points of the flyover. The potholes have been filled and the work on service lanes is being done.However, getting the work back on track was a challenge owing to shortage of labour and delays in permission to move machines to site. The construction activity comes to a halt in the night because of inadequate workforce. Officials of the district administration said the company has applied for permission to get back labour from Uttar Pradesh, and once that is done the work will gain momentum.Project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) KL Sachdeva said, “The work is in full swing and we are taking all necessary precautions for the safety of the labour at work. With not much movement of traffic, the work has picked pace.” The employees are wearing masks, gloves and maintaining social distance, he added.The work had come to a standstill on March 22 after the nationwide lockdown was announced. Even though the work resumed later, the shifting of overhead high-tension power cables to be undertaken by the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) is yet to happen.NEW DEADLINES TO COMPLETE WORK IN PHASED MANNER“We have reviewed the progress of the construction. Going by the present pace, I have been assured that the service lanes will be completed by May end,” said Himanshu Jain, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kharar.Jain said, “The new Khanpur bridge will come up by July end and the NHAI will demolish the old one soon. After this, the entry and exit points would be constructed.” THE PROJECTThe 10-km Kharar-Chandigarh road expansion project that entails construction of two flyovers and three bridges and the authorities is struggling to meet the fifth deadline of the project. The new deadline is September 2020.The NHAI had handed over the ₹368-crore project to Larsen & Toubro (L&T) and the construction began in November 2015. It was to be completed by December 2018. However, in the past four years only 68% work was completed.Delays were on account of shifting the start point of the flyover from Dara Studio to Balongi due to agitation by locals in June 2016, issues of land acquisition, disbursement of compensation, demolition of critical structures and limitations of traffic diversion in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharar-flyover-work-picks-up-speed-amid-curfew-likely-to-meet-september-deadline/story-Oiz4HwVDoD1B4JfZXnKYxO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU starts compiling data of students stranded in Chandigarh due to lockdown||Panjab University (PU) and city colleges have commenced the process of compiling data of the students stranded in Chandigarh and are coordinating efforts to send them home. A day after the Union ministry of home affairs issued guidelines for allowing stranded students to go home amid the lockdown, PU on Saturday said, “All the wardens have been asked to make a list of students residing in the hostels, so that the information can be uploaded on the Chandigarh administration portal which will enable them to go home. Dean students’ welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar is coordinating and compiling the data.”The wardens have also been asked to verify that the students and mess/canteen workers have registered for the e-passes.The varsity, in a statement, also said that Nahar and Rajiv Tiwari, nodal officer of Chandigarh, are in touch to ensure the students’ movement.Nahar said that there are around 180 residents in the hostel who got stuck due to lockdown. “They need to be reunited with their families for their emotional and daily need support. They belong to various states such as Haryana, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, etc,” he said.A day before, director higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar had also asked the city colleges to inform about the students stranded due to the lockdown. There are over 11 colleges in Chandigarh and the overall student strength is over one lakh. Most of them had already left before the lockdown was announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-starts-compiling-data-of-students-stranded-in-chandigarh-due-to-lockdown/story-AHOhrdNSnBeBPrLGya8ctL.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police extend deadline to pay challans by 1 month||With extension of the curfew period, the traffic police have extended the deadline to pay routine traffic challans by another month.On March 19, the traffic police had suspended the payment of routine traffic challans at the challaning branch. Hence, only payment of curfew related challans to get recovery of impounded vehicles is allowed.A two-month extension was allowed for other routine offences, from the date of the challan. Now, another month extension has been given.The challaning branch and impound section of traffic lines in Sector 29 will remain suspended on Sunday so the premises can be sanitised. The services will resume from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-traffic-police-extend-deadline-to-pay-challans-by-1-month/story-QrUx5ftSkjn7v67QjtDPfK.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Pre-monsoon work delayed, city may see waterlogging at 35 spots||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began its pre-monsoon drain cleaning and nullah desilting work late last month, the city is likely to have around 35 spots with waterlogging during this year’s rains.According to BMC’s original plan for monsoon preparedness before the lockdown due to Covid-19, 69 waterlogging spots were identified across the city. The BMC had planned to complete work on 45 spots before monsoon and leave the work remaining 24 spots for later.However, a senior civic official said, “Since lockdown started in March, we were not able to complete ongoing work on all 45 waterlogging spots. Work on some of the spots apart from the 24 spots will remain incomplete for this monsoon. Ongoing work will be brought to a safe status before the monsoon if it cannot be completed.” At the beginning of the lockdown, there was no availability of labourers and work was halted, the officer said.Meanwhile, the BMC has started desilting over 280 nullahs in the city and cleaning of underground stormwater drains. As work was not progressing in the first month of the lockdown, most crucial spots like the Mithi river and its adjoining roads and low lying areas have now been chosen to prevent waterlogging.BMC is working on laying a 240-metre long and 1.8-metre wide stormwater drain from Kalanagar in Bandra to Mithi. This will give relief to residents of Bandra (East) and Kalanagar areas. Flood gates are also being installed where Mithi meets the sea to ensure water does not flow inward at the time of high tide during rains. Nullahs leading to Mithi river are being desilted on priority, the officer said.An officer from the stormwater drains department said, “Most of the labourers needed to complete the work before May 30 have been brought back by contractors. We plan to wrap up the on-going work by May 25, and keep a buffer of five days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pre-monsoon-work-delayed-city-may-see-waterlogging-at-35-spots/story-YdYZH1ypp6vbIKr88tgkZO.html
03-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt draws corona protection plan for migrants||The Uttar Pradesh health department has prepared an elaborate plan to protect migrants from the Covid-19 infection, quarantine them and provide treatment to those among them who test positive for the coronavirus.The move comes at a time when the Uttar Pradesh government has launched an exercise to bring back over one million migrant workers.Besides, the state government has decided to increase one lakh beds in isolation wards and quarantine facilities in view of the arrival of the migrants.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Saturday said the migrants’ samples will be pool tested and the testing of samples will be increased. All the district magistrates and divisional commissioners were directed to implement the plan for the migrants, he said.The Uttar Pradesh government has already told the governments of states from where the migrants are coming back to conduct their screening or medical test before they board trains/ buses for Uttar Pradesh.The respective state governments would hand over a list of the screened migrants to nodal officers of UP, the senior officer said. Once the migrants arrive at the bus station or the railway stations in UP, health teams will screen them again, he said.If migrant workers are infected with coronavirus, they will be admitted in isolation wards of Covid hospitals established by the state government in various districts.Those having symptoms of the disease will be admitted in quarantine facilities. After seven days’ quarantine, their sample will be sent for tests. If the test result is negative, they will be sent for 14 days’ home quarantine. Those without symptoms will be put in 21 days’ home quarantine in their respective villages or towns, Prasad said.On Sunday, around 1,000 migrants are expected to arrive at the Lucknow railway station by a special train from Nashik in Maharashtra. The state government plans to bring more migrants by train from Maharashtra and Gujarat. The government has also decided to bring back migrant workers from Uttarakhand and Rajasthan by bus. Besides, 5,259 migrants from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh and 12,000 from Haryana were brought back, Prasad said.The state government has decided to prepare a data base of migrant workers. Their names, addresses, mobile numbers and Aadhaar numbers will be collected by the respective district administrations. The database will be forwarded to the relief commissioner’s office. The labour department will also prepare a list of the skilled and unskilled migrants. The migrants who have no home quarantine facility will be kept in institutional quarantine, he said.A village surveillance committee headed by the gram pradhan will monitor the migrants. The Asha (accredited social health activists), anganbari workers, and volunteers of Yuvak Mangal Dal will be members of the committee. In urban areas, the ward councilor will head the surveillance committee. Asha workers, civil defence members and representatives of Residents’ Welfare Association will be the members of this committee there.Asha workers will visit the homes of migrant workers and tell their family members about the Covid protocol during the home quarantine, including social distancing, wearing masks and regular handwashing.Outsiders will not be permitted to enter the house of a quarantined migrant. Only one member of a migrant’s family will be allowed to go outdoors to procure essential commodities. Senior citizens, children and pregnant women will be directed to maintain a safe distance from the migrant, he said.A notice will be pasted on the door of the migrant’s house with date of the quarantine. The Arogya Setu app will be downloaded on the smartphones of migrants and Asha workers will pay home visits thrice a week to check whether they have Covid symptoms.The infected patients will be admitted in hospital. If any migrant violates quarantine guidelines, he will be shifted to the institutional quarantine facility run by the district administration, the principal secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-draws-corona-protection-plan-for-migrants/story-cpOANnAsQtfL9eWaT5eNQM.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar man drags ASI on car’s bonnet, arrested||A 20-year-old man, who allegedly tried to run over an assistant sub-inspector, was arrested on charges of attempt to murder on Saturday. The youngster’s father, too, has been booked on the same charges for allowing his son to violate curfew.The accused, Anmol Mehmi of Nakodar Chowk, reportedly attempted to run over assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mulkh Raj when the cop signalled him to stop his Eritga at a checkpoint near Milkbar Chowk near Model Town around 8:30am. The incident comes two days after sub-inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off by a group of Nihangs when he tried to stop them, was released from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.INCIDENT CAPTURED ON VIDEOA video of the incident shows the ASI hanging on to the car’s bonnet. Mehmi stopped the vehicle a few metres away, after which the cops pulled him out and beat him up. The video has been widely circulated on social media.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Parminder Singh Bhandal said Mehmi’s father, Parminder Kumar, has also been booked for allowing him to drive amid curfew without a pass and putting other people’s lives in danger.The duo have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. Kumar is yet to be arrested. DGP WARNS AGAINST PULLING SIMILAR STUNTSPunjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta also tweeted about the incident. He said both father and son had been booked and the Punjab Police has ‘zero tolerance policy’ against such acts.TWO BROTHERS HELD FOR ASSAULT ON COPSJALANDHAR Police on Saturday arrested two brothers for attacking a police party at Jhuggian village under Mehatpur police station in the district. The accused were identified as Amarjit Singh and his brother Karamjit Singh, residents of Jhugian village.Senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal said Amarjit tried to run over assistant sub-inspector Ashwani Kumar who signalled to stop his car at a toll plaza on Friday night. “The ASI saved himself somehow. The accused then fled towards Jhugian village.” The SSP said when a police reached Jhugian to arrest the accused, they pelted stones at the cops and instigated their pet dog to attack the police. However, the cops later arrested them. He said a case under various sections of IPC, including 307(attempt to murder) was registered against the accused.bOX2 BOOKED FOR ATTACKING COP, ONE HELDTARN TARAN: Two persons have been booked on Saturday for allegedly assaulting an ASI of the Punjab Police amid curfew at Narli Chowk barricade, which falls under the Bhikhiwind sub-division. One of the accused has been arrested.The accused are Charanjit Singh, of Chhina Bidhi Chand village, and Arshdeep Singh, of Narli village.According to police, the duo attacked ASI Sarabjit Singh after being stopped at a barricade. “On Saturday morning, the duo was coming from Narli village side on their respective motorcycles. When the cops stopped them, they attacked the ASI,” said Bhikhiwind DSP Rajbir Singh.Meanwhile, a video of the incident is making rounds on the social media. The clip shows the duo arguing with the ASI, the ASI jostling one of the accused, him reciprocating and the cop falling on the ground. The clip shows the infuriated ASI cane-charging the duo and them retaliating, while other cops are trying to mediate the scuffle.However, police have claimed that the accused duo started the scuffle. The DSP said the accused were roaming in the grain market area without any work and messed with the police party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-man-drags-asi-on-car-s-bonnet-arrested/story-WmLaGAmwLKnqmZq4UE0ZSI.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fight Covid-19 with 30 minutes of laughter every day||With the lockdown extending for two more weeks starting from May 4, mental health issues related to anxiety and uneasiness are further going to engulf people. In the current scenario, where the world is yet to find a permanent solution to the Covid-19, boosting immune system remains the tried-and-tested method to fight the pandemic. With the world celebrating ‘Laughter day’ on May 3, it is going to be a perfect Sunday to start with the laughter exercises. Even without stepping out of house and while staying within the confines of the homes, people can boost their immunity by doing laughter yoga for 15 to 30 minutes.The laughter exercise or laughter yoga is not very technical, but easy to perform. One has to simply laugh and continue doing it. Clapping and some body movements can be included in the daily dose of laughter exercise routine.“In the current scenario everyone should work on boosting the immune system and laughter is a great therapy. It can do wonders in strengthening the immune system. Laughter yoga boosts our immune cells and infection fighting antibodies. 15 minutes of laughing exercises in a day is equivalent to 30 minutes of cardio exercises done thrice in a week. Besides, 10 minutes of belly laughter (loud unrestrained laugh) is equivalent to half-an-hour of cardio exercises. 10 minutes of hearty laughter is equal to 30 minutes on the rowing machine,” says laughter yoga expert Nidhi Jaswal, who is a technical coordinator at the department of community medicine and school of public health at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.Initially, if one is a little hesitant about laughing because of the loud sound, the person can go for silent laughter as an alternative. “Have you ever laughed so hard that no sound actually came out? Practice laughing without any sound and gradually pick up the loud laughter,” says Jaswal.INCREASES LUNGS CAPACITYLaughter is a good for the respiratory system as it open lungs. “Laughter yoga increases the lung capacity by ensuring controlled and forced breathing. It further increases the ventilation of 30% of alveolus (air sacs in lungs), which are usually not functioning in normal breathing,” says Dr Sonu Goel, a professor at the department of community medicine and school of public health, PGIMER. “Health experts are trying to explore natural and effective ways to improve the ability to fight the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV2. India has been a proponent of yoga and ayurveda since ages to boost immunity and increase power to fight diseases. The ancient Indian practices have a lot to offer to persons who are struggling with co-morbid conditions and are desperately seeking ways to improve their immunity. Laughter exercises can be an alternative to yoga to boost immunity,” adds Dr Sonu Goel.LAUGHTER REDUCES STRESSAs deduced various medical researchers, stress is the number one killer and more than 70-80% of illnesses are due to stress. Laughter yoga is a single exercise routine that reduces physical, mental and emotional stress simultaneously and brings an emotional balance.“Laughter yoga has the power to change your mood within minutes by releasing certain chemicals from your brain called endorphins. If your mood is good, you feel good within and will remain cheerful throughout the day. The health benefits of laughter come in two categories: For people who are not sick and want to stay healthy and secondly, for those who have some illness, laughter yoga helps to heal faster,” says Dr Rakesh Gupta, president and director public health, Strategic Institute of Public Health and Research, Chandigarh. “Laughter is also a powerful antidote for depression, reduces blood pressure, reduces symptoms of allergies, asthma, arthritis and helps in chronic illnesses like cancer,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fight-covid-19-with-30-minutes-of-laughter-every-day/story-OTVGrVacfdo4urgm8HFfHM.html
03-05-2020||City||Ludhiana admn claims Nanded-returnees being provided all facilities at quarantine centres||Facing flak over alleged mismanagement at the quarantine centres established for pilgrims returning from Nanded, Maharashtra, the district administration has claimed that the pilgrims have expressed satisfaction over the facilities at these centres.In a statement on Saturday, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said food, tea, fruits and other items were being provided to the pilgrims thrice a day. He said he was personally ensuring that the pilgrims were taken care of.Agrawal said senior officials of the district administration had been made in-charges of the two quarantine centres to monitor the facilities there.He claimed many pilgrims have thanked the Punjab government for facilitating their return back home.Speaking about the situation in Ludhiana, Agrawal said the administration had made elaborate arrangements to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in the district. He added that in view of the extension in curfew announced by the state government, all curfew passes will remain valid till May 17.Earlier on Saturday, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president Simarjeet Singh Bains had accused the Ludhiana administration of mismanagement at the quarantine centres and delay in screening the pilgrims upon their return from Nanded. Bains had alleged that pilgrims were even struggling for drinking water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-admn-claims-nanded-returnees-being-provided-all-facilities-at-quarantine-centres/story-Wc8pkcnRVzlRBMWUV76yyO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew leaves thieves twiddling thumbs, liquor smuggling up by 55% this April in Chandigarh||With empty streets, closed shops and altered routines, the new cityscape amid the epidemic has thrown usual crime patterns in a disarray. While robberies and kidnappings are down by 100 percent in City Beautiful, petty thefts continue and smuggling of liquor is thriving even during the outbreak.According to police crime statistics of April 2020, no incident of kidnapping, sexual harassment, stalking or robbery was reported. In April last year, 15 cases of kidnapping, six cases of sexual harassment and two cases of stalking and robbery were reported.With people spending all their time at home, thieves are finding it hard to break into houses, said police, and are instead targeting vehicles parked outside houses or on streets.Although theft of two-wheelers has gone down by 75 percent, some pockets in the city are reporting a few thefts. However, no cars, SUV’s, jeeps and other four-wheelers or three wheelers were reported stolen this month.Senior superintendent of police(SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said “Crime will keep declining but we are anticipating a rise in motor-vehicle thefts as the movement of vehicles increases, following new orders. Parking spaces might become vulnerable so we are increasing patrolling around them.”Besides, other petty thefts, too, are down by 68 percent and burglaries at night have decreased by 45 percent in April as compared to last year. But police said they are still receiving complaint of petty thefts.Snatching cases down by 75% As per trend of the last three years, there has always been a spurt in snatching cases in March and April. But this year, only five cases were reported in April, as compared to last year when 20 cases were reported. 94 percent decline in rapeOnly one case of rape was reported to the police in April this year, as compared to 17 last year, police said. Even dowry cases are down by 77 percent. Police say although few cases of domestic violence and dowry have been reported, these numbers could be artificially low as victims may not be able to report abuse in the presence of their abusers.55% spike in liquor smugglingAs per police records, this April saw a surge in cases of liquor smuggling. As many as 17 FIRs were registered under the Excise Act alone, as compared to 11 last year in April. Locals said the business of liquor smuggling is thriving in Chandigarh with the patronage of local police. “In our village, several people were selling illicit liquor despite the government’s ban on its sale. No action was taken against them as they had full support of police,” said a resident of Hallomajra, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curfew-leaves-thieves-twiddling-thumbs-liquor-smuggling-up-by-55-this-april-in-chandigarh/story-ALuQ12vq0yE9kFhO6VQ9pJ.html
03-05-2020||Lucknow||Prepare to handle return of migrants: Yogi to officers||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said a large number of migrant labourers would arrive by train next week in Uttar Pradesh and asked officer to be prepared to handle the situation.Yogi was speaking at a meeting of nodal officers appointed for 19 corona-affected districts. Later he also spoke to district magistrates and district police chiefs at a video conferencing wherein he discussed measures to be taken for arrival of migrant labourers and the beginning of the third phase of lockdown on May 4. He said arrangements have been made for quarantine of 10 lakh migrant labourers from different states and that officers must ensure all those coming back were sent to quarantine centres.He asked nodal officers to remain connected with the districts allocated to them, saying their camping in the districts has led to positive changes in the situation there.Yogi sought feedback from officers about enforcement of lockdown and community kitchen service there. He asked officers to use public address systems for smooth arrangements and to send those returning to quarantine.He asked officers for mandatory quarantine of medical teams too. He said the testing labs in Saharanpur and Moradabad should be made functional. He also asked officers to make arrangements of oxygen and ventilators in the Covid-19 hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/prepare-to-handle-return-of-migrants-yogi-to-officers/story-qqcYEURpfjNoMYSTFypTcJ.html
03-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi sets four-day deadline for ventilators in 20 dists||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed health department officers to equip government hospitals in 20 districts with ventilators within four days, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference in Lucknow.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, ventilators are essential for the treatment of those infected patients who become seriously ill.This directive would be applicable on those districts where government hospitals do not have ventilators at present, he said. The chief minister directed officers to strengthen health facilities in all the districts, he said. The state government has decided to purchase portable ventilators for hospitals. The patients of 60 years age and above, as well as children, will be admitted in level two and three hospitals equipped with ventilators. The remaining patients with Covid symptoms will be admitted in level one category hospitals, he said.Awasthi said there were 433 hotspots in various districts across the state at present. Three-fourths of the Covid positive patients — 1712 —were from the hotspots, he said.Health teams surveyed 45.35 lakh people and 7.86 lakh houses in the hotspots. Around 18,000 people suspected to be infected with coronavirus were residing in the hotspots, he said, adding the health department had put 8,000 people in home quarantine.The police have set up 3,000 barriers around hotspots, penalised 20,000 people for violating hotspot guidelines, seized 1,500 vehicles and registered FIRs against 2,000 people.RETAIL VEGETABLE, FRUIT MARKETS TO BE ALLOWED FROM 7AM-7PMLUCKNOW : The state government decided to extend the time slot for retail vegetable and fruit markets in order to avoid overcrowding, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said on Saturday.Orders were issued to district magistrates to allow retail vegetable and fruit markets to remain open from 7am to 7pm daily, Awasthi said.The DMs have been also directed to sanitize the wholesale and retail markets and deploy PRD jawans to manage crowd.It had been observed that large crowds gathered in the mandis in violation of social distancing protocols due to the short span of their functioning, he said.The wholesale vegetable and fruit markets open at 4am in all the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-sets-four-day-deadline-for-ventilators-in-20-dists/story-Y6AD3lolu2IQnbOcaaw3rL.html
03-05-2020||City||Man booked for harassing retd army major in YouTube video||The Ambala cantonment police station lodged a first incident report (FIR) against a 34-year-old man after a retired woman army major accused him of allegedly insulting and damaging her reputation in a YouTube video.She said that the half-hour video made by the accused, Kapil, shows some photos of army establishments and meetings/protocols related to her and her husband.She said, “I am deeply hurt and the orator is threatening me in the video. He has spoken lies that are aimed to ruin me and the name of my husband’s unit.”“The person is notorious and known for malicious allegations through his doctored hate speeches against the units of the Indian Army to create discontentment and rift,” the retired major said, adding that the accused used words that “are threatening both sexually and physically and meant to harass and cause damage to my reputation.”Station in-charge inspector Vijay Kumar said, “We are investigating the allegations.”A case under Sections 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-harassing-retd-army-major-in-youtube-video/story-K8w2DBIJ7MNIvt7ZioIUjP.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Protocol, dedication, team work: What helped a small Gzb CHC achieve 84% Covid recovery rate||A small 30-bed Community Health Centre (CHC) in Muradnagar, which had only cared for general OPD patients from different rural areas of Ghaizabad till March 25, now has the rare distinction of discharging 84% of its Covid-19 patients, with none requiring special care. Since it started functioning as an L1 category Covid hospital in the last week of March, the CHC has successfully treated 27 of 32 patients admitted so far. All the patients, who were discharged upon full recovery, were stable and none had to be shifted to an L2 or L3 Covid facility, said doctors at the facility, which is manned by two teams of 25 each, including six doctors, six nurses, six cleaning staff, two lab technicians, three ward boys and two pharmacists. “This recovery rate would not been possible without the dedication, team work and sacrifice of the staff. Minute precautions and all safety and health protocols have to be followed. Every staff member adapted. Finally, it is not about whether we have small infrastructure but it is more about our will which motivates us to do what we are doing today,” said hospital superintendent Dr GP Mathuria, who is leading the Covid-19 teams, and is a resident of Delhi but has been staying in the CHC campus, which has four flats for doctors and 28 for non-officer level staff.Detailing the training the teams got—how to wear and safely remove PPE kits; basics of infection prevention; information about the disease; prevention and patient management—Dr Davi Lal, the physician of the first Covid-19 team at the CHC, said that not only was the staff trained before the facility was opened for Covid-19 patients, some infrastructure changes were also made to the facility as per protocol. “All 30 beds were rearranged. Twelve were spread out on the ground floor, 16 on 1st floor and two in another room to ensure a 1.5-metre distance is maintained. The main entrance was restricted only for staff and the rear entrance was reserved for movement of patients. We switched off all ACs and all department rooms were shut. Ten CCTVs were installed and separate biomedical waste room was created for disposal of used PPE kits, masks etc,” said Dr Davi Lal, who was part of the team that initially got trained in protocols and later trained the staff. “It is because of team efforts that none of our Covid-19 positive patients were ever needed to be referred to a higher facility. This is the biggest achievement our team from small CHC has till date,” the doctor added.“I have not met my 8-year-old son for over one month, ever since I left him at my mother’s house in Patla near Niwari; my husband is an Indian army and is posted in Jammu,” Parul Naresh, one of the staff nurse at the CHC, said, adding that during the initial training we were told that we will be staying away from family members as we perform duties in a highly contaminated zone. “I speak to my son only through mobile phone and I last saw my husband on Holi. Initially, I was afraid of dealing with Covid-19 patients but sensed that they too were afraid about the virus. After 2-3 days, the fear melted away and our entire team joined hands to treat patients,” she said.The CHC so far has dealt with Covid-19 positive patients linked to the Delhi religious congregation, Noida based company Ceasefire and others who came from Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Sahibabad etc.Basanti Pujan, another staff nurse who is a part of the Covid team, said that though her family lives in the staff quarters in the same CHC campus, she has not met her children for over one month now. “I left my 3-year-old son and 14-year-old daughter with my husband. I know the Coronavirus situation will last a long time and I may have to stay away from my children, but duty comes first,” she said. After the first team completed its 15 days on duty, all members were sent to passive quarantine and the second team took over. A third team of another set of 25 members is set to join a few days.“At CHC, they normally perform small surgeries and deliveries and treating seasonal diseases on routine basis. But the doctors and staff have performed well during Covid duties and treated about 70% Covid-19 symptomatic patients from Ghaziabad. We now have another L1 attached hospital at ESI Hosptial, Sahibabad. It will also start functioning as L1 category hospital,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/protocol-dedication-team-work-what-helped-a-small-gzb-chc-achieve-84-covid-recovery-rate/story-qSjyBJFlocYqZKdEzNLSgP.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||First breather for Delhi: Govt to allow relaxations for red zones||The Delhi government will allow all relaxations listed by the Union ministry of home affairs for areas in the ‘red zones’, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday, in a first curtailment of lockdown rules in the national capital since April 20 when the AAP government had refused to allow lowering the bar for containing Covid-19. In addition, the government on Saturday also started identifying standalone liquor shops that could be opened with social distancing norms.On April 20, the Delhi government had refused any relaxation which was otherwise allowed by the Central government from April 20. It was only almost a week later that it allowed opening of standalone shops and operation of self-employed electricians, plumbers and water purifier repairmen.A state-specific order on the fresh lockdown rules, including the additional activities that will be permitted, will be issued by the Delhi government on Sunday. A “limited” lockdown which includes suspension of air, train and inter-state road travel will continue to remain in force for two more weeks from May 4 across the country, but some activities would be allowed after classifications of districts into red, orange and green zones based on Covid-19 risk profiling, the Centre had announced on Friday.Zone classification breatherDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said all 11 districts in Delhi will be in the red zone till May 17. However, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requested the Centre on Saturday to demarcate red, orange and green zones on the basis of containment zones and not districts. Officials explained that the Union health ministry designates any area as red, orange or green zone on district level. Delhi has only 11 districts and it is geographically different to other states. Once the ward-level categorisation plan is ready, it will be sent to the ministry for its approval. If it gets approved, Delhi, which is entirely in the red zone, will have orange and green zones as well, they said.Till Saturday, the national capital had recorded 4,122 cases of coronavirus and 64 fatalities. On Saturday, 384 new cases were reported. With no new containment zone being identified on Saturday, the total number of such zones in Delhi was 95. As per the MHA order, none of the relaxations would be applicable to the containment zones.Operation of public transport, taxi services, autorickshaws, barbershops, spas and salons are also explicitly prohibited in the red zones.Liquor shopsOn Saturday, the government also began identifying standalone liquor shops that could be opened with social distancing norms. Liquor is a major revenue earner and sale of liquor had been suspended during the operation of the lockdown till May 3. “The Centre has laid its guidelines for the entire country on the basis of districts and not containment zones. All the 11 districts of Delhi are in the red zone. So, whatever activities have been permitted by the Centre, the Delhi government will implement them in the city in toto,” said Satyendar Jain, who holds health and home portfolios.A senior government official said not all liquor vends will be allowed to open. Firstly, they will have to be standalone liquor shops (not part of any market, shopping complex or mall) or those located in neighbourhoods or residential colonies. Secondly, only the stores having L6 and L8 licenses will be permitted. L6 license for retail vend of Indian liquor/beer is granted only to selected undertakings of the Delhi government such as DTTDC, DSIDC, DSCSC and DCCWS. L8 licenses are given to retail vends selling country liquor.“The number of such shops (with L6 and L8 licences) is more than 500, but that number is not important as not all will be eligible to open because it has to be a standalone shop. So, we have asked our teams to identify such standalone liquor shops across the city,” an official in the excise department said.A second senior government official said the usual revenue mop up for April is around Rs 3,500 crore. But, this year the government could collect only over Rs 320 crore in April. “If such a situation persists then paying salaries to Delhi government employees could also become tougher,” the official said on condition of anonymity.Movement of peopleAs per the MHA rules, individuals and vehicles (with a maximum of three occupants in cars and one occupant on two-wheelers) will be allowed. Private offices can operate with 33% staff strength physically present on the premises and the rest working from home, the order states. All government officials, of deputy secretary rank and higher, can function with 100% staff, while 33% staff strength is allowed for other ranks.Hospital and testing centre for govt officialsDelhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday appointed a state nodal welfare officer to provide “all necessary help”, including medical treatment and welfare, to Covid-19 positive officers of the Delhi government, its autonomous bodies, corporations and local bodies (municipal corporations).The order came in the wake of doctors, nurses of Delhi government hospitals, and civil defence volunteers in the south-west district office testing positive for Covid-19.While Nikhil Kumar, the CEO of Delhi Jal Board has been appointed as the nodal officer, he has been tasked with identifying two dedicated hospitals and one exclusive testing centre for Delhi government officers and their families.“A staff welfare cell and a dedicated 24x7 helpline number under this cell will be opened for regular interaction with infected officers as well as their family members. The district magistrates have been asked to provide details of officers found Covid-19 positive in their districts daily to the state nodal welfare officer,” a senior government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-breather-for-delhi-govt-to-allow-relaxations-for-red-zones/story-wTZrZvYuMPWUb6JdpbijLJ.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha’s 1st plasma therapy trial: Covid-positive man was treated on compassionate grounds, says doctor||A senior doctor closely involved in Maharashtra’s first trial for convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 treatment told HT on Saturday that the patient did not meet the inclusion criteria mentioned in the protocol. “Instead,” he said, “the patient was allowed to be treated on compassionate grounds, and as the last resort.” The 53-year-old male patient died on April 30, five days after the plasma transfusion.Convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting patients with plasma from recovered patients. The plasma, which would have developed antibodies to fight invading viruses (in this case, the coronavirus), theoretically boosts a patient’s immunity response to Sars-CoV-2. A patient needs to meet required parameters such as adequate oxygen flow in the body, normal pulse rate and a lack of co-morbid health issues to qualify for the therapy.In this case, however, the patient was in critical condition. Doctors in the city feel that convalescent plasma therapy needs to be used in patients that are in better condition.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), under infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, started the clinical therapy at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital after receiving an approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). BYL Nair Hospital extracted the plasma from a recovered patient, which was later sent to Lilavati Hospital for the clinical therapy. The 53-year-old patient from Kurla had tested positive on April 19 and was admitted to Lilavati Hospital on April 20. As his condition was critical, he was put on ventilator support in the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU). His diagnosis revealed that he had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with pneumonia. The man developed Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) after which the team headed by Dr Om Srivastava gave the approval, the doctor said. CRS is a form of systemic inflammatory response syndrome when the immune system attacks the organs in the body.“He didn’t meet the inclusion criteria, but approval was given on grounds of compassion,” said the doctor.On April 25, a 200ml of plasma was transfused into the patient, after which the oxygen intake improved, but he soon went into shock. He developed a bacterial infection that did not respond to antibiotics. He died on April 30.Lilavati Hospital said the patient was brought in a critical condition. He was given anti-viral medicines, but he didn’t respond, hospital authorities said. “We kept him on immunosuppressants, but they didn’t have much effect. We wanted to give him another 400ml of plasma, but his condition deteriorated to such an extent that we couldn’t. We tried our best to save him, but his condition was very critical,” said Lilavati Hospital CEO Dr V Ravishankar.BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi was reportedly informed that the patient could either improve or succumb to the underlying infection. He was also informed that if the patient dies, it would be considered a failure of the plasma therapy and generate inappropriate reactions. Pardeshi could not be reached for a comment. Talking to HT, the patient’s son said, “They told us that it was the only way to save my father as medicines were ineffective.”This comes in the backdrop of Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health and family welfare ministry, saying convalescent plasma therapy is not an approved way to treat Covid-19 patients. Medical experts, however, say it should be used only for patients whose condition is better.“The antibodies may neutralise the Sars-CoV-2, but the underlying inflammation will kill the patient,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital. “It is important to run the therapy among patients with a better chance of survival to understand if plasma therapy is effective. It is a study [in this case], but a proven treatment [otherwise], which can be used to save lives.”Meanwhile, Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “Six more cured patients have donated their blood. Once we get a suitable patient, we will conduct the second trial. Seven Hills hospital has got a patient for plasma transfusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-positive-man-wasn-t-fit-for-plasma-therapy-said-senior-doctor/story-mdeJKpSAjGZVUPWtpgJ8RO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||65% private schools in Chandigarh refuse to pay salaries to employees for April||Of 77 private schools in Chandigarh, over 50 schools said that they will not be paying salaries to employees for April. The Independent Schools Association (ISA), a body of private schools in Chandigarh, said that if the UT education department doesn’t allow schools to collect fee soon, salaries of teachers and Class 4 employees will be not be paid.ISA chairman HS Mamik told the Hindustan Times that the association will be approaching the Punjab and Haryana high court next week if no respite is given to schools by the education department. “Out of all the member schools, only 5 to 7 schools will be able to pay the salaries while the rest of the schools do not have sufficient funds to give salaries, said the chairman. “In my school itself, the budget for salaries is around ₹1 crore per month. Other member schools have to pay a minimum of 50-60 lakh as salary, he said while questioning, “How will they pay it unless they get fee from students?” He further said, “It is important that the fee should be paid by May 10 or latest by May 12 to sustain the schools. It is through the fee paid by the students that the employees get their salaries and the financial obligation is met.”As a matter of fact, around 12,000 teachers are employed in private schools in Chandigarh and the overall education industry is worth crores.The education department had deferred payment of tuition fee for the 2020-21 session in government and private schools owing to lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. The order said that the dates for fee collection will be announced after the schools reopen and a month’s time will be given for the payment.After repeated complaints regarding fees collection by various city schools, the education department had asked all private unaided schools to display their balance sheet online by March 30. However, none of the schools complied with the directions. Explanation calls were also made to over 15 schools by the education department.Chandigarh Parents’ Association president Nitin Goyal said, “If balance sheets of any school reveal that the school management is short of funds for paying the salaries of the staff, those particular schools should be allowed to charge a reduced fee to be able to cover the salaries of teachers and other employees only. Parents should not be burdened with the fat salaries of the top management and trustees as they are already very well-off and secured financially, Goyal added.UT director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The department is reconsidering the fee collection directive. A call in this regard will be taken by the senior authorities on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/65-private-schools-in-chandigarh-refuse-to-pay-salaries-to-employees-for-april/story-aScYCsxtcADrd4yj6ERQAP.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab eases curfew hours in orange, green zones||ChandigarhThe Punjab government on Saturday changed the curfew timings. The shops in green and orange zones will now remain open from 9am to 1pm from Sunday. Earlier, shops were allowed to open between 7am to 11am. There would be, however, no relaxations in red and containment zones. The decision to change the timings has been taken in response to requests from people in various districts to open the shops after 9am. The issue also came up for discussion during the cabinet meeting and there was consensus that the timings should be changed in public interest, said an official spokesperson.Continuing with his policy of “relief with strictness”, Amarinder made it clear that anyone found venturing out of their homes for essentials etc without wearing a mask would be strictly dealt with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-eases-curfew-hours-in-orange-green-zones/story-6yWRaAngUsgYOAQ0tQ09PM.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||8,220 industries start operations, 16,726 units to join them soon||More than 8,220 industry units with a workforce of over 1.63 lakh have started operations after the government announced relaxations for the industry on April 20, amid the lockdown, said the state industries department.According to department officials, the remaining 16,726 units with a workforce of over 3 lakh, which have got permission, are also expected to start in the next couple of days. “Before April 20, almost 14,781 units with a workforce of 3.5 lakh were already operational,” said an official.While the officials claim that the response from industry has been good, representatives from within the industry said that many of the conditions imposed by the government are impractical and are creating hurdles in restarting the operations. They have now sought relaxations of conditions including transportation of workers and their stay at the workplace.A nationwide survey conducted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) recently also indicated that permits for enterprises pass for workers and supply chain movement are the key hurdles for the industry to exit from lockdown.“For facilitating restart of economic activities, CII has suggested that in non-containment zones, businesses should be allowed to function without requirement of permits and only through intimation to local authorities. Moreover, workers can be permitted to commute based on a letter issued by the employer organisation, with the facility to travel on their vehicles,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, director-general, CII.Venugopal Reddy, secretary, industries department said that they are taking all the steps very cautiously. “We have received 24,946 applications since April 20 from units which have agreed to fulfil all the conditions imposed by the state government. Of them, 8,220 units with over 1.63 lakh workers have started their operation. They have also got permission for over 2,000 vehicles for transportation of labourers,” Reddy said.JSW, Ceat, KEC International, POSCO Steel, Sudarshan Chemicals, Ambuja Cement, UltraTech, Uttam Galva Steels, Golden Fibres, Hindustan Unilever are some of the prominent industry units,which have started operations so far.There are a total of 2,430 large-scale units in the state while micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) units stand at 7,33,010.Chandrakant Salunkhe, president, Maharashtra Industrial and Economic Development Association (MIEDA) said they are facing multiple issues. “First of all, the workers are not available. Some are not coming out of fear while some are thinking if they get paid without work then why should they report to work. The other problem is the non-availability of raw material. The government needs to understand the supply chain required for the industrial sector will not work with the opening of only a few segments. There has to be proper planning, else industries will collapse if the lockdown is extended,” Salunkhe said.Kiran Paturkar, president, Federation of Industries Association, Vidarbha ,said with no work for more than a month, owners are not in a position to arrange transport and accommodation for workers, especially those linked to small-scale industries. “There has to be some mechanism to ensure that workers can be transported to the units, especially for small scale units. How will they invest in transport costs if there is no work for more than a month? Forcing workers to stay at the workplace or giving accommodation nearby is also not feasible,” Paturkar said.“Barring Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region, dedicated buses for transportation of workers have started in many areas with the help of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), a state-run corporation. The district administration, based on their discretion and assessment of the situation, is also allowing workers to commute on two-wheelers to where the industries are located in rural areas. The workers are residing close by, but in a controlled manner, the industries secretary said.“We have already suggested that the state government allow opening of all the industries without many conditions in green zones. However, the government is yet to take a decision,” said a senior official from the state industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/8-220-industries-start-ops-16-726-units-to-join-them-soon/story-ove8zvHmiHvUJ6Zdi1YRWO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Out of the box and into the frying pan||Difficult times and desperate situations are a perfect breeding ground for out-of-the-box suggestions. Success may not be guaranteed, but the excitement generated by such suggestions is worth the effort. Covid-19 has created unprecedented uncertainty across the globe. Even as the number of infected patients and fatalities rises globally, brainstorming to tackle the virus and life to return to normalcy assumes high priority. Scientists across the world are trying to piece together the jigsaw puzzle amidst numerous out-of-the box suggestions put forth by those who have no expertise on the matter – the latest one suggesting that a disinfectant be injected in the human body to kill the virus takes the cake.This takes me back to my days in the Army and the perils of out-of-the-box thinking. Years ago, the general officer commanding (GOC) was scheduled to visit our unit. The criticality of the first visit by this no-nonsense boss was lost on no one, in line with the age old dictum, ‘first impression is the last impression’. Now, there was a tricky problem here. The unit, even the neighboring area housing other units, had a number of stray dogs. Generous feeding by our God-fearing troops, despite orders to the contrary, had the canine population multiply in recent times. The commanding officer (CO) was in a dilemma, wondering how to escort the GOC around the unit lines with our four-legged friends merrily making hay.Having failed to find a solution after a couple of brainstorming sessions with the senior lot, the second-in-command suggested a chat with the young officers to get some innovative ideas. Various suggestions came up. Sandy, the young captain, too came to life and said, “Sir, we shall organise a food fair for our dog population at a secluded corner behind the alpha squadron cookhouse. All of them will gorge on their favorite food and thus remain confined to one spot while the GOC takes a round of the unit lines.” There was silence before the CO exclaimed in utter glee, “So it shall happen... Proud of you, my boy!”Everybody, of course, concurred and Sandy was the hero, having guaranteed himself a full 60 days of annual leave and a definite fillip to his career.Well, the day arrived and it was confirmed to the Tiger that the plan was in place and the unit was spick and span and canine free. The GOC arrived and after the mandatory operational briefing, the CO proudly offered him a tour around the unit area. However, the moment the open jeep with the VIP driven by the beaming CO turned the corner, a cavalcade of stray dogs of all sizes and shapes blocked the advance of the inspecting team. An obviously shaken CO was quick to rise to the occasion, a hallmark of a seasoned soldier, and with a matter-of-fact, say-it-all smile, stopped the jeep to let the column of animals pass. The smile directed towards the general meant, “ Sir, the unit respects animal rights as much as human rights.”The GOC, confronted with an awkward situation, could do nothing but respond: “Colonel, hope sterilisation norms are being followed with these poor things?”The unflappable demeanour of the CO, though, saved the day for the unit but had young Sandy marching up to the second in command. After a five-minute dressing down, he was asked if he wanted to say something in his defence.Sandy’s reply was: “Sir, the plan was perfect, only if the cook had not used aromatic spices. Also, mother nature controlled the wind direction, which forced the dogs, even those from the neighbouring units, to make a beeline for the food fair,” a response more convincing than the one presented after the disinfectant ingestion faux pas. Meanwhile, presence of mind exhibited by Sandy made him a favourite of the boss in all future brainstorming sessions for his out-of-the box thinking.avnishrms59@gmail.com (The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/out-of-the-box-and-into-the-frying-pan/story-CeMIzrMnGfBskzyeX4ahvN.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||BYL Nair Hospital faces medical staff shortage||The biggest Covid-19 facility in the city, BYL Nair Hospital, is facing a severe shortage of staff as its resident doctors are being transferred on coronavirus duty to other hospitals and facilities. Presently, the hospital has a bed capacity of 362, including 38 in the intensive care unit (ICU). With all beds occupied, resident doctors are working round the clock. Despite this, 140 resident doctors have been called on Covid-19 duty at the Seven Hills Hospital, 30 to Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and another 90 have been stationed under the public health department.“All Covid and non-covid hospitals are referring their patients to us for treatment. But rather than providing us with additional hands, our doctors are being taken away,” said a student from the hospital.Dr Mohan Joshi, current in-charge of the hospital said, “We have enough staff to cater to 1,000 patients. There is no additional pressure. They are working in different shifts. Also, the order to station doctors at other hospitals comes from the BMC.”Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to extend the bed capacity at the hospital to 800. But arranging for the required number of staff will turn into the biggest hurdle. As the elderly are more susceptible to the infection, many senior doctors can’t get directly involved in the treatment of patients. This has put additional pressure on residents and already many of them have contracted the infection on duty. “Already, 40 medical staffers from the hospital have contracted the infection through cross-transmission. Many are also already quarantined so can’t even ask them to work,” said another doctor.The hospital also doesn’t have an adequate number of dialysis machines. As per sources, the hospital has only five dialysis machines which can only attend to 24 patients maximum daily. Whereas, the hospital has already registered 39 dialysis patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nair-covid-hospital-faces-medical-staff-shortage/story-AdF1QQPe33jBFD5T9claiK.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||With hospitals overwhelmed, pregnant women left with no care or place to give birth||Last week, a 35-year-old woman from north-east Delhi’s Janta Mazdoor Colony started frantically calling the ASHA (accredited social health activist) when her labour pains started. When she couldn’t through to any worker, she went to the maternity clinic where her antenatal check-up had been done, but that was closed for the day when she got there.She was told to go to Kasturba hospital, about 6km away. “She did not know how to get there and she was already in a lot of pain. So, she decided to call a midwife home. She gave birth to a baby boy, who died soon after,” said Sulekha Singh, a health activist, who helped the woman take her baby to Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalay afterwards.Pregnant women, especially those about to give birth, are the worst hit by the ongoing lockdown as well as overwhelmed health care systems. With health care workers in several hospitals testing positive for the Covid-19, many women are no longer able to visit the hospitals that provided them antenatal care. While some are forced to travel to far-off hospitals, and brave the risk of a coronavirus infection, others have no option but to birth at home. Three days ago, a woman from Jahangirpuri did not know where to go when she thought she was having labour pains because the hospital she used to go to – Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital – was closed after 75 health care workers tested positive for Covid-19.The police helped her reach Deep Chand Bandhu hospital where she was told there was still time for her to go into labour and was asked to go home. “Doctors from Deep Chand Bandhu hospital asked her to go to Ambedkar hospital for the delivery, which is closer to her place. But, we had not taken her there earlier as the gynaecology department was closed a day ago because someone had tested positive for Covid-19. The situation keeps changing daily and we have no idea where to take the women,” Singh said.One of the city’s biggest maternity centre -- Kasturba hospital near Jama Masjid – does not allow in patients from containment zones with fever, cough or sore throat.“There are several containment areas around the hospital, but if anyone from these areas comes to us with even a mild fever or sore throat, we do not admit them because they are likely to have Covid-19. We refer them to Covid-19 hospitals,” a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity, said.This problem was highlighted when a 25-year-old woman from Nizamuddin Basti – which was declared a containment area after 2,300 Tablighi Jamaat members were evacuated from the Markaz complex -- was turned away from Safdarjung. She was referred to Lok Nayak hospital, which denied her admission because she was not Covid-19 positive. She visited at least six hospitals and maternity clinics in the span of 48 hours before finally giving birth outside All India Institute of Medical Sciences.This case was referred to in a public interest litigation by an organisation called SAMA in the Delhi high court. Responding to the plea, the Delhi high court had ordered, “The Union of India and the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi shall work in tandem to make sure that no barriers are faced by pregnant ladies and their family members residing in hot spots during the lockdown.” The busiest gynaecology department in Delhi, at Safdarjung hospital, which sees about 110 deliveries a day, is now creating a separate space for Covid-19 positive deliveries in the super specialty block where it houses other people with Covid-19.“For now, our labour rooms have been divided into non-Covid and suspected Covid. But, yes, women have been facing problems since the lockdown. Many smaller nursing homes and maternity hospitals are not functioning now. Also, earlier, the bigger hospitals used to accommodate more than one patient on each bed. That is not possible now, because we have to follow social distancing norms,” a doctor from Safdarjung hospital’s gynaecology department said.That is the reason why doctors at Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital in Khichripur say that there has been a surge in the number of maternity cases at the hospital ever since the lockdown, especially in the last two weeks.“We usually used to get 20-odd maternity cases daily. But now we are getting about 30-40 cases daily. We have got some maternity cases that were earlier undergoing routine checkups at big hospitals,” a senior doctor, on condition of anonymity, said.However, all this flies in the face of Delhi government orders. It has directed all clinics, hospitals and nursing homes, including private ones, to remain open for the treatment of non-Covid patients. The hospitals have been threatened with cancellation of licence if not complying with the order.Hospitals have been asked not to refuse treatment to anyone and ensure pregnancy deliveries, haemodialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy, treatment of chronic as well as communicable diseases, such as TB and leprosy.With inputs from Risha Chitlangia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-hospitals-overwhelmed-pregnant-women-left-with-no-care-or-place-to-give-birth/story-iqOmJLgWn4TyXwx719O8vM.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||Haryana launches online portal to facilitate return of migrant workers||The Haryana government has launched an online portal for stranded migrant workers and other people who wish to return to their home states. The migrants will have to register themselves on the portal, or they can call on helpline 1950 or call centre number 1100, said a government spokesperson.According to officials, to facilitate interstate movement (inward and outward) of stranded people, a web page -- https://edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantService -- has been launched for online registration of the migrant workers.Sharing more details about the same, the spokesperson said that in order to register a request for interstate movement, the migrants have to register themselves on the web page. If anyone wants to register through mobile application, then he/ she will have to download ‘Jan Sahayak Help me’ application from Google Playstore and provide all necessary information, the officials said.Besides, if any migrant worker does not have access to the above two and is stuck in Haryana, he/she may take assistance from the district administration by dialling 1950 or call centre number 1100.According to preliminary estimates, lakhs of migrant workers are stuck in the state due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread, the officials said.Earlier in the day, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar appealed to the migrant labourers to remain in the state and not return to their native villages as several industries are going to resume operations in coming days. “All helps will be given to workers and their jobs will remain secure. We will also provide food and other essential items in case of any problem,” said Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-launches-online-portal-to-facilitate-return-of-migrant-workers/story-cJ5Bklh1c8qZhxrNuVP8HO.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19 death toll in Pune district is now 103||Four deaths due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection were reported in Pune district on Saturday. The death toll in the district is now 103, according to officials. According to district officials out of the 103 deaths, 65 are from Sassoon hospital, four from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), three from district hospital Aundh and 31 from Naidu and private hospitals in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Out of the 103 deaths, 91 are from PMC, three from PCMC, six from rural areas, one from Pune cantonment and two from Khadki cantonment. In 92 deaths, patients were associated with risk factor while others did not report any associated risk factor. The officials also said that from the total deaths, 59 are male and 44 are female. The first death in the district due to Covid-19 was recorded on April 2. Although the first death was reported on March 30, the deceased was a Thane resident and so, is not included in the Pune records. In PMC on Saturday, 107 fresh cases were reported and three deaths. The current death toll in PMC as of May 2 till 9pm is 94 and total positive progressive cases is 1,718. According to officials, 53 patients were discharged after being cured of the Covid-19 infection and till May 2, 378 have been discharged.The four deaths recorded on Saturday are from Sassoon general hospital. In the first case, a 68-year-male from Ghorpadi was symptomatic since April 21 and was admitted to the hospital on April 24 and tested positive on the same day. He was declared dead on Saturday at 1:20 am. The cause of death is acute respiratory failure due to acute respiratory distress syndrome with myocarditis along with Covid-19 infection. In the second case, a 73-year-old male from Manjri, Pune, who was symptomatic since April 20 and was admitted to the hospital on April 28 and tested positive for Covid-19 on April 29, was declared dead on May 2 at 7:30 am. The cause of death is multiple organ distress syndrome, acute respiratory distress syndrome, myocarditis, acute kidney injury, pulmonary TB, bronchial asthma and hypertension. The third death reported is of a 72-year-old male from Laxminagar. The patient was admitted to the hospital on May 1 and was declared dead on the same day at 7:30pm, but the patient’s test report came on Saturday confirming the infection. The patient suffered from respiratory failure bilateral pneumonia and with bilateral pneumothorax with AF with fast VR. The fourth death was reported of a 77-year-old male from Mangalwar peth who was admitted to Sassoon on April 30 and declared dead on May 1 at 7 pm. The swab test report came into Saturday confirming the infection. The patient also suffered from acute respiratory failure due to ARDS with myocarditis with Covid-19 positive. Out of the 103 deaths recorded in the district, highest deaths were recorded in the age group of 50-60 (24) followed by 60-70 (23), five deaths in 20-30, 6 within 30-40, 13 from 40-50 and 10 from 70-80.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-death-toll-in-pune-district-is-now-103/story-WymlJQsupiFFGIwAkCftlL.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||Visits to public places in Haryana declined by 91% in April, shows Google data||Mobility data published by Google shows that the ongoing lockdown, to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has been effective in keeping at least a portion of India’s population indoors. In Haryana, for example, visits to parks and other public spaces declined by 91% between March 15 and April 26, as opposed to visits made between January 3 and February 6 (which has been taken as the baseline period). The data, which only captures smartphone users who have allowed Google to track their location history, also shows that movement to residential areas in the state increased by 22% after the outbreak. Google’s Community Mobility Reports, launched in early April to depict changing mobility trends in a post-Covid world, published a state-wise mobility data for India on Friday. The data shows a significant drop in the number of trips people made to recreational and work-related destinations, such as parks, grocery stores, pharmacies, transit stations and offices, while visits to residential locations increased.In Haryana, the data also shows an 86% decline in visits to restaurants, cafes, shopping centres, theme parks, museums, libraries, and movie theatres. During the same period, movement to transit stations, including metro stations and bus stands, declined by 70%. Visits to food markets, grocery stores and pharmacies declined by 46%, while visits to works places dropped by 42%, showed the data. Nationwide, the data shows an 86% reduction in trips to recreational destinations, 51% to grocery stores and pharmacies, 68% to parks, 66% to transit stations and 41% to workplaces, along with a 22% increase in trips to residential areas. Experts said this is not surprising, given strict curbs on movement imposed by the lockdown and the absence of pubic transport. “We have heard from public health officials that this same type of aggregated, anonymised data could be helpful as they make critical decisions to combat Covid-19,” Google had said in a statement at the time of launching it’s mobility data in early April. “This dataset is intended to help remediate the impact of COVID-19. It shouldn’t be used for medical diagnostic, prognostic, or treatment purposes. It also isn’t intended to be used for guidance on personal travel plans,” the report for India states.Experts said that while the data can be valuable for policy makers, it must also be viewed with certain caveats. Divij Joshi, lawyer and policy expert at an international not-for-profit technology company, said, “Such kind of data could be used by authorities to see how and where people are moving. This could help them understand where social distancing measures need to be enforced more strictly, for example. But the actual utility of the data is still to be seen. Also, Google has captured only those individuals who own smartphones and have allowed Google to track their location history.”Citizens using feature phones without internet connectivity have been left out of the data. “There is a large section of the population whose mobility patterns are not being noted, even though they are changing. Smartphone penetration in India is only between 30 to 40%, so Google’s data set covers only a certain section of the population, with most smartphone users living in urban areas,” Joshi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/visits-to-public-places-in-haryana-declined-by-91-in-april-shows-google-data/story-Sg7FpXhe5DTthDHb0tWFSL.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||56 test positive in two clusters in Delhi, DMs call for retests after week-long delay||Fifty-six people, including a three-year-old, from two clusters in Kapashera and Tughlakabad Extension have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in two days, according to the Delhi government. Forty-one cases were reported from a double-storey building in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera. The other 15 cases were reported from across southeast district’s Tughlakabad Extension area.Until Saturday evening, Delhi reported 4,122 Covid-19 cases, of whom 64 had died.The government and civic agencies have been at work in the areas over the last two weeks to contain the spread of the virus after the first cases were detected there. The respective areas were also declared containment zones when the positive cases came to light. As of Saturday, Delhi has 95 containment zones.Residents of areas categorised as containment zones are not allowed to step out of their houses, and authorities deliver essential items to doorsteps. Entries and exits to and from these neighbourhood are restricted as well, and pickets are continuously guarded by police personnel.The authorities allow only select vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood with the help of local residents’ welfare associations.The two, however, are not the first clusters to report multiple Covid-19 cases. On April 23, at least 46 people had tested positive for Covid-19 from two lanes of an already-notified containment zone in Jahangirpuri area of north district.Kapashera According to district administration officials, a woman living in a building in Theke Wali Gali near the deputy commissioner’s office in Kapashera tested positive for the disease on April 18. Consequently, the district administration sealed the densely populated building, which houses around 200 people, and declared the lane a containment zone on April 19. The building has now been become a Covid-19 hot spot.Southwest district magistrate Rahul Singh said that though the guidelines mandate sealing of an area when three cases have been reported, the district administration took the “proactive decision” to seal the building with only one case reported, to ensure the virus did not spread any further. Kapashera is also home to thousands of migrant workers who work in different parts of the national capital and share small single rooms in the area, with other workers.“We conducted a survey and collected samples of 175 residents of the building on April 20 and April 22. Of these samples, sent to the National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) laboratory in Noida, 67 returned on Friday evening, and 41 were positive. We expect the remaining test results to arrive in a couple of days,” Singh said.He said the test results were delayed due to the pendency of cases at the Noida laboratory. “All the individuals who tested positive are asymptomatic, and fresh tests will be conducted to assess their present status,” he added.The 41 who tested positive are across age groups.According to former councillor Anil Yadav, the building has entries in two lanes of the area. The front of the plot houses a two-storey building, while the back has makeshift rooms. Yadav said there are 60-65 rooms in the building, including the makeshift ones.Some of the building’s residents had returned to their hometowns before the lockdown.“Most of the residents of the building are daily wage labourers, factory workers and fruit or vegetable vendors. The building is densely populated, with as many as four or five people living in one room. It’s good that the building was sealed on April 19, else the entire region could have been affected,” he said.He said vigilance and sanitisation drives have been stepped up in the area.Tughlakabad ExtensionAs many as 15 residents of lanes 24 to 28, which were previously declared containment zones, of Tughlakabad Extension have tested positive for Covid-19. The tests were conducted on April 20 and the results returned on April 30 evening. These tests were also sent to the NIB lab in Noida.Government officials said, 40 more results from the area were pending.Lanes 26 and 27 of Tughlakabad Extension were declared a containment zone on April 17, after three people tested positive. On April 19, 35 more people tested positive from the same area, after which three more lanes — 24, 25 and 28 — were added to the containment zone.District administration officials said that during a door-to-door survey in the area, some people displayed symptoms of the disease, after which 87 residents were tested. “Test reports of 47 people have arrived, of which 15 have tested positive,” an official said.Administration officials said they had ramped up surveillance in all the lanes, and that the area had been sealed completely. Poonam Bhati, councillor, Tughlakabad Extension, said disinfection exercises have been stepped up in the area and regular screenings are being conducted. She, however, said tests to should be conducted again since the initial reports had been delayed by more than a week.“More samples should be collected from the area. Report of another 40 samples are yet to come. There should be no delay, and reports should be released in stipulated timeframe of 36 to 48 hours for effective monitoring and treatment,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/56-test-positive-in-two-clusters-in-delhi-dms-call-for-retests-after-week-long-delay/story-a07xPmJy7Wa4eA6sKimepM.html
03-05-2020||Gurugram||Over 100 executives of private companies stopped at the border||More than 100 mid-level and senior executives of private companies were not allowed to enter Gurugram by the city police at the border on Saturday.A number of executives said that they were from the finance department and salary section of the human resources department and were on their way to process salaries. They also said that they had valid permissions from the government but they could not furnish supporting documents to be allowed to enter the city, said the police.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), deployed at the Sirhaul border, said that they cannot allow anyone unless they have a fresh permission and an emergency. “These people should apply for permission on the SARAL portal or ask the labour commissioner to issue directions so that they can cross the border to process the salaries within two days,” he said.More than 100 such executives were turned away from the border on Saturday since, as per the existing directions, salary does not fall under an emergency criteria, said police officials deployed at the border.Dhirender Singh, a senior HR executive of a private company in Udyog Vihar, said he could not cross the border on Friday as all the previous passes were cancelled and their fresh applications were not considered. Further, we have not received any response from the district administration till now. “We need to transfer salaries by Monday as people need to pay their rent, school fees for their children and meet other expenditure. Our company has always paid by the second of every month but due to this pandemic and borders being sealed, the process has been delayed,” he said.Another senior executive of a private company in Cyber City said they need to process all the salaries and check the deductions before preparing the final amount to be paid. “Its been more than a month that we have not been to office and many of us are working from home. We need to visit our office premises and update some balance sheets to release the salaries of the employees. The district administration needs to take this seriously as this is no less than an emergency,” said Rashmi Kapoor, a senior HR executive.Amit Khatri, Gurugram deputy commissioner, said they are issuing passes for all kinds of emergencies and the companies should be very specific while entering details on SARAl portal. “We are trying to resolve all issues related to emergencies,” he said.Despite repeated calls and messages to Munesh Sharma, assistant labour commissioner, he did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-100-executives-of-private-companies-stopped-at-the-border/story-GyxSd1oujVXqLkVg5Sr5GK.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||15 persons working at CATS ambulance call centre test Covid positive||At least 15 people working in the control room of Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) Ambulance have tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Delhi on Friday night. The control room, however, continues to function, with around 25 people responding to calls for ambulances from across the national capital.The samples of the operators were collected four days ago, and the reports returned positive for 15 on Friday night. “All operators working in one shift at the call centre have tested positive, the test reports of the remaining staff are awaited,” an official from East Delhi’s district office said.The positive patients have been admitted to Lok Nayak, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality, AIIMS Jhajjar and RML hospitals. Apart from the ‘102’ number for ambulance services, the Delhi government has issued four other cellphone numbers on Friday – 7291000071, 7291000078, 7291000093, 7291000094.“One of the operators had fever for a couple of days and his condition is serious. He has been rushed to RML hospital, where he has been put on ventilator support. Yet, this call centre office hasn’t been sealed. Some offices are being closed even if a single Covid-19 case is reported. How do we know that we would not get the infection? So many of us sit in the same office, share the same computers, there is always the possibility of an infection,” one of the CATS operators said, on condition of anonymity.The reports of around 50 other employees are still pending. The modern control room in Laxmi Nagar was set up in 2015 when the Delhi government launched the ‘Home to Hospital Care Scheme’ to provide free ambulance service for all medical emergencies. Earlier, the services were restricted to accident cases and deliveries.The government-run service has around 151 ambulances across the city, with 60 being deputed for transporting Covid-19 positive or suspected cases.The infection has reached the doors of front-line warriors in the city, with the staff at the office of east district’s chief district medical officer being put under quarantine after one of them tested positive for the infection three days ago. The team is responsible for surveillance of Covid-19 positive and suspected cases in the district.Over 300 health care workers and hospital staff have tested positive for Covid-19 in the city so far. At Jahangirpuri’s Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital, at least 75 hospital staff tested positive for the infection, which led to the government closing the 100-bed hospital. Around 45 staff members at Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital also tested positive for Covid-19. Delhi State Cancer Institute reported its first cluster of infections in the beginning of April. At least 26 hospital staff have tested positive for the infection. Four patients also tested positive for Covid-19 and two of them succumbed to the illness.Almost all health care workers who tested positive were from non-Covid hospitals or non-Covid areas of hospitals.The Delhi government suspended a controversial order soon after issuing it on Friday in which it had demanded that all health care workers who test positive or come in contact with positive cases give a written explanation as to how that happened despite them following guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/15-persons-working-at-cats-ambulance-call-centre-test-covid-positive/story-eulUXV2Qktx2WLKbpYo1LL.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Lokpal member justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi dies of Covid-19||Judicial member of Lokpal and former judge of Chhattisgarh high court Ajay Kumar Tripathi, 62, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died late Saturday evening. He had been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ (AIIMS) trauma centre on April 3.He had been on the ventilator and was in a critical condition when he was admitted.“He had been on and off the ventilator since his admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) last month. He died with Covid-19 in the evening,” said an official from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.He also suffered from diabetes, which increases the risk of severe symptoms from Covid-19.He was the second Covid-19 patient to be admitted to the Jai Prakash Narayan Trauma Centre, which was converted into a stand-alone Covid-19 centre, one of the three government centres in the city. The 240-bed facility is meant for those with severe symptoms of Covid-19.The new private ward at the main AIIMS campus is reserved for suspected cases, whereas those with mild symptoms are sent to the AIIMS Jhajjar campus.All trauma cases have now been diverted to the main AIIMS campus where they are handled in the emergency ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lokpal-member-justice-ajay-kumar-tripathi-dies-of-covid-19/story-WGfoGbbojmRmsPC2IBTevJ.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Students oppose Jamia move asking students to vacate campus hostels||The Jamia Millia Islamia administration on Friday asked students stranded in the university hostels to vacate rooms and leave for their homes, saying several areas near the campus had been declared Covid-19 hot spots.The university said hostel provosts would arrange transportation for them as per the travel protocol of their respective home states.The Union government had, on Friday, allowed the railways to run special trains to ferry students, migrant workers stranded in various parts of the country due to the nationwide lockdown, which was extended till May 17.However, several students wrote to Jamia’s vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar, saying they feared for their safety while travelling. They also argued that they did not want get stuck at quarantine centres after reaching their respective states.The home ministry’s guidelines for transporting workers and students to their home states, however, mandate only home quarantine, unless an assessment by local authorities deems that a person be kept in institutional quarantine.Around 300 students are currently putting up in the university’s seven hostels on campus. The other students had vacated their rooms when the lockdown was announced in March.In the order issued on May 1, Jamia registrar AP Siddiqui said, “Students stranded in the hostels who could not go back to their homes earlier and stayed back hereby directed to vacate the hostels as per the arrangements of transportation and travel protocols of the state governments. The areas in the proximity of the University being declared as hot-spots sealing the designated areas with no movements being allowed. It is difficult for the university to maintain logistics and manpower requirements in the future. The hostels are also required for sanitisation, maintenance, and for contingent quarantine facilities. Therefore, the hostels are to be vacated with no exceptions.”The Jamia order said the university will reopen in August for regular students, and the new academic session will begin in September.“The examination schedule slated for July 2020 will be notified in due course. Study materials are uploaded on the website, and students are being given e-material. We do not know how long the lockdown will continue. The university will not be able to manage under the present circumstances,” said an official.Jamia Millia Islamia, in Delhi’s south east revenue district is also a red zone along with the other 10 of the city’s districts. The Delhi government has declared parts of surrounding neighbourhoods such as Zakir Nagar, Abul Fazal and Shaheen Bagh ‘containment zones’, after several cases of Covid-19 emerged in these areas.A third-year student at Jamia’s Allama Iqbal Hostel said students are apprehensive of the travel, and fear they may contract the contagious disease. “We are also afraid that once we reach our states, we will get stuck in quarantine facilities, where there are no proper arrangements of food and medication,” he said.A resident of J&K girls hostel said, “Some Kashmiri women were sent home by the Delhi government through buses, which were stopped at Jammu border. We do not want to get stranded like that. It’s very unsafe. Also, there are elderly people back home. We can’t risk their lives.”Some students also raised the issue of poor internet connectivity in their hometowns. “We do not have Wi-Fi at home. I am preparing for competitive exams, and I need the internet for my studies. I don’t know what will we do,” said a third-year student who hails from a town in Jharkhand.University officials said the safety of students will be taken care of while travelling. “We will soon notify students about the arrangements,” a university official said, but did not give any further details.Meanwhile, no such order has been issued to students living in hostels of the two other central universities in the national Capital — Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-oppose-jamia-move-asking-students-to-vacate-campus-hostels/story-Mx7Q5TcyGNqdQ6Vmn275zI.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Stranded migrants in Delhi wait in desperation as admin readies transportation plans||As the Delhi government undertakes a survey of migrant workers stranded in the city before sending them back to their respective states, officials on Saturday said those housed in schools and shelter homes are likely to be sent back first.“The numbers are being collated. There are many who have been left behind while their families are in need back home. Unlike other states, the number of migrant workers living in Delhi is high. We will have to prioritise people in batches. Besides, even the special trains, deployed to ferry workers back home, can take only around 1,000-1,200 people at a time, keeping in mind social distancing factors,” said a senior official of the Delhi government, requesting anonymity.The official added that while trains are a better mode of transport with respect to social distancing protocol in mind, private buses will have to be hired for workers who want to travel to shorter distances. “We are coordinating with the ministry of railways as well. This is a mammoth exercise, given the large numbers, and will take a while. Going by inputs received so far, an estimated 20,000 migrants in the city are from Bihar. Numbers of those from other states are being accumulated,” he said.Tens and thousands of migrant workers who could not return to their home states because of the national lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, are awaiting government guidelines on transportation. The Delhi government had issued an order Friday directing the police and the district administrations to seal all interstate borders and ensure that there is no “unlawful assembly” or “disorderly movement” of people during the lockdown, which was on Friday extended till May 17 by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).The order, issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, is aimed at preventing unorganised movement of stranded people in the city. The government said it is in the process of drafting protocols and mechanisms to ensure transportation of stranded persons to other states in a planned manner.Initially after the lockdown was enforced, the city saw migrant workers setting out on foot towards the city borders in droves, and later towards the inter-state bus terminals in hope of catching a ride back home, to get back to their home states.Scores of migrant workers were stopped by the police and taken to shelter homes in the Capital, for which the state government had used 256 school buildings, where they are being provided food and basic necessities.Mahesh Kumar, 36, housed in a central Delhi shelter, said he is desperate to go back home as his mother is alone at home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. Besides, he said the meals he gets at the shelter are not enough for his family of four. “I don’t know what I will do or eat once I get back, but I need to see my mother. I have also run out of balance in my mobile phone and have not been able to speak to her. A few days back, a neighbour from my village had helped me speak with her. My mother asked me to come back soon as she has no money left and is dependent on our neighbours to help her get food,” said Kumar, who used to work at a scrap dealer’s shop in Delhi.Officers of the Delhi Police, who did not wish to be named, said that migrant workers are mostly lodged in shelter homes in central, northern and south-eastern parts of Delhi. However, neither the police not the state government wanted to go on record with the exact number of migrant workers lodged in shelters in Delhi.A senior police official in Rohini district, who did not wish to be named, said that though a total of 928 persons have been housed in shelter homes in the Rohini district, only 74 of them are migrants. Besides those in shelter homes, the police official quoted above said areas of Prem Nagar and Aman Vihar house a large number of migrants but they live in rented accommodations or shanties of their own. The official added that along with migrant workers, the shelter homes in Rohini also have vagabonds and homeless persons.A Delhi police officer, on condition of anonymity, said that police teams are gathering information about migrant labourers, pilgrims and all those who are stranded in Delhi from all areas including the border areas. At the ground level, this officer said, beat and police station staff are patrolling their respective jurisdictions, day and night, enquiry about migrants who may be stranded in their respective areas.MS Randhawa, spokesperson for the Delhi Police, said: “Senior officers are being apprised of the situation regularly and constant monitoring is underway, as the lockdown has been extended. Other welfare measures of feeding those who need food and helping people with other means, within Delhi, are also going on simultaneously. We are working in close coordination with the state administration and civic agencies.”On Friday, the police department said they received many calls from migrant labourers seeking clarification on a form being circulated on messaging apps which could purportedly facilitate their return home. The police have refuted the existence of any such form, saying it is “unconfirmed news”.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Dinesh Kumar Gupta said they had got a call about some people distributing such forms. “Appeals were made to people through messages and videos on WhatsApp that the government has not issued any such form and that people must not believe such unconfirmed news. Local resident welfare associations were also sent such messages to further communication,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-migrants-in-delhi-wait-in-desperation-as-admin-readies-transportation-plans/story-ABQtB96D7tKii6ODXjQskJ.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||813 students stuck in Kota ferried back home by Delhi government||Sharka Uruz’s happiness knew no bounds on Saturday evening when she finally boarded a bus for her home in Delhi from Kota, Rajasthan. The 18-year-old medical aspirant was among the more than 800 students from the national Capital who was stuck in different coaching centres in Kota after to the nationwide lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of Covid-19 on March 25.The Delhi government on Saturday sent a fleet of buses to bring these 800 odd students back home. Amid cheers and applause, the students boarded buses from their respective coaching centres around 5:30 pm.Uruz, a resident of east Delhi’s Mandawali, said she was returning home after six months. But for her, and many others like her, the past one month (since the lockdown came into force) felt like a year living away from home. “We have a very tight schedule here. I was supposed to go home after the NEET exam on May 5. But then the lockdown was announced and the exam was postponed. The majority of students later left for their homes. We were only five students in our hostel during the last 40 days. It was really tough to survive. We were sad, living away from home as a pandemic raged on. But now, finally, we are going home,” she said, while speaking over the phone.As many as 45 buses were sent by the Delhi government to Kota on Friday night to bring back 813 students back home. “The government had also sent a team of nine social welfare officers, doctors, officials from the transport department and revenue department in order to facilitate the thermal screening of students and to ensure social distance is maintained throughout the journey,” a senior government official said.Officials said the buses reached Kota between 10:30am and 12:30pm on Saturday. The vehicles were then sanitised, before the students were allowed to board. ‘’One homeguard and one constable of Delhi police were deployed on each bus. Personal Protection Equipment kits were provided to the staff and buses were thoroughly sanitised upon reaching the destination. Not more than 22 students are allowed in one bus/coach,” said Harish Sabharwal, general secretary of Delhi contract bus association.All the buses later gathered at a point from where they left for Delhi together at around 8pm. Students are expected to reach Delhi by 5am on Sunday.“We were allowed to board the buses after the thermal screening. We were provided masks, sanitisers and packed food for the journey. Only one student was allowed to sit on a seat meant for two,” said Himanshu Yadav, 20, another medical aspirant and a resident of north Delhi’s Jahagirpuri.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday tweeted saying, “Hundreds of our children studying in Kota were stuck for more than a month. We are arranging for their return to Delhi. I am so happy they will soon be reunited with their families.”Delhi transport minister Kailash Gehlot said that the students would be screened again at the time of arrival. A senior government official said, “The students will arrive at ISBT from where we will arrange DTC buses to send them home. Our staff will be available at the time of their arrival and the student will be screened again. If anyone is found symptomatic, we will take steps as per laid down protocols. All the students are advised 14-day home quarantine.”The students were also briefed by Delhi police officers to not call their parents to pick them up from the drop off point. “Do not ask your parents to come to pick you up. There should be no gathering at the bus stand. We will drop you all to your homes,” a police officer told the students.The students in Kota had earlier this week launched an online campaign on Twitter demanding that the Delhi government make special arrangements to bring them back. The Delhi government on Thursday announced that it will send buses to bring back students from Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/813-students-stuck-in-kota-ferried-back-home-by-delhi-government/story-GKv3duKlxkRergZamcZ08M.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Noida golfer earns accolades from PM for relief contributions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated Noida teenage golfer Arjun Bhati for his contribution to the PM Cares fund created to help in the fight against the ongoing coronavirus crisis.The 15-year-old sportsperson had auctioned 102 of his trophies, including world championships, that raked in ₹4.3 lakh and later his shoes, that raised an additional ₹3.2 lakh.Modi, in a letter dated April 30, appreciated his efforts.“While the whole world is going through the pandemic, all Indians are facing the crisis in a united form. The combined power of all 130 crore (1.3 billion) people is the strength for each person. During this time, the contribution given to you in the PM Cares fund will help with this belief. The donation collected through the trophies won at national and international level is a great example,” read the letter.It went on to say that for people with a charitable nature, the whole world is like a family.“With this effort you have provided more strength to the fight against corona. I am confident that this act with inspire others also to come forward and through patience, discipline and alertness we will definitely defeat the pandemic,” signed off the PM.Bhati shared the letter on social media and thanked the PM.“Not worried about the end of life. But eager to hear ‘good job’, ‘congratulations’, ‘all the best’, ‘live on’. These words always inspire in life and I pray to god to bless me to be able to do good deeds life long,” tweeted the golfer.Bhati had won the junior world championship in 2019 as well as 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-golfer-earns-accolades-from-pm-for-relief-contributions/story-2agQn4j9q3MmzZsJqAmetJ.html
03-05-2020||Noida||Four more Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar, total count reaches 159||Four new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients have been identified in Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday, taking the tally of such cases in the district to 159. The four patients include a 49-year-old man from Sector 8 of Noida. The other patients are three women -- a 22-year-old from sector 66, a 39-year-old from sector 48 and a 23-year-old from Chipyana Buzurg area of Noida. Till now, 29 persons have been found positive from the slum colony of Sector 8. On Friday night, the district magistrate asked the health department and the development authorities to ensure that proper sanitisation of slum is done. There are 10 such slum clusters from where Covid-19 cases have been found. On Friday, 11 cases were found from the slums of sectors 8 and 10.The health department received 176 samples on Saturday and four were found positive.Four patients were discharged, including an 18-month-old girl who completed her Covid-19, after successfully completing their treatment for Covid-19 at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30. Two men -- a 42-year-old and 32-year-old -- were discharged from the Sharda hospital in Greater Noida.The district administration has received around 2,200 online applications from stranded students in the district who want to go back to their home towns in various Uttar Pradesh districts and other states. Officials are collecting all required details of students before their medical screening is done and they are sent back.Administration is also awaiting orders of the state government on arrangements that need to be made for migrant workers who are coming from other states to Uttar Pradesh. Till now, the administration has not been informed if the train coming from Maharashtra’s Nashik to Lucknow has anyone from Gautam Budh Nagar.“We are making the required arrangements for students to go back home. As far as migrant workers are concerned, we are awaiting the state government’s orders,” a senior administration official said.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said the state is taking all efforts to bring back migrant workers. All the people who will be arriving in Lucknow will be kept in quarantine centres and will be tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/four-more-covid-19-cases-in-gb-nagar-total-count-reaches-159/story-qV5Zu7MdibLiMzZ51GcgtJ.html
03-05-2020||Lucknow||All the people coming to district will be screened, quarantined: Varanasi DM||Varanasi district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said that all the people coming to the district from other states, by UP state transport buses or private vehicle, will have to go through the screening process. Sharma held a meeting with the sub-divisional magistrates, officials of UPSRTC and railways at his camp office on Saturday where he instructed the municipal commissioner and chief development officer to activate surveillance committee in every ward in the limits of Varanasi nagar nigam and in every panchayat in the rural areas for keeping an eye on the people coming from other states. He said that any worker who comes from other states will remain in home quarantine for 21 days. If any worker breaches home quarantine, the surveillance committee should inform the administration. He directed the chief medical officer to spread awareness about the home quarantine and asked him to get the handbills printed. He told the sub-divisional magistrates to identify and sanitise the buildings in which the workers coming to the district would be accommodated and arrangements of screening, food and lodging should be made in advance. A sampling of the workers those found symptomatic should be done and they should be shifted to a separate building, he said. He also instructed the additional district magistrate finance and revenue to make arrangements for providing a ration kit for each worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/all-the-people-coming-to-district-will-be-screened-quarantined-lucknow-dm/story-gMNAeOKNNsbmfriodETxEN.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar slams Congress leaders for undue criticism, Randeep defends stand||Haryana chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday hit out at Congress leaders Kumari Selja and Randeep Surjewala for what he termed as unjustified criticism.Advising the Congress leaders to desist from political mongering in this hour of crisis, Khattar, in his televised address, said that all must face this pandemic unitedly. He also said, “In a recent all-party meeting, every leader had assured full support to the government in its efforts to combat Covid-19, yet it was very unfortunate to see that some were still busy in playing politics.”Slamming Congress leaders for questioning the decisions taken in a recent cabinet meeting regarding increasing tax on petrol/diesel, bus fare hike and imposing market fee on fruits and vegetables, the chief minister said that it was unfortunate that in this hour of crisis, Congress leaders were busy in unnecessarily politicising the state government’s decisions.Taking a dig at Randeep, Khattar said that the former had no moral authority to question the state government. People of the state, social institutions, all ministers, MLAs and former MLAs had contributed for the Haryana Corona Relief Fund. “Randeep Singh Surjewala is receiving a monthly pension of Rs 1.68 lakh from Haryana Vidhan Sabha and during his last five-year tenure as an MLA, he attended the sessions seven times only, and received an amount of Rs 1.12 crore,” said Khattar, adding that he was not aware whether Randeep Surjewala had made any personal contribution or not.He said that due to Covid-19, economic activities had almost come to a standstill, because of which for the last two months, revenue receipts had been small and about Rs 10,000 crore was required to pay the employees’ salaries, pension and other expenses of the government. Hence the cabinet decided to increase VAT by Re. 1 per litre diesel and Re. 1.10 per litre petrol, increasing bus fare by 15 paise per kilometre and imposing 2 per cent tax on vegetables and fruits in Mandis.However, reacting to Khattar’s jibes, Randeep Surjewala stood by his remarks on the new taxes and hike in bus fare and fuels charges. Stating that he had been an MLA for 18 years and chief minister for five and half years, he said in his statement released later in the evening:”Às regards my salary and pension, it is an MLA’s right not a favour extended by you. I do not alone get it, you too get it. When would you give details of salary or allowances to the tune of Rs 6-8 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-slams-congress-leaders-for-undue-criticism-randeep-defends-stand/story-4zYSThZfYjv1jY38fdYTBO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 40 active cases, Jhajjar becomes Haryana’s most affected district in just 6 days||With 12 fresh cases detected in Jhajjar since late Friday night, the district has become Haryana’s most affected district with 40 active cases in just six days since this Monday. It is followed by Gurugram which has 25 active cases and Sonepat which has 22.Until a week ago, Jhajjar district administration was being praised for not letting the deadly virus enter their territory even though it shares the border with the national capital Delhi, which is one of the worst hit states in the country. But now Jhajjar has emerged as the new hotspot in the state.33 out of 40 CASES LINKED TO DELHI’S AZADPUR MANDIAs many as 33 out of the 40 coronavirus infected patients in Jhajjar district are vegetable sellers, who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi to bring vegetables. The remaining seven are-- four family members of a Delhi policeman, who hails from Jhajjar’s Saloda village, two nurses ( one working with Haryana government and another posted at a hospital in Delhi) and one man, who returned from Maharasthra.Jhajjar civil surgeon Randeep Singh Punia said that 39 out of 40 coronavirus cases reported in the district have a Delhi connection while one is Bahadurgarh man who had returned from Maharasthra.“Out of the total, 39 patients are asymptomatic. Only the nurse from the Delhi hospital is showing the symptoms of the virus. We are, however, looking the 40 cases in six days as our success as we managed to detect all the patients and isolate them before it spread further,” Punia said. Punia further said that all the patients have been sent to isolation ward at PGIMS, Rohtak.RANDOM SAMPLING HELPED IN DETECTING CASES: DCJhajjar deputy commissioner Jitender Singh also said that the detection of 40 cases since Monday is a positive sign for them because it helps them in breaking the chain of the virus. “Jhajjar is the first district in Haryana to go for random sampling. We had started random sampling after the district did not report any positive case for over a month even after sharing the border with Delhi, which falls in the red zone. During random sampling, we focussed on vegetable sellers, visiting Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi, shopkeepers, milkmen and Haryana residents, who are working in Delhi and commuting daily. This helped us detecting 40 coronavirus cases in just six days,” Jhajjar DC added.He further said that they have taken samples of 2,420 persons till Saturday, of whom 41 tested positive, including a pharmacist, who is counted in Delhi’s tally. Reports of 370 persons’ are awaited, he added.“We have collected 1,277 samples, of which 31 have tested positive for the coronavirus. Now, we are focussing on the contacts of these infected patients.We have sealed the border areas and no one is allowed to enter the district territory without prior permission,” Jhajjar DC Jitender Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-40-active-cases-jhajjar-becomes-haryana-s-most-affected-district-in-just-6-days/story-OYl6Fqk7m1YsKEs4Gk77dO.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fifth Covid-19 death in Haryana; 19 new cases take tally to 376||Even as Haryana registered its fifth Covid-19 death on Saturday, as many as 19 new cases -- 12 from Jhajjar, six from Gurugram and one from Yamunanagar -- took the state’s Covid-19 count to 376 on Saturday.A 62-year-old woman from Ambala, who had tested positive for the virus on Monday, died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. This is the second death due to coronavirus in the district. Earlier, a 67-year-old elderly man from the district had died at PGIMER on April 1.District civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the woman hailed from Ratangarh. “She was diabetic for the past 15 years and had liver-related ailments besides chronic kidney disease for the past three years. She was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, on April 24 and had tested positive in Chandigarh. But later due to her critical condition, she was further referred to PGIMER,” he said.“We had earlier taken samples of 40 of her contacts and all had tested negative. The area was declared a containment zone and restrictions are in place since she was tested positive. Her family has agreed to cremate her in Chandigarh,” Dr Kuldeep added. 12 POSITIVE CASES FROM JHAJJAR, 6 FROM GURUGRAMMeanwhile, as many as 12 new patients, 11 of whom are vegetable sellers who frequented the Delhi’s Azadpur mandi and a woman working as a nurse in a Delhi hospital, were reported positive since Friday night in Jhajjar. Also, six new cases were reported from Gurugram, with which the state’s count for active cases swelled to 129. While Jhajjar has 40 active cases as of Saturday, Gurugram has 25, Sonepat, 22, Faridabad, 18, Panipat, 8, Nuh, 5, Hisar, Palwal and Sirsa, two each, Panchkula, Ambala, Bhiwani, Rohtak and Yamunanagar have, one each active case. Though the official bulletin did not mention this, as many as 10 persons from Panipat, including three scribes working with a vernacular newspaper and one person working with a YouTube channel, tested positive for the virus. Health officials said their contact tracing is underway.NANDED LINKSA 27-year-old man in Yamunanagar, who returned from Nanded recently, has tested positive for the coronavirus. He had arrived from Ambala, where he had tested negative earlier. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said that the patient was a resident of Kalindi colony. “He was among five men who returned from Nanded via Ambala on April 30 and we tested all of them. A group of 39 Nanded returnees from Ambala, Delhi and other Haryana districts were brought from Punjab to Ambala on April 29 night. All were quarantined and tested for coronavirus,” he said.Later in the evening, four other pilgrims from Fatehabad, which included three women, also tested positive for the virus. They had returned from Nanded recently. Dy CMO Dr Hanuman said, “Two of the women are above the age of 60 while one is 38 years old. The fourth, a man, is 45.22-YEAR OLD WOMAN POSITIVE IN PANIPATMeanwhile, a 22-year-old woman also tested positive for coronavirus in Panipat, taking the number of infected persons in the district to 14. District civil surgeon Dr Sant Lal Verma said the woman was resident of Bihar and she was staying with her brother-in-law in Gokul Colony in Sector 11 for the past one month. She was also a tuberculosis (TB) patient and used to go BPS Medical College in Khanpur Kalan for regular checkups. As many as 40 people in her contacts have been quarantined and samples of 20 people in her close contact sent for the examination, he said.2,194 REPORTS AWAITEDAs many as 32,329 samples have so far been sent of which 29,759 have been found to be negative while 2,194 sample reports are awaited. Also, 15,618 persons are currently under surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fifth-covid-19-death-in-haryana-19-new-cases-take-tally-to-376/story-Aj6Uv0coEXacIaQA0Q7KfO.html
03-05-2020||City||Nurse robbed of scooter at knifepoint in Ludhiana’s Dehlon||A government nurse was robbed of her scooter at knifepoint near Sayian Chowk at Dehlon on Friday. The incident took place when the nurse was going to work at government hospital, Dehlon.Complainant Daljit Kaur, 40, of Chupki village, Dehlon, said a man intercepted her near Sayian Chowk and robbed her of her scooter at knifepoint, before fleeing with it. She said her Apple iPhone 11 Pro and some important documents were also in the two-wheeler.Sub-inspector Surinder Singh said during investigation, some onlookers identified the accused as Arun Kumar of Dehlon. “A case under Section 379-B (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Dehlon police station. A manhunt has been launched to nab the suspect,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurse-robbed-of-scooter-at-knifepoint-in-ludhiana-s-dehlon/story-8Vnf1y4L0qKhM04ZGEge4K.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Patients with deteriorating health to be tested for Covid-19: Pune district admin||The district administration on Saturday decided that every patient who reports sudden degradation in health will have to be tested for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, according to officials.The decision was taken after an 80-year-old Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive woman died at Sassoon hospital on April 29 while a private hospital was treating her for renal failure as she did not show any symptoms related to Covid-19. The woman, a resident of Kavadi Malwad at Hadapsar, was suffering from bilateral pneumonia and obstructive uropathy since April 26 and was referred by a private hospital and was admitted to Sassoon hospital on April 29 and died due to Covid-19 on April 30, at 11.45 am. The swab report came on Friday early morning which tested Covid-19 positive, said officials.Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “After this case, it has come to light that any spike in the comorbidity condition of the person may be linked to Covid-19 infection. People with lifestyle diseases like diabetes, hypertension, high blood pressure or dialysis who have to take medicines regularly and report any degrading health condition to the civic body as we will need to keep a track of it too.”“For example, people who have diabetes may not respond well to their regular medicines or report a sudden spike in blood sugar level which could be a likely indication of them being infected with the Covid-19 infection.“The 80-year-old had no history of travelling to an infected area and was not the first contact of any index case,” he said.“We have instructed tracking of co-morbid symptoms along with Covid-19 symptoms from all private hospitals. Any doctor or private hospital can either report any such patient who shows unusual health conditions to us on idsp.mkcl.org or call us on 1800 233 4130 to inform us,” said Prasad.Prasad also added that every private hospital has been allocated one Multi Purpose Worker (MPW) to keep a track of every such patient. “If such patients are reported, the line of treatment can be decided because then we will focus on the infection rather then the comorbid condition,” said Prasad.A government official on condition of anonymity said, “Twenty-two people who may have come in contact with the deceased woman have been contact-traced and their results are awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/patients-with-deteriorating-health-condition-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-pune-dist-administration/story-MTPsL0Qh62tEZzrtR9dQ8N.html
03-05-2020||City||Man killed, 2 injured in clash over land dispute in Amritsar village, 14 booked||A 26-year-old man was killed and two others were injured in an attack made by over a dozen people over some land dispute at Jathol village in Ajnala sub-division of Amritsar on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Jaskaran Singh. And the injured are his father Ravel Singh and uncle Sukhdev Singh.Police have booked 14 persons identified as Tarsem Singh, Bachittar Singh, Ranjit Singh, Ravinderjit Singh, Karanjit Singh, Baljit Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Baz Singh, Chanpreet Singh, Tejpal Singh, Daljit Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Kawaljit Singh and Jagroop Singh of the same village.The case has been registered under Sections 302, 323, 324, 148, 149 of the IPC on compliant of the deceased’s brother Balkaran Singh at Gharinda police station, said SHO Amandeep Singh.The land dispute had been on between the accused and the victims since past few years.The complainant said, “My brother, father and paternal uncle were standing outside the house when the accused attacked them with swords and other weapons. The three were severely injured. They were taken to a private hospital in Amritsar where Jaskaran succumbed.”The accused are absconding and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-killed-2-injured-in-clash-over-land-dispute-in-amrisar-village-14-booked/story-ouO9QOgJQRWvhB8JuZ2WLI.html
03-05-2020||Chandigarh||Golden Temple sees 20% surge in online donations amid lockdown||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, the Golden Temple has witnessed a 20% spike in donations made by devotees through online modes.“During normal days earlier, the online offering was around 10 lakh in a month. During the last month, the collection through online modes increased by around 20%,” said Mukhtiar Singh, chief manager of Golden Temple, while speaking to HT.However, the total collection of the offerings at the shrine, which has been wearing a deserted look due to the curfew imposed in Punjab since March 19, has witnessed a record dip. The average collection of offerings has fallen Rs 23 lakh a day in 2019-20 to between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a day, as per Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) officials.Asked about the average amount of money being offered online, an SGPC official privy to the financial matters of the shrine said, “Actually, the banks have not given us full details yet, citing lockdown”.Ever since the lockdown has hit the exchequer of all gurdwaras, the SGPC is promoting online modes of offerings at its website and encouraging the devotees across the world to contribute especially for the Golden Temple langar, which is considered largest community kitchen in the world, through online modes.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal has also made an appeal to the devotees to make contributions digitally.When one visits SGPC’s official website, an icon appears regarding online modes of payment. This icon appeals to the devotees to contribute for Golden Tempe langar, which is feeding the needy people in Amritsar. These people include the migrant workers stranded in the city and the poor people.The surge in the online offering is a sigh of relief for the gurdwara body, which also runs scores of educational, medical and sports institutions apart from managing historic gurdwaras in northern region of the country.“The SGPC is extending help to the needy persons in this hour of crisis, so the devotees should come forward to contribute to these services,” said Longowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/golden-temple-sees-20-surge-in-online-donations-amid-lockdown/story-yu6bGeKot9wPNGDaasbx9M.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Car with 25 boxes of imported alcohol seized in Pune, 2 arrested||The Pune police crime branch officials intercepted a vehicle carrying 25 boxes of imported alcohol, seized it and arrested two people who were inside the car. The two have been identified as Mahesh Suresh Nalawade, 45, a resident of Manjri road, Hadapsar, and Navnath Devidas Dhanure, 31, a resident of Vitthalnagar in Hadapsar, according to the police. The arrest was made along the Mahadevnagar-Manjri road in Hadapsar on Friday. As they were stopped, the two people allegedly tried to push officials of the crime branch.The seized alcohol was found in a white coloured Maruti XL6. The two arrested men were caught driving the car registered in Pune in the name of Nalawade’s relative. The alcohol inside the car was worth Rs 58,113, while the car made up for the remaining part of the seizure worth Rs 12,58,713.A local court remanded the two to police custody till Sunday. The accused have been booked in a case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code; Section 51(b) of Maharashtra Disaster Management Act, 2005; Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations; Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, along with Section 65(a) and 65(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/car-with-25-boxes-of-imported-alcohol-seized-in-pune-2-arrested/story-agWQ6LT1aw9Vv2QdHRLf2J.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Training without apparatus difficult for gymnasts during lockdown, says Makarand Joshi, secretary, MAGA||Gymnasts are having a tough time due to the lockdown as training at home without apparatus is difficult, says Makarand Joshi, secretary, Maharashtra Amateur Gymnastics Association (MAGA).“Training without apparatus especially in sports like gymnastics is difficult. Our gymnasts are performing few drills with the help of bed, chair, pillow and hanging bars along with other physical exercises,” said Joshi who is also in the technical committee of Asian Gymnastics Union for Aerobic Gymnastics till 2022.After the lockdown was announced MAGA came up with a plan and advised coaches to start making fitness videos and share it with the players. “ Most of the coaches are making videos own their own while we have told them to learn new tricks from the senior coaches and also teach same to the gymnasts,” said Joshi.Currently, MAGA is conducting online coaching courses in which coaches of Sports Authority of India (SAI) and few foreign coaches are giving lessons to the coaches.“Every day from 12 noon to 1pm, one session is conducted – it is helping our coaches learn advance drills in gymnastics. It is a good opportunity for the beginners,” added Joshi.Injuries are very severe in gymnastics and it needs proper care to heal to create awareness among the gymnasts about the same, Joshi has created an informative lecture on injuries and uploaded it on social media. The video reflects on how one needs to take care of themselves during the lockdown.“The purpose of sharing this video was to make athletes aware of how self-care is important for recovering from injuries,” said Joshi. Helping the needyAs soon as the lockdown was announced, MAGA had started arranging funds as they wanted to help the needy. The association has also donated Rs 75,000 towards PM Cares Fund and Rs 50,000 towards the chief minister’s relief fund.“Spreading awareness and providing helping hand to needy was our first priority as there are many people in our country who are severely impacted due to this pandemic,” said Joshi.Expecting October startNormally gymnastic season starts in August but this time, the association is expecting a delayed start to the season.“I hope practice in artistic individual events start early, but other events generally in aerobic and acrobatic gymnastics will take time to start since we cannot maintain social distancing in these events,” said Joshi.“We are not planning any schedule for the new season right now and we will wait for government directions. I hope the season will start in October,” added Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/training-without-apparatus-difficult-for-gymnasts-during-lockdown-says-makarand-joshi-secretary-maga/story-8tI0huXXytBgLttehPFUaL.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Pune collector forms team to help stranded migrants, students, tourists||District collector Naval Kishore Ram has appointed a team of government officials to look into the issues faced by stranded migrants, tourists, and students in the city after a nationwide lockdown was declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25.The panel consisting of government officials has been formed under the precincts of the disaster management act. The team will coordinate with the district collector’s office and take necessary permission for transporting stranded migrants, students and tourists home after screening and verification. Similarly, the Pune railway division is also waiting for a notification from the state government regarding the release of trains from Pune to transport migrants to their native places. According to Pune railway division spokesperson Manoj Jhawar, the state government will take the final call on running of trains. “Everything related to trains will be decided by the state government and the administration. Currently, we don’t have any information in this regard,” the official said. A letter granting permission will be issued to the applicant who wishes to travel and a copy will also be sent to administrative officials in their place of residence.The Maharashtra government has asked migrants wanting to go home to seek permission from nodal officers like the district collector wherein all their personal details would be taken on record. The Union home ministry on Friday gave approval to start special trains to ferry stranded migrants, students and tourists during lockdown to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-collector-forms-team-to-help-stranded-migrants-students-tourists/story-4Zp5BaXRBHpJxn9Q4cek1N.html
03-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: 73-year-old with multiple co-morbidities tests negative after 22 days in Pune||A rare case of a 73-year-old man with multiple co-morbid conditions testing negative for Covid-19 after 22 days in the hospital occurred in Pune on Friday. The miraculous recovery of the patient occurred at the government-run Sassoon General Hospital where more than 58 of the total 92 Covid-19 patients have died as of April 30. Admitted to the hospital on April 9, the man suffered from a number of serious ailments including chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure, pneumonia, severe anaemia and respiratory failure. A resident of Laxminagar, Yerawada, he is continuing his treatment in the hospital as he requires dialysis. He has now been shifted to the non-covid-19 ICU (intensive care unit).The hospital in a press note said the patient was initially admitted for high blood pressure and kidney ailments and later tested positive for Covid-19 infection. After being admitted to the hospital, he was detected with respiratory failure, severe anaemia and kidney failure and was being treated for the same in the ICU ward. He was also given seven units of blood during the treatment process as the kidney failure had led to an increase in creatinine in the blood of the patient. The patient had to undergo haemodialysis 10 times during the course of the treatment and later it was found that he also suffered from chronic kidney disease. Due to the respiratory failure, he was being supplied with oxygen through the ventilator. The patent tested positive for Covid-19 infection on April 10 and eventually on April 25 and 26, he tested negative for the virus after which he was declared free of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-73-year-old-with-multiple-co-morbidities-tests-negative-after-22-days-in-pune/story-EfHsjkftieKRfl4KUQLElK.html
03-05-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Covid-19 advisories must be followed, say readers||As a public servant (Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited bus conductor), I am taking care that I don’t go outside without a reason. Currently, I don’t have to go for duty due to the lockdown. PMPML is operating buses only for emergency services. I go out once in eight days and bring all the essentials. I have even stopped going out to buy milk. I am giving preference to green tea or lime water instead of the traditional tea. I have kept a simple routine with morning exercises, watching television, reading books and doing household work.My do’s include exercise, watching spiritual videos and reading books while my don’ts comprise avoiding oversleeping and overeating, spreading fake news on social media and trying to live life beyond the mobile phone and television.Nilesh LadkeHave set a daily timetableThe entire world is facing consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. During this time, a lot of people are feeling that they are locked inside their homes. My outlook to this situation is a little different. I believe that god has given us an opportunity to bring about a change in ourselves. This is the time to decide how life will be after the lockdown ends. To utilise this opportunity, I have set a daily timetable. I meditate, perform 60 rounds of suryanamaskars, and read a book for additional knowledge. I have begun organic farming of green chilies and tomatoes in my garden. I play games like carom which are interesting and require skill. I also help my mother in her work. Parth PaygudePrioritise exercise and good health Staying healthy and being physically active is quite a task in itself on any regular day and now with more than a third of humanity in the world under lockdown, physical activity has taken a backseat in our lives. While the lockdown seems to be a great measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19, it certainly seems to have a downside on our overall health and well being. We all have a list of things that we put away due to our daily schedules, this is the right time to pull out that list and get going. Overall fitness adds to my ability to handle challenges and pressures without feeling burnt out. It also helps me keep my mind fresh and active which is a 24x7 requirement of my job as a nurse. Staying fit and eating right automatically makes you feel good and positive. With no maid to cook and clean, you are pretty much on your own and it certainly is a good way to keep those extra kilos at bay. You can try some new recipes and whip up a good meal for yourself and your family. Try walking briskly around the house or up and down the stairs. Stand or walk around when you’re on the phone, rather than sitting down. Dancing is also a great way to keep active, especially with children, so putting on some music for ten to 15 minutes, two or three times each day can really contribute to the daily exercise quota.Velankani K SwamyWork-life balance is a must The lockdown has brought a new set of challenges for working women like me. Earlier, I just needed to take care of my office work while the maids took care of my home, but since the maids are not coming, I plan my day accurately to balance both home and office work. My day starts with morning prayers and suryanamaskar. By 11am in the morning, I finish my household chores and then devote time to office work. I am really enjoying this new routine as it had made me habitual of planning a day before going to sleep. My do’s include mediation and suryanamaskar, making a timetable, going early to bed and waking up early the next day. My don’ts include spending time on social media, oversleeping and being addicted to the TV.Sunita MarneDiscover a new hobbyIt is very important to stay mentally and physically fit during these dire times. To ensure this, we must have a daily routine. The routine can include reading a book, cooking, or even doing household chores. But for overall well-being, there should be an hour or two of physical activity every day. I usually wake up and cook my breakfast in the morning followed by a little bit of reading. In the afternoon, I watch a movie or do some of the house chores and at 4:30 pm, I train which includes exercises to maintain my strength, endurance, or agility. The exercises are different everyday being a badminton player. At night after dinner, I play video games or read a book before going to bed. My do’s include discovering a new hobby, maintaining your immunity by eating well, getting enough sleep and helping your family by doing daily chores. My don’ts comprise panicking – try to keep your mind off negative things, don’t overthink and try to take things one day at a time till the lockdown is over and do not forget your goals.Varun KapurFollow routine, celebrate small victories Things have changed and a usual day for me before the lockdown looked like being on the court or in a gym for more than 8 hours a day being a strength and conditioning coach. It can be quite a challenging task to stay mentally and physically fit if that is hampered. After a lot of introspection, what worked for me were- a routine and celebrating the small victories. Making a checklist and finishing of what I wrote down keeps me going. Our mind doesn’t like to think and solve complicated problems, hence a simple checklist before hitting the bed helps to simplify daily tasks. Let’s take an example of how I relate things with my athletes. Usually, we set protocols for warming up that I relate to my daily life, which is called RAMP.Rise - Usually means increase your heart rate, but now it means waking and freshening up.Activate - Activate your muscles, meaning have your breakfast, coffee/tea, or whatever you have during a normal day.Mobilise - This is the time where we’re asking our joints to move and in our daily life, it’d be to start working and finishing your daily chores and working out. At least 30 minutes of light physical activity, staying indoors, and using bodyweight will ensure that you get adequate sleep and you’re fit.Potentiate - Doing similar movements of the sport. It means to finish off with your most important task during the first half of the day or during the time of the day when you’re the most productive.Gaurav NijhonPositive thinking key to mental fitnessLife due to Covid-19 pandemic has come to a standstill. It’s important that we keep ourselves fit, not only physically but mentally as well. I think we have got the liberty of leisure time at hand. We are saving a lot of time which would otherwise be spent on travelling. I make sure I am working out at least 3-4 times a week if not regularly. I think we should be able to enjoy the time we have and not stress over it. Being the director of the Institute of Sports Science and Technology, our regular lives have always been fast and so I am looking at this situation positively as we are getting time to spend with family and also take some time off for rest. Positive thinking is the key to mental fitness. The news of lockdown extension is certainly stressful, but keeping your mind occupied is crucial. My do’s include working out at least 3-4 times a week for 45 minutes, spending time with family, following government directives and being positive. My don’ts are do not leave your house unless in an emergency, don’t be monotonous and don’t be negative about the situation.Vipul LunawatRegular exercise must be followed I get up early in the morning and do various exercises like suryanamaskar, yoga, and kapalbhaati pranayam. In the evening, I jog in my backyard. All these exercises help me stay fit, mentally and physically, as I am a basketball coach. I manage my time by doing some household work, playing games with my family, listening to songs, reading, and face timing with my friends and relatives. After having breakfast, I listen to the news and read the newspaper online. After lunch, I take a small nap. In the evening, I go for a walk and exercise in the backyard. My do’s are taking care of personal hygiene, exercising daily, learning something new online, keeping yourself updated with all the happenings, doing some household work and taking rest. My don’ts include do not overeat, do not sleep for a long time and do not use cellphones frequently.Anand KulkarniDonate to NGOs, help the needy The first thing I did after the lockdown was declared is to spread awareness about safely using sanitisers as they can catch fire easily. I am a fire and safety consultant, I also feel that apart from contributing to government funds, people should donate money to NGOs as money will be utilised quickly and reach the needy. At our gurudwaras, in Camp and Ganesh peth, we are distributing food to the needy. Early in the morning, my day starts by doing exercises. After that, I spend time reading religious books and worshipping god, and the rest of the time I spend it with my family.Sukhinder Singh Ahluwalia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-covid-19-advisories-must-be-followed-say-readers/story-uktPZkIuFl5b0OgyMBNe6I.html
03-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man supplied methamphetamine during lockdown, held with drugs worth Rs 35 lakh||A 36-year-old Mumbai resident was arrested after seizure of 340 g of methamphetamine drug worth Rs 35 lakh from his car on Thursday, said an official.Rohan Gawans, who lives in Mumbai’s Malad area, was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI).The drug was found in his car parked in the compound of the residential society where he lives.The DRI also raided a factory, Rohan Chemicals Private Limited, in the same area and seized raw material used to manufacture the drug. The factory is owned by Rohan and his family.Gawans was produced before a court on Friday and sent to judicial custody till May 13.Methamphetamine, commonly known as ‘ice’ among drug users, is a recreational drug which is also less commonly used as a second line of treatment for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and obesity.Rohan was earlier arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in July 2017 from the Mumbai international airport based on a lookout notice, but came out on bail after spending 17 months in prison, said DRI officials.DRI conducted the raid on Thursday after the agency received reliable inputs about the drug being concealed in a golden-coloured Toyata Innova vehicle parked at Marvel Arch Cooperative Housing Society near Mittal College in Malad (West). This is the society where Rohan Gawans lives.Officials said that a search of the vehicle was conducted in the presence of Rohan Gawans, and the drug was found concealed neatly inside the spare tyre attached to the rear end of the vehicle.A senior DRI official, requesting anonymity said, “Investigations so far indicate that Rohan used to step out regularly to supply drugs to his regular clients during lockdown. He was taking advantage of the lockdown conditions while police officials were busy dealing with Covid-19. Also, he took it as an opportunity to earn more money as those who consumed it would not hesitate to pay him two to three times the regular price.”The countrywide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus that first began on March 25., has been extended twice since then. It will now end on May 17. The latest announcement of extending the lockdown was made on Friday by the Centre. In the 2017 case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had also named his father Prabhakar Gawans for helping Rohan manufacture drugs in the factory. The NCB too had raided the factory in 2017 and found raw materials including 4-Methylpropiophenone and Potassium Dichromate used to manufacture the drug. We are investigating how the factory started operating again,” said DRI officials.DRI is now analysing Rohan’s phone calls and contact details to know about his associates and clients, and is also investigating his bank accounts and transactions. Gawans has been booked under relevant sections of Narcotics Drug and Psychotropic Substances Act, said DRI officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-supplied-methamphetamine-during-lockdown-held-with-drugs-worth-rs-35-lakh/story-SAvjz7oeQEReCYX09wtrZO.html
03-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Minorities Commission chairman booked under sedition charges||The Delhi Police’s special cell on Thursday booked Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan under sedition charges, two days after he allegedly made “provocative” remarks in his social media posts. Joint commissioner of police (special cell) Neeraj Thakur said that a first information report (FIR) has been registered against Khan under Indian Penal Code sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony).Khan, did not comment on the development. “I have not seen the FIR. I will comment only when I see it or know about it,” he said.On Thursday he had issued an apology through his social media accounts. He had said that his tweet was ill-timed and insensitive and that it had “pained some people” but it was never his intention. The FIR was filed on the complaint of a Vasant Kunj resident. The complaint reached the Lodhi Colony office of the anti-terror squad, special cell, through the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Safdarjung Enclave. HT has a copy of the FIR.In his complaint, the Vasant Kunj resident alleged that on April 28, Delhi Minorities Commission chairperson Zafarul-Islam Khan made a social media post on Twitter and Facebook and the contents of the post are “provocative, intend to cause disharmony and create the rift in the society.”Khan’s alleged communal remarks sparked sparked controversy . It also mentioned the name of a fugitive offender who has been booked under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), money laundering and terror-related cases. He has praised the man among others. On Friday, Khan issued an apology on social media regarding his April 28 post. “I realise that my tweet was ill-timed and insensitive in view of our country facing a medical emergency and fighting an unseen enemy. I apologise to all whose sentiments were hurt,” Khan said in his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-minorities-commission-chairman-booked-under-sedition-charges/story-wz6EULQa8FtblNT3Z6DClL.html
