04-05-2020||City||Pakistan opens heavy fire in 2 sectors of Rajouri, India hits back||Pakistan on Monday opened heavy fire along the Line of Control (LoC) and targeted Indian posts and villages in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district.Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, “Pak violated ceasefire in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district at about 1600 hours (4pm). Pakistani troops initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the Nowshera sector. Indian Army is retaliating befittingly”. “Around 4.30 pm, they targeted Sunderbani sector and initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation. Indian Army is responding befittingly there as well,” he added.On Thursday, 16-year-old Gulfaraz was killed, while 35-year-old Zaffer Iqbal sustained injuries in Pakistani shelling in adjoining Poonch district. There has been a spurt in ceasefire violations by Pakistan at the LoCs since March 25, when India announced the lockdown across the country to combat Covid-19 pandemic.“Pakistan has been targeting our positions and villages but we are responding strongly,” said a senior officer of the Northern Command. Indian Army chief Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday slammed Pakistan for its “myopic” and “limited” agenda of pushing terrorists into Indian territory. General Narvane’s statement came a day after the India lost Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, two soldiers and a sub-inspector in Handwara during a counter-insurgency operation, seen as one of the deadliest for Indian security forces in recent times.“Pakistan is still following its own myopic and limited agenda of pushing terrorists inside India. Unless Pakistan gives up its policy of state-sponsored terrorism, we will continue to respond appropriately and with precision,” Naravane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-opens-heavy-fire-in-2-sectors-of-rajouri-india-hits-back/story-PENOSHa1aO5il5sPPERQ2L.html
04-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown 3.0: Negligible industrial work in UP, courtesy unclear guidelines||Barring some western UP districts like Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Bijnor and Hapur and some other districts of green zone, industrial activities remained negligible in most places across the state on the first day of lockdown 3.0 on Monday. The lukewarm response to the state government’s initiative to start industrial activity was the result of unclear guidelines for restarting industrial work. Even in the state capital, no industrial activity took place as industrial associations remained clueless and kept calling government officials for clarifications.The district industries centre in the state capital refused to take applications from industrialists seeking permission to start production.The applications have to be submitted manually as there is no online system for submitting applications in almost entire state.In the next two days, some industrial activity is expected if the government issues clear guidelines in this regard.“No industrial activity took place in Lucknow in absence of clear guidelines from the state government,” said Awadesh Agarwal, president, Indian Industries Association (IIA), Lucknow chapter.“We have been asked to submit applications from Tuesday at the district industries centre. Thereafter, permission will be granted to start units,” Agarwal added.As most of the industries in Uttar Pradesh are in districts that are in 19 red zones, industrialists there did not get permission to start production. “If the state government wants industrial activity, it must issue clear instructions to all district magistrates to allow units to operate in special economic zones and industrial areas,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, IIA.After the Centre imposed lockdown across the country on March 25 to check spread of coronavirus, only around 7000 industrial units under essential goods category are operating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-3-0-negligible-industrial-work-in-up-courtesy-unclear-guidelines/story-jB7TSdT9VlSwsFlMfv6TgN.html
04-05-2020||City||Civil Secretariat reopens in Srinagar||The Civil Secretariat started functioning from the summer capital of Srinagar on Monday, as part of a nearly 150-year-old biannual practice known as the Darbar Move. Darbar Move, the shifting of the administrative machinery from Jammu to Srinagar in the spring, has a history of 144 years. Due to the Covid-19, employees from Jammu region will be working from their homes, while only a limited number of employees in Kashmir will be attending office in Srinagar.Lt Governor Girish Chander Murmu inspected the ceremonial guard of honour at the civil secretariat lawns as offices opened here after closing in Jammu in the last week of April. “He also interacted with the officers and sought their suggestions for further improving the public delivery mechanism, besides advising them to continue working with dedication for the welfare of the public,” a spokesperson said.The L-G also reiterated the government’s resolve of working tirelessly towards ensuring a responsive and accountable government and good governance at all levels. The annual “Darbar Move” was started by the erstwhile Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, Ranbir Singh, in 1872. However, 33 years ago, when former chief minister Farooq Abdullah tried to end the annual shifting, protests by a cross-section of society in Jammu forced him to change his mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civil-secretariat-reopens-in-srinagar/story-pjAfUjsV0VSHQWq4Gs8aLM.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||No trains from Mumbai to other states in near future, says govt||The state government has clarified that there will be no special trains plying from Mumbai to other states in the near future and that the responsibility of carrying out health check-up of migrants returning to their hometowns lies with the respective states.In a video conference with the media on Monday, Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary of state government, said travel of people from red zones is still prohibited. “We have already sent 35,000 migrants to their respective states in trains and buses. A few trains were sent to Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh from Nashik and other places, but the same cannot be done from Mumbai as it is a largely affected red zone. If the respective states are willing to arrange for logistics for their travel by road we are giving them permissions,” Gagrani said.He said district authorities have been directed to collect information from migrants to avoid last minute hassle. While talking about health check-up of migrants for Covid-19 infection, Gagrani said migrants in shelter camps have been going through regular check-ups. “If they are asymptomatic, there is no need to conduct tests on them. The states receiving them should conduct tests if they find symptoms,” he said.State minority affairs minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government was not willing to take their citizens, who are stranded in Maharashtra, back. “There are at least 25 people hailing from UP who are stuck in Maharashtra. The UP government is dilly-dallying the process of giving permissions for their journey demanding to conduct Covid-19 tests on them. Performing tests on such large number of people may take at least one-and-a-half year. While other states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh have given permissions, UP has been indulging in the delay tactics as they do not want take back these people,” he said.State Congress has announced to bear the travelling expenses of migrants stuck in Maharashtra. The party’s state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat said as announced by the party president Sonia Gandhi, the Maharashtra unit has taken decision to bear the ticket cost of the migrants who wish to go back.Meanwhile, the state government has written to the Centre for a special train for 1,069 students from the state who are stuck in Delhi. Most of the stranded students are enrolled with institutions tutoring for civil service examinations. According to the officials from the disaster management cell, they are expecting the arrangement for the special train in next few days.Govt refutes allegation of negligence in sending stranded Sikh pilgrimsMaharashtra government has refuted the charges of negligence by state authorities in Nanded while sending Sikh pilgrims stranded in Hazur Sahib Gurudwara. “We have been regularly checking up on these pilgrims at Gurudwara for symptoms as per the protocol set by the Central government. We were not expected to conduct the tests on them. In fact, our proposal of sending 10 buses daily to avoid crowding was turned down by the Punjab government. 75 buses were sent to Nanded to fetch the pilgrims,” said Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary, Maharashtra government.Punjab Health minister Balbir S Sidhu alleged they were facing problems of more positive patients as Maharashtra government did not conduct tests on the pilgrims. “Had they conducted tests and informed us about the results, we would have treated them accordingly,” he told an agency in Punjab.Another official from Nanded collectorate said the blame-game is meaningless as nobody among the more than 3,000 stranded pilgrims had the symptoms. “They contracted the infection during their travel which has led to more people testing positive in Nanded due to spread of the virus through drivers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-trains-from-mumbai-to-other-states-in-near-future-says-govt/story-oIAblZsczR8j1hbfrSo5FN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education department says payment of school fee not mandatory||Even after majority private schools in Chandigarh refused to pay salaries to employees for April, the Chandigarh education department stood on its ground and decided that the schools cannot force parents to pay fee amid lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.Director of school education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, while confirming the developments said, “The UT education Department stands with its previous order on fee collection. Parents cannot be forced by the schools to deposit the fee mandatorily, however, if any parent willingly wants to submit the dues, there is no bar on that.”The UT education department had deferred the payment of tuition fee for the 2020-21 session in government and private schools owing to the lockdown. The order said that the dates for fee collection will be announced after the schools reopen and a month’s time will be given for the payment to the parents.Citing lacks of funds in absence of fee collection, 50 of 77 private schools in Chandigarh said that they will not be paying salaries to teachers and Class 4 employees for April.The chairman of the Independent Schools Association (ISA), HS Mamik, said that the salaries of the staff will be delayed till the time the collection of the fee is not permitted under such circumstances.Questioning who gave the education department the authority to stop schools from collecting the fee, Mamik said, “It is highly unfair. We are left with no choice but to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court as soon as possible.”Due to the tussle between the private schools and the education department, around 12,000 teachers and 7,000 Class 4 employees working in private schools in Chandigarh are getting impacted. After repeated complaints regarding fee collection against various city schools by parents, the education department had asked all the private unaided schools to display their balance sheet online by March 30. However, none of the schools complied with the directions. Explanation calls were also made to over 15 schools by the education department.Chandigarh Parents’ Association president Nitin Goyal said, “If balance sheets of any school reveal that the school management is short of funds for paying salaries to its staff, those particular schools should be allowed to charge a reduced fee so as to cover the salaries of teachers and other employees only.” However, he added that parents should not be burdened with the fat salaries of the top management and trustees as they are already very well-off and financially secure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-says-payment-of-school-fee-not-mandatory/story-MEb8M3iNv85dO2po9d6AfP.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Govt employees told to wear clothes covering full body||Punjab chief secretary Karan A Singh has issued instructions for a protocol to be followed in state government offices in view of Covid-19 pandemic.The employees have been told to wear clothes covering all body parts, shoes covering the feet completely, avoid watches and jewellery. They have been strictly forbidden from smoking and chewing tobacco in offices.A meeting was held in this regard on Monday to work out the modalities for opening of government offices, though no schedule was announced.An advisory was also issued for the employees to sit at a distance of two metres. Flexible office timings have been recommended, with suspension of signing-in on biometrics. The head of department has been told to keep record of all employees coming to work.The directions included doing as much work as possible through telephone, SMS, WhatsApp and all officials meetings to be held through video conferencing.The instructions have also mandated thermal scanning of employees, no use of air-conditioners, availability of hand sanitisers at all strategic points, and disinfection of offices at regular intervals. Employees have been told to avoid leather bags and bring items of daily need in a cotton bag which can be washed on reaching home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-employees-told-to-wear-clothes-covering-full-body/story-xmUUoLNE4ZPHnvXcedJRBJ.html
04-05-2020||City||SC reserves order on pleas seeking restoration of 4G internet services in J-K||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on a batch of petitions seeking restoration of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir claiming the 2G service available in the Union Territory (UT) is not sufficient for education and business purposes amid the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown.A three-judge bench headed by Justice NV Ramana said that it is taking into consideration all the issues in the matter and that it does not require any additional material in the case. “We will pass appropriate orders in the case,” Justice Ramana said. During the hearing, attorney general KK Venugopal appearing for the central government said the orders that have been passed specifically stated that restrictions of internet speed are required for national security. Venugopal said that it’s about the protection of the lives of the entirety of the population of Jammu and Kashmir and not just the Covid-19 patients.“Terrorists are being pushed into the country. Yesterday, there were some tragic events also. These men could easily take videos of the troop movements because they were trusted. The enemy could know the troop movements if they had 4G,” Venugopal told the court.The attorney general said that the petitions have to be examined against the larger public interest of national security, adding that national security is paramount and those tasked with protecting national security must be the sole judges in the matter. “The matters of policy decision cannot be interfered with by the court. It must be left to the government,” Venugopal added.Lawyer Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for one of the petitioners, told the court that the Covid-19 situation in J&K has worsened and added that problems are being faced by doctors, who cannot access necessary information about coronavirus treatment due to the internet speed.75 doctors have also made a representation flagging the same concerns, Ahmadi said. Justice Ramana said that the government is saying the people can rely on the landline broadband connection, to which Ahmadi responded by saying broadband connections account for less than one percent of the total internet connections in J&K.“There are around approximately 1 lakh 32 thousand broadband landline connections in J&K, but more than one crore phone/internet connections. The total number of broadband connections in J&K account for less than 1 percent of the total internet connections,” he said. Justice BR Gavai, another judge in the bench, said that the numbers are not in dispute but it’s a legal question of balance and the government is raising security concerns.Justice Ramana said that the central government is claiming that there has been a surge in terrorist activities and they have collaborated via 4G. Ahmadi responded by saying that the terrorist activities were more in the 1990s when there was no internet at all.Ahmadi submitted that the Centre is arguing that the national security may be compromised, but they have not been able to show any direct nexus in the case. Let them open internet speeds for a week and see if there is any nexus with terrorism, Ahmadi said. Senior lawyer Salman Khurshid, appearing for another petitioner in the matter, said that private schools are under government directions to provide education via video-conferencing. We have an obligation under the Right to Education to provide education, Khurshid said. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that the central government had started with a complete lockdown and then brought in relaxations by allowing movement, followed by landline and then 2G internet services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-reserves-order-on-pleas-seeking-restoration-of-4g-internet-services-in-j-k/story-Z11JvpPumenNR3ZhTmJnGO.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Scores queue up but most liquor stores remain shut||The city and its neighbouring Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai woke up to long queues outside liquor shops, as the state government allowed alcohol and non-essential stores to open from Monday. Despite the queues and nod, a majority of the shops, however, remained shut as the permission letters came only after 2pm. Most of them decided to start business from Tuesday.The Maharashtra government has allowed standalone liquor wholesale and retail shops to run even in red zones from 10am to 6pm. The shops will have ensure to six-feet distance between two people and not allow more than five people at a time. “As there was hardly any time, we decided to start the operations from Tuesday,” said Naresh Shetty, owner, Bombay Wine Merchants at Lalbaug. “We will get bouncers to control the crowd. They will be briefed on the measures to be followed.”The excise department said there was a delay in issuing approvals owing to staff crunch. “We are facing shortage of manpower,” said excise commissioner Kantilal Umap.Consumers, however, were disappointed. “I woke up early and stood in a queue from 6am,” said Raju Jaal, a resident of Byculla.With the crowds amid the outbreak, the police had to intervene and disperse them to ensure social distance is maintained. Some citizens even complained about the flouting of norms in Chembur, Sion and IC Colony in Borivli on Mumbai Police’s Twitter handle.SHOPS WON’T OPEN IN KALYAN-DOMBIVLI, NAVI MUMBAIIn Kalyan-Dombivli, municipal commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi released a statement saying only shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to open. “There is no change in the earlier rules. Liquor shops or any other non-essential shops will not open until the Thane collector directs it,” said Suryavanshi.A video of at least 40 people waiting in a queue outside a liquor shop in Dombivli (East), however, went viral. “There was a lot of confusion among residents as messages on social media said liquor shops will open from Monday morning,” said Amey Joshi, 36, a resident of Vishnu Nagar, Dombivli (West). The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation announced that permission will not be given to private offices and liquor shops in the city to open till May 17. The civic body has also asked those working in Mumbai or APMC to make accommodation arrangements at their place of work.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “MMR includes Navi Mumbai which is a red zone. Hence there will be no relaxation in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/scores-queue-up-but-most-liquor-stores-remain-shut/story-keyWH8CJtFLc5VCHz53RfO.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC chief: Only admit those who show symptoms to hospitals||Civic chief Praveen Pardeshi, in a circular on Monday, asked all Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials including ward and hospital staffers to strictly adhere to the guidelines of admitting only symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with comorbidities in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. He further directed that asymptomatic patients without comorbidities or patents showing mild symptoms are to be admitted in Covid care centres and Covid health centres. The circular stated that several hospital managements are being pressurised by health worker unions to admit asymptomatic patients in hospitals.Further, in a video conference with all ward officials on Monday, Pardeshi reiterated that guidelines should be strictly followed. A BMC official said, “There are several instances of asymptomatic patients being admitted in hospitals, which may lead to delay in getting bed for symptomatic patients. Hence, we have been asked to strictly follow the guidelines on admission of patients.”The circular has pointed out that as per the guidelines issued by the Central government for managing Covid-19 patients all asymptomatic positive patients are to be kept in corona care centres (CCC), moderately symptomatic positive patients in dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC), and critical Covid positive patients with comorbidities in dedicated Covid hospitals (DCH). The circular reads, “However, it has been brought to notice that various unions of health workers, medical practitioners etc. are pressurising hospital management to admit asymptomatic Covid positive patients in facilities which should be ideally used for symptomatic patients and asymptomatic patients with comorbidities. Therefore, once again it is reiterated that DCH and DHCH facilities should be used only for symptomatic patients and asymptomatic patients with comorbidities. These guidelines are to be followed strictly by all concerned. A deviation will be viewed very seriously, which may be kindly noted.”Currently, there are around 29 dedicate hospitals, including government and private hospitals, in the city to deal with Covid-19 patients. Further, BMC has arranged around 34,700 beds across the city for CCC and DHCH. A ward official wishing not to be named said, “When any asymptomatic patient is admitted in hospital, there are high chances of the virus becoming more active in his body. Whereas, the ones with symptoms may develop further complications if they have to wait for medical attention. Hence, it is advisable to bifurcate and admit patients following the guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-chief-only-admit-those-who-show-symptoms-to-hospitals/story-GVhq05kM5zbk7yDGvvdhUO.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Closed vends in Punjab leave bacchus lovers flustered||Punjab was among the first states to ask the Centre to allow it to open liquor vends in view of fund crunch, but no liquor vend was open on day one of the lockdown 3.0 on Monday. The liquor vends will not open in the state before Thursday. Chief minister’s chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar said liquor contractors have sought three days to open vends. “Since there was curfew in the state since March 23, new contracts have been signed today. They are doing closing for the previous financial year, taking new stocks and will be ready by Wednesday,” he said. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had last month written to Union home minister Amit Shah to seeking opening of liquor vends, stating that his government would lose state excise of more than ₹500 crore a month during lockdown.Bacchus lovers were a dejected lot as they made rounds of the vends in anticipation. “When liquor vends can open in Chandigarh, why not in Punjab,” said a Mohali resident. Bathinda assistant excise and taxation commissioner R K Malhotra said that since the liquor vends will be opened for the first time in new financial year so there will stock verification to allow new allottees to open the vends. Even in district like Bathinda where traders have got renew their licence and will continue to run the business, stocks will have to be checked before opening the vends.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner, Faridkot, Tejbir Singh Sidhu, said there was no communication from higher ups for opening of the liquor vends.A liquor trader said the business was badly hit because a large number of migrant workers, the main consumers of the country-made liquor, have left the state.Amritsar assistant excise and taxation commissioner (AETC) Sukhchain Singh said they didn’t receive instructions from the government for opening of liquor shops. “A meeting of state cabinet committee on the subject is scheduled for Thursday. Once we get the orders from the state government, the shops will be allowed to open.”(With inputs from Bathinda, Amritsar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/closed-vends-in-punjab-leave-bacchus-lovers-flustered/story-lSzVdezc044Jy8WmWOILMP.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Mulund sees 42% spike in single day; Dharavi records 42 new cases||The Mulund area or T ward of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which had one of the lowest numbers of Covid-19 cases on Monday, saw a 42% hike, with 52 cases in a single day. The tally of positive cases in Mulund is now 123. Dharavi, one of the biggest slums in Asia, saw 42 new cases on Monday taking the total count to 632.T ward was among the top three wards including R North (Dahisar-Borivali) and C ward (Kalbadevi-Chira Bazaar) that had the lowest number of cases in the last one month. This one-day spike in the T Ward has created a worrisome situation for the civic administration.Of the 52 infected, a majority of the cases were found in Amarnagar, Indiranagar, and Ramgad slum area. Kishor Gandhi, assistant municipal commissioner of T ward, said, “Of these, 45 cases were detected through fever clinic camps and most of them were from densely populated slum pockets.”To detect more cases, the civic body has decided to hold more fever clinic camps in dense slum pockets. The Ramgad and Indira Nagar slums reported their first case on April 19 and April 21, respectively, and then had a breather of a few days with no new cases.The BMC has identified 33 containment zones, with three red zones. It has released 10 containment zones as there were no new cases reported there for the last 14 days. As a precautionary measure, the civic health department has traced 530 high-risk contacts and kept them at a quarantine centre.Dharavi, on Monday, reported 42 new Covid-19 cases, a majority of which were reported from Muslim Nagar, Janata Society, Suroday Society, and Shiv Shakti Nagar. “While screening residents in Dharavi, we have been detecting more and more infected patients. We have targeted the high- and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients and the new cases have been reported from these localities only,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G North ward, which comprises Dharavi. The number of coronavirus cases in Dadar and Mahim increased by four and three respectively, taking the tally to 54 and 71.On Monday, former deputy mayor Hemangi Worlikar tested positive for Covid-19. She has been admitted to a hospital and swab samples of her high-risk contacts were sent for testing.In the G South ward, one of the worst-hit areas in the city, the doubling rate has increased to 15 days from the 10 days recorded last week. On Monday, mayor Kishori Pednekar conducted a review meeting with officials from the civic health department and expressed satisfaction over efforts taken to control the situation in Worli. There are 1,927 total active containment zones in the city at present, of which 641 are red zones (congested, need police help), 502 are orange zones (congested but manageable), and 784 are blue zones (manageable and gated communities).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mulund-sees-42-spike-in-single-day/story-N3N56B9TzZ4mRTObS9huvO.html
04-05-2020||City||Two factories gutted in two separate fire incidents in Ambala||Two factories were gutted in two separate fire incidents at Shahazadpur and Saha blocks in Ambala on Sunday night, said police.In the first incident, the fire broke out in a fabric factory located at the Saha block of the district. The Saha block police station in-charge, Chander Bhan, said around six fire tenders were pressed into service to successfully douse flames in the factory at 6am on Monday. “No loss of life or injury was reported here, but the cause of the fire has been established,” he said, adding that the incident took place due to short-circuiting in the factory power unit.In the second incident, a chemical factory in Jatwar village of Shahazadpur area caught fire amid rainfall and thunderstorm. The factory, which comes under the limits of the Panjokhara police station and is spread across one acre, caught fire around 10pm on Sunday. Police station in-charge Harbhajan Singh said that more than five fire tenders reached the spot to douse the fire and the operations ended late night.“The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained,” he said, adding that some of the locals claimed bad weather and lightening to be the reason behind the incident. Singh said that the police are investigating the case along with the fire NOC and added that no loss of life or injury in the incident was reported as the factory was closed amid the lockdown.Meanwhile, some locals claimed that the factory was functional and producing sanitizers amid the lockdown. On this, area sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Aditi said that officials were sent at the spot late night to verify the claim, but found nothing related to production of sanitizers. As per the initial findings, the claims made by the locals were found to be false, said the SDM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-factories-gutted-in-two-separate-fire-incidents-in-ambala/story-IgkNUYjNWHAkC8CTw2XiWP.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Corporates exercise caution, continue with work from home||Even with lockdown restrictions being eased from Monday, corporates in the city said they will continue to ask employees to work from home for at least a few more weeks, while they finalise strategies to enforce social distancing in the coming months.Spokespersons of several IT companies, start-ups and private offices said on Monday that given the rise in the number of cases in the district over the past week, they will not be reopening offices on Monday. The absence of public transport, and the sealing of the borders at Delhi are the main driving factors behind their decision, in addition to the safety of the employees.As seen with industries in Gurugram, corporate life will take longer to assume normalcy while adjusting to the various constraints of a post-COVID-19 world, many said.Sudhir Kamath, the founder of 9Stacks, a Gurugram based online gaming company, said, “The situation is nowhere near improvement. We will call our employees to work only after finalising some guidelines, which we are working on. The plan is to ensure that only 30% of the staff comes to office at a time.”Similarly, Manas Fuloria, CEO of the IT firm Nagarro, said that they would not be calling people to work unless it is absolutely necessary. “As per the ministry of home affairs’ instructions, we can function with up to 75% capacity after May 11, and permissions are not needed from district administration, but we believe it’s not imperative to have that many of our staff to come in. We will take a call on it closer to the end of the month.”Fuloria, Kamath and others weighed in on the uncertainty of the situation, pointing out that the opening up offices will increase employees’ risk of contracting Covid-19. As such, most companies have already prepared, or are in the process of preparing action plans to make workspaces safer for employees.E-commerce player Snapdeal, for example, has redesigned various aspects of its Gurugram office to facilitate social distancing. Certain desks, for example, have been marked not for use. Shared spaces such as bathrooms and the cafeteria will allow only a few people at a time, while a daily schedule has been designed for sanitising shared spaces, such as entry points, lobbies, pantries, and printing rooms.“Snapdeal’s office at Gurugram will be shut till May 17 and any reopening decision after that will be subject to continuous assessment of the situation, including government advisories, movement restrictions at interstate borders within the National Capital Region(NCR) and availability of transport facilities,” a company spokesperson said.Many corporates are keen to open up offices by early June, though at reduced capacities, like Gurugram-based software company HostBooks, which is currently functioning at 60% strength, having asked certain departments to be on leave without pay.“We are not planning to open our office as of now. We will wait until the end of the month. Even with social distancing, there are chances of staff contracting the disease. As such, we don’t want to take that risk,” said Kapil Rana, chairman and founder, HostBooks.Others said they would wait for clearer guidelines to come from the Centre. “Although the government has allowed us to resume with limited staff, we are waiting for clearer orders after the first few days and will see how it goes before reopening,” said Karann Talwar, managing director, Kitchen Kraft Luxury Catering in Gurugram.MOBILITY STILL A MAJOR CONSTRAINTTransport services remained sparse on Monday, with buses and metro services remaining shut. “A lot of the workforce comes from Delhi. That’s one big issue on which we have no clarity,” said Pankaj Bhatt, who runs a corporate training firm in the city with several employees living outside Gurugram.Private cabs will be resuming operations within the city though and in other orange and green zones. Ola, for example, said on Monday it will start services in over 100 cities, including Gurugram. Wearing masks will be compulsory, and more than two passengers per car will not be permitted.However, Bhatt and other employers said that unless cheaper, and mass transit services like buses, Metro, and sharing autos are allowed, “the workforce won’t be able to commute.”Yogesh Sharma, president of the Haryana Auto Chalak Sangathan, said, “The Centre’s order states that in green and orange zones, auto-rickshaw can ply with just one passenger. But many auto drivers have returned home. Others are unwilling to ply because the demand is little. A few auto drivers affiliated with Ola and Uber have started plying on Monday. It’s hard to say when the auto-rickshaws will start again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/corporates-exercise-caution-continue-with-work-from-home/story-l1STYPRVruqLPiAGEbWioI.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||40-year-old woman dies; husband, in-laws booked||The police on Sunday booked eight people, including the husband and in-laws of a 40-year-old woman, after she died allegedly in mysterious circumstances and her last rites were conducted without the knowledge of her family members in old Faridabad. According to the police, relatives of the woman alleged that the suspects would harass her for dowry and murdered her on Sunday.The police said that the woman was identified as Sobhana Sharma of New Delhi. She was married in 2004 and had a 15-year-old daughter and 13-year-old son. The husband lives with his family in old Faridabad and is a businessman.In the police complaint, Sandeep Sharma, the Sobhana’s brother, said, “As soon as she got married, her in-laws and husband began harassing her for dowry daily. They would throw her out of the house. I had tried to sort out the issue several times in the past.” He added that on Sunday, the suspects allegedly conducted Sobhana’s last rites and did not inform him about her demise.“Another sister of mine informed me about Sobhana’s death. My family and I immediately went to old Faridabad, where Sobhana’s husband told me that she had died of a heart attack and they had already conducted her last rites,” Sharma stated in the FIR. He alleged that the suspects murdered Sobhana and conducted her last rites on the quiet to cover it up.Sharma said, “On Sunday morning, my sister’s son saw her body on the floor. She was tied up and wrapped in a bedsheet. When the in-laws saw him in the room, they panicked and locked him in another room. None of the neighbours had heard about my sister’s death. I am sure they killed her.”Adarshdeep Singh, the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), old Faridabad, said, “The autopsy of the body did not take place. Sobhana’s relatives alleged that they were informed about her death after the last rites were done. We are investigating the case. The suspects are yet to be arrested.”A case was registered under sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at old Faridabad police station on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/40-year-old-woman-dies-husband-in-laws-booked/story-fdYw9hZPz77RteCmtpVXAL.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 100 migrant workers gather at Sun City after rumours of interstate travel abound||Confusion prevailed after at least 100 migrant workers gathered at the gate of the Sun City residential colony in Sector 54, a containment zone, allegedly after hearing rumours of receiving passes for returning to their respective states on Monday morning, the police said.According to the police, the crowd was dispersed after being told that the information regarding arrangements for their return was incorrect as the area was currently a containment zone. The police said that the migrants, who are construction workers, alleged that they were struggling to sustain themselves and wanted to return to their respective hometowns as soon as possible.The police said the incident took place around 7.30am when a crowd began assembling at the gate of the township, which is barricaded.Deepak Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 53 police station, said, “About 100 migrant workers, who have been staying at several construction sites, gathered at the gate after they heard rumours that the lockdown was being lifted and the authorities were arranging passes for them to go to their home states. In addition to the police deployed at the gate, a team rushed to the spot and explained to them that the area was a containment zone. They were peacefully dispersed.” On Sunday, hundreds of migrant workers had gathered at government school in village Khoh, Manesar, after hearing rumours that the administration officials were registering those who wanted to leave for their respective states.Prashant Sharma, vice president, Sun City residents’ welfare association (RWA), said, “At least 450 labourers are staying at several construction sites in the township. A day before they received false information about being sent to their respective states in buses and they stared crowding at the gate. But no violence took place and they were soon dispersed after the police and locals explained the situation to them,” Sharma said.Workers of Dwarka Expressway project protestMeanwhile, on Monday, a large number of labourers, part of the Dwarka Expressway project in the city, allegedly protested at Garhi Harsaru against its contractor, demanding that they be allowed to go back to their hometowns. The labourers alleged that they had not been paid salaries for April and were struggling to make ends meet.Shafaq, a labourer, said, “We are concerned about our safety as no one is following social distancing guidelines here. The administration should provide free bus services, so we can return to our homes. We are yet to be paid our wages for last month.”A National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) contractor said that they had provided food to over 1,500 labourers till April 28.RK Mishra, project director, L&T, said, “What the labourers are saying is completely false. We had made arrangement for 5,000 face masks, hand gloves and soap and provided them to the labourers. Since the lockdown began in March, we have provided them with food, lodging and medical facilities. The company will also be paying them April’s salary despite no work taking place at that time.” There are around 1,500 labourers who are part of constructing two packages—package 3 (Haryana border to Basai railway overbridge) and package 4 (Basai railway overbridge to CPR/SPR/NH-8 junction). With construction sites being allowed to resume work with 50% of the workforce, the NHAI contractor had resumed work on April 25. A little over a week since the construction activity at the Dwarka Expressway began, work has come to a grinding halt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-100-migrant-workers-gather-at-sun-city-after-rumours-of-interstate-travel-abound/story-VKJAn7b6NlBK6gofEBryvM.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid testing takes a hit in Amritsar as 20 lab staffers home quarantined||As more and more Covid-19 cases are being reported in Amritsar, testing at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Amritsar has taken a hit after staffers were placed in home quarantine due to one positive case among them.After a 28-year old lab attendant tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, 20 other staff members were sent for home quarantine for the week. In their absence, testing at GMCH dipped 85% and samples are piling up rapidly.“After the attendant tested positive, we stopped taking more samples. Now, more than 1,000 samples have piled up, among which are samples of 250 Hazur Sahib pilgrims,” said Dr KD Singh, GMCH microbiologist, who is in home quarantine.Meanwhile, the GMC authorities have assigned temporary medical staff at the lab to continue the testing.Dr Lavina Oberoi, the head of microbiology department at GMC Amritsar, said, “6 temporary staffers are testing samples but since we don’t have researchers and microbiologists, the work has been hampered. From testing 500 samples a day, we are testing only 75 now. Once the staff is trained in a day or two, we will pick up pace.”Civil surgeon, Dr Jugal Kishore said that they were trying to get private labs to start testing, and 129 samples have been sent to them, whose reports will come after 3 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-testing-takes-a-hit-in-amritsar-as-20-lab-staffers-home-quarantined/story-3glylCm134WODCjOdM6deN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Enhance testing capacity at 6 central institutions: Capt to PM||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking enhancement of daily viral testing capacity at the six premier research institutions located in the state and Chandigarh to 2,000 tests.In a letter, Amarinder on Monday requested the PM to issue directives to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, IMTECH-CSIR, Chandigarh, Indian Institute of Science Education & Research (IISER), Mohali, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research (NIPER), Mohali, National Agricultural Biotechnology Institute, Mohali and the Central University of Punjab, Bathinda, to scale up their testing capacity to assist the state government in its response to Covid-19.The state government was making all possible efforts to contain the pandemic following the guidelines issued by the Centre, he said.In the letter, Amarinder said the state government had already requested these institutions to do the needful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/enhance-testing-capacity-at-6-central-institutions-capt-to-pm/story-EGcxHVrhq9m0JkAW4FhdNJ.html
04-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown-hit mango to see hike in export, courtesy UP govt||Another addition to the list of lockdown-hit is the mango yield this year. However, this has failed to defeat the spirit of mango farmers, backed by state government agencies like the mandi parishad.This year, the parishad has decided to increase mango export by 16%. Uttar Pradesh produces 65% of the world’s mangoes but exports less than Pakistan (which produces just 5% of global production) because Pakistan has a better export support system in place.The state produces 45 lakh metric tonnes of mango per year in its 15 mango belts spread across 13 districts, while the mango belt of Malihabad produces around 7 lakh metric tonnes of mangoes per year, out of which, only 840 metric tonnes are exported, while the rest is consumed locally.Mandi Parishad director JP Singh said, “Last year, we exported 84,000 quintals (840 metric tonnes) of mangoes to USA and Europe. This year, we have set a target of exporting 10,000 quintals of mangoes to Europe and the Gulf countries. This would benefit our mango farmers, who have been affected due to the lockdown.”“We are working to better supply chains. If flights are not allowed, then we have plans to export mangoes via the sea route,” he added.Besides, the state government is thinking about allowing packaging companies to operate 24X7 and operating Mango Mandis for longer, while maintaining social-distancing norms.Mandi Parishad and the state government are working on getting special permissions for the transport of mangoes to the other states.Singh said, “During the entire lockdown the mandis across the state have worked round the clock and ensured the crop produced by farmers reaches mandis on time. Not only that but we are trying to procure wheat from the doorstep of farmers.”UP Maha Mango Association president SC Shukla said, “Yes, the lockdown and bad weather have adversely affected the mango yield but we can cover this up by better planning and cooperation of state government with farmers. The transport of mangoes by central organisations like NAFED in collaboration with the state mandi departments, like they do in Kashmir for transportation of Kashmiri apples throughout India could be experimented here too. To this end, a delegation of mango farmers and I met chief minister Yogi Adityanath. During the meeting, the CM directed that a meeting be held with officials from NAFED, Mandi Department and mango farmers. I hope that the government takes immediate action.”Vipin Kumar, a mango farmer of Malihabad said, “The lockdown had an adverse impact on the supply chain and sales of fruits. It has been speculated that mangoes from south India like the Baiganpalli and Alfosno have seen their sales fall by almost 70%. We don’t want this to occur in Malihabad, as the first lot will hit the market by May 18. If international sale is not possible this year, then mango farmers should be given access to markets in other states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-hit-mango-to-see-hike-in-export-courtesy-up-govt/story-zF3Ok9QifcXgEbjSwuTPnL.html
04-05-2020||City||Quack dispensing medicine for respiratory illnesses busted||New Delhi: A clinic was sealed and an FIR was registered against a quack dispensing medicines for respiratory disease in Central Delhi’s Budh Nagar area on Monday. The person had claimed that the medicines were being dispensed on prescription of a doctor – the “prescriptions” were found to be just blank pieces of paper and the doctor prescribing the allopathic medicines had a Unani degree as per the visiting card given by the person in the clinic.“The scary thing is that the person was also dispensing the medicine ‘Deriphyllin’ which is given to people with respiratory illnesses like asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Such medicine being dispensed indiscriminately would mean that symptoms such as breathlessness in Covid-19 patients might get suppressed and the authorities might not be able to trace them. Such persons can continue infecting others,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president, Delhi Medical Association.A case has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, both of which have been invoked to manage the spread of Covid-19. This is along with the provision under the Delhi Medical Council Act, which is applicable otherwise.The maximum punishment under the three laws will be simple imprisonment up to three years and/ or a fine of R 20,000 under the DMC Act or any act that might cause loss or endangerment of a life can be punishable by imprisonment extending up to two years under the Disaster Management Act.“There are around 30,000 quacks across the city who are playing with the lives of the people, especially during the lockdown when many hospitals and clinics had curtailed their services,” said Dr Tyagi.The incident came to light three days ago when a team of district officials went to the areas for routine surveillance activities.“We saw around 25 to 30 people standing close to each other outside a clinic in Budh Nagar area, so we went in to ask the person in-charge to ensure that proper social distancing is followed. However, inside there was a person about 25 years of age who was dispensing the medicines. He did not have any qualification, neither could he present proper prescription from a doctor. The visiting card he provided of the doctor mention that he was a BUMS doctor. This in itself is wrong because allopathic medicines were being dispensed. However, there was no registration number of the doctor with respective council provided to us either,” said Dr Nitin Shakya, nodal officer of surveillance in the area.The sub-divisional magistrate of Delhi Cantt area Piyush Rohankar has decided to search the area for other such clinics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quack-dispensing-medicine-for-respiratory-illnesses-busted/story-xXWmgZpC9N6Y9z7fbWnT0K.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Sector 9A residents write to administration; raise concern about Covid-19 hospital in vicinity||The residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Sector 9A has written to the district administration on Monday, requesting it to shift the Covid-19 treatment facility at the ESI Hospital, located in its vicinity, to a different place.The letter from the RWA stated that the hospital does not have an inbuilt sewage treatment plant and it has been using the sector’s sewer network to dispose of its daily discharge. The letter cited that sewage and drinking water pipelines of the sector are faulty and meet at different places. This is also a cause for concern for the residents.“The ESI Hospital does not have a sewage treatment plant (STP) of its own and it is connected to the sector’s sewer network. Therefore, if the sewage/medical waste is discharged from Covid-19 patients it can lead to a major health hazard in the area, as the sector’s sewer lines and drinking water lines are faulty and get mixed up at various places,” stated the letter.The residents had written to the administration before the hospital was declared as a stand-alone facility for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in early April.“Despite our repeated requests and appeals through letters, mails and WhatsApp messages to deputy commissioner (DC) Amit Khatri and chief medical officer (CMO) Dr JS Punia, this hospital was declared as a stand-alone facility for Covid-19 patients. Currently, there are more than 30 active Covid-19 positive cases admitted to the hospital. The city has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past couple of days or weeks ringing alarming bells of community spread. We have appealed to the DC to shift these patients to some other hospital at a distant location,” said Lalit Bhola, general secretary of RWA.The city has as many as 84 Covid-19 cases, of which 49 patients have been discharged.Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “Disinfectant and sanitisation are being carried out by the health department and other precautions are being taken at ESI.” Dr JS Punia, CMO, said, “In absence of an STP at the ESI Hospital, we have made alternate arrangements for septic tanks and use of disinfectants and bleaching.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sector-9a-residents-write-to-administration-raise-concern-about-covid-19-hospital-in-vicinity/story-RquGddSMeCwH7PvVWN0qYK.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Huda shopkeepers make hay as others await RWA nod, suffer from staff crunch||The city gave a mixed response to the resumption of non-essential economic activity on Monday as some standalone shops, Huda markets, salons etc opened to roaring business under police vigil. While some chose to keep their operations suspended because of proximity of hot spots, others were forced to keep their shutters down because of labour issues caused by Covid lockdown-fuelled migration and sealing of Delhi-Gurugram borders. However, many standalone shops in residential areas said they did not know about the order since the district administration issued it late at night, and they have to take permission from RWAs.Of all the shops that opened on Monday, those selling stationary, electrical appliances, grooming salons, dry cleaners, to name some, were most visited in Huda markets of Sectors 15, 31, and 56. “People from nearby areas visited the market in large numbers on Monday and did a lot of shopping. Electrical goods, stationery items and other item of daily need were in high demand,” said Sumit Bhatnagar, a member of the Sector 56 Huda market association. For many residents, this was also the first time they could buy air-conditioners (AC) and coolers. “My family had moved into a new house in December last year. We did not feel the need to buy an AC at the time and thought we will purchase it before the summer starts. Unfortunately, the lockdown came at a time when the temperatures had just started rising. On Monday, when I came to know that an electric appliance store had opened in Sector 56, I purchased two ACs,” DLF 5 resident Vardaan Agarwal said.At the Sector 31 HUDA market, residents could be seen picking up food deliveries or placing orders for takeaways, as restaurants continue to stay shut. At the Sector 15 HUDA market, such was the rush at a sweet store that had remained semi-operational since March 25, their staff said that they sold more items in a single day than the entire 40-day period.“Today there was a huge surge in orders and takeaways. We had more than 200 customers today,” said a staff member of Sham Sweets in Sector 15 HUDA market.POLICE CAUTIOUSPolice commissioner Muhammad Akil said that they have deployed a team of about 20 police personnel and a health worker in each market to ensure shopkeepers to follow the necessary safety guidelines.“We have deployed police officials across markets in the city to ensure people follow physical distancing norms and wear masks all the time. We want to ensure people do not start misusing the safety measures and use the convenience of shops being open cautiously,” he said.Akil added that they have given 100 face masks to each police team so they can give it to those found moving without masks. “Hand sanitisers and gloves are also been kept in all police vehicles,” the top cop said, adding that each team is also carrying a thermal scanner to check suspected persons. The administration’s order on Sunday night said that standalone shops, Huda markets, shops in residential areas, salon and parlours can resume operations between 7am-7pm. The order further stated that shops in malls and high-footfall areas such as Sadar Bazar, and Galleria Market will continue to remain closed as a precautionary measure.SELF-IMPOSED CAUTIONHowever, all non-essential shops remained closed in areas near hot spots, such as the Sector 14 HUDA market, after the local RWA, which is also the supervisor of the market decided against implementing the administration’s relaxation. “We decided against opening any new shops in the market on Monday as we learnt that cases of Covid-19 have increased in Rajeev Nagar and Dundahera, which are close by. We, hence, requested the shopkeepers to cooperate with us and to keep the shops closed for another 14 days to ensure safety of all,” HS Nanda, President of Sector 14 RWA, said.However, in some areas like Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok 1, shop keepers and association did not know about the order. “We only came to know about the administration’s order Monday afternoon from news reports. The shopkeepers are desperate to restart business. We will start operations from Tuesday,” said Tej Singh, president of Vyapar Kendra association in Sushant Lok 1. STAFF WOESInformation aside, many business owners were hit by lack of available workers, with most of their staff either residing in Delhi or having returned to their native places amidst the coronavirus pandemic and nationwide lockdown. “Due to the restrictions at the Delhi border, the administration’s permission to open hair salons was of no use. Most of my staff members live in Delhi,” said Ashok Kumar, owner of a parlour and saloon in Qutab Plaza said.“Almost all my staff has returned to Bihar. I only opened the store today for two hours to clean it,” said Aditya Yadav, a resident of Kanahi village who sells car accessories and services automobiles in Sector 43. STANDALONE SHOPS AWAIT RWA NODOwners of a few standalone shops located in residential areas, meanwhile, said that they were waiting for the local RWAs to grant them entry and hence could not resume operations on Monday.“My shop is located inside a condominium in Sector 50. Even though I wanted to start operations, the RWA told me to wait until further directions. After much deliberation on Monday evening they told me I can resume operations from Tuesday,” said Rishav Rai, a resident of Sector 51.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/huda-shopkeepers-make-hay-as-others-await-rwa-nod-suffer-from-staff-crunch/story-ZUnNVgYS4xv6l1sjmjASPM.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Repairmen, IT staff, bank employees turned back at inter-state borders||Over 1,000 visitors to Gurugram, expecting relaxation of curbs to gain passage to the city in view of the Lockdown 3.0, returned disappointed as police personnel restricted their entry, especially on the expressway and MG Road.Borders connecting the two cities were sealed last week and entry of only those engaged in essential services, carrying valid passes, are allowed.As many as 1,045 people were turned away from borders between 7am and 6pm on Monday, the police said.The Gurugram police said on Sunday that intra-district movement was allowed, but there would no movement between the national Capital and Gurugram, due to the rising number of cases linked to Delhi.On Monday morning, the police had changed the layout of deployment at the Sirhaul border, by placing barricades 100 metres before the border to ensure there is no traffic congestion at the border that could hold up passage of essential supply vehicles and ambulances.A large contingent of bank employees, saloon and parlour staff, private company staff and electrical support staff were stuck at the border and had to return after to pass through.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that people had assumed that they will be allowed to cross the border as they had received emails from their employers to resume work, but they were not supported with any passes. “People were requesting to be allowed as they have not received salaries for the last two months and if they did not report, would not be paid,” he said.Goel said it is challenging work to check more than 2,000 passes every day and to allow people with emergency issues. Many times, people don’t understand the rules and regulations and start pleading us to allow them, despite saying no,” he said.With 85 Covid-19 cases, Gurugram is in the Union government’s orange zone list. Its 11 borders with Delhi, which is a red zone, were sealed last week.Over 50 police personnel were deployed at the most-used border points — Sirhaul, Aya Nagar and Kapashera — which generally witness a large inflow of people from Delhi and other NCR towns who work in corporate houses and industrial areas in the city’s hubs.Within the city, however, barricades were removed early Monday morning, said police. Over 103 police posts, which were set up in residential areas, were lifted after the district administration issued fresh orders on Sunday, announcing relaxation for residents between 7am and 7pm.Muhammad Akil, police commissioner, Gurugram, said that the lockdown curfew during the day (between 7 am and 7 pm) will be relaxed, but movements are restricted at night. “We have to control the movement between the two cities as the cases linked to Delhi are testing positive. Even on Monday, seven of the 11 cases that tested positive were linked to Azadpur Mandi in Delhi,” he said.Police said the passes to the employees shall be granted on a weekly basis, with fixed validity from May 4 to May 10 and from May 11 to May 17, the officials said. The applicants will also have to provide details of their ancillary units to seek support from the state in reinstating their supply chains, the order stated.The police will be deployed in residential areas between 7pm and 7am starting Monday night and anyone found violating the norms will be booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/repairmen-it-staff-bank-employees-turned-back-at-inter-state-borders/story-f7V3dhZjInHhKuAorRyXBN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to woo investors keen to move from China||The Haryana government has chalked out an aggressive strategy to woo the investors intending to either shift from China or setting up a new manufacturing facility in India.An official spokesperson said as a part of the plan, principal secretary to chief minister Rajesh Khullar shall hold an open house with potential investors from 3 pm to 4 pm every day on May 6-8 through video conferencing/webinars.A number of US, Japanese, Korean and Euro Zone companies are proposing to shift their plants from China or set up additional manufacturing facilities to other locations in South Asia. The government has prepared a strategy to create windows in the existing state policies that would ensure quick setting up of manufacturing facilities in any industrial estate of the choice of investors wanting to shift base from China.The government is reaching out to these companies to understand their individual requirement in terms of land area, payment terms, incentives sought and business facilitation sought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-woo-investors-keen-to-move-from-china/story-ZlZPTbxoF4BNsNtaGeupEK.html
04-05-2020||City||Stylists in PPE kit, service by appointment: Parlours, salons open amid Covid-19 pandemic||Parlours and salons in the city resumed services with limited staff across the city on Monday as the third phase of the nationwide lockdown kicked in with considerable relaxations. Hair stylists and beauticians working at such establishments welcomed customers in PPE (personal protective equipment) suits as taking statutory precautions to safeguard staff and customers remained a key concern amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Before we opened our doors to the customers, the salon was thoroughly sanitized and disinfected. At the end of the day, we will also fumigate the premises. We had only four staff members working today who were provided PPE kits from a medical distributor. The kit included cap, goggles, mask, coat and gloves,” said Sandeep Kalra, co-owner of salon chain Grace & Glamour. The company has 11 branches in Gurugram, but started its operations only in outlets at sectors 15 and 31.Kalra said that for customers, temperature screening and noting down of personal details were mandated. The salon also did away with magazines and newspapers and it allowed customers to step inside only on an appointment basis. “We wanted to make sure that there was no waiting. Customers came, received their service and left immediately,” said Kalra. Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri in an order dated May 3 had said that salons and beauty parlours could operate from Monday, but big markets like shopping malls, Galleria market and Sadar Bazaar would continue to remain closed. Owing to reduced staff strength, walk-ins are being avoided by most establishments to prevent crowding. BloBar Ibis Gurgaon, a hair salon located on Golf Course Road, advertised resuming services soon after government guidelines on easing the lockdown was announced. It mentioned operating strictly on appointment basis to limit the number of customers present at its salon. “We were fully booked for Monday. We had only three staff for the day. Transportation was provided to them as we did not want them to take public transport. They were also provided PPE kits. At the salon, only three customers were allowed in at a time,” said Sargam Chopra, owner and founder of BloBar. Chopra said that the salon had also provided the option of customers bringing in their own towels as it stopped outsourcing its laundry and was doing in-house laundry. “Some customers got their own towels, as it makes them feel safe,” she said.Besides, all efforts are being made by these establishments to reduce skin contact between clients and staff, keeping safety measures in mind. This is leading to a change in procedure of services like threading and hair cutting. “For threading, we earlier didn’t wear a mask. But now we will loop the thread around the neck, sanitize the thread and then do it. This way, the end of the thread is not held in the mouth, so it is safe. For colouring and cutting, we were already wearing masks. Previously, some facials were done wearing gloves but now it will be done for all,” said Bharti Taneja, founder and director of Alps Beauty Group. As the salons and parlours opened after more than 40 days, some of the sought after services were haircuts, trimmings, colour touch-ups and threading. Several parlours and salons in the city had closed down operations mid-March even before the lockdown began, citing low footfall. “There was some business after Holi, but then the coronavirus scare took hold and people stopped coming to parlours. We stopped services around March 20,” said Kalra. A guideline issued by the Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council directs all salon professionals to closely ensure sanitisation and disinfection of work stations, hydraulic chairs, tools, equipment and trolleys. It also suggested immediate removal of cut hair on the floor as well as from combs, brushes, rollers, and scissors by rinsing in lukewarm shampoo water. “Avoid threading, and recommend peel off wax to the clientele • Use disposable spatula to apply the peel off wax • Apply talcum powder with a piece of cotton on the forehead/upper lips for threading • Use disposable spatula for the wax application, and disposable strips for waxing,” read the directives titled Health & Hygiene Guidelines for the Beauty & Wellness Industry, Post Covid-19 Pandemic.Individual cosmetic brands have also shared circulars with franchise owners on maintaining safety standards. A pre-opening guidelines issued by L’Oreal suggests using alternate salon chairs to maintain social distancing along with other measures like sterilisation of equipment.Most establishments in the city are looking at segregated openings of their outlets as they focus on figuring out a hygiene and sanitation protocol. Taneja of Alps Beauty Group, who runs around 30 outlets in Delhi-NCR, said that the Gururgam outlet of her beauty clinic will resume operations from Tuesday.Several such establishments located in shopping complexes and malls in the city, however, remained closed for services. Beauty chain owners are also refraining from opening shutters in areas like Galleria market.“We are awaiting further government guideline as our salon is in Galleria Market,” said Neeraj Jain, franchise owner of Revlon salon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stylists-in-ppe-kit-service-by-appointment-parlours-salons-open-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-79nn1GuCGpJhWWyXmqqXyK.html
04-05-2020||City||Strike by staff of OOAT clinics leaves patients stranded in Ludhiana||The strike by employees of the de-addiction and rehabilitation centres and out patient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics left scores of addicts and their relatives stranded on Monday.A long queue was witnessed outside the OOAT clinic here after the agitating staff, demanding regularisation, refused to attend the patients. Failing to get their daily dose of medicine, many patients of the rehabilitation centre were seen anxiously waiting for their turn to get the medicine.On the other hand, employees held a protest at their centres, wearing black ribbons and holding placards.Rajan from Shimlapuri was waiting for the protest to end outside a centre. He said he had been visiting the centre since Friday, but returned empty-handed everyday.“Today, I came around 6am, but till afternoon, I could not get the medicine. I have been taking the medicine for the past one-and-a-half years. When my turn comes, I will demand extra dose to avoid frequent visits,” said Rajan.Manjit Kaur, 55, was waiting for her turn while sitting on a rickshaw. She said her bed-ridden husband had been under treatment for nearly a year. “I am here to take medicine for him. I have been sitting under the scorching sun since morning. I have not eaten anything. I hope the strike will be over soon, so that I can take the medicine and return home,” said Manjit Kaur.Raman of Basti Jodhewal said, “The police had blocked the road and put up nakas across the city. I somehow managed to reach here, but only to find the staff raising slogans.”State president of the OOAT centre staff union Parminder Singh said they have been serving the state sincerely, but the state government paid no heed to their demands of regularisation. Besides, being deployed at OOAT clinics, they were also made to perform duty at Covid-19 wards as well.“We are working for a outsourcing company and have no medical insurance. Still, we are ready to help the government during the time of crisis, but the government does not think about us.”“As many as 60,000 patients have already got admission to the OAAT clinics and drug de-addiction centre during the lockdown, which has put a heavy burden on the employees. We are ready to help the government, but it should also think about us,” said Parminder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strike-by-staff-of-ooat-clinics-leaves-patients-stranded-in-ludhiana/story-kExwPb4pXBlUPvdBZbiOTO.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Hero MotoCorp to resume production from Wednesday||City-based two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp, on Monday, said that the company will start its operations in a graded manner from Wednesday at its plants and corporate offices, following the relaxations put in place by the government amid the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The company has the necessary permissions from the local authorities to start production, said its spokesperson.The spokesperson of the company said that operations will commence in a phased manner at its manufacturing plants located in Gurugram and Dharuhera (both in Haryana), Haridwar (Uttarakhand) and its global parts centre (GPC) at Neemrana in Rajasthan. These manufacturing plants reopened on Monday and the production at these facilities will commence from Wednesday.It also said that only essential staff will come to work at the company’s plants and corporate offices and that social distancing measures and safeguards will be strictly observed. The company said that its plants have obtained the permissions required to reopen and will commence production after most of the supply chain partners get the permissions to operate.Keeping employees’ well-being and safety at the core of restarting operations, a formal restart manual has been prepared and shared with all the employees via emails and webinars. Further, its adherence has been made mandatory until full normalcy is restored.“We are now ready to hit the ground sprinting as we commence the reopening of our facilities. With meticulous planning and enthusiasm, we are set to recommence operations. I am optimistic that business and the economy will begin the trajectory of its gradual recovery from here,” said Dr. Pawan Munjal, chairman, Hero MotoCorp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hero-motocorp-to-resume-production-from-wednesday/story-pMHfgy8TSxuOyubW7f45VN.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||11 test positive in highest single day spike, Khandsa Mandi shut till May 8||Eleven more cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were confirmed—the highest spike in one day—on Monday, the day economic activity resumed in the district after 40 days. Majority among those who tested positive are vegetable sellers and wholesale dealers at Khandsa Mandi, which has been shut till May 8. On Monday night, the Haryana State Agriculture and Marketing Board issued an order stating no activity will take place in the mandi till Friday. Health officials said the area will be sanitised and more samples will be taken from those who came in contact with the positive persons at the mandi. They, however, said it would be difficult to trace those people who bought vegetables from the primary contacts.Out of the 11 new positive cases, nine were vegetable sellers and wholesale dealers at Khandsa Mandi. Of these, seven had contact with people in Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and two had contacts with people in Nasik and West Bengal. Other cases are from Sector 80 and Sector 12, including the daughter-in-law of the man who committed suicide on April 29. With this, Gurugram’s tally of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus touched 84 and the district, an orange zone, now has more cases of Covid-19 than any other affected districts in Haryana; Faridabad has 75 cases, Sonepat 73 and Jhajjar 56. State health officials, however, said the numbers are increasing due to increased targeted sampling and testing in Gurugram compared to other districts. TARGETTED SAMPLINGLast week, the district health department conducted contact tracing of over 1,656 people at the Khandsa Mandi and took 128 samples. Sampling was done after cases surfaced in Jhajjar and Sonepat with links to Azadpur Mandi—Asia’s largest wholesale market of fruits and vegetables in Delhi which has reported 17 Covid-19 cases till now. Over 1,277 samples have been collected from Jhajjar Mandi, 315 from Fatehabad Mandi and 470 from Rohtak, among other district mandis. “We are aggressively doing targeted sampling in the district by covering people in vegetable mandis, media professionals, health care workers, police personnel and others in government departments. We have intensified the testing in Gurugram compared to other Haryana districts. Gurugram accounts for 18% of the total testing done in the state,” additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said. As a part of targeted sampling, the health team has done RT-PCR tests of over 310 people suspected of having contracted Covid-19 in Gurugram. Across the state, 6,825 people have been tested, of which 54 vegetable sellers, 12 health workers, 4 media persons and 5 policemen tested positive for the coronavirus disease. “In Gurugram, first there were cases with travel history, then it was Tablighi Jamaat attendees and now cases are increasing as we are doing targeted sampling of different groups who have high exposure to now locally positive cases or contaminated areas. Therefore, with targeted sampling asymptomatic cases are coming up. This would help us in breaking the chain of transmission and containing the infection,” Arora said. CONTAINMENT ZONEThe district administration, on Monday, increased the number of containment zones from 11 to 13 in Gurugram block. To tackle the situation, the health department has set aside 100-bed ESIC hospital, 300-bed SGT Medical College, 500-bed Medeor hospital in Manesar and 20-bed Park Hospital for Covid-19 cases. “We have enough beds for Covid-19 cases. Sixteen private hospitals are also empanelled to provide treatment,” chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said. According to him, till now, 6,766 samples have been tested in Gurugram, out of which 6,259 tested negative, while results are awaited of 423. Of the 84 positive cases, 49 have been discharged while 35 are undergoing treatment at ESIC Hospital and SGT Medical College. Though the Central government has allowed home isolation, Punia said they are not allowing it in the district with a fear that it would cause infection to spread. CLASSIFICATIONDespite being an orange zone, where cases are less than red zones such as Faridabad and Sonepat, the rise in numbers has set the alarm bells ringing for the state and district officials. The concern is also due to the relaxation given in the orange zone under Lockdown 3.0. A senior official in the state government, privy to the matter said, “Surveillance, testing rate and doubling rate of cases has been the criteria set by the Central government to designate a district red, orange or green zone. We have directed health teams and deputy commissioners to do aggressive contact tracing to identify symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. However, our concern is also to restart the industries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/11-test-positive-in-highest-single-day-spike-khandsa-mandi-shut-till-may-8/story-NOnTkqy1DljptT64iAm7CP.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir censures Digvijay, CM for demonising Sikh pilgrims||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday criticised Congress leader Digvijay Singh for holding Sikh pilgrims guilty of spreading coronavirus disease in Punjab.He has also demanded a high-level probe into the state government’s “mysterious refusal” to follow its own norms in handling the pilgrims’ after their arrival.“Digvijay’s statement will defame Sikhs all over the world as the originators of coronavirus infection. Instead of shedding fake tears in PR videos over pilgrims’ sufferings, Capt Amarinder Singh should apologise to Sikhs as shocking statements by several Punjab ministers and Congress leaders like Digvijay were tarnishing the community’s image,” Badal remarked.The SAD chief said it would be insane to link the Sikh pilgrims of Nanded Sahib with the spreading of coronavirus in Punjab.Sukhbir’s reaction came in the wake of a tweeted reference by Digvijay linking the Sikh pilgrims with the spread of Covid-19 in the state.Defending his party’s efforts to bring back the pilgrims, he said his party and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) have repeatedly declared that they would take full responsibility of looking after the pilgrims and every other Punjabi in their hour of need, including provision of facilities for comfortable quarantine.“But instead of accepting our request, the Capt government has been torturing and humiliating the pilgrims and others who have been quarantined in filthy environs,” he said.He also expressed “grave concern over the reports of a conspiracy to infect the incoming Naded Sahib pilgrims with the virus on the journey or on arrival” as they had been repeatedly tested negative before their departure.He fired a volley of questions at the CM on the government’s “mysterious refusal” to follow its own norms while handling the pilgrims upon their arrival.SAD has demanded a high-level, independent inquiry, preferably by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, into the whole episode. “The issue stinks of something shady and mysterious,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sukhbir-censures-digvijay-cm-for-demonising-sikh-pilgrims/story-zN9xxtb1boUYXh2sBBvSGK.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Residents’ associations in a fix over allowing domestic helps, walks||The district administration on Monday night allowed residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to put in place guidelines for domestic workers such as maids, drivers, dhobis, tailors, car cleaners and others coming in from outside, as per their own needs. The administration also added that workers, including maids, from containment zones were prohibited from coming in.In a late-night order on Monday, the administration also shared details pertaining to the movement of people in and out of the condominium. RWAs have been asked to ensure that entry for non-essential visitors (family, non-family, trainers) is limited. Residents with health conditions and those who need to walk their pets are allowed to move about within the condominium complex. For pets, only a 15-minute walk is allowed. RWAs said that they were holding consultations with all stakeholders and decisions were subject to review in light of the government order.Before the orders were issued, the first day of the third phase of the lockdown was fraught with intense discussions among RWAs and residents, with the entry of domestic help and timings for walks becoming major points of contention. Many residents said that apartment complexes and RWAs were creating and enforcing their own rules. RWAs, meanwhile, said that the rules were fairly open-ended and ambiguous, due to which arriving at a decision was tricky. At several places, such as DLF Phase 2 and World Spa in Sector 30, residents have been allowed to call in domestic help. At Fresco Apartments, Princeton Estate, restrictions on the entry of domestic help continue, while residents are allowed to move about. At Emaar Palm Drive, restrictions were overturned by evening after residents raised objections to the one on domestic help. Residents are also allowed to take walks within the condominium during fixed timings.Entry of Domestic HelpThe RWA of DLF phase 2 has allowed domestic help to come in and advised them to wear masks. “We have asked residents to ensure that domestic workers maintain hygiene and are given sanitiser bottles. They have been asked to not gather in groups,” Wahi said. He added that construction work within the locality had started as well. “Construction material has started coming in and work has also started in full swing,” he said. The central shopping arcade, however, continues to remain closed.At Fresco Apartments in Nirvana Country, restrictions continue on the entry of domestic staff. The condominium has not shared any revised guidelines and is sticking to the advisories shared earlier. “We received the order from the administration late at night and will be issuing new guidelines in response by tomorrow. Till the time that’s done, the status quo will be maintained,” Nilesh Tandon, president, Fresco RWA, sai.Tandon, however, said that the RWA was not stopping residents from moving about. “We can’t stop people from moving around since we don’t have the authority. We are not a law enforcement agency. Even if people are walking, action has to be taken by the police, not us,” Tandon said.Residents of the condominium, meanwhile, said that the entry of domestic help could be initiated with proper screening. Aparnaa Laxmi Singh, a resident of Park Place in Sector 30, said that intense discussions were taking place among residents over the entry of domestic help. “Senior citizens are very much affected due to the restrictions on domestic help. Even others are under strain and in favour of maids being allowed. However, as of now, the restrictions on domestic help continue,” Laxmi said.Another resident of a condominium in Sector 66, who did not wish to be named, said that RWAs were exercising arbitrary power. “Many people are in favour of bringing in domestic help, but the RWA is not allowing that except in the case of senior citizens. The RWA is not incorporating our suggestions, be it on the entry of domestic help or fixing timings for walks. There were around 500 messages exchanged on the Whatsapp group but to no avail,” the resident said.Aarogya Setu screeningSeveral condominiums across the city are making Aarogya Setu screening mandatory for outsiders coming in. World Spa in Sector 30 has made it mandatory for outsiders, including domestic help, to download the app.Ashwani Singla, president of The World Spa Apartment Owners’ Association, said that the condominium had been following an extensive screening process for the past few weeks, which was being carried forward to mitigate any risks. “We have been conducting mandatory Aarogya Setu screening for all our domestic staff and delivery persons for a while now. We have extended that to our maids now,” Singla said. While everyone was supposed to comply with the screening process, exceptions were being made for residents who had reservations about downloading the app due to privacy concerns.At Wellington Estate in DLF-5, technicians and service providers will only be permitted inside if they have the Aarogya Setu app installed. As per the latest advisory, residents are also required to install the app. Vineet Bagga, RWA member, Wellington Estate, however, said that the app was not compulsory for residents. “The rule regarding Aarogya Setu app only applies to people who might come in for servicing and other jobs. Residents are not bound to install the app,” Bagga said.Walking within the complexCondominiums have given different timings to residents for walking within the complexes. Residents have been asked to abide by physical distancing protocols. The guidelines vary across condominiums. At Wellington Estate, residents will be allowed to walk in the complex every day from 5pm to 10 am on a trial basis, to begin with. Only solo walking is permitted.At Emaar Palm Drive, residents can walk between 5 am and 8am, and 6pm and 9pm. They have been asked to limit their walk times to 30 minutes and ensure that they walk around the complex clockwise. Residents have been asked to self-regulate and ensure that people do not gather. Some residents, however, said that specific timings were not practical and might lead to over-crowding.Amit Chowdhury, president, Palm Drive Condominium Association, said that the RWA would be issuing guidelines after incorporating instructions from the administration. “The rules are open-ended and we are taking suggestions from people to ensure that everyone is on the same page. Guidelines will be issued after taking cognizance of the latest instructions,” Chowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-associations-in-a-fix-over-allowing-domestic-helps-walks/story-p28hLpHudhOUIBldUcVGgJ.html
04-05-2020||City||Gurugram: Tipplers queue up outside liquor shops, return empty-handed||Gurugram: Like other cities of the national capital region where many people lined up in front of wine shops to buy liquor bottles on Monday morning, Gurugram also witnessed long queues outside liquor vends well ahead of their opening across the city. However, tipplers in Gurugram had to return from the shops empty-handed as the liquor stores remained shut throughout the day. However, officials of the excise department said there are chances that the liquor shops in Gurugram will be allowed to open within this week.People queued up outside liquor shops in different parts of the district, including Sector 15, Sector 56, Badshahpur area and Sohna Road, since the early hours of Monday, but found the outlets remained closed. Police teams patrolling in these areas had to ask them to go back home. Some people were seen waiting in their luxury cars outside the closed stores in the morning to grab their stock.The confusion was apparently due to the orders in neighbouring states and the national capital where liquor shops were opened on Monday.In Gurugram, many people were eagerly waiting to buy liquor as they reached outside the shops before 7am. Gaurav Gupta, a resident of Sector 50, said that he reached the liquor shop at 6.45am so that he could collect his stock before anything went wrong. “I thought the state government announced that all shops, including liquor vends, would be allowed to open. There was no clarity on it,” he said.Another resident, Atul Sharma of Sohna Road, said he had returned in the morning as he was told the shops would open at 2pm, but despite waiting for an hour there was no progress. “The government had not announced the temporary shutdown of liquor shops and suddenly took the decision. At least it should have given some time to people to stock up. This has increased the black marketing of liquor in the city,” he claimed.The owner of a liquor shop in the Golf Course Road area said they have not received circular from the excise department to open shops. “Our shops have already been sealed by the department. So, unless the department asks us to start the operations, we cannot open the outlets,” he said.H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that the department has not received any orders yet from the state to reopen the liquor vends in the district. “We are likely to receive orders in a day or two and there are chances that the liquor shops will be open within this week. But fresh guidelines will be issued to ensure the shop owners maintain social distancing to ensure the safety of people from the deadly virus,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-tipplers-queue-up-outside-liquor-shops-return-empty-handed/story-Pj9RkEpdzlZwjn2sYiGagP.html
04-05-2020||Noida||A tiger in Pilibhit dies after being rescued, had multiple injuries||A male tiger in its prime that wooed the social media with its photograph on a tractor during a rescue attempt in Pilibhit died on Sunday evening after being shot with two tranquilising darts, officials said.Post-tranquilisation, multiple wounds were found on its body, including a maggot-infested one on the neck. The body of the dead animal was sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly, for a post-mortem examination. The report is awaited. According to officials, the tiger was spotted near a human settlement under the Mala forest range for the past few days. It was only after it attacked three locals that pressure from villagers mounted on forest officials to rescue the tiger. Officials said that on the morning of May 1, the tiger had attacked three villagers. Later, it went back to the forest, not far from the settlement. However, it returned on May 3, after which the department decided to carry out the rescue operation, seeing the rising anger among the locals.“The locals were getting agitated and we had to act fast. We shot a full dose of tranquiliser and attempted to get closer. However, it did not doze off. In fact, a moment later, the tranquilised tiger even attempted to charge. We had to give it another dose of lesser intensity. We took the animal to the guest house for further treatment after it showed complications. However, an hour later, it died,” said H Rajamohan, field director, Pilibhit tiger reserve, Uttar Pradesh.Rajamohan said that three veterinarians, including the supporting staff of the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), helped with the operation, after oral permission from the chief wildlife warden to tranquilise the tiger was taken.Being asked as to why the veterinarians from the animal husbandry department and not the forest department were used, officials said that the team involved was competent enough.“The team involved was competent. The idea was to rescue it, treat it, and release it back into the wild. The doctors involved had been in other missions earlier as well,” said Lalit Verma, chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone. He added that the department often outsources vets in such cases.“It was a majestic and a big tiger. I had never seen such a large tiger before,” he added.According to Dr Sunil Rathaur, the vet who tranquilised the tiger, there were some deep wounds on the tiger, including one that suggests that the tiger must have been earlier attacked by a long sharp spade-like weapon.“The dose of tranquiliser was well monitored to ensure that there is no possibility of an overdose. We had been monitoring the animal for a while and it seemed sluggish. Later, we found that there were four wounds on it right side, including one on its neck, shoulder and chest. The chest wound was deep. The animal also had a fractured rib and deep wounds. It appears as if it was attacked,” said Rathaur, the chief vet of animal husbandry department, Pilibhit.Asked as to how far the forest area was from where the tiger was being spotted, he added that the region was a part of a wildlife corridor. “There are no fringe forests in Pilibhit. There are proper dense forests and agricultural fields,” he added.This was the second tiger that was attempted to be rescued in the reserve this year. Last month, another tiger was rescued after it attacked a few humans near the forest area. The tiger was later sent to Kanpur Zoo. Speculations for its release into the wild are on, the field director said.With cases of man-animal conflicts being often reported from Pilibhit, this is the second tiger death in the reserve this year. In May 2019, in a shocking incident, a mob of angry villagers ventured two kilometres inside the forest and lynched a tigress to death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/a-tiger-in-pilibhit-dies-after-being-rescued-had-multiple-injuries/story-LhpZHD8xHZyDNrTDvGILmO.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Units in Noida special economic zone to begin operations||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, from Monday, has started inviting online applications from the entrepreneurs of Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) and export-oriented units (EOUs), to permit them to restart commercial activities. Development Commissioner (NSEZ) LB Singhal said that the fresh start of commercial activities in SEZs, following the ‘jaan bhi, jahan bhi’ mantra given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will open numerous doors for economic growth in the post-Covid-19 phase. “The NSEZ has over 262 export units. In 2019-20 fiscal, exports from SEZs crossed ₹7,80,000 crore. I believe that post-Covid-19, SEZs will offer huge opportunities to international investors as many companies specifically from USA and Japan will be looking to invest in India. SEZs have 20,000 hectares of developed land with ready infrastructure for such investments. Single window clearance in SEZs will also attract overseas investors,” he said.Singhal further said that the details of the circulars of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and state government, besides the details of the online application process for the requisite permission, are being circulated among all the SEZ units. “They have been asked to follow the social distancing norms strictly at their respective units. For units employing more than 50 people, it is mandatory to reduce the workforce by 50%. However, the shifts and working hours can be negotiated between the employers and employees,” he said. Ajay Goel, the president of the NSEZ entrepreneurs’ association, said that they have been asked to apply online in non-containment zones. “Our applications will be forwarded by the respective SDMs to the authorities concerned. After that, the Noida authority, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), THE development commissioner (NSEZ), THE regional manager, Uttar Pradesh Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) and the ADM (land acquisition) will issue final permissions in their respective areas,” he said.He further said that the new system is very user-friendly and consumes minimum time. “With this permission, not only will the economic activity start in a controlled manner, but it will also be proved a test case for further opening of economic activities after the lockdown. The exodus of migrant workers will be reduced as they will see that there is a scope to return to work. Under this new system, the authorities can get the exact data of units and their employees in a single click,” he said.The district administration had earlier refused to allow the entrepreneurs of the NSEZ to operate despite notifications from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on April 15 and Uttar Pradesh government on April 16 stating that the area is part of a containment zone.The district administration has identified 36 containment zones in Noida and placed them in two categories — 20 have one case each (A) and the remaining 16 have two or more cases each (B). “While for A zones, areas within 400m will be sealed, for B zones, a 1km perimeter will be contained. Earlier, there was a one-kilometre radius around areas with one case each and a three-kilometre radius around areas with more than one case,” district magistrate Suhas LY said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/units-in-noida-special-economic-zone-to-begin-operations/story-vH3tSgW5Y3KOPP3Qh3FECJ.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Employees left to make own transport arrangements as offices resume||As offices resumed work with partial staff from Monday, with the Delhi government also holding a cabinet meeting, many employees were left to make their own arrange transport arrangements in the absence of public transport.As per the Delhi government’s orders, all private offices can operate with 33% staff strength physically present on the premises and the rest working from home. Similarly, all Delhi government officials, of deputy secretary rank and higher, can function with 100% staff, while 33% of staff strength is allowed for other ranks.The Delhi Secretariat sprang to life on Monday as officers reported to work, even though the number of hours they clocked in office was lower than usual. Sub-registrar offices, which deal with the registration of properties and other related works, also opened after more than a month. “The online application window was resumed today (Monday) as well. So, we saw fewer people physically coming to the office because they have to take appointments. We are maintaining adequate social distancing norms in the office,” said an official at the sub-registrar office in south Delhi’s Hauz Khaz.Thermal screening of employees and visitors was carried out in all government buildings on Monday. The number of people in lifts has also been restricted, from two to four, depending on the lift size.. While senior government officials used their official cars, the Delhi government arranged for cars to pick up and drop employees. However, a few were left to their own devices, such as the staff working at the secretariat canteen.“Since the Metro is shut, my husband dropped me and he will pick me up. We have not been given any pick-up and drop facility yet,” a chef at the canteen said. In the private sector, while larger companies arranged office cabs for employees, others had to make carpools with colleagues.“I usually take the Metro to the office but today (Monday), I had to ask my colleague to pick me up on his way. Office cabs are being provided only to those working early morning and night shifts,” said Vedant Tripathy, a management consultant working in south Delhi’s Nehru Place.However, some were caught at the inter-state borders, unable to crossover to their offices. A lack of clarity over inter-city commute for work led to many being stuck at the Delhi-Noida borders on Monday morning.“We were told that only those who are living and working in Noida are allowed to resume work. The police stopped us, saying that people living in Delhi and working in Noida cannot be allowed. We have been asked to report by our employers but we are stuck here, unable to reach,” said Murlidhar Yadav, at the Delhi-Noida border on Monday morning.Barring initial hiccups, private companies had made arrangements to screen employees at entrances and ensuring social distancing.Be Safe, a security agency headquartered in Jhandewalan, resumed its call centre services on Monday with 15 employees. The temperature of each employee was checked at the entrance and workstations were arranged to allow six feet distance among one another.“We made sure that none of the staff coming in today had any symptoms of flu. We have also given each of our employees a bottle of hand sanitizer so that they can keep their hands clean,” said Sumegha Kirti, spokesperson of the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/employees-left-to-make-own-transport-arrangements-as-offices-resume/story-jVL4fT9i9rMcGjx7tJae0K.html
04-05-2020||City||11 persons arrested for hiding Jamaat link from administration||Dankaur police on Monday arrested 11 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat programme in Delhi in March but hid the information from the local police and administration. The suspects were produced before a magistrate and were later released on bail.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that in mid-March, a group of people from Fatehpur village and Unchi Dankuar attended the Tablighi Jamaat programme in Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. “They had returned home but did not inform the police and the administration about their participation in the gathering. On April 1, the police and health department officials identified these 11 persons and quarantined them for two weeks,” he said.The police said these people were released from the quarantine centre and their medical reports for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) were found to be negative. “They do not have symptoms of the disease. Dankaur police on Monday registered an FIR against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC). They were produced before a magistrate and later released on bail,” he said.Meanwhile, Gautam Buddh Nagar police have been registering FIRs against people for violating lockdown norms. On Sunday, Surajpur police booked three persons, identified by their first names as Bablu, Sachin and Anil, for strolling outside without face masks.On Sunday, the police registered five FIRs and booked 13 persons for lockdown violations. The police also checked 612 vehicles and seized two of them for violation. Noida police and traffic police personnel are conducting checks at over 200 locations in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-persons-arrested-for-hiding-jamaat-link-from-administration/story-xMx7Dq6C3kaPrqi5WcyS8J.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Worst case scenario: BMC prepares for 75K cases by May-end, 12K symptomatic and 63K asymptomatic||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has projected Mumbai will have 75,000 cases by the end of May, of which 12,000 cases are projected to be symptomatic, and 63,000 cases are projected to be asymptomatic. While 13,500 hospital beds have been identified for the symptomatic cases in the tertiary and peripheral hospitals, 80,000 beds have been identified for asymptomatic cases, in schools, marriage halls, hostels, hotels, sports complexes.An official from BMC said, “The projection of 75,000 cases by May-end is the worst-case scenario. BMC is preparing for these many cases as a contingency. We do not want to take any risk, and would rather have our preparedness be under-utilised. For example, each of our beds needs oxygen points. The facilities which can remain long term, such as getting oxygen points with an inbuilt pipeline in hospitals. However, we are setting up temporary beds at hotels and schools are being given oxygen cylinders.” Hospital beds for symptomatic patients are being readied at dedicated Covid hospitals in the city, including 5,000 beds at private hospitals. In addition to this, 750 beds in intensive care units are also being made available. BMC has identified 25,000 isolation beds at hotels, hostels, marriage halls, and sports complexes. Besides, another 35,000 beds have been identified in 350 municipal schools, and 20,000 beds can be available in ‘jumbo facilities’ such as gymkhanas. A senior civic official said, “Asymptomatic patients are being moved to institutional quarantine facilities called Covid Care Centres (CCCs). Those who have separate rooms, individual toilets, and have scope for quarantining at home without interacting with the rest of their family members are asked to do so.”On April 24, Hindustan Times had reported that BMC projected the number of cases in Mumbai to increase to 70,000 by mid-may or May end, based on the calculation of the doubling rate at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/worst-case-scenario-bmc-prepares-for-75k-cases-by-may-end-12k-symptomatic-and-63k-asymptomatic/story-sERzO2ucObN2UTXZk9IjSL.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Liquor shops open in the city; people queue up maintaining social distance||Unlike Delhi, where liquor shops had to be forced shut after huge crowds gathered and created a ruckus, Noida on Monday saw patient long queues as people wearing face masks came to buy liquor. The presence of police personnel was witnessed at most of the liquor vends, including those in Barola, Bhangel, and Sector 27, among others. Police officials were seen enforcing social distancing measures, asking shop workers to draw circles on the road and ensure that everyone had their face masks on. According to the excise department, a total of 391 vends were allowed to open on Monday in Gautam Buddh Nagar district out of a total of 481 registered shops. The liquor shops were shut down on March 22, two days before the nationwide lockdown was announced.“The number of shops that are allowed to operate will fluctuate depending on the changes in the number of containment zones. So far, a total of 391 out of 481 liquor shops were allowed to be opened on the first day. This number may increase or decrease depending on the situation. Our teams were on the ground, ensuring a smooth sale of the liquor with basic protocols of social distancing and face masks in place,” said RB Singh, district excise officer, GB Nagar.He added that since many shops are quickly running out of old stock, the excise department is working on the availability of fresh stock of booze of required brands from the godowns. Supply will be ensured within the next two or three days.While Noida witnessed no incidents of a ruckus at any liquor shop, those located near the Noida-Ghaziabad border, however, witnessed excessive long queues as the liquor shops in Ghaziabad remained shut.“There were excessive long queues at the shops near the Noida-Ghaziabad border, but people were disciplined and no incidents of ruckus were reported,” Singh added.According to the district magistrate’s order, the shops will remain open from 10am to 7pm. The order has also directed the liquor stores to ensure that sanitisers are available and the staffers wear face masks. Meanwhile, a number of liquor shops also ensured that every customer either has his face covered or is wearing the mask.“Almost every shop is crowded because the stores have opened after a long time. Had there been no police presence, the situation would have gone out of control, like the reports from Delhi. We also ensured that every customer had his face covered. The only issue is that due to limited stock available, we could not cater to the demands of every customer. However, we are told that fresh stock will be made available soon,” said Ashok Yadav, who owns a liquor store at Sector Omega-1, Greater Noida.Meanwhile, the police officials said that they are on high alert and monitoring the situation to ensure that proper distancing is maintained at all the shops. “We are on alert and, so far, no problem has come to light. All liquor shop owners have been instructed to strictly implement social distancing measures while operating,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of Police, Zone 1.The lockdown continued to be in force in most of the parts of the city, with shops other than those selling necessary items being shut and only a few people out on the streets.A few shops other than those selling necessary items,such as electronics and mobile, general merchants, clothes etc, were reportedly open in some of the villages of the district, such as Shahdara, Dadri etc“There were a few shops, such as motor and automobile repair workshops, that were open in the villages. But there were only a few people on the streets, mostly to buy liquor,” said Sachin Kumar Pandey, a security guard who lives in Shahdara village in Sector 141.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/liquor-shops-open-in-the-city-people-queue-up-maintaining-social-distance/story-JQXQVBQnjEnBvbH6Vt7NLM.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Veggie markets in Haryana are new hotbeds of contagion||Vegetable markets in Haryana are emerging as the new hotbeds of Covid-19 infection in the state.Health authorities have attributed the recent surge in cases emanating from the vegetable markets in Jhajjar, Bahadurgarh and Sonepat to intensive real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing of people involved in vegetable trading.As per the statistics, 54 out of 131 persons (about 41%) who tested positive for Covid-19 in the last four days have vegetable trading connection. Out of 54 positive cases, 43 were from Jhajjar, nine from Sonepat and two from Faridabad. About 60% of the 29 positive cases detected in Sonepat on Monday also have vegetable market links.Additional health chief secretary (ACS) Rajeev Arora said the higher number of positive cases was on account of coverage of large number of groups, including a sizeable chunk of vegetable vendors.“An easier option would be not to go for rigorous sampling as a large part of the infected population is anyway asymptomatic. But we have made a tough choice. Intensive testing of over 3,500 vegetable traders and workers, over 1,300 frontline health workers, over 800 cops, 300 journalists across 22 districts is the reason why the number of positive cases has shot up in the state,” the ACS said.Arora said they have tested over 2,400 in Jhajjar district alone, including 1,277 in Bahadurgarh mandi. “Similarly, we have tested about 470 in Rohtak, 315 in Fatehabad, 299 in Kurukshetra and 128 in Hisar in less than a week,’’ he said.Professor Dhruva Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at Rohtak PGIMS, said most of the vegetable traders and workers seem to have contracted the infection from Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi, a bustling wholesale vegetable-fruit trading spot. “The suspects would include commission agents, wholesalers, retailers, workers, their primary contacts and families,” Prof Chaudhary said.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Singh Poonia, who pushed the sampling in the last few days, said he will also be writing to the civil surgeons in other districts to sound them about the risks involved in vegetable supply operations. “Wherever the vegetable supplies from Azadpur are reaching here, there is contagion through both humans and the raw stock,” Dr Poonia said.OTHERS UNDER INTENSIVE TESTINGThe ACS said that among other high-risk suspects subjected to RT-PCR testing were delivery boys, milk vendors, personnel in the office of deputy commissioners, transport officials, chemists, roadways employees, food handlers, volunteers, milk vendors and sanitation workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/veggie-markets-in-haryana-are-new-hotbeds-of-contagion/story-Jng8H6zQwVestF8C4XQcUK.html
04-05-2020||City||Cycle industry pedalling out of lockdown, big manufacturers to begin production in Ludhiana||Rusting at a time of nationwide crisis, the local cycle industry, which manufactures over 1 crore bicycles per year and has a major share in exports, is slowly pedalling out of the lockdown with the major players, including Hero Cycles, Avon Cycles, Neelam Cycles among others opening their plants with permission of the government on Monday to start production. The industry is currently working on stocktaking, reprogramming and lubrication of the machinery, which was put to a halt on March 22, and production is expected to start in a day or two. At present, the industry will not run to its full capacity due to the constraints of non-availability of material, social distancing of workers, etc. But, moving out of the unprecedented lockdown, which, as per industry representatives, was not witnessed even during Indo-Pak wars, emergency period and Operation Bluestar in 1984, industrialists are confident that the industry would come out of the crisis soon and plants would run regularly.“We have to learn to live with the virus and we will live with it. We will deal with the problems with a positive mindset and the industry will surely move out of this crisis,” said Onkar Singh Pahwa, chairman of Avon Cycles, adding that production at the unit would commence in a day and everything would come to normal in the coming days.Managing director of Hero Cycles SK Rai said the Hero Cycles plant was established in 1956 and since then they had never seen this kind of nationwide lockdown, not even during the Indo-Pak wars and emergency period.Both the plants situated along the GT Road and the Mangli area are being made operational and the plants would be working to full capacity by the end of this week, said Rai, adding that the industry was following all the guidelines issued by the government and the administration. With the lockdown entering into the third phase, the industry also sees no other option than to open the factories even when the supply chain has not been restored and the small and medium industry is facing shortage of manpower. “The industry has to take a step forward as we cannot sit idle for long and labour is also dependent on the industry. We will still run the plant at 25% capacity as we will also face trouble in storing the manufactured itemsl,” said KK Seth, chairman of Neelam Cycles.He said the supply cannot be made to the traders as shops are closed and even if the shops open, there is no customer. They are commencing production in a day or two but cannot comment on the future at present viewing the present scenario, said Seth, adding that the small and medium industry would also go the large industry was in a few days and open the units. President of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) DS Chawla said, “Owners of small and medium industrial units are getting approval to run their units, but they are facing a shortage of labour. The government should make efforts to stop the migrant labour from shifting to their home states and the labourers should be provided facilities in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cycle-industry-pedalling-out-of-lockdown-big-manufacturers-to-begin-production-in-ludhiana/story-OLaaEhifmbPN8reMoDB5wN.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Boy kills self after being scolded by his mother||A 13-year-old boy was found hanging from the ceiling of his house under the Sector 49 police jurisdiction on Monday afternoon. The boy allegedly killed himself after being scolded by his mother over borrowing money, the police said.No note was recovered from the spot and the body was sent for an autopsy. The police said they were informed about the incident around 2pm.“A team was rushed to the spot and the body was brought down, after which it was sent for an autopsy. When we spoke to the family members, it seems that the boy had been scolded by the mother in the morning over borrowing some money. They were not in a condition to provide any more details,” said Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.He said that in the afternoon, the parents, who work as daily wagers, were seated outside the house while the incident took place. The boy’s mother found him hanging when she entered the house during lunchtime, the police said.The police are also probing other reasons that could have let the boy take the step. The body will be handed over to the family following the autopsy. Police officials said that the family, of migrants from West Bengal, has not filed a complaint.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/boy-kills-self-after-being-scolded-by-his-mother/story-lYAe5npTxNQ6P0DqgLklJL.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Lockdown 3.0: Stringent measures continue at Noida-Delhi border, officials on alert||Stringent restrictions continued to be in place at the Delhi-Gautam Budh Nagar (GBN) border on Monday, the day lockdown 3.0 began in India with area-specific relaxations.GBN district magistrate (DM) Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj tweeted the dos and don’ts of interstate travel on Sunday. While the Union home ministry issued federal guidelines on Friday, states and local authorities can frame rules specific to them based on ground reality.“Restriction on interstate movement/interdistrict movement stands as before. No interstate/inter-district movement of personnel allowed for permitted activities also (except for previously allowed purpose like Covid-19 duty, emergency services, etc.) [sic],” Yathiraj tweeted.The order effectively means that interstate and interdistrict movement for activities permitted under the new guidelines would not apply to Noida, which is part of the Gautam Budh Nagar district, and that stringent border curbs will continue to remain in place in Delhi’s satellite city.However, health workers on Covid-19 duty, media personnel with authorisation letters and policemen, among a few others, are exempt.Complying with Yathiraj’s instructions, law enforcement officials kept a strict vigil at the Delhi border on Monday morning. Those carrying valid passes were allowed to enter and exit the district via the interstate border after thorough verification.“Most people who are aware of the regulations are not coming to the border. But there are a few exceptions. All restrictions on the movement at the interstate border with Delhi are in place as they were earlier,” Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), GBN district, said.Kaladhar Narayan, a resident of Noida Sector 107 and an employee at a Delhi-based public sector understanding (PSU) enterprise, has been travelling to work despite the lockdown restrictions. “I have obtained the requisite letter from my office, along with the pass. I do not face any hassle while travelling to work as I have the necessary permission,” Narayan said.On Monday morning, as certain relaxations, including the nod to private vehicles with a maximum of two passengers besides the driver, kicked in even in red zones such as Delhi and Noida, there was a momentary lapse at the border.“But we coordinated with Delhi authorities quickly and all the restrictions for border movement are in place now,” Sankalp Sharma, DCP, zone 1, GBN district, said.“...We’re discouraging any unnecessary cross-border movement,” he added.Several police personnel were deployed at the Kalindi Kunj Road and they strictly checked commuters entering Noida. Several commuters were also asked to return to Delhi since they had no valid pass. Jyoti Raman Singh, a security guard, lives in Madanpur Khadar in Delhi and works in a Noida shopping mall. “The mall is closed but the security guards need to be present for the mall’s safety. My employer had issued a letter a few days ago for my movement. But the police are not allowing me into Noida,” he said.The Union government first imposed a 21-day lockdown on March 25 and then extended it for 19 days till May 3. On Friday, the government announced another two-week extension, but this time with zone-specific curbs and relaxations, though there are some activities banned throughout the country.Monday also saw liquor shops opening in the district for the first time since the beginning of the lockdown from 10 am to 7 pm. People made a beeline for these shops and kept the police on their toes.“We are on alert and so far no problems have come to light. All liquor shop owners have been instructed to strictly implement social distancing. Due to the relaxations within the district, we are keeping a vigil on the situation,” Kumar Rannvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said.The Gautam Budh Nagar police department has also increased the implementation of Section 144 in the district till May 17. Depending on the situation, it may be increased further, a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lockdown-3-0-stringent-measures-continue-at-noida-delhi-border-officials-on-alert/story-X7jXEW9lRdEYChGFWZsd7H.html
04-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Two dead, one ill after ‘drinking liquor’, bodies cremated without autopsy; kin deny rumours of sanitiser consumption||Ghaziabad: Two persons died while one was rushed to a hospital in Meerut after “consuming liquor” at Bakharwa village in Modinagar town of Ghaziabad. The bodies of the two victims were cremated without post mortem by their families, said district officials, adding that an inquiry has been ordered into the incident. Officials also said they are looking to rumours that the three consumed sanitiser.The families of the victims said that the health of the two -- Kishan Pal, 32, and Mangat Ram Sharma, 60 -- deteriorated after they allegedly consumed smuggled liquor and both died in the early hours of Monday. The third victim, Vipin Kumar, 28, was rushed to Meerut for treatment. According to the families, liquor is being sold in the village even though there is a national lockdown in place. Liquor has not been deemed an essential commodity by the central government and all liquor shops are closed in Ghaziabad as the district has been designated a red zone due to the rapid spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease here.“Liquor has been available in the village for the past seven to 10 days and my brother consumed it on Sunday. Liquor is available at many places even during the lockdown,” said Sudesh Kumar, elder brother of Kishan.He said there had been rumours that the three drank some sanitiser liquid. “Some people floated a theory that the three had consumed sanitiser. This happened because some children picked up a small empty bottle of sanitizer and brought it home. We have the bottle of liquor with us from which my brother drank alcohol,” he said“Late Sunday, my brother’s health took a hit and he started to vomit. He also passed blood during the vomiting. He succumbed in the early hours of Monday. He used to consume liquor before as well but the one he consumed on Sunday led to his death. Later, it was decided by people in the village that last rites be performed. So, we performed the last rites and no post mortem could take place,” he added.The victim’s neighbour, Mangat, died after his family rushed him to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.“My father had liquor on Sunday morning and later at night he went to water our fields. There, he developed severe pain in the abdomen and I brought him home. He slept around 3-4am. After hearing cries of a death at our neighbour’s house, I tried to wake up my father but he did not wake up. I rushed him to a hospital where he was declared dead,” said Kavinder Sharma, Mangat’s son.Kavinder said that sale of liquor has been rampant in the village for the past few days.“It is sold openly and is available in the villages even during the lockdown. There is no action. My father consumed liquor even two days ago and on Sunday as well,” he added.Upon information after the last rites of the two persons were performed on Monday morning, the district magistrate and the senior superintendent of police reached the spot to make inquiries.“I have directed for an inquiry into the entire incident. Appropriate action will be taken up once the sequence of events comes to light,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.Sources in the police, meanwhile, said they have come to know that one of the three victims had bought three bottles recently, one of which was of a chemical which is used for the preparation of sanitisers.“The wife of one of the victims told us that three bottles were purchased by her husband. It is a probability that the victims mixed some chemicals to the small quantity of liquor available with them and consumed the mixture. However, this will be ascertained through medical and forensic examination. The three containers have been recovered. Since last rites of the two have already been performed, more information will be gathered from the third victim who is still under treatment,” the officer, requesting anonymity, said.SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said the three were known to each other.“Officials reached the village after information of the last rites was relayed to us. The cause of death is not yet known but investigation is underway. A blue-colored liquid was recovered from the house of the deceased. A team from the excise department has also reached the village for making inquiries,” Naithani said.By Monday evening, the police said they lodged an FIR into the incident.“The FIR is lodged against unidentified persons under Section 304 (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder). The third patient is in ICU at a hospital in Meerut and is under treatment,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-two-dead-one-ill-after-drinking-liquor-bodies-cremated-without-autopsy-kin-deny-rumours-of-sanitiser-consumption/story-Fibl34Wo8s5IhGqRNWWlDN.html
04-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad slowly opens up; 13 more Covid-19 cases emerge||The Ghaziabad district administration on Monday came out with directions under its action-plan for providing lockdown relaxations and allowing conditional opening of six segments — industrial activities, standalone shops, construction activities, government/private offices, transport-related activities and liquor shops. For most of the activities, applicants will have to seek the nod of the district administration before operations can start.An order by the district administration on Monday allowed opening of standalone shops located in residential areas or residential premises which are outside the containment zones or hotspot areas. The district officials said that no malls, multiplexes or markets will, however, be allowed to open.Officials said that standalone shop owners will have to inform the district administration before opening their establishments.“There is a separate order for shops or dhabas located on the highways. No shops engaged in activities like hair saloon, spa, workshops will be allowed to open. We have decided that shops will open only up to 4pm as directed in an earlier order by the district administration. Private offices can open but the employees will have to apply for passes to be able to commute. No movement outside the district will be allowed,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate (DM).“Travel to cities like Delhi will be allowed as usual (for specified commuters engaged in essential services) with commuters leaving Ghaziabad borders by 9am and arriving only after 6pm as per prevailing directions,” he added.The district magistrate also said that only activities related to six segments (mentioned above) will be allowed from Tuesday.The officials said that standalone liquor shops will be allowed to open from Tuesday from 10am to 7pm, butowners will have to depute volunteers to maintain social distancing and comply with other directions.According to the excise department, the city has about 460 liquor shops but many of these are located inside containment zones.According to the health department officials, the district has 21 category 1 containment zones (having one Covid-19 positive case and perimeter area of 400 metres). Most of the category 1 containment zones are located in Vaishali, Indirapuram, Khoda, Sanjay Nagar, Pratap Vihar and Kavi Nagar, among others.On the other hand, category 2 has 11 containment zones where more than one positive case has emerged. The category 2 zones have a perimeter area of one kilometre and include areas in Vaishali, Masoori, Loni, Khoda and Vasundhara.“If any person violates social distancing norms or there is large gathering outside a liquor shop, then we are authorised to shut it down with immediate effect. The district police have also been told to ensure that there is no violation of lockdown norms. We will also roll out more directions to control over crowding and any sort of hoarding at liquor shops,” DM added.The DM said that secretary of the Ghaziabad development authority have been assigned work of a nodal officer for providing permissions related to construction activities. The secretary GDA will be authorised to provide permission for activities in GDA, Avas Vikas and UP Stte Industrial Development Corporation jurisdiction areas.“Pleas that we receive for opening of construction activities at sites will be processed within 24 hours and priority will be given to applicants who have provision at site for labourers and other staff. The permission will be conditional and can be withdrawn if there is a violation of lockdown and social distancing norms,” said SK Rai, secretary of GDA.As regards the operation of industrial units, the officials said that they will process permissions within 48 hours of receiving them. So far, 467 applications have been received.“The permission will be given to industrial units whose operations are allowed as per directions given by the Central and the state governments,” said Virendra Kumar, deputy commissioner (industries).The order by the administration also said that cab/car services will be allowed with permission from transport department only within the district but not within the containment zones. In a cab, a driver along with two passengers will be allowed.The Ghaziabad district falls under the Orange zone as per the latest classification by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The district has witnessed a surge of Covid-19 cases in past couple of days. On Monday, a total of 13 positive cases emerged.“The 13 cases are from different areas like Vaishali, Loni, Shaheed Nagar, Islam Nagar and Saraswati Kunj besides patients who are already with us under facility quarantine. There is death of one patient from Khoda who was under treatment at Noida. We will add the patient to our tally once we get notified by Noida,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.With addition of 13 cases, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Ghaziabad stood at 95 with 50 patients discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-slowly-opens-up-13-more-covid-19-cases-emerge/story-tqXAkwgJCApEIkYChrL2CN.html
04-05-2020||City||Five paramedical staff among 12 new Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar reported 12 new Covid-19 cases, including five paramedical staff, on Monday, taking the total number of patients infected with the deadly virus to 179 in the district. According to health officials, the five health care workers include a 26-year-old male nurse working in the isolation ward of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and a 28-year-old junior assistant nurse attached with the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute. Besides, three staff of the district hospital in Sector 30 -- a 29-year-old nurse, a 45-year-old woman attendant and a 26-year-old man who works as operation theatre technician -- were also found positive for Coronavirus.On Sunday also, three paramedical staff from GIMS were found positive for the infection. GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta has been taking online video sessions of other hospitals in the district to share knowledge about precautions required while treating Covid-19 patients. Gupta was asked by the district administration to encourage private hospitals to resume their OPD services after taking the required precautions. “All the four paramedical staff were working in the Covid-19 isolation ward. We have been giving training to our staff and of other hospitals too on precautions required while handling Covid-19 cases. A few more such cases might be reported in the coming days because the high exposure in the isolation wards. It’s important to wear a PPE kit properly and also to remove them as per the protocol,” said Gupta.The new cases also include a 27-year-old CISF jawan from Surajpur, Greater Noida. He was suggested by his seniors to get himself tested following some Covid-19 symptoms. The officials are now tracing other people he came in contact with.Besides, a 22-year-old man from Advocate Colony in PI 1st area of Greater Noida was found positive and he contracted the infection from his mother. A 51-year-old man from Jal Vayu Vihar also got infected through the mother-son duo.Another case is of a 44-year-old man from Salarpur village in Noida who got infected through his daughter-in-law earlier found positive in Ghaziabad. A 24-year-old man from Sector 22 was found positive who contracted the infection through a previous case from the area.The officials also found a 42-year-old homeless person positive for the deadly virus. He was tested after being found symptomatic. A 19-year-old girl from the Nithari area was found positive but her source of infection is yet to be identified, the officials said.“We received 82 reports on Monday, of which 12 persons were found positive for Covid-19 infection. We have been giving guidelines for the medical staff involved in the fight against Coronavirus disease in the district as the safety of health personnel is very important,” said a senior health official from the office of chief medical officer.By Monday night, the health department collected 3,722 samples. A total of 179 people have come out positive, while 102 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 77 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 254 persons are under institutional quarantine, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-paramedical-staff-among-12-new-covid-19-cases-in-gb-nagar/story-j97uVmO6JaVAdsP16enIGJ.html
04-05-2020||City||Case against Ceasefire: Police may seek arrest warrant against firm’s MD over Covid-19 spread||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police will soon be going to produce all the evidences against fire safety solutions company Ceasefire -- the super spreader of Coronavirus in the district -- and its top management in the court. Officials said that they want to get an arrest warrant before taking action against the managing director of the Sector 135-based company.The police have swung into action after all the 42 Covid-19 patients having direct or indirect links with Ceasefire in the district got discharged. The 42 persons included the company’s managing director (MD), employees, their family members and domestic helps.“We are collecting evidence against the Ceasefire company and its officials responsible for the spread of Covid-19 in the district. We will be producing all the evidences in the court first before approaching the MD. We want to get an arrest warrant before reaching out to him. He has now been discharged from the hospital and is about to complete his quarantine period,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Zone 1.The managing director of Ceasefire had returned from the UK on March 1 and another employee had returned on March 7 from there. Then the company’s auditor from London visited its Noida office in the third week of March. All the three persons jumped their quarantine period and were attending office which led to spread of the deadly virus among other employees and then to their family members, the officials said. In the Ceasefire trail, the first positive case was reported on March 24 when the wife of an employee was found positive for Coronavirus.On March 29, the Expressway police had lodged an FIR against Ceasefire under sections 45 (punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR was lodged on the orders of then chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anurag Bhargava for hiding the foreign travel history by a few employees of the firm.The police will also be recording statements of the employees who had contracted the infection at the Sector 135 office. “We are expecting that in another one week, we will be able to take action against the company officials. We will be soon approaching the court in the matter,” said the DCP.Calls and text messages to the managing director of the company elicited no response on Monday. The last patient from the Ceasefire trail was discharged on May 1 after staying in the hospital for around 36 days. The 39-year-old had developed Covid-19 pneumonia following which it took so long for him to get discharged, health officials said.The health officials had to put 1,000 people on surveillance who had direct or indirect links with the Ceasefire company during the contact tracing process. Ceasefire was the first cluster of Covid-19 infection in the district. In March, the district administration and the health department had failed to check the Covid-19 spread in its nascent stages. Thus the Ceasefire company and the cases linked to it became the root cause for the transfer of then district magistrate BN Singh and CMO Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-against-ceasefire-police-may-seek-arrest-warrant-against-firm-s-md-over-covid-19-spread/story-PEb3dIk3cUt8t0PG0lONdJ.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||75 cases detected in Haryana, 29 in Sonepat alone||With staggering 75 new infections, Haryana registered its steepest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases to this date, taking the state’s cumulative count to 517 on Monday. The state had on Sunday crossed the 400-mark and has reported 141 positive cases in just 48 hours. Maximum of the Monday cases – 29 – were reported from Sonepat, most of which are contacts of infected people. In Ambala, 23 people, most of whom are labourers working at the construction site of a residential complex, have tested positive. Medical teams have reached the spot and containment zones are being marked, local health authorities said. Jhajjar, meanwhile, reported 14 fresh infections and most of patients are either vegetable sellers or their contacts. Three new cases were reported from Panipat, two each from Faridabad and Jind, and one each from Gurugram and Nuh. All of them had contracted the infections from corona patients, doctors said.SIXTH DEATH REPORTEDHaryana also recorded its sixth death on Monday. According to senior doctors, the patient was a 55-year-old resident of Old Faridabad, who worked as a guard at a private ultrasound diagnostic centre. He was also a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and hypertension. He was admitted in a private hospital and was found infected on Sunday. It is the second Covid-19 death reported from Faridabad, while two have so far been reported from Ambala and one each from Karnal and Rohtak.2 TEST POSITIVE IN KARNALTwo persons were tested positive for coronavirus in Karnal on Monday, though the official bulletin did not mention their cases.One of them is a vegetable vendor and the other one runs a grocery store. Karnal DC Nishant Yadav said they have been admitted to the isolation ward of the government medical hospital and their localities declared as containment zones. 9 PEOPLE CURED, DISCHARGEDWith the recovery of nine more patients, all from Gurugram, the number of cured persons in Haryana swelled to 254. Now, there are 257 active cases in the state as of Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/75-cases-detected-in-haryana-29-in-sonepat-alone/story-Tg6W4sMyq7hFdRt3LRrNAM.html
04-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar reports first Covid-19 death as man from Ghaziabad dies due to coronavirus disease||A 47-year-old man from Ghaziabad, who was undergoing treatment at the Felix Hospital in Sector 137, died due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday. Officials have said that the man was from the Khoda Colony of Ghaziabad. His death will be counted in Ghaziabad’s records, informed Gautam Buddh Nagar health officials.According to the officials, the man was undergoing treatment for respiratory problems and died around 12.35am on Monday. He had first gone to another hospital in Noida from where he was referred to Felix Hospital on April 2.“A patient from Khoda village, Ghaziabad, was referred from ESI Hospital in Noida in an emergency condition at around 10pm on April 2. He was admitted to the isolation ward of Felix Hospital. His condition turned serious and, as such, he had to be put on ventilator. An RT-PCR test for Covid-19 was performed and it came positive on April 3. He died at 12:35 am on Monday due to a cardio-respiratory failure. The chief medical officer (CMO) of G B Nagar, along with his team, visited the hospital and inspected the facility. He advised quarantining the health care workers and isolating some floors. All the instructions were followed,” said Dr DK Gupta, Chairman, Felix Hospital. “The now deceased Covid-19 patient had first gone to the ESIC Model Hospital in Noida, from where he was referred to the Felix Hospital on Saturday. He was put on ventilator by Sunday morning. His Covid-19 test was conducted by the hospital authorities as per the protocol on Saturday itself,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, CMO“On late Sunday night, the hospital received his Covid-19 report, which showed him positive for the infection. His test was conducted at a private lab. We were informed by the Felix Hospital authorities on late Sunday night, after which we immediately rushed to the spot,” added Dr Ohri.The man had his son and another relative with him, who refused to take the body as he was Covid-19 positive. The CMO and the police officials performed the last rites of the man during the wee hours of Monday at a crematorium in Noida.“The dead man’s son and other relative had refused to take the body so we performed his last rites as per the protocol for dead Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Ohri.Ohri informed the CMO of Ghaziabad during the wee hours of Monday about the incident. “We informed the Ghaziabad CMO immediately. The man is from the densely populated Khoda area of Ghaziabad. We informed the Ghaziabad authorities so that they can quarantine all those from Khoda and other areas who had come in contact with the person,” said Ohri.The health department of GB Nagar is now putting all the medical and paramedical staff at the Felix Hospital under quarantine. “We are in the process of tracing the contacts of the dead person. All the persons from the hospital who came in contact with the patient have been quarantined. We have tested other regular patients in the hospital, who were in the vicinity of the dead patient and they were all found to be negative for the infection,” added Dr Ohri.The health officials informed that the doctor who was treating the dead Covid-19 patient was wearing PPE while dealing with him. “The patient was kept in an isolation ward as his reports were pending. The doctor who was in direct contact with the patient was wearing PPE while treating him,” said Dr Ohri.District administration is investigating the matter to see if the private hospital was at fault or not. “Our investigation is currently underway and further action will be taken once all the procedure is over,” informed the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-reports-first-covid-19-death-as-man-from-ghaziabad-dies-due-to-coronavirus-disease/story-JaAAcz970BqMBIzzRfB2LN.html
04-05-2020||Lucknow||Foreign brands and beer sizzle, ‘desi’ takes a hit||Resumption of liquor sale after a six-week break in Uttar Pradesh bared the plight of the poor as Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and beer outnumbered the sale of ‘desi’ (as country liquor is known) by a decent margin.However, excise department officials weren’t complaining. They claimed the distinction was temporary.“The larger picture is that sales worth nearly ₹200 crores were reported on day one across the state. Of course, these sales don’t mean excise revenue which is lesser but in the end the badly needed revenue has started flowing in again,” an official said.Country liquor contributes nearly 60 per cent revenue of the total revenue from liquor sale to the state’s kitty, with foreign liquor and beer contributing the rest. However, day one of the resumption of sale indicated a reverse trend.While the business and service class rushed to stock their choicest brands, the poor, who prior to the lockdown mostly preferred the ‘powwa’ or the quarter, of country liquor priced at ₹75, largely stayed out of ‘desi’ vends.“It’s true that country liquor sales were unimpressive throughout the state though IMFL and beer recorded brisk sales,” said UP Sharab Vikreta Welfare Association secretary Kanhaiya Lal Maurya, who also runs a country liquor vend.‘The labour class, our top consumer of country liquor, is missing from ‘desi’ outlets. Mostly out of work, they hardly have any money to consume as most are more caught up with a desire to make two ends meet,” said Pragalbh Lavaniya, district excise officer in Bahraich, bordering Nepal. Bahraich has about 193 country liquor shops.“Another likely reason is that unlike the rich who flouted social distancing protocols at various places, the poor were more conscious and mostly stayed indoors. Many villages have shut themselves up and that too may have affected the sales,” said Akhilesh Pratap Singh from Latifpur village adjoining the state capital. “In pre-lockdown days ‘desi’ would outperform the IMFL and beer sale in Kanpur but today the 341 country liquor outlets that are among total 811 liquor vends in the district did average business,” said Arvind Maurya, district excise officer in Kanpur.District excise officer of Lucknow Sudarshan Singh, senior excise inspector in Varanasi Vishnu Pratap Singh and excise inspector in Noida Pramod Sonkar also confirmed a similar trend.“The labour have left Noida for their villages as the construction activity has come to a standstill due to lockdown. Once construction resumes, the country liquor sale would pick up,” said Sonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/foreign-brands-and-beer-sizzle-desi-takes-a-hit/story-zEcq8uJb7kQlfWSqoYe7eO.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar admn to tackle malaria with gambusia fish||In order to stop mosquito breeding, the malaria department of Hisar administration has started introduced gambusia fish into ponds of the district.A team under the leadership of malaria department head Jaya Goel visited different villages and supplied gambusia fish to the panchayats.An official spokesperson, Noor Mohammad, said senior malaria inspector Rattan Sharma and his team visited more than one dozen villages and made the villagers aware of the importance of keeping their surroundings clean in order to keep malaria at bay.He further said that the main diet of the gambusia fish was mosquito larvae.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hisar-admn-to-tackle-malaria-with-gambusia-fish/story-DcwoStXtjybagEq5bUQ1CP.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar addresses people of Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a video message thanked the people of his constituency, Karnal, for their ‘contribution’ in the fight against coronavirus. In his four-minute message, Khattar said he could not come to Karnal in the past 45 days due to the pandemic. “I had promised that I will visit Karnal twice a month, but due prevailing situation, I could not come,” he added.He, however, promised to visit Karnal after the situation returns to normal.The chief minister said sweepers, doctors, paramedical staff and police personnel were doing their duty as corona warriors and the government was grateful to them.He also thanked people associated with social organisations and religious places for helping the daily wagers and underprivileged.Khattar appealed the people of Karnal to support the government by helping the poor and needy people in their localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-addresses-people-of-karnal/story-Lq96bk4RFbv1zrOWtsBNYI.html
04-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: Sudhar police accused of replacing tractor seized after accident, SSP marks inquiry||A major discrepancy came to light when a tractor, seized in an accident case by the Sudhar police, was found to have been replaced with some other tractor while it was handed over to the owner on a court order.After a local made a complaint in this regard, the senior superintendent of police (SSP, rural) has marked an inquiry in the case and deputy superintendent of police (DSP, crime) Dilbagh Singh has initiated the investigation.Apart from replacing the vehicle, the police allegedly filed a chargesheet in the case under Section 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC against the driver of the tractor attached with a combine machine, while the first information report (FIR) was registered under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC against the driver and owner of the vehicle. The police also spared the owner of the vehicle in the chargesheet produced before the court.Motorcyclist Kamaldeep Singh, 22, had died in a road mishap on October 28, 2019 after a combine machine, attached to an Agri King-20 55 tractor, hit him and crushed him. The police had lodged an FIR against driver Parminder Singh alias Pinda of Cheema village under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A and 427(mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC on the statement of Pavittar Singh, uncle of the accused.After the kin of the victim staged a protest, the police had booked the owner of the vehicle Satnam Singh of Rajoana Kalan village and replaced Section 304-A with Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC. The combine machine and the tractor were seized by the police.Three months ago, the owner of the vehicle received the tractor on ‘Supurdari’. The police mentioned in the documents that they have handed over tractor Swaraj 855, seized in the case, to the owner following a court order.Interestingly, the Swaraj 855 tractor was registered with the transport department on December 13, 2019, 47 days after the accident.Complainant Mandeep Singh of Rattowal village said, “The tractor seized by the police had no documents and it could not be released, but to benefit the owner of the vehicle, the police released the vehicle using papers of another tractor, which was never seized.”DSP Dilbagh Singh said he has already initiated an investigation and collecting evidence against discrepancies. He said stern action would be taken against those found guilty.A file photo of a combine machine attached with a tractor in the Sudhar police custody in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sudhar-police-accused-of-replacing-tractor-seized-after-accident-ssp-marks-inquiry/story-guVZiAsdOpcFUG36CpEipJ.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Govandi locals allege lapses by civic body in isolating Covid-19 patients||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has identified Govandi as a growing hotspot for Covid-19 cases, similar to Dharavi. The densely populated slum pockets in M east ward (Govandi-Mankhurd) have reported a total of 410 positive cases and 50 people have died after battling the virus so far.There have also been several lapses in the civic body’s efforts to contain the virus in the area. One such case is of a 45-year-old woman who was symptomatic but was not shifted to an isolation facility for three days despite testing positive for Covid-19 on April 30. The woman could reportedly not be moved due to the unavailability of beds and was instead asked to remain at home.The 45-year-old lives in Panchsheel chawl near Lumbini Baug, a congested slum pocket in Govandi. When she was finally shifted to a hospital on May 3, her husband, who is a heart patient, also tested positive.Shrushti Salve, a resident of Panchsheel chawl, said, “Even the husband of the 45-year-old has not been shifted to an isolation facility because allegedly there are no beds available. The ward office did the same when the wife tested positive. We ensured that social distance is maintained but we have common toilets and the risk factors cannot be ignored. BJP leader and former MP from the area Kirit Somaiya tweeted on Monday, “Shivaji Nagar Govandi is at Corona Fire. 35 Citizens at Limboni Baug Camp, Two Police Constables and 12 BMC Health Staff found Corona Positive. Two civic health center closed down. One dozen Positive Patients not getting admission in Hospitals.”The M East ward, which includes slum pockets of Deonar, Govandi, Bainganwadi, Shivaji Nagar, and Cheetah Camp along with the Deonar dumping ground, has a population density of 36,923 per sqkm, more than the city’s average density of 32,303 per sqkm.Arun Kumar, CEO of the NGO Apnalaya, said, “What we need is a granular strategy which is basically a different strategy for different areas. There are only two hospitals here that are overburdened with Covid-19 cases to an extent where they had to shut the out-patient departments (OPDs). Patients are being turned away in a ward that has had a health crisis for years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/govandi-locals-allege-lapses-by-civic-body-in-isolating-covid-19-patients/story-FteDaTSaFnm2DSjzUefDtO.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Construction resumes at a few realty projects, but with restrictions||The developers in Noida and Greater Noida on Monday said a majority of them will not be able to resume construction at their respective sites owing to riders imposed by the government amid the ongoing lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid 19).There are at least 600 ongoing realty projects in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. The developers had to halt construction since March 25, 2020, when the government enforced the nationwide lockdown. As per the developers’ body, the National Real Estate Development Council, at least ₹50,000 crore homebuyers’ money is invested in housing projects in Noida and Greater Noida. Due to disruption in construction, the housing projects are expected to be delayed. To minimise the damage done to industries, including the realty sector, the Uttar Pradesh government has allowed construction in non-containment zones (which are not Covid-19 hot spots and are not sealed) with riders that construction labourers are made to stay on-site and standard operating procedures with regard to social distancing norms and sanitisation are adhered to. The state government also allowed the opening of private offices with a staff strength of up to 33%. “We have resumed construction at our sites in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas with limited workforce. We have also started operations at offices with reduced staff and are following laid-down protocols. We first disinfected our offices and sites before starting operations. But the real estate sector will only be able to revive if the government announces relief package, take quick decisions on our demands and give financial aid to builders -- the 45-day lockdown has left us with huge liquidity crisis,” RK Arora, president, NAREDCO (Uttar Pradesh chapter ), a builders group, said.The majority of builders are unable to resume construction as labourers want to go home.“We do not have exact numbers of builders who cannot resume work. But a majority of them do not have labourers on-site. As a result, work cannot resume. We are requesting the administration that labourers living in the vicinity of construction sites be allowed to work, while following social distancing norms,” Prashant Tiwari, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Western UP, another builders’ lobbying group, said.Since March 25, many construction labourers were staying at construction sites or in makeshift houses erected nearby as they were not getting transport facilities to return to their home towns.“But now they know the government is arranging transport facilities and they want to go home. It is becoming tough for us to stop them from going to their home towns.Also, liquidity crisis is affecting the construction,” Getambar Anand, former national president, CREDAI, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/construction-resumes-at-a-few-realty-projects-but-with-restrictions/story-tuZaNqUgdIRzyutzgn82mL.html
04-05-2020||City||No relaxation given in Amritsar||With Amritsar topping the state in the number of covid-19 cases at 214, as on Monday evening, district magistrate Shivdular Singh Dhillon decided against allowing any relaxations on Monday. No shop, outlet and liquor vend was allowed to open in the city. At a few places, a few shopkeepers were seen selling grocery items by partially opening shutters. Cops remained on vigil on key roads, with no one without a curfew pass was allowed to move. Dhillon requested residents to cooperate with the administration. 4-hour relaxation for shops in Tarn Taran In Tarn Taran, shops were allowed to open from 7am-11am, with social distancing followed, and shopkeepers spray-painting circles for customers to stand six feet apart. The district is under orange zone with 40 cases. DC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “Shops have been allowed to open by rotation. Factories and brick kilns outside municipal councils and committees can open, but gathering of more than 10 people is banned. Shops in rural areas can open, with 50% staff.” He added due to the harvesting season, shops of motor mechanics, electricians, carpenters and plumbers can open from 7am to 4pm. A decision on opening liquor vends will be taken after the state cabinet meeting this week.Markets closed in PathankotLong queues were witnessed outside banks in Pathankot with people assembling to withdraw salaries. Standalone shops opened, and people could walk up to these for essentials from 7am to 11am. Markets remained closed. Sources said with two fresh cases surfacing in the district, taking the number of active cases to 16, the administration is likely to withdraw relaxations. In Gurdaspur, shops were granted relaxation from 7am-11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-relaxation-given-in-amritsar/story-EyYOWcO4mT2J2oVfIf1rxN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi Police constable, friend shot dead in Bahadurgarh||A 45-year-old Delhi Police staff and his 35-year-old friend were allegedly shot dead by unidentified assailants near Line Par area in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on Monday.The victims have been identified as Delhi Police constable Manoj of Bahadurgarh and his friend Ramesh Kumar from Kalanda village in the district.The incident took place when the duo had gone for a walk near the Line Par area and unidentified assailants shot them dead.Bahadurgarh DSP Ajayab Singh said that the family members of the Delhi policeman had accused a man named Ranbir Singh of plotting the murder.“Prime facie it appears that the policeman and his friend were killed due to an extra marital affair. We have registered a case of murder against Ranbir Singh and started investigation into the killing,” DSP Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-police-constable-friend-shot-dead-in-bahadurgarh/story-TaZFvUQCupPxLIX35zduIP.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Now pay fine for spitting in Noida||To check the spread of the highly infectious Coronavirus disease through careless spitting in public places, the Noida authority on Monday ordered a penalty, in the range of ₹500-₹1,000, for the violation. The move comes after the Uttar Pradesh government decided to penalise those who chew tobacco and spit in the open. The order will be remain in place till another order is issues withdrawing this one, officials said. “We have appointed officials who can fine the violators,” Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said.On May 3, the state government had directed the Noida authority to ban on use of tobacco products, and impose a penalty on public spitting. All vends selling tobacco products have been shut since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown came into force to contain the spread of the Covid-19, which spreads through droplets and for which we have no vaccine, yet.The state government has decided to sternly act against spitting at public places after the health department said that spitting may lead to spread of Covid 19 among people.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), spitting can cause the spread of Covid-19 as the saliva of an infected person can carry the virus for more than 24 hours.The authority said that for first offence, the authority will impose a fine of ₹500 and if a person is found spitting second time then the fine will be ₹1,000. For repeated offenders the authority may take tough action. The authority has authorised all officer on special duty, tehsildars, assistant project engineers, project engineers and senior managers, among other officials to conduct random inspections and penalise defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/now-pay-fine-for-spitting-in-noida/story-zOVQE1KXfhYDnuF2cNSawN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jawan martyred in J&K cremated with state honours in Mansa||Naik Rajesh Kumar (28), who was martyred in a gunfight with terrorists in Kashmir’s Handwara, was cremated with state honours at his native village Rajrana near Sardulgarh in Mansa district on Monday.Mansa deputy commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal paid his tributes by laying a wreath on the martyr. The villagers showered flowers upon the jawan during his funeral procession.Posted in 21 Rashtriya Rifles, Rajesh was recruited in the army in 2010. He along with a Colonel, Major, Lance Naik and a sub-inspector of Jammu & Kashmir police were martyred in a gunfight with the terrorists. Rajesh is survived by his parents, two brothers and two sisters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jawan-martyred-in-j-k-cremated-with-state-honours-in-mansa/story-HvxH6rdkKYgkheL23CYaPM.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Lack of clarity leads 70% industrial units in city to stay shut||Around 70% of all factory units across industrial areas in the city continued to remain shut in the city as confusion remained over rules regarding their opening on part of state government and city police, the Aam Aadmi Party’s trade and industry wing claimed on Monday. Following the Union home ministry’s order, the Delhi government had on Sunday decided to allow industrial estates and townships to start operations given that all such units ensure access control of its workers at the entry/exits of their respective areas. There are 28 authorised industrial areas in Delhi. Multiple senior government officers, who did not wish to be named, said that they are yet to get a list of standard operating procedures related to the opening of factories, because of which many owners were told to shut their industries on Monday. The representatives of at least 78 industrial associations also raised their concerns regarding the issue during a meeting via video conferencing with members of the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) trade and industry wing on Monday afternoon.Industry owners said that even as some of them opened the factories, local authorities including the sub-divisional magistrate (SDMs) and the police, in some areas got the units closed by midday saying that they did not have orders yet to allow their functioning.“The government has released an order, but it has not reached enforcement agencies on ground, including the area SDMs. Around 400 of the total 700 factory units in the area had opened today but all of them had to be closed by 2pm despite proper access control mechanisms being in place. We raised the issue during a virtual meeting with the AAP and hope it’s addressed soon,” said Ashok Gupta, president, Udyog Nagar Industrial Association. The units here deal mainly in manufacture of footwear and engineering goods.The industrial complex has 4-5 security guards at each of its gates and identity cards have been issued to the workers. “Only five (of around 20) workers have stayed behind in each factory unit. Only some cleaning work could be done today while no manufacturing could take place ,” he said.Videos of police personnel addressing factory owners in several areas surfaced on messaging platforms late on Monday afternoon.“The issue is that the government needs to send out clear guidelines — along with a list of industrial areas and types of units that are allowed to open — to the district magistrates and the police. Even owners don’t know if they are required to take prior permission before opening the units or not,” said Navdeep Malhotra, member, Mayapuri Industrial Association.According to Brijesh Goyal, convener, AAP’s trade and industry wing, only around 25%-30% factory units could open across the city, including Udyog Nagar, Okhla, Mayapuri, Narela, Bawana and Mangolpuri, among others. “This was mainly because local authorities denied permission to those without proper access control mechanism. While in some areas, there was confusion over essential and non-essential goods making units. We will submit the queries and suggestions made by industry owners during the meeting to the government for resolution at the earliest,” said Goyal.A senior Delhi government official, who did not wish to be named, said that they had not received formal orders with guidelines till Monday evening. “We are expecting the SOPs to be issued on the operational guidelines. In many areas were asked factories to shut down for not having adequate access control mechanism,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lack-of-clarity-leads-70-industrial-units-in-city-to-stay-shut/story-3z7XfmUHCtFD0jNFcnY0kL.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Day One of relaxed lockdown: Cops ease up on workers, shut liquor shops after large crowds gather||With people trickling out of their homes on Monday, after over a month of being under a lockdown, the Delhi Police was more lenient in its dealing with the people, especially towards plumbers, electricians, domestic helps and others who are part f essential services.Senior officers said since most workers do not carry any work ID cards, they were allowed to move about after basic questioning and verification. However, in many areas, liquor stores that opened on Monday had to be closed following large gatherings around them and rampant violations of social distancing guidelines, police said. A senior police officer said the relaxation of lockdown rules, starting Monday, has eased movement of people, especially self-employed professionals such as plumbers, domestic helps, electricians and water purifier technicians. However, one major challenge that the police faced on Monday was to profile and verify these independent professionals.“Because most of these people do not carry ID cards and work independently, we are largely profiling them on the basis of what tools they are carrying with them. In some cases, we even call the house where the plumber or electrician is going to, to verify their credentials,” the officer, requesting anonymity, said.Delhi Police spokesperson MS Randhawa said other than people who are self-employed, all others are requested to carry proper their professional identity cards for which relaxation has been granted and movement passes issued. “All violators will be booked,” he said.Randhawa also said the validity of the movement passes that the police had issued for essential services till May 3, has been extended till May 17.While Monday saw increased traffic volumes on Delhi roads, police continued their deployment at pickets.People were also seen coming out on to main roads. The police said they were continuing with regular patrolling, public announcements and surveillance using drones in crowded areas.In east Delhi areas such as Krishna Nagar, Jagatpuri, Kondli, Karkardooma, people were seen standing in groups, walking on streets, riding two-wheelers or driving without being stopped by police.In central Delhi, police said people mainly remained indoors despite the relaxation as markets such as Karol Bagh, Chawri Bazar and in Daryaganj continued to remain closed.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said because only a few stand alone shops were allowed to open, there wasn’t much crowd gathering. “People restricted themselves in our areas. We were conducting regular patrolling not just on main roads but also on internal roads. There was more traffic on road today and adequate staff was deployed to ensure smooth movement,” Bhatia said.However, opening of liquor shops led to violation of lockdown norms as a large number of people gathered around these outlets, not caring much about the social distancing norms, police said. “We spotted that people are not following social distancing at liquor shops. They had gathered in large numbers and therefore we had to close these shops. We are conducting an audit to streamline the process of liquor sale in our area so that safety guidelines are not violated,” Bhatia said.Even in south Delhi, the two liquor shops that had opened had to be closed because of the huge crowd that had gathered around. “Many had come without masks, they had brought bags and packets to hoard liquor bottles and no queue was being maintained. The shop owners therefore decided to shut the shops. Police provided adequate safety and support in normalising the situation,” an officer, wishing not to be named, said. As the government also allowed movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others by special trains, deputy commissioner of police (railway) Herendra Kumar Singh said they’re awaiting government directions on facilitating such people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/day-one-of-relaxed-lockdown-cops-ease-up-on-workers-shut-liquor-shops-after-large-crowds-gather/story-TTaGTbrYuJ6FVqmCVkYGuO.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||48 hours, five robberies and one theft: Robbers held after they forget to switch off GPS on stolen phone||In the span of 48 hours last week, a gang of four allegedly robbed five people and stole a motorcycle, all without using a gun or a knife. They made off with anything and everything they could lay their hands on -- from ₹100 cash they found on one victim to dairy products from a milk trader.But their luck soon ran out; they forgot to turn off the GPS on a phone they had snatched from a food delivery agent in South Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. “The GPS of that phone remained on. It led us to the exact location of the suspects and we apprehended them,” Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South), said.Until the lockdown, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was announced, these men had operated individually, police said . Three of them -- Vivek, Nagender and Raju -- already had 10 cases of robberies and thefts against each of them, had been arrested multiple times and were registered ‘bad characters (suspects with a long criminal history)’, the DCP said. The fourth member of the gang is a minor and his name has been withheld by the police. The lockdown compelled them to join hands, police said. “Their search for alcohol and drugs during the lockdown brought them together. They had no guns or knives, so they decided to work as a group to intimidate victims and rob them,” Sudhanshu Dhama, assistant commissioner of police (Sangam Vihar), said.Since they had access to just one stolen motorcycle, the four of them would ride out together posing as people in need of essential items.“They mostly food delivery agents and dairy traders because they expected them to be carrying cash. Since the vehicles of these victims are generally loaded with goods, they thought they wouldn’t be in a position to fight back,” ACP Dhama said.From the early hours of Friday to the early hours of Sunday, the gang allegedly robbed five people without meeting any resistance. The victims included three milk traders and two food delivery agents.“On one milk trader, they could find only ₹100 cash. From another, they took ₹600 cash and dairy products. From a third, they stole ₹500 cash and mobile phone. Another delivery agent was robbed of his mobile phone, his Aadhaar and PAN cards. And when they realised that one motorcycle wasn’t comfortable for them, they stole a scooter from Sangam Vihar,” another investigator said.But in the last two cases in the early hours of Sunday -- the robbery of a milk trader in Neb Sarai and a food delivery agent in Malviya Nagar -- the police saw the similarities in the modus operandi.“We contacted officials of the food delivery firm and got to know that the rider’s phone wasn’t switched off. Since the rider had left his GPS on while returning from a delivery, we tracked the movement of the suspects and got to know that they were in Sainik Farms,”Rahul Gupta, assistant commissioner of police, said. By 9am Sunday, the suspects were surrounded by the police at the gate number 1 of Sainik Farms.While the adults were immediately arrested, the juvenile managed to escape until he was apprehended a few hours later, DCP Thakur said.Most crimes have dipped in the national capital since the lockdown came into effect. Robberies and snatching, for example, have dipped by 62% and 253%, respectively, between April 1 and 15, compared to the corresponding period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/48-hours-five-robberies-and-one-theft-robbers-held-after-they-forget-to-switch-off-gps-on-stolen-phone/story-jpRciD9gG7okndJsJrCq3N.html
04-05-2020||City||DMRC, PWD and NBCC to resume work on infra projects where manpower, material are available||New DelhiA day after the Delhi government gave the nod to resume construction activities on major public infrastructure projects in the city, government agencies have started preparations to restart work that had been suspended since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Government departments such as public works department (PWD), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the NBCC-India Limited, among others, which are helming important infrastructure projects in the city, have started taking an inventory of construction material and availability of labourers at the sites.The PWD is working on important projects such as the construction of a 1.2km tunnel between Mathura Road and the Ring Road, Barapullah Phase-3 elevated road project, Shashtri Park and Seelampur flyovers in north-east Delhi, and the Benito Juarez Road underpass near south campus of the Delhi University, among others. The government has allowed construction only on those projects where the workforce is “available on-site”. PK Vats, PWD engineer-in-chief, said, “From Monday, we have started taking an inventory of construction material at our sites and also the availability of labourers. We have asked the persons in charge of different projects to submit a report on the present status of projects and start the work at the earliest.”A senior PWD official, who wished not to be named, said projects where financial approval has already been given and substantial work has been done on the ground are unlikely to face any hurdle in resuming construction.The official, however, said a status report would be sent to the government describing “the progress and financial health” of projects.According to PWD estimates, nearly 450 labourers are available at the tunnel construction site near Bhairon Marg, around 200 workers are living at Barapullah Phase-3 elevated corridor project site near Sarai Kale Khan and Yamuna basin near Mayur Vihar-1. Approximately 150 labourers are available at Benito Juarez Road underpass project site, while another 100 are available at Shastri Park and Seelampur flyover construction sites. “Construction work will be started at these sites in a couple of days. However, the available labour is not enough to ensure that the project moves forward at the required pace. So, initially at least, the progress is expected to be slow. We have asked the contractors to arrange more workforce so that the progress is not affected,” a senior PWD official, not wishing to be named, said.The NBCC (India) Ltd, which is in-charge of the Pragati Maidan redevelopment and other central government projects, said it will start the work with the available construction material and labour. The workforce for Pragati Maidan project is staying near the site. The project, which started in July 2017, is scheduled to be ready by the year-end.“The NBCC has around 15 on-going projects in Delhi such as IIT-Delhi, East Kidwai Nagar, Pragati Maidan IEEC, and Vanijya Bhawan, among others. With the government giving the go-ahead for construction activities in the city, we have initiated the process to resume work at those sites that have labourers available. A few sites have resumed work from today ( Monday),” PK Gupta, CMD, NBCC-India Ltd, said.According to DMRC officials, they have also started the assessment process and have enough workforce to restart construction activities. A DMRC official, on condition of anonymity, said nearly 3,500 workers are living at various construction sites in Delhi and NCR and there would be no problem in resuming work at these sites.Anuj Dayal, executive director corporate communication, DMRC, said, “The DMRC is geared up to commence construction work at its sites as per the government directions. All necessary preparatory activities such as reopening of site offices, deputation of necessary personnel, ensuring the availability of machinery and materials are being taken up.”The DMRC had started the construction work of Phase-4 at Haiderpur Badli Mor on December 31, 2019. This work is also expected to resume soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmrc-pwd-and-nbcc-to-resume-work-on-infra-projects-where-manpower-material-are-available/story-xIhofJjjp8vaUg9SxjIrpK.html
04-05-2020||Lucknow||More batches of UP migrants arrive via four special trains||Over 3,000 migrant labourers reached Uttar Pradesh through four Shramik Special trains on Monday.The trains, which reached Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Agra districts, brought back migrants stuck in Maharashtra and Gujarat due to the coronavirus lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24On Sunday, the first migrant special train, having 815 migrant labourers, had reached Charbagh Railway Station, Lucknow.The second migrant train, having around 1200 passengers, had reached Agra on Sunday.Officials with the Railways said, so far around six migrant special trains have reached UP, bringing in more than 5000 migrants.Once back, the migrants would be quarantined in their respective districts.A 22-coach Shramik Special train (01901) ferried 1145 workers from Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi station to Gorakhpur Junction.According to migrant workers, each passenger was issued a travel ticket at Rs 745 for the journey which began on May 2.“Railways have charged Rs 800 per passenger,” said Raj Kumar Shindey, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Bhiwandi,(Maharashtra).He rejected the charge that some migrants could not board train as they didn’t have the money for tickets.The second special train which carried 983 labourers from Vasai Road railway station reached Gorakhpur at 5.30 am.SDM Sadar Gaurav Agarwal said the labourers had been thermal screened and transported to respective destination in already arranged buses.“But, they will have to stay in quarantine centres before reaching home,” he said.Another migrant special train from Gujarat’s Vadodara , having around 900 people onboard, reached Lucknow at around 5:30pm.The fourth train arrived in Agra from Ahmedabad.Various district administrations had made elaborate arrangements to transport the train passengers to their respective destinations. Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has pressed in more than 150 buses to transport the migrants to their respective districts.Though jobless, a sense of satisfaction was palpable on the faces of the migrants.“It’s been more than 40 days since we were stranded in Maharashtra after the lockdown was announced. But I am happy that I am home,” said Suresh Gaud, 30, who reached Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/more-batches-of-up-migrants-arrive-via-four-special-trains/story-JELdV9wNK27pJOcjRIHCIJ.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||11 ayurvedic college teachers in Patiala appointed without finance dept nod||Patiala Government Ayurvedic College, Patiala’s, appointment of 11 teachers in March 2019 is yet to get state finance department clearance, due to alleged procedural ambiguities and irregularities on the part of the authorities at the college and the Directorate of Medical Research and Education (DRME). The DRME office issued the appointment letters. The teachers have been without salary for a year. In addition to not taking the finance department clearance, appointments were done in violation of a personnel department guideline ‘that no contractual appointment should be done against permanent posts’, sources said. Usually, the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) recruits Class-1 officers/faculty, but here walk-in-interview was organised to bypass the PPSC, the sources also claimedIn this case, the DRME office issued an advertisement of March 9, 2019, for filling the posts of seven readers and seven lecturers in Govt Ayurvedic College, and fixed March 16 as date for walk-in-interview for contractual appointments. The code of conduct for LS elections was announced on March 10. “The advertisement was published in the newspaper on March 9, 2019, but it did not have complete information about the number and departments in which the posts were to be filled. The complete advertisement was only made available on March 14 on the departmental website and the interview was conducted on March 16. As a result, candidates were not given enough time to plan for the interview and many deserving candidates did not even come to know about it. Only candidates from Patiala and nearby places turned up,” said a senior faculty member, pointing out the flaws in the recruitment process, including not following reservations rules.“Proper selection protocol/procedure was also not followed as no subject expert was called for screening candidates. There was nepotism, as some relatives and friends of employees were adjusted,” sources claimed. College principal Dr Harvinder Grover admitted that the finance department had not approved the appointments and not released the budget, resulting in faculty not being paid. On irregularities in appointment, she said, “I had only floated a demand for recruitment. It was the duty of the DRME and the secretary of the department to ensure all norms were followed.” Medical education secretary DK Tiwari said, “We have supplied all required information to the finance department, which will, hopefully, revert by this week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-ayurvedic-college-teachers-in-patiala-appointed-without-finance-dept-nod/story-e3Ykypl98dRs8QyiCov3OL.html
04-05-2020||City||Pune reports 6 deaths, 61 fresh Covid-19 cases||Pune reported 61 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, with the progressive positive cases now at 1,878 in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area, as per information released by the civic health department.The city also reported six deaths, taking the total number of Covid-19 related fatalities to 107.The six deceased include the police officer, who was reported dead on Monday.Also, 50 people were discharged on Monday, after being declared virus-free; a total of 483 people have been certified as completely cured of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection.Of the six deaths, five were reported on Monday, including, a 52-year-old female from Bhavani peth at Symbiosis hospital, admitted on April 23 and suffering from renal dysfunction and morbid obesity.A 65-year-old female from Lohiya nagar, at Sassoon hospital, who was also suffering from myocarditis, acute kidney Injury and hepatitis COPD, also died with Covid-19.A 58-year-old male from Somwar peth, at the Bharati Vidyapeth hospital, also suffering from diabetes and hypertension; a 50-year-old male from Patil estate, reported from the District hospital in Aundh, also suffering from pneumonia with bronchial asthma; and a 65-year-old male from Yerawada, reported from Sahyadri hospital (Ahmednagar road), suffering from pneumonia with acute kidney injury and sepsis, were among the other fatalities. Currently, of the 1,150 positive cases still in hospitals, 20 are on ventilator support, while 56 are in the ICU, the civic health department has stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-6-deaths-61-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-tgeg9AnbkamMtCg4nHyJbK.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||At 795, Nanded pilgrims account for 66% cases in Punjab||Pilgrims who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra continued to push the Covid-19 count in Punjab on Monday, accounting for almost two-thirds of the positive cases in the state.Out of 2,200 returnees whose test reports have been received so far, 795, or say 36%, are positive. These numbers are likely to go up as test results of another 2,000 Sikh pilgrims are awaited. But things could get far worse than anticipated initially as no one is sure about the extent to which these returnees spread the infection. As they started reaching Punjab, 700 pilgrims were sent to their native places for ‘home quarantine’ after basic screening that included thermal scanning.In Amritsar and Ludhiana districts alone, 179 and 174 pilgrims were advised ‘home quarantine’ respectively. Jagjit Singh of Ghular Village said his father Kuldeep Singh’s paranoia saved the family from getting infected.“He locked himself in another room and told the family to maintain distance from him. It was only a day later that the health official took him to hospital where he tested positive,” he said.Both districts have seen a spike in positive cases. In Ludhiana, the district administration sealed five villages near Samrala and Machhiwara as a preventive measure. The state government started tracing and testing the pilgrims from Nanded only after three of them tested positive in Tarn Taran district on April 27. The health authorities have put 1,500 persons, mostly family members and close acquaintances who the returnees met on reaching home, in quarantine, but few of them have been tested so far.However, they are still to check the contacts of these pilgrims even there is strong suspicion that some of them interacted with several persons. “Our entire focus has been to test the pilgrims. The process may take another couple of days” a senior official said. Also, 120 drivers of government buses and private vehicles that ferried these pilgrims back have been kept in isolation and their department is waiting for their tests reports. A total of 4,169 people returned to the state from the Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded in the past week.There are also reports that a few labourers from Punjab who were working in cotton factories in Maharashtra had also joined the pilgrims at the gurdwara and came back with them.CONFUSION OVER SOURCE OF VIRUSThough they have pushed the state’s tally of positive cases, these pilgrims as well as health authorities are clueless about the possible source of infection even after a week. A number of ailing pilgrims have, however, said that there were not tested at Nanded and no social distancing norms were followed in buses deployed for their evacuation.One of them said the buses were packed to capacity during the long journey from Nanded to Punjab. Another 32-year-old patient, who is currently at the Covid-19 facility in Bathinda, said most devotees and volunteers at the shrine never used to wear masks and there was no way of knowing if they were unwell. “During the entire journey, the AC was off but there were 38 persons on the bus,” he said.A 65-year-old devotee from a village in Bathinda said he had cough for about 15 days at the shrine but no medical advice was given to him. “A team of doctors used to visit the gurdwara sarai every five days, but no samples were taken. On the way back, the AC was on throughout and we stopped at 3-4 places. I don’t know where I contracted the virus,” he said.Despite there being no clarity on the source of infection, the governments of Maharashtra and Punjab are blaming each other. Maharashtra’s PWD minister Ashok Chavan, while categorically denying that pilgrims contracted the virus at Nanded, raised suspicion on the drivers of the Punjab government buses sent to ferry the pilgrims. In response, Punjab health minister Balbir Siidhu said he was more than sure that pilgrims got infected in Nanded, citing the positive cases there. More than 10 cooks of the gurdwara have also found positive,” he said. His ministerial colleague, transport minister Razia Sultana, said the Maharashtra government had permitted the pilgrims to leave Nanded even before the buses of Punjab government reached.(with inputs from Mohit Khanna in Ludhiana and Surjt Singh in Amritsar)What went wrongPatients were asymptomaticNo social distancing at the Naded shrine and during the journey back homeMost pilgrims travelled in air-conditioned buses, which multiplies the chances of spreading the virusPilgrims of initial batches were sent home and called back only after positive cases started surfacing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-795-nanded-pilgrims-account-for-66-cases-in-punjab/story-LbY8QTzaApi7HKFILVXGPK.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Lockdown 3.0: RWAs divided over calling domestic helps to work||On Monday, as their neighbourhood was finally ‘de-contained’ after almost a month, residents of Bengali market, Babar Road, Todarmal Road and nearby areas in central Delhi asked their domestic helps to resume work.Though a few of them did turn up to work immediately, resident welfare association (RWA) members said most of them would start coming from Tuesday.The Delhi government had on Sunday-- in line with a Union home ministry order-- allowed self-employed workers such as domestic helps, cooks, laundrymen, plumbers and electricians to resume work from Monday during the lockdown that has been extended with certain relaxations till May 17.Local authorities or police are not monitoring the movement of domestic helps, as they come under the ambit of self-employed people and are exempted by the government. Though the government has not empowered RWAs to keep a check on it, in most areas the welfare associations are requesting people not to allow domestic helps.“We have asked them to resume work. We plan to get their medical examination done at the local dispensary before they start work. We will request the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for help,” said YK Anand, president of Babar Road and neighbouring RWAs.He said, “A large number of people here are senior citizens and it is difficult for them to work without domestic helps. All residents have been asked to take precautions at home while allowing these people to work.”In Lajpat Nagar, too, a lot of households allowed domestic workers. Gopal Thapa, a cook, said his employers are maintaining proper precautions. “My employers are following social distancing and asking me to wear a mask when I am in the house. They ask me to wash my hands and sanitise them at regular intervals,” he said.But not all RWAs are in favour of allowing domestic helps to return to work.Many residential societies in Dwarka have decided to wait for a few more days. Sudha Sinha, president of Federation of CGHS Dwarka limited, said, “We have requested residents in all societies to wait till May 17. There is no harm in waiting for a while, especially now when cases are increasing every day.”Poonam Arora, general secretary of the Federation of Alaknanda RWAs, too said, “We have paid our domestic helps full salaries for now. The choice has been left to individual households as to when they want their helps to come back to work. We have just requested people to avoid calling them in for the next few days.”Badan Singh (68), a resident of East Delhi, who runs an ironing shop in south Delhi’s Amar colony, said he went to his shop on Monday but did not start work. He said police stopped him quite a few times on his way.“The lockdown has been difficult as we did not have any money. We depend on our daily earnings to survive and have had to face a lot of problems. We somehow managed but just hope things are back on track soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwas-divided-over-calling-domestic-helps-to-work/story-vz7yjfHVXNVxrklGnzvYLP.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University plans to allow few employees to attend offices for urgent work||Panjab University (PU) is planning to allow few employees to attend offices to facilitate the students with urgent work. The university administration is collaborating with director of higher education, Chandigarh, to chalk out how certain employees will be allowed to visit their offices to do essential work.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “We are planning at our own level to allow certain employees to come to the university for important work. We are also in touch with the UT director of higher education.”“We are actually trying to facilitate the important work of students regarding which we are also consulting other universities,” he said.The matter was also discussed in the advisory committee of the university, but no concrete decision regarding who all will be allowed to visit the offices has been taken so far.One of the members of the PU’s advisory committee on Monday said, “The matter was also taken up in the committee today. It was discussed that there are some important works, including works related to examination, for which employees need to be given permission to attend the offices. The university may consult the UT administration before taking any decision.”With the extension of the nationwide lockdown, PU has also extended the closure of the university till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-plans-to-allow-employees-to-attend-offices-for-urgent-work/story-Wh15p6YqGWQqT7W1LYsRWO.html
04-05-2020||City||KDMC records highest single-day spike with 18 new cases||Eighteen new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday, taking the twin city’s tally to 213. This is the highest single-day spike till now.On Sunday, there Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation recorded 14 cases.Among the new cases four are relatives of Congress Kalyan city president Sachin Pote.“My brother and his wife tested positive and are admitted to Holy Cross hospital in Kalyan. My sister-in-law has not stepped out of the house for the past four months. Even my brother was always at home.“My sister-in-law’s pregnant sister is staying with them. Her husband had visited her once. He got infected from a doctor who lives in his building,” said Pote.The entire building has been sealed and residents have been quarantined.“My brother’s father-in-law and mother-in-law were also staying with him but they have tested negative,” said Pote.Out of the 18 cases reported on Monday, three are police personnel working in Mumbai, one policeman working in Vashi, one health department staff working in Mumbai, one sanitation worker and one employee from a pharma company in Bhiwandi.“We have discharged 68 patients. Monday recorded the highest number of cases in one day. A majority of them are those who travel to Mumbai for work,” said an officer of KDMC health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-18-new-cases/story-oO3VLGrYVgTLm28AIfPlaK.html
04-05-2020||City||Life in the Times of Lockdown: ‘Beauty parlours need to opt for online medium to be in touch with clients’||“Beauty parlours will probably be the last establishments that the government will allow to operate due to the coronavirus outbreak, so we are left with no option, but to stay connected with our regular clients through the online medium and share beauty tips,” said Sachita Arora Grover, a city-based beauty parlour owner. 27-year-old Sanchita, who runs a beauty parlour in Model Town, said, “As in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, social distancing is a paramount weapon, it will have a huge impact on the beauty industry in the long run.”“I’m not expecting that beauty parlours will open in the near future even if the situation is under control. The people in the beauty industry will probably be totally out of work, so we are slowly looking towards the digital world to connect with the clients online, an option, which was never considered earlier. It isn’t economically profitable, but at least we are in touch with our customers,” said Sanchita, who, in the changed situation, keeps herself busy making beauty regime videos for her Instagram page. “Almost, all my clients are now in touch with me on Instagram. I conduct regular polling, where I ask them what beauty regime or DIY (Do It Yourself) self-care tips they want to know about and they are interested in. I create my content on the basis of their demands,” she added. Sanchita, who is also a lecturer in the Wellness and Beauty Wing of Government College for Girls (CGC), said, “Besides creating videos for my clients, I am also routinely giving assignments to my students.” “I’m not sure whether teachers will receive the salary for this month or not, but I will continue with my work so that my students also continue with their studies even during the lockdown period,” she said. Sanchita, a resident of Civil Lines, also stressed on the importance of self-care during the lockdown period. “There are so many ingredients that are easily available in the kitchen and can be easily used for skincare. A mixture of a slice of bread, lukewarm milk, almond powder, saffron and jaggery can be used as an effective scrub for the skin. I also request people to use sunscreen lotion even if they are not going out during the lockdown period, as even at home the skin is still getting exposed to sun rays. Similarly, the women, who are worried about coarse hair on the skin in the absence of waxing should try to use razor,” Sanchita added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/life-in-the-times-of-lockdown-beauty-parlours-need-to-opt-for-online-medium-to-be-in-touch-with-clients/story-eFFjwxNCoiUhb9E6qpMb2J.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Corona is not the end, keep yourself strong, says a 50-year-old cop after discharge||: The usually busy Deonar police station in eastern suburb of the city paused on Monday afternoon to play a song– Zindagi Har Kadam Ek Nayi Jang Hai which translates into, life at every step is a new battle. The song was played to give a warm welcome to Vinod Mhatre, 50, a police naik who successfully fought Covid-19. Mhatre who was discharged from a quarantine centre in Powai on Monday headed straight to the police station where arrangements were already made. “Corona is not the end. There is a fear among people, but I would like to boost confidence of those who have contracted the virus. One should never lose hope. I kept my mind strong, thoughts positive,” Mhatre said.Mhatre contracted the virus while discharging his duties. “I had a cough for few days for which I was taking antibiotics after visiting a doctor. This followed by fever. I was admitted to Rajawadi hospital on April 17, and was tested positive on April 20,” said Mhatre.Mhatre had visited Mochi Galli in Deonar from where he believes to have contracted the virus. “The day when I visited, I got to know during the night that an elderly woman had tested positive. The civic authorities checked 63 residents out of which 11 had tested positive. A couple of days later, I started to have cough,” said Mhatre. After the diagnosis, Mhatre, a resident of Chembur, ensured that he boosts confidence of his wife, son and a daughter. “Fortunately, they did not contract the virus but were home quarantined which also ended on Monday,” said Mhatre.Among all the negativity around, Mhatre said that he kept calm. “After I was hospitalised in Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar, there were two deaths immediately but I kept my hopes high,” said Mhatre. “The support provided by the department has been phenomenal. I was constantly contacted by the office of deputy commissioner and additional commissioner who kept my moral high.” He has a word of caution to his colleagues in the force which has seen increase in cases. “Ensure that you use hand sanitiser frequently while maintaining social distancing. Do not touch papers or other objects during nakabandi,” said Mhatre.Mhatre says that his confidence kept on building as his health improved. “I was shifted to isolation ward after improvement and finally shifted to quarantine centre in Powai from where I was discharged,” said Mhatre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/corona-is-not-the-end-keep-yourself-strong-says-a-50-year-old-cop-after-discharge/story-kIFx1gop0em1V9PQ9Z8LMI.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police face flak on Twitter over crowded liquor shops||On Monday, the Mumbai Police on its Twitter handle received several complaints from alert citizens across Mumbai complaining against social distancing norms being flouted at wine shops in the city defeating the purpose of a lockdown in the red zone. These complaints were received along with videos showing several people overcrowding wine shops in areas like Tilak Nagar area near Chembur, Sion Koliwada, IC colony in Borivli (W), GTB Nagar, Yogi Nagar in Borivli (W), Chincholi Bunder in Malad (W), Chembur camp area and Matunga. A video went viral on social media where over 100 people gathered outside a wine shop in Matunga (east) on Monday evening forcing police to shut the shop and disperse the people threatening them with lathi-charge. Incidentally, Vijay Ghatge senior inspector of Matunga police station who was seen dispersing the crowd told HT that the wine shop was opened only around 4.30 pm and within half an hour it got overcrowded. In another instance, Nitin Verma tweeted a video commenting, “Wine shop Next to the building which is corona infected. Location: Gtb Nagar, Sion East Mumbai 400 022Video courtesy: forward received@CMOMaharashtra @OfficeofUT @MumbaiPolice” Sagar Patel tweeted, “@CMOMaharashtra @MumbaiPolice here people in Yogi Nagar, Borivali west thinks that lockdown has been lifted. People are standing in que outside wine shop, gathering up for chit chat. Tried calling MHB police station but no response from thir end. Please help with a patrolling van!” Sharavan Pandey tweeted a video from Chincholi bunder in Malad west where 20 to 30 people stood in queue outside wine shop When questioned about this, Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson said, “The local police stations have been asked to take stock of the situation and if rules are flouted, they will have to register FIR against violators.” Police officials from the north region (Goregaon to Dahisar) said that they have kept bandobast outside wine shops to ensure social distancing is maintained adding no FIRs have been registered against people for gathering.Man booked for illegally transporting labourers A 29-year-old Kurla resident is booked by Sakinaka police for illegally transporting eight migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh. The accused Irshad Ali Chaudhary is the driver of tempo and promised migrants that he will drop them to their natives. According to the police on May 2 around 2am while checking the vehicle at Nakabandi at Zarimari, Sakinaka area police stopped a tempo and found 8 people stuffed in the vehicle. During questioning, they revealed that they are coming from Kurla and Chaudhary promised them that he will drop then to UP. However, police booked a driver and allowed migrants to go back to their place at Kurla where they were staying.1,000 people mostly labourers sent back to Rajasthan About a 1,000 people mostly labourers were sent back to Rajasthan by bus informed Ashok. He said that about 15,000 applications have been received so far and a total of 1.5 lakh applications are expected within a few weeks’ time. FIRs further dip to just 38 cases, till date 10, 890 booked As cases of Covid 19, containment zones and those quarantined is increasing the police seem to have gone slow on lockdown violators. The FIRs for violations came down to just 38 cases with a majority of 20 cases from the north region and 9 from the west region. A maximum of 20 was for gathering in one place and 15 for not wearing masks. About 51 were booked and 20 were arrested. Since lockdown, a total of 5757 FIRs were taken against 10,890 people and 6720 booked for violations. Prohibitory order issued on Monday The Mumbai Police on Monday issued a prohibitory order under CrPC section 144 prohibiting the movement of one or more person in public place between 8 pm to 7 am for all non-essential activities except a medical emergency. Between 7 am to 8pm the same movement will be regulated by the police as per government orders. The order will remain effective till May 17 and ones violating it will be booked under section 188 of IPC. 422 police personnel positive in state A total of 422 police personnel have been infected with Covid 19 of which 34 recovered while 385 are being treated. In this 422 cases, a majority of 379 are constables (including three who passed away due to the disease) while 43 are officers. On Monday evening the Mumbai Police crossed the 200 marks with a total of 211 police personnel testing positive for Covid 19. The city police contributed 50% of the cases in Maharashtra Police department, which recorded 422 cases till Monday. (Inputs from Suraj Ojha, Faisal Tandel and Pratik Salunke)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-face-flak-on-twitter-over-crowded-liquor-shops/story-AmrqqAvxa4yQLlQpBEqJ1M.html
04-05-2020||City||CT University, Ludhiana, announces scholarship for wards of frontline Covid-19 workers||In the view of the coronavirus pandemic, CT University (CTU) has announced a scholarship worth ₹11 crore called ‘Covid-19 Financial Aid Warrior’ for the wards of the frontline workers such as doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, police, bankers, civic staff, farmers, state and central government employees.“Understanding their selfless work, CT University wants to reward them by offering a scholarship to support the wards of these workers in the regular programmes offered for the academic session 2020-21. This scholarship will be awarded during the whole duration the programme,” said CTU chancellor Charanjit Singh Channi. The university will provide the scholarship in all the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes by offering top 5% bracket programmes and it will be applicable at pan-India level. The process to apply will be available on the university’s official website. “The various troops are superheroes that are dedicating their lives and saving the nation by working hard round the clock. We can thank them by taking care of the future of their children on educational front and this scholarship is a small step dedicated to the heroes,” Channi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ct-university-ludhiana-announces-scholarship-for-wards-of-frontline-covid-19-workers/story-QWPo7dEygt7g54f7RRFGPM.html
04-05-2020||City||Dead man tests positive; TMC traces kin||A patient from Hanuman Nagar in Thane, who was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital at Kalwa after he suffered a heart attack, died on April 30. On Sunday, his Covid test came positive. The Thane Municipal Corporation officials got to know that many of his relatives had attended the funeral.The 54-year-old patient was admitted after he suffered a heart attack and the doctors did not find any symptoms of coronavirus. After the report, around 20 people are under observation as they had interacted with the family and attended the funeral.“We are tracing all those who had come in contact with the family and attended the funeral. We are conducting tests of close family members and are also preparing a list of people to be home quarantined or to be taken to a quarantine centre,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC.In a similar incident in April, a man’s swab report came after his last rites. He tested positive and many of his close contacts from Lokmanya Nagar were infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dead-man-tests-positive-tmc-traces-kin/story-UE58CQBCLsqyYzpnRo4mfK.html
04-05-2020||City||As virus spreads its tentacles, govt primary schools in Ludhiana open||At least three government primary schools were found open in Ludhiana on Monday in violation of the lockdown norms even as the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) is fast spreading its grip on the city, which has now been declared a red zone. The schools in question include the Government Primary School (GPS), Jawaddi; GPS, Sangowal; and GPS Nehru Memorial, which were open for two hours on Monday while GPS, Purvi 2, was open on Sunday, for carrying out the admission process.While some school heads stated that they were asked by the district authorities to increase the enrolment in their schools and visit the schools between 7am to 11am, others said that they had gone to the school for other work.Satvinder Kaur, school head of GPS, Sangowal, said, “I visited the school to collect the data of the students, so that their parents can be contacted to enhance enrolment in our school. As the school gate was open, four parents came to enrol their children. Hence, we admitted two students today. I have pasted our contact numbers outside the school and requested the nearby gurdwara authorities to keep announcing regarding the online admission process.”“Though there are no written orders by the education department to visit the schools, we need the data of the students to increase the enrolment and are left with no other option. Therefore, three teachers went to the school to collect the records,” she said.Parminder Kaur, school head, GPS, Jawaddi, (morning shift), said, “I had gone to the school to collect the records of the students. As heavy rains lashed the city last night, I went to inspect the mid-day meal kitchen where food grains have been stored since the last one-and-a-half month. Meanwhile, some parents found the school gate open, so they started inquiring about the admission process. I guided them to apply online.”DEO REFUTES ALLEGATIONSRefuting the allegations, district education officer (DEO), elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “We have given no instructions to the school heads to visit the schools to increase the enrolment. I have asked all the heads to conduct the admissions online.”“I have directed deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh to talk to the school heads to find the reason behind opening the schools,” she said.“We have not given any instructions to re-open the schools. The school heads were directed to hold the admissions online,” said director, public instructions (elementary), Inderjit Singh, adding that he will look into the matter.PRIVATE SCHOOLS WRITE TO DCMembers of associated schools, Joint Action Front, Ludhiana, wrote to the deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal, “Government school heads are violating the curfew orders by opening their schools to enrol new students.”The members have requested the DC to permit them to open their schools and take stern action against the erring government schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-virus-spreads-its-tentacles-govt-primary-schools-in-ludhiana-open/story-qpglqHzxTjji4etbtybD8K.html
04-05-2020||Patna||Teachers call off strike after Bihar govt agrees to withdraw most cases||The Bihar school teachers, who were on strike since February 17, ended the same on Monday after the government agreed to withdraw punitive action taken against the former — barring cases involving violence and destruction — and adjust the strike period with holidays after relaxing its ‘no work, no pay’ policy to ensure salary payment.The sudden turn of events started after chief minister Nitish Kumar’s reported intervention Monday morning following requests by leaders of the teachers’ bodies to break the impasse.Later in the day, after holding talks with Bihar Secondary Teachers’ Association president Kedar Nath Pandey and Bihar State Teachers’ Struggle Coordination Committee president Brajnandan Sharma, additional chief secretary RK Mahajan wrote to the main associations, relaxing norms and assuring talks with representatives of teachers on their demands once the situation became normal.“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government is working on a war footing and in this teachers are expected to cooperate and end their strike,” read Mahajan’s letter.Soon after, the two associations announced that they are ending their strike with immediate effect and the teachers would join duty, as per the laid down provisions. They also sent written information about the same to the department of education. Meanwhile, TET/STET Qualified Teachers’ Association said that they will decide on the same on Tuesday after their meeting.Earlier, Bihar education minister Krishna Nandan Verma had appealed to the school teachers twice to end their strike, but it did not work, as the teachers’ bodies stood firm on withdrawal of punitive action taken against teachers. On Monday, Verma said that the government had appointed all the teachers and will always take care of their needs.Nearly 4-lakh Bihar primary and middle school teachers were on strike since February 17, while the secondary and higher secondary teachers joined it from February 25 in support of their demand of ‘equal pay for equal work’ and proper service conditions.During the strike period, the teachers’ bodies claimed that 62 teachers lost their lives due to various ailments abetted by poor financial condition.The government had also announced ₹ 4-lakh ex-gratia payment to their families as per the provisions of death during the service period.Earlier, Mahajan had written to all the district education and programme officers regarding salary payment to all the teachers of Class 1-12, but not for the strike period in keeping with the government’s policy of ‘no work, no pay’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/teachers-call-off-strike-after-bihar-govt-agrees-to-withdraw-most-cases/story-AskVUnWyTxeUzoQ7YBu71K.html
04-05-2020||Patna||State will bear students’ fare, ₹500 more for migrants, says CM Nitish||Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Monday clarified that students returning to the state by special trains won’t have to pay rail fare while migrant workers will get an additional ₹500, over and above the reimbursement amount of the expense incurred on the travel, on completion of the mandatory 21-day quarantine period.In the midst of a raging debate over the footing of train fare that was kicked off by Opposition RJD and Congress and also brought the ruling alliance partners BJP and JD (U) face-to-face, the CM in a video message said that it was imperative on his part to dispel doubts and confusion about the government stand on the issue. “There is no need to worry, neither the students nor the migrant workers will pay for their return to home.”The RJD and Congress had attacked the state government for failure to provide free passage to migrants and even offered to foot the bill if government acknowledged resource crunch for doing so. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal also criticised the JD (U)-led NDA government. Following which, JD (U) minister Shrawan Kumar hit back, asking Jaiswal to consult BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi before opening his mouth.Meanwhile, the CM said that people were unnecessarily raking up a non-issue in the times of a crisis. “The government is working with a plan and there is little time to get distracted by unwarranted ‘bayanbazi’ (chit chat),” he said. Appreciating the Centre’s move to provide special trains, he said “I thank the Centre for considering my suggestion. Now that things have been set rolling, there is no need to worry. The students won’t be charged and state government will bear the rail fare paid by inbound migrants to reach heir home state from their respective work places (point of origin).”“Once these migrant workers or eligible people, arriving from outside the state, complete their 21-day isolation at designated quarantine centres, the expenses incurred for boarding special trains will be reimbursed. Thus, each worker will be getting a minimum of ₹1,000,” the CM said.Praised the people for observing the guidelines, he said, “With the exception of a few, majority people have played their part in making the lockdown a success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/state-will-bear-students-fare-500-more-for-migrants-says-cm-nitish/story-6R4xizsyZPUQ7lmgyxDveK.html
04-05-2020||City||Six-month-old baby from Panvel tests positive for Covid-19||A six-month-old baby from Kamothe is among the nine new Covid-19 cases reported from Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Monday. Three from the baby’s family had tested positive earlier.The total number of cases in Panvel is 102.A 45-year-old BMC ambulance driver from Kamothe, a 29-year-old staff nurse of St George Hospital in Mumbai, a 38-year-old ward boy working in Shatabdi hospital in Govandi, and a Mumbai police personnel are among the nine cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-month-old-baby-from-panvel-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-oYOwmhmgnzuz92DqBH6zzH.html
04-05-2020||City||Chaos as containment order lifted from parts of Panchkula’s Sector 15||Social distancing was tossed out in Panchkula’s Sector 15 on Monday, after several residents queued up at a tubewell near a local temple, the site designated for issuance of movement passes by the district administration for the sector. As per information, the administration set up a help desk at the tubewell at 9.30 am for issuing of manual movement passes to Sector 15 residents. However, by 12.30 pm, a large number of residents had queued up for passes without a thought to social distancing. The official concerned had to cancel the process, and a police team was deployed to send the residents packing. Residents cited it as mismanagement on the part of administration for starting the process without proper planning. Mamta Sharma, estate officer of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), appointed as the nodal officer for the sector, said, the administration had planned to issue movement passes to Sector 15 residents, as the sector was a containment zone. However, the huge crowd ended up violating social distancing, so the process was cancelled.” The residents were then asked to apply for passes online.Meanwhile, in the evening, deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued orders limiting the scope of Sector 15 containment zone after it was screened by the health department. The sector was made a containment zone after a 44-year-old woman from the locality had tested positive on April 14, followed by eight family members who were infected. They were all discharged recently. “Only house number 1,686 to 2,333 in housing board colony, houses nearby from 500 to 527-P and 1080-P to 1090-P will remain a containment zone. Houses in the remaining part of Sector 15 will remain as a buffer zone,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-as-containment-order-lifted-from-parts-of-panchkula-s-sector-15/story-HGcIsDm3Ejc4OjbSR8jeNN.html
04-05-2020||City||34 new cases push Navi Mumbai tally to 348||Navi Mumbai reported 34 cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the city’s total count to 348.Ten cases were reported from Kopar Khairane, eight from Digha , six from Ghansoli, three from Nerul and two each from Belapur, Vashi and Turbhe and one from Airoli.Among the new cases are a four-year-old child, a seven-year-old girl and her 62-year-old grandmother from Rabale.Many of the new cases are those working at APMC market, including a 60-year-old vegetable trader and 36-year-old employee of grains market. Many of their close contacts have also been infected.Seven people from Namdeo Nagar in Digha who had come in contact with a Covid patient have tested positive.The 32-year-old wife and 10-year-old son of a Covid positive BEST conductor, posted at Santacruz bus depot, have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-new-cases-push-navi-mumbai-tally-to-348/story-ASlSdAH9bPNw2SC7kwrxCN.html
04-05-2020||City||2 trains from Kerala arrive with migrants at Danapur||DANAPUREven as the national lockdown.3 began Monday, two trains from Kerala, with 2,309 migrant workers on board, arrived at Danapur in the evening.Passengers were screened and asked to board buses arranged by the state government to ferry them to their respective destinations.Some of them alleged that they had paid Rs 910 each for tickets. Md Tabraq of Jamui said he had to borrow money as he did not have a penny left with him. “We did not even get Rs 1000-assistance Bihar government as we could not furnish details of our bank accounts,” said Lalan Sahni, who also complained about the mandatory 21-day quarantine they have been asked to undergo.“It would have been better if the government had tested us for Covid-19 to get the results in 2-3 days. After all, the government is spending so much on our food and stay,” he said.Nazim Akhtar from Supaul said they were given food only four times since Saturday during the journey. Arif Alam of Katihar said that they got food only at Asansol today.“Due to the lockdown, everything stopped and there was nothing for our livelihood. We were given only rice and potatoes,” said Vijay Kumar of Gopalganj.Darbhanga’s Subhash Ram said he had gone barely six months ago and did furniture work but there was no point staying after all the activities stopped.Taufiq Alam from Araria said, “We have to pay money to Railways. My last few rupees went on recharging my phone so I could speak to my family members residing in Jokihat. Where am I going to get the money for the fare?”Barring district administration and railway officials, no other person was allowed near the station premises, officials said.Divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said at least 10 ‘Shramik Special’ trains carrying migrant workers, students and other stranded people were scheduled to reach various cities in the state on Tuesday. He said 100 buses had been arranged for passengers of each train to be sent their destinations free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-trains-from-kerala-arrive-with-migrants-at-danapur/story-GFvDTNwMyeQwe5VU9PAIKO.html
04-05-2020||Patna||Over 2,000 students from Kota arrive at Gaya, Barauni junctions||Altogether 2,223 students stranded in Kota arrived at Gaya and Barauni railway junctions on three separate trains on Monday after travelling for 20 hours.The first train arrived at Barauni junction around 5.30 am while the second train arrived at 11.30 am. Both trains had 22 coaches each. In each coach, 54 students were travelledBegusarai’s district magistrate Arvind Kumar Verma and SP Awakash Kumar received the students, who were screened by doctors and given food packets by the district administration.After health checkup and sanitisation of their luggage, the students boarded buses for their respective destinations.“Since the lockdown was enforced, we parents have been approaching the district administration and lawmakers for permission to get our children back home,” said Anil Kumar Singh, resident of Khagaria and father of one of the students.“Many hostel owners had asked our children to leave but we somehow managed to stay on,” Parikshit Sinha, another student haling from Banka, said on phone.The DM said parents could take their wards home and follow 21-day quarantine at home for them as the district administration had limited living space.At Gaya, the special train from Kota arrived with 994 students. Agriculture minister Prem Kumar received the students at the station. The maximum students (364) were from Gaya, followed by 259 from Nawada, 241 from Aurangabad, 93 from Jehanabad and 37 from Arwal. As the train stopped, GRP and RPF jawans helped the students with the screening process.Sofia, a student of Munger district, said they were scared back in Kota as Covid cases there were rising fast and they had been asked to vacate the hostel. Besides, students from Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Assam had already left.Many of the students seemed overpowered by emotions as they neared their homes. “We managed somehow with Maggie in the last few days, as the mess was closed and there was nothing available outside. Now, we will eat home made food,” said Pankaj Kumar of Barachatti.Sajia Rehmani, another student, said there were only two girls from Bihar left in her hostel and it was getting difficult for them with each passing day. “We are really thankful to all who contributed in bringing us here,” said Suraj Kumar Singh, a student.Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said most of the students did not show any symptoms during screening and all of them would be kept under home quarantine. “Their health will be monitored,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/over-2-000-students-from-kota-arrive-at-gaya-barauni-junctions/story-qBaiBTapmNAdJYeRFFs7wM.html
04-05-2020||City||6 inmates booked for murder bid on drug rehab centre owner in Kharar||Six persons were booked for attempt to murder after they thrashed the owner of a drug rehabilitation in Kharar and kidnapped him before fleeing with ₹1.6 lakh in cash, two vehicles and other valuables.The accused—Gurjit Singh, Jaswant Singh, Kulwant Singh, Raj Kumar and Suman—were undergoing treatment at the rehab centre along with Mohit Pandey, who was working there post recovery from addiction. They fled with two vehicles—Bolero and Lancer— a gold chain, a gold ring, three cellphones and ₹1.6 lakh in cash.Some inmates also told the police that they were regularly beaten at the centre. The complainant Vikramjit Singh, in his complaint to the police, said he runs a drug rehabilitation centre, with about 30 inmates, under the Bani foundation in Radiala village, Kharar. He said that about three years ago, Mohit Pandey had come to his centre and after being treated of the addiction, had started working with him.Pandey and the other accused attacked Vikramjit, who lives in the centre’s campus, with sharp weapons. Vikramjit said the accused bundled him in his vehicle and drove for about 60 km to Bellolpur village in Chamkaur Sahib. “They tied me to a tree in the jungle and beat me before fleeing with my valuables. They had picked up the cash from the centre,” he told the police. When he managed to free himself, he contacted the police and reached Kharar civil hospital, where he was admitted for treatment.“Raids are underway to arrest the accused who also took away CCTV cameras and the digital video recorder,” said Sukhvir Singh, station house officer Kharar (sadar).A case has been registered under Sections 307(attempt to murder), 392(robbery), 364 (Kidnapping in order to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324(voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly to prosecute common object) of the IPC in police station Kharar (sadar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-inmates-booked-for-murder-bid-on-drug-rehab-centre-owner-in-kharar/story-xf2K9gKpUvdtGJsHjztnrK.html
04-05-2020||City||Zirakpur hotel owner, 2 waiters held for overcharging for liquor||Police arrested the owner of a hotel on the Patiala road in Zirakpur and his two employees for overcharging for liquor. The police raided the hotel on a tip-off and nabbed the accused owner, Pankaj Singh, and waiters Kamlesh Kumar and Davinder Kumar who were serving the liquor. The police also recovered two cartons of Officer’s Choice and one of Imperial Blue liquor. A case was registered under Sections 269, 270 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code and the Excise Act at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-hotel-owner-2-waiters-held-for-overcharging-for-liquor/story-t0AeQRrQaSq4RllDH8VldK.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s ‘super spreader’ cries foul, seeks to clear name||While health workers across the country are being venerated for their roles at the frontline of the war on Covid, one health worker from Chandigarh has been rather mired in a controversy.Not long ago, the emergency OT attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 was on active duty, but his life turned upside down when he was found infected with the virus following mild fever on April 24.His employer deserted him, saying he had caught the infection from outside, as he had thrown a party to celebrate his wedding anniversary at home with 123 people in attendance, a week before the infection on April 17.While the police lodged a criminal case against him, the media was quick to label him ‘super spreader’ after Bapudham colony, where he lives, turned in to the city’s first main hotspot, accounting for almost half of the city’s positive cases to date. In his locality, 51 persons tested positive, including eight of his family, three of who are his sister’s family in Sector 52 . Denying the allegations, he told HT on Monday that it was completely baseless that he had thrown a party. “The tiny terrace of my house cannot accommodate more than 10 persons, and they are saying I hosted a party for more than a 100 people,” he said. He further added that except for his three cousins, a close friend and family members, no other person was present at his house on the occasion.He asked that if he had hosted such a grand party, then why would he go for duty that day. “I had a morning shift from 8 am to 2 pm. When I returned home, we baked cake and celebrated among family only,” he said.The question then remains as to how so many people in Bapudham were infected? He said, “How do I know? Like me, nobody in my neighbourhood had symptoms. The virus could have entered the locality in so many ways. Holding me responsible is unjustifiable.”He said, “I am two hundred percent sure I got infected in the hospital.” He said despite several Covid cases, most GMCH staff had no PPE kits, which they started getting only after April 28. “I was not even given a N95 mask. I managed with a surgical mask worth ₹10. Despite this, we carried on working but slandering me is wrong,” he added.Police public relation officer, DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, said that police investigation did not find any evidence of partying at his residence. “Apart from the 19 members of his family who live in the house, only three to four friends and cousins were present,” he said.The first information about partying came from GMCH, said the DSP. “Dr NK Goyal, head of community medicine at GMCH, had given it to the police in writing that the OT attendant’s had 123 contacts, but he could not testify whether there was party at the attendant’s home,” the DSP said.Dr BS Chavan, director principal of GMCH-32, said that his statement to the media that there was party at the employee’s home was based upon the ground report given by Dr NK Goyal, who supervised contact tracing on the ground. “If now, he has changed his statement to the police, I will ask him in writing about it,” he said.When contacted, Goyal said, “My report was based on the statement of neighbours, but later they backed off from their testimony. What can we do? We had no material evidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-super-spreader-cries-foul-seeks-to-clear-name/story-lRwtbGwn8qnwaBXbNFXrfL.html
04-05-2020||City||TMC allows residents of 2 Covid hotspots to go out for essentials||Lokmanya Nagar and Savarkar Nagar in Thane have been sealed for almost a week because of the rising Covid cases. Residents were not allowed outside even for essentials.From Monday, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) decided to allow shops selling vegetables and dairy products to open in these areas.“We have asked vegetable and fruit vendors to set up stalls in a ground near Vithal Mandir from 6am to 11am. Bakery and meat shops will continue to remain closed. Dairy and grocery stores will remain open from 6am to 1pm. Medical shops will continue to remain open. Social distancing must be followed by all while going out to shop,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-allows-residents-of-2-covid-hotspots-to-go-out-for-essentials/story-AAuftnPOacxc9Z9DhJ1TYO.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Relaxations extended to 90% of Pune, says PMC chief Gaikwad||On the first day of lockdown 3.0 after the government eased some curbs, residents came out on the streets in large numbers on Monday although there was confusion among shopkeepers due to lack of clarity from the administration on what should be open. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that relaxation has been extended to ninety per cent part of the city, and now restrictions are applicable to ten per cent of the areas which are micro-containment zones.Many stepped out to either visit offices or shops and were not stopped by police officials till 7pm, after which the restrictions are in place again. While the government order said that five standalone non-essential commodity shops can open on one street, more than five stores were seen operating at various places. By evening, police promised to act against unnecessary crowding.Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said that each shop will have to ensure social distancing. “All shops are being given notice under Section 149 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to ensure social distancing, which is the duty of the shopkeeper.”The easing of restrictions was spelt out in an order issued by joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve on Sunday wherein he had permitted opening of five non-essential shops any given road and at the same time permitted opening of non-essential shops in areas outside the containment zones. At Kothrud, which has seen least number of Covid-19 cases in Pune, sweet and jewellery shops started operations while on Satara road, most shops were shut. In most parts of the city, vegetable and grocery shops were open till 6pm as against 2pm till Sunday as per the previous order.At Thergaon and Hadapsar, medical and grocery stores were open even after 2pm. Traffic on the road was moderate and there was rush at the shops, according to police officials.At Dange chowk in Pimpri-Chinchwad, some hardware shops were functioning with many customers. At some places, mobile repair shops were also open.“There is no crowding at our shop. I had managed to conduct good amount of trade since morning and I will keep my shop open till 6pm,” said P Deshpande, owner of a hardware store.Manjusha Kulkarni, a resident of Baner, said “The order talks of clusters, micro-clusters, containment zones and the outer perimeter of the city, but the task of reopening of shops has been given to the police who will decide based on the analysis of daily Covid-19 situation.“The ideal thing should have been that the PMC administration which governs the city should itself have ordered the opening of the shops and specified the timings. Today, the shops downed the shutters before time as the police came knocking on their doors,” said Kulkarni.In Sahakarnagar, Padmavati and Satara road- residents mainly came out to fill up fuel tanks, but there was no rush at grocery and milk shops. However, a large number of people turned up to shop for vegetables and essentials at NIBM, Undri, Mohammadwadi, Kondhwa, Salunke Vihar, Hadapsar and Market Yard on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/relaxations-extended-to-90-of-pune-says-pmc-chief-gaikwad/story-rCFCKs5yighS4YDoSOmtDO.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Consortium of 3 start-ups employs 5,000 migrant labourers to produce low-cost equipment||A consortium of three start-ups from various parts of the country is employing more than 5,000 stranded migrant labourers to produce low-cost ventilators and large-scale personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Manufacturing over 40,000 kits a day from four factories -- two in Mumbai and two in Kolkata-- the three start-ups have partnered to provide PPE kits to 15 government and private entities across the country. Each kit includes protective gowns, shoe coverings, gloves, masks, goggles, face shield and a garbage bag for the disposal of items after use. All the elements, except goggles that are outsourced, are manufactured in the four sterilised factories.Workers manufacturing the items have been provided with food, boarding and sanitary items. “The PPE items have to be prepared in a sterilised set up. So it was necessary to provide the workers with hygienic conditions such as lodging and sanitisers. The workers follow social distancing norms in the factories and use masks and gloves,” said Hamza Shaikh, co-founder of Indobionics, a three-year-old medtech startup, incubated at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Bengaluru. The others are Abstract Ideas, an aesthetics start-up incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), and Agastya Bouyant, incubated at IIM Calcutta, that manufactures inflatables for the cleaning of water surfaces of rivers and sea.The consortium is also manufacturing low-cost ventilators that can be used in intensive care units (ICUs) across the country. While a high-end ICU ventilator can cost between ₹10 lakh and ₹15 lakh, these startups are building basic ICU ventilators at one-tenth the cost.“The key was to cut down on research and development cost and sourcing material hyper locally. This helped save our costs. Our designers studied the designs of ventilators from open-source materials and we replicate the same with inexpensive and locally available material,” said Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/consortium-of-3-start-ups-employs-5-000-migrant-labourers-to-produce-low-cost-equipment/story-PcBMJsaaGyCLe9aleQdqUK.html
04-05-2020||City||TMC to set up 1,000-bed Covid hospital||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will set up a 1000-bed hospital in its Global Impact Hub, a startup hub, in Balkum. Within three weeks, the civic body will set up beds and equipment by taking help from a private hospital for technical support.“A total of 500 beds will have ventilator support. We will set up an ICU, pathological laboratory, X-Ray facility and fever clinic. A special team from the state government visited Thane last week and planned another facility as cases are increasing,” said Eknath Shinde, urban development and public works minister.On Monday, Thane recorded 23 Covid positive cases on Monday, taking the city’s total tally to 412.From among 23 cases, the slum areas of Lokmanya Nagar, Savarkar Nagar and Wagle Estate have seen six cases each.“We have done extensive contact tracing in the slum areas of Lokmanya Nagar, Savarkar Nagar and Wagle Estate. While some areas are sealed, movement in a few others has been restricted to ensure the virus does not spread,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer of TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-to-set-up-1-000-bed-covid-hospital/story-wgm7qZjhKMFqdQ7TD0fRYO.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||DCP tests positive for Covid-19, Mumbai Police crosses 200 mark||A deputy commissioner of police, the central region of Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A senior IPS officer confirmed the news. Meanwhile, twelve other policemen, including six police officers, from JJ Marg police station too tested positive for the virus. Following the development, 48 policemen from JJ police station who were in touch with the 12 infected officials were sent for quarantine. On Friday and Saturday a medical checkup was carried out for Mumbai police officer from South and Central Region at JJ hospital. The results which came on Monday revealed that the 12 police officers were positive. Sangramsingh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, said, “Over 12 policemen including six police officers and six police constable tested positive. 48 policemen have been sent for quarantine from the same police station.” Earlier on Sunday, six policemen from Pydhonie, three from Nagpada and two from Mahim also tested positive for Covid-19. On Monday evening the Mumbai Police crossed the 200 mark with a total of 211 police personnel testing positive for Covid 19. The city police contributed 50% of the cases in Maharashtra Police department, which recorded 422 cases till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dcp-tests-positive-for-covid-19-mumbai-police-crosses-200-mark/story-utNboc6jvxHqCWq8GtylHN.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai cross 9,000 mark, death toll at 361||The tally of the coronavirus cases in Mumbai crossed the 9,000-mark and jumped to 9,123 on Monday with the addition of 510 new patients, while 18 more died due to the viral infection, the city civic body said.The new cases were reported in the last 24 hours.According to a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) release, the death toll reached 361 as 18 more patients succumbed in the past 24 hours.The BMC said 436 new suspected coronavirus patients were admitted to various hospitals in the city.Also, during the period, 104 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals.According to the release, so far 1,908 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the metropolis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-cross-9-000-mark-death-toll-at-361/story-TyZVgZZwTZDzuvXtlDginL.html
04-05-2020||City||HP govt misleading Centre on Active Case Finding campaign: Cong leader||All India Congress Committee (AICC) Secretary and former urban development minister Sudhir Sharma on Monday accused the state government of misleading the Centre on the Active Case Finding (ACF) campaign, which he said, was a ‘farce’.In a press statement issued here, Sharma said that state government has submitted a false report to the Centre about the campaign under which, it was claimed, that 70 lakh people were screened for coronavirus.“Even, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the efforts of the HP government and exhorted other states to emulate the model,” said Sharma claiming that a real picture was not placed before the PM.“In reality, the residents were not screened for coronavirus but it was a general survey under which Asha workers asked people if they had any flu-like symptoms,” he said adding that many people even complained that they were not reached out by the health workers.Sharma said that the state also lacks proper scanning equipment to screen the people for coronavirus.“A survey cannot be called a screening drive. It is on the basis of these false reports that the government is saying that Himachal Pradesh is becoming coronavirus free,” he alleged.The Congress leader said that at interstate barriers there was no proper arrangement and equipment for screening people arriving in the state and they were being allowed to enter after taking their names, addresses and phone numbers.This ill-conceived strategy of the state government may result in a dangerous situation in the state.“The government should carry out random testing across the state for Covid-19. Testing should be ramped up. Without tests, we cannot claim to become corona-free,” he said.Sharma also accused the state government of failing to provide necessary safety equipment like masks and PPE kits to the frontline warriors including health staff, police and administrative officers.“Staffs deployed at the borders are either without masks or using old masks. Health staffs have been provided raincoats instead of PPE kits,” he said adding that the government is yet to float tenders for purchase of masks, PPE kits and other equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-misleading-centre-on-active-case-finding-campaign-cong-leader/story-lbZV2GYon0epwZaQxgtg7O.html
04-05-2020||City||Work on construction of 125 bunkers to begin next week, says J&K admn||The work on the construction of 125 community bunkers along the Line of Control (LoC) in Baramulla and Kupwara districts will begin next week, said Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday.“We will float tenders within a day for Uri and Boniyar. The construction work will hopefully begin within a week,” said Baramulla additional deputy commissioner Mohd Ahsan Mir.“We are opening some tenders today (Monday) and work will begin from next week,” said Karnah sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Bilal Mohiuddin Bhat.He said that Tangdhar needs huge bunkers because of good population in the tehsil. “The area is most vulnerable to the cross-border shelling,” he said.He said that the prototype of bunkers was changed owning to the lack of space. “Now, the construction of one bunker will cost us ₹10 lakh, which otherwise was ₹20 lakh,” he said. An official from the government wishing anonymity said that the UT administration is facing shortage of land to begin the construction. “People will have to cooperate with us for the same,” he said. As per the official, a single bunker will accommodate at least four families.In February, J&K home department had sanctioned 125 community bunkers with an aim to build shelters and safeguard human lives along the LoC from the arbitrary cross-border shelling . “I am directed to convey the sanction of 125 large community bunkers in Baramulla and Kupwara districts falling within 0-3 kilometres along the LoC,” reads the order forwarded to the Kashmir divisional commissioner.As per the order, 85 bunkers have been approved for Kupwara district that include 10 for Keran, 15 for Machil and 60 bunkers have been approved for Tangdhar tehsil. There will be 20 bunkers each in Uri and Boniyar tehsil. The government has approved ₹25 crore for the project. The order also reads that divisional commissioner Kashmir should constitute a committee for physical verification of bunkers and the work should be completed within three months. However, the residents living near LoC have expressed resentment over the decision of constructing community bunkers. “We have always demanded underground bunkers. New types of bunkers are not going to deliver well. They are not safe,” said Lal Din Khatana, sarpanch of Charunda village on LoC.“Given the recent border skirmishes, the residents living near the LoC are in state of panic. We fear for our lives,” said Irfan Ahmad, a resident of Baidan village of Boniyar. Three civilians, including an eight-year-old boy were killed after the cross-border shelling took place in Keran village of Kupwara district last month. Last week, two soldiers were killed, while six others were injured, including two soldiers, at Charunda village in Hajipeer sector of Uri. Pakistan has violated the ceasefire around 1,400 times this year alone, while the corresponding figure for 2018 and 2019 was 1,629 and 3,168, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/work-on-construction-of-125-bunkers-to-begin-next-week-says-j-k-admn/story-f62vModrKG6cTMwnBVVtKP.html
04-05-2020||City||In Mohali, curfew relaxation from 9am to 1pm||Following the directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the Mohali administration changed curfew relaxation timings to 9am-1pm, starting from Tuesday. The district administration has also allowed to open government and private offices but with only 33% workforce with 14-day rotation roster. Confirming the same, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “No curfew pass shall be required by the public to go out between 9am-1pm within the district. Those running shops or commercial establishments shall be allowed to move from 8am-3pm to and from their homes.”“All shops shall open on a staggered even-odd rotational basis as per the plan worked out by the area authorities. No shop shall open on Sunday. However, this will not be applicable to home delivery of essential commodities which may continue on Sunday as well. Liquor vends shall remain closed,” Dayalan said. FOR MOVEMENT WITHIN MOHALIAs per the DC’s order, no person shall move unnecessarily for non-essential work. Four-wheelers are allowed with a maximum of two passengers besides driver, while two-wheelers shall be without pillion rider during curfew relaxation period.Dayalan said movement of persons shall be allowed only from 8am to 6pm to and from the workplace on production of identity card issued by the employer (government or private). FOR COMMUTING ACROSS TRICITYThe order says private employees residing in Mohali and working in Chandigarh or Panchkula may apply for border passes at https://epasscovid19.pais.net.in. For government employees, production of their ID card will do.Those residing in Chandigarh or Panchkula but working in Mohali may apply to their respective places of residence for issuance of passes to commute within the tricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-mohali-curfew-relaxation-from-9am-to-1pm/story-56QMtmjVzYO6ankwJnnxyO.html
04-05-2020||Pune||58-year-old ASI becomes Pune’s first police victim of Covid-19||The Pune police reported its first victim due to Covid-19 (coronavirus) on Monday. A 58-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) after battling the infection for 11 days was declared dead at Bharati hospital. At least nine police personnel have so far tested positive for the infection, according to the Pune police. The department has announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the next of kin. Mumbai has till Monday evening reported three deaths due to Covid-19 and 211 positive cases.The ASI was admitted to the hospital on April 24 and was on ventilator support. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health officer said, “The cop was reportedly also suffering from other comorbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes. He was declared dead at Dhankavdi’s Bharati hospital at 1:50 pm on Monday.” K Venkatesham, Pune police commissioner, said, “I have visited the family. A compensation of Rs 50 lakh will be given to the family.” The top official said that the ASI is survived by wife and two sons, one of whom is employed.The department also plans a memorial in memory of the deceased official who was two years shy of retirement. Many officials of the police station were quarantined in lodging facilities and at least five more positive cases were found among police station staff. The police station has been sanitised and re-opened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/58-year-old-asi-becomes-pune-s-first-police-victim-of-covid-19/story-dwaispHOc5rUzoOOw1rg4O.html
04-05-2020||City||BFUHS extends last date of joining PG courses to May 6||The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) in Faridkot has extended the last date of joining the postgraduate (PG) medical courses at the allotted colleges from May 4 to May 6.During the first-round of online counselling to PG courses in seven medical and 12 dental colleges of the state, the BFUHS provisionally allotted PG course seats to NEET-qualified students. Amid lockdown, students have been allowed to join the allotted colleges physically or online.Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of BFUHS, said “The cut-off date for admission to PG medical and dental courses has been extended to May 6 as some candidates are facing difficulty in completing online admission process due to curfew in Punjab. Many candidates are also not able to deposit the fee as RTGS or NEFT in the university’s account. We have extended the date so that students can complete the admission process. No further extension will be allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bfush-extends-last-date-of-joining-pg-courses-to-may-6/story-xYhicgF2r8Mt3a6zykqUtJ.html
04-05-2020||City||Thane shopkeepers complain to MSEDCL about power bill||Shopkeepers and traders in Thane are unhappy over having to pay average electricity bills for the month of April. Many said their shops are shut since the nationwide lockdown started. Members of Thane Subhash Path Vyapari Welfare Association, which has around 150 shopkeepers, have written to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) about the problem.“We have written to MSEDCL, Thane, about the issue. Shops have received electricity bill of around ₹50,000, ₹20,000 and ₹10,000 depending on the size of the store,” said a member from Thane Subhash Path Vyapari Welfare Association, on anonymity.According to shopkeepers, only a few shops selling essential commodities are open during the lockdown.“The association wants MSEDCL to issue bills only on the basis of actual consumption. Many have kept their shop closed for the past 45 days. We demand MSEDCL to revise the current bills and not to levy fines for the commercial users,” he added.MSEDCL spokesperson said that unless the current meter reading is not send by commercial users, they will charge them on the basis of average consumption. The last date to pay electricity bill payment has been extended. “However, we will go through their demands and take a decision accordingly,” said a spokesperson of MSEDCL, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-shopkeepers-complain-to-msedcl-about-power-bill/story-Qgih4PKcDVWJYZhFzudXhO.html
04-05-2020||City||Four +ve Asha workers came in contact with 250 people||Around 250 people in district are at risk of Covid-19 infection after four Asha workers were tested positive for thee virus. The workers had carried out door-to-door survey at four villages in Moga during lockdown.The health department has already advised around 253 people to stay in home-quarantine while high-risk contacts are being tested for the virus and their test results are awaited.The department is facing the Herculean task of tracing the source of infection. At least 253 people including health workers came in contact with the patients, but a majority of them are at low risk.In the wake of the missing source, threat of community transmission looms large, say experts. After the four Asha workers were tested positive, the department sealed Churah Chak and Madokke villages and conducted a survey.Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said samples of people who came in contact with the positive Asha workers have been collected and sent for testing. “The husband of one of the Asha workers is a driver, so I have asked the officials to track him down and send his samples for testing,” she added.HEALTH MINISTER REVIEWS PREPAREDNESS IN DISTA day after the incident of three contradictory covid-19 testing reports of five Moga residents unfolded, state health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday visited the district to review preparedness in district to deal with the covid cases.Sidhu said to increase pace of testing, state government has tied up with private labs for diagnosis purposes. Across state, positive patients are being provided best of facilities.As per information, over 1,150 samples have been collected from Moga district so far of which 27 were positive, 522 negative and results of rest are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-ve-asha-workers-came-in-contact-with-250-people/story-pADwkIUZcKJFd6YQv3I6rJ.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana asks HC to resume court work||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) wrote to the high court (HC) and demanded that restrictive work in trial courts of both the states and Chandigarh and also HC be resumed.BCPH is an apex body of lawyers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh with nearly one lakh members. BCPH said that the high court should reconsider its decision of allowing hearing only through video conferencing while not allowing entry of advocates and clerks in the high court and other courts. The body said that the move was taken without considering the decision of the Centre and the UT administration on extension of lockdown, whereby, the government offices were allowed to function, markets were opened and even private offices were allowed to open with only certain restrictions.The Bar Council said, “More than 70% lawyers in districts and in the tricity live on rent and have no source of income other than the fee received from the clients.”It further said that not allowing hearing in extreme urgent cases will amount to denial of justice while adding that all advocates are not equipped with appearing through video conferencing.BCPH said that a committee, presided over by one of its member Lekh Raj Sharma, has also recommended that the functioning of courts with the minimum footfall be resumed. The committee had earlier requested that a limited number of advocates be allowed to appear in courts, while Bar rooms and canteens can be kept closed, added BCPH. Meanwhile, BCPH chairman Karanjit Singh said, “Around 1,800 lawyers are being given a financial aid of ₹ 5,000/- each. These have been selected from 3,400 applications invited by BCPH last month.” “The money was collected from lawyers and BCPH members through donations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-council-of-punjab-and-haryana-asks-hc-to-resume-court-work/story-Fn5CM4EWDN8ZY3eyKMPAtJ.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Despite lockdown extension, locals take to streets, ignore social distancing norms||A day after the Maharashtra government announced plans to lift certain lockdown restrictions in the state according to the Covid-19 zones, several areas in the city witnessed a surge in public activities. Several citizens complained about long queues outside alcohol shops as well as grocery stores. In some parts of the city, public transport such as autos and buses were also plying as usual.However, according to the announcement, in red zones, under which Mumbai falls, outside the containment zones, certain activities are still prohibited by the Ministry of Home Affairs. No relaxation was given to cycle rickshaws, autorickshaws, taxis and cab aggregators, intra- and inter-district plying of buses, functioning of barbershops, spas, and salons.Hakim Kapasi, who owns a medical store at Andheri, had witnessed a long queue to purchase alcohol from a neighbouring wine shop on Monday morning. Kapasi said there were more than 100 people who had gathered, waiting for the shop to open. “There was no social distancing and many of them did not wear masks. Some of them were spitting on the street as well. However, the shop didn’t open in the morning,” said Kapasi.Pervez Cooper, a resident of Colaba, stopped several people from getting haircuts outside a gym near Colaba Causeway. However, most of the other shops in his area were shut except for a grocery store.“The situation on the streets was ridiculous. Vagrants were sitting on the streets and at least 20 people were getting haircuts without any kind of social distancing,” said Cooper.In Ghatkopar, locals were seen gathering on the streets to chat, while ignoring social distancing guidelines. When Santosh Mehta, an IT professional, stepped out for some essential work, he noticed autos and taxis plying and people gathered on road to talk to each other. “It looked like authorities didn’t seem to care what was happening. There were so many people on the streets and it looked like most of them did not have any work to be out,” said Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-lockdown-extension-locals-take-to-streets-ignore-social-distancing-norms/story-zqzM6fc9u5dvX1015uy0YI.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Prohibitory orders in Mumbai extended till May 17 amid lockdown 3.0||Prohibitory orders banning assembly of four or more people under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have been extended in Mumbai until May 17 in view of the extension of the coronavirus- induced lockdown, a police official said on Monday.Mumbai has been declared as the red zone due to high number of coronavirus cases.“We have extended section 144 of CrPC which restricts any public gathering,” he said quoting an official order.The official said residents are allowed to step out of their houses to buy essential commodities between 7 am and 8 pm, but will have to follow social distancing norms.Violators will be prosecuted under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, he added.Mumbai has so far reported 8,613 Covid-19 cases and 343 deaths, a BMC official had said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/prohibitory-orders-in-mumbai-extended-till-may-17-amid-lockdown-3-0/story-FvR8EQC15dyimguuglRWWK.html
04-05-2020||City||7 more discharged, taking tally of recovered Covid-19 patients to 43 in Mohali; active cases 50||With no fresh case of Covid-19 reported from Mohali on Monday and seven persons were discharged after recovery, the tally of those recovered in the district is now 43. Of the total 95 cases in Mohali, 50 are still battling the infection. Of the seven patients discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur, five are from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi and the other two belong to Nayagaon.Mohali’s civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the Jawaharpur residents will not be sent home as a precaution. “They will stay at a quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days. The two Nayagaon residents will be sent home but they have been asked to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days. Health teams will keep track of their health regularly,” he said. The doctor added that 27 patients from Jawaharpur alone have recovered so far, and the remaining patients, who are undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital, are stable.The civil surgeon again appealed to the public to not leave their homes or visit hospitals unless the need is urgent. Instead, they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice. He urged people to wash hands frequently and keep a healthy distance from each other. District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh and Dr Harmandeep Kaur were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-more-discharged-taking-tally-of-recovered-covid-19-patients-to-43-in-mohali-active-cases-50/story-RPclFmAVB0EFC5XQhM0goN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s UBS student receives highest package of ₹55 lakh||Parth, 23, has bagged the highest package of ₹55 lakh in the placement drive conducted at University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, this year. This is the highest package ever received by an UBS student. The native of Kurukshetra district in Haryana has been placed in Tolaram Group. Parth, whose father is an additional sub-inspector in the Haryana Police said, “I aimed to be placed in Tolaram Group for many years ,but I was uncertain as they hire only one student from UBS every year. I dedicate this achievement to my parents who always supported me, and my department.”Parth graduated as a pharmacy student from PU and then joined UBS. “I was already a student of PU and wanted to join UBS to further my career ,” he said.As per placement data released by PU, 103 of the 129 students who applied have been placed from UBS. The highest package received by a student last year was ₹53 lakh who was also placed in Tolaram Group.The average package of this year’s placement drive is ₹9.5 lakh. Notable companies that recruited students from UBS this year include American Express, Avery Dennison, Bacardi, Edelweiss Tokio, HSBC, Infosys, Tolaram, Volvo Eicher and HDFC.Sanjam Ghai, 24, a native of New Delhi has been placed in American Express. She received a package of ₹18.8 lakh per annum. “I shifted here from New Delhi as I wanted to get out of my comfort zone and UBS has a great legacy. I dedicate my achievement to my family and the faculty of the department,” she said. UBS chairperson Deepak Kapur said, “At a time when some companies are revoking final placement offers made by them, UBS is fortunate that it has not been affected negatively during this crisis. Perhaps, this is due to the strong bond UBS has developed with recruiters.”Kapur said he was confident recruiting companies would honour the final placement offers made to graduating students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-ubs-student-receives-highest-package-of-55-lakh/story-DyNvhdpraWo2u11n49XsqN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor vends, book stores rake in big, others await customers as lockdown restrictions ease in Chandigarh||With the lifting of the curfew, the hustle and bustle returned to Chandigarh markets as non essential shops with even numbers inside the sectors were allowed to open. However, traders said they received a lukewarm response while long queues were witnessed outside liquor vends and bookstores in the city.President of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Anil Vohra, who runs a shop in Sector 44, said, “Many people had come only to roam around in the markets or to find open liquor shops. Various videos were shared of long queues outside liquor shops but other traders didn’t see a sharp rise in customers.”President of the Market Welfare Association of Sector 11, Diwankar Sahoonja, said, “Grocery shops that had been open during the curfew as well recorded around a 30% increase in sales, but the liquor vends drew the most crowds. Many people also came from other sectors to the chemist shops in Sector 11 so there was a lot of rush in the market due to this.”More emphasis was on stores selling essentials, while those selling non-essential items were mostly ignored. Sudhir Jain, general secretary of the wholesale cloth merchant association of Chandigarh, said that sales barely reached 10% of their normal daily sales, but it felt nice running their shop again. President of the crockery association of the city, Ram Bilas Aggarwal, said although some crockery shops were opened in the city, almost no sales were recorded. “Until movement from Punjab and Haryana is not allowed, sales will not pick up,” he said.While a long queue was seen in front of the liquor vend in Sector 9, other shops didn’t get as many customers. Rustam Singh, who hails from New Chandigarh, said he had come to Sector 9 to buy groceries, but seeing the liquor vend open he had decided to make a stop for alcohol first. Many parents were also lined outside bookstores outside Manchanda Stores in Sector 19. Harjit Singh whose ward studies at St Anne’s in Sector 32 said they were getting books in advance even though the school hadn’t asked them to purchase them yet. Another parent said that a printer is needed for online classes, and those who couldn’t afford one had to queue up for books.TRANSIT TROUBLE FOR SHOPKEEPERS FROM PANCHKULA, MOHALIMany shopkeepers who were to come from Mohali and Panchkula also didn’t go to their shops on the first day just to let things smooth over first. Samrat Arora, an optician in Sector 22 who stays in Panchkula, said he had not gone to his shop fearing the confusion at the boundary of Panchkula and Chandigarh. “We were assured that we would face no difficulty, however it took commuters over an hour to pass because of police deployment and checking. Some shopkeepers were also not allowed to enter back into Panchkula,” he said.Chairman of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Charanjiv Singh, said he had received many calls from people facing similar problems and he would apprise the deputy commissioner of the matter to figure out a solution for the shopkeepers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-vends-book-stores-rake-in-big-others-await-customers-as-lockdown-restrictions-ease-in-chandigarh/story-TtzKMovnBPl5nKoBg8OXKL.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Morning walkers get cold feet despite relaxations, Chandigarh parks remain empty||Even as curbs were lifted in the city and morning walkers were officially allowed to venture out for their routines from 7 am onward, most big parks and gardens in the city wore a deserted look, with only a handful of walkers visible.Rose Garden and the adjoining Shanti Kunj are popular destinations with morning walkers. One lap on the jogging track of the Rose Garden, about 2,200 metres, is one of the longest in the city. However, both wore an empty look on Monday even as the clock struck 8 am.Principal of Sector 39-C Government Model Senior Secondary School, Meenakshi Aneja, who was out for a stroll with her husband at Shanti Kunj said it felt good to be out again. “We are routine walkers here and had been walking in the drive way of our home in Sector 16 for the past few weeks,” she said.Three senior citizens were spotted sitting together in Rose Garden. Of the three, Ashok Malhotra, who is a tax consultant and Iqbal Singh, who is a retired government official, were engaged in a debate about who was the first one to enter the garden after the curfew. “We are a group of eight senior citizens and would take three to four rounds of the park. For the first time in 15 years our practice was interrupted for more than a month,” said Malhotra.Another senior, Sriram Gupta, who had come to feed birds, commented that he expected the Rose Garden to look cleaner and more pristine than ever, but it painted a picture of neglect with leaves strewn everywhere and the grass in dire need of a cut. Even the entrance of the park from the Leisure Valley side was blocked by broken branches discouraging many people from entering the park.Several people opined that the administrations ambiguity about morning walks and the recent flip flops had discouraged many from coming out for their daily exercise. Recent rain and thunder had muddied parts of the garden due to which some people had taken a rain check.Many regular walkers said they had also spotted Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta walking here around 8 pm.A teacher at Doon School, Ramneet, said she was glad the curfew restrictions had been lifted. “We can’t stay at home forever and have to learn to deal with Covid-19 in better ways. I had also written to UT adviser Manoj Parida about this,” she said.While curfew restrictions were underway, police had been cracking down on morning walkers. As per police records, 213 morning and evening walkers had been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) between 23 March and 3 May over the violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/morning-walkers-get-cold-feet-despite-relaxations-chandigarh-parks-remain-empty/story-zQCohrE98KB2dP9ZZ1mS3O.html
04-05-2020||City||Punjab de-addiction, rehabilitation, OOAT centres’ staff protest over pending demands||Employees of the de-addiction, rehabilitation, and OOAT (outpatient opioid-assisted treatment) clinics stopped services across Punjab on Monday over their pending demands. Addicts were in a state of panic after their treatment was halted and they remained unattended.Employees, under the banner of Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centres’ Employee Union, went on a strike demanding job regularisation, implementation of equal pay for equal work, hike in dearness allowance (DA) and release of pending loyalty bonus.According to the union, there are 650 contractual and outsourced employees in all 208 de-addiction and rehabilitation centres, model de-addiction centres and OOAT clinic in state.Parminder Singh, state president of the union said they are working on meagre salaries. The contractual employees are receiving Rs 15,000 per month and the outsourced ones get just Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 per month.“It is impossible to run a household on these salaries. After lockdown, our expenses have increased. Our employees have to cover a distance of 100km everyday on rented transport to reach their workplace. Government should pay us travel allowance for this period,” he said.WILL CONSIDER DEMANDS: BALBIR SINGH SIDHU Later in the late evening, the union members postponed the strike after state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu assured them of considering their demands and discussing them with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.The union president said that the health minister received their memorandum after which they have postponed the protest and will resume services from Tuesday.ADDICTS FACED TOUGH TIMEA 29-year-old youth of Gian Colony in Patiala, is worried as he was not attended to at the OOAT Clinic in Saket Hospital. He waited for three hours to take dose of buprenorphine-naloxone.He said, “I was addicted to smack for a long time and have been receiving treatment from 18 months. But on Monday, the staff did not provide medication. I don’t know what will happen to me. I don’t want to relapse.”Another 30-year-old of Hera Nagar said, “Employees of OOAT clinic are not attending to us.”Patiala deputy medical commissioner Dr MS Dhaliwal said, “The staff was on strike across state. However, we handled the situation well. We witnessed problem at just two centres in Patiala.”SIMILAR PROTEST IN BATHINDAAddicts who had queue up outside the de-addiction centre of Bathinda civil hospital raised slogans alleging that they were not getting medicines due to the strike.Bathinda district president of Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centres’ Employee Union, Sunil Kumar, said that that they have been demanding regularisation of their services since six years but to no avail.He said that to raise their demands, they protested by wearing black badges during work on May 1 and 2 but as the state government did not listen to their woes, they observed strike on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-de-addiction-rehabilitation-ooat-centres-staff-go-on-state-wide-strike/story-JuW2iqF77w2fHfe0fibXPP.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder seeks Shah’s intervention for special trains for migrant workers||With over 6.44 lakh migrant workers registering on the state’s portal, meant to take a count of those wanting to go home, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah, asking him to direct the railway ministry to make suitable arrangements for the next 10-15 days, beginning May 5. In his letter to Shah, the CM said that his government would indicate its daily requirement of trains in advance.“A large number of labourers come seasonally from UP, Bihar and other eastern states to seek temporary employment in both industrial and agricultural sector in Punjab. These people, who were due to leave in March, normally after Holi, could not leave due to the imposition of lockdown this year,” the CM adds in his letter. ‘Allow micro industry in non-containment zones’Expressing concern over the plight of tiny, micro, cottage and small industries amid the continued lockdown, the CM on Monday sought the Centre’s permission to allow these to operate by engaging labour from the family or the neighbourhood. In his letter to Shah, the CM also points out that most industrial cities of Punjab had recently come in the red zone, largely on account of people who had from other states. He added that these restrictions had made it difficult for industry to resume operation. Often these small and tiny units were vendors of large units and supplied them with some essential components, failing which even large units, even though permitted, cannot function, he further observed, seeking amendment to the instructions/guidelines issued by the Union home secretary under section 10(2) (I) of the Disaster Management Act 2005, whereby certain industries in urban areas, other than containment zones, have been permitted to function. The CM has solicited Shah’s prompt intervention in amending these guidelines, under para 7 (ii) (b).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amarinder-seeks-shah-s-intervention-for-special-trains-for-migrant-workers/story-0svnzRyNE2kbpCtx6VmwxL.html
04-05-2020||City||Dhol, floral showers for Ludhiana ASI who beat the virus||Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who was discharged from the hospital on Monday, was received by his colleagues in the police department amid the beating of dhols and floral showers. ASI Sukhdev Singh, who had got infected while on duty, had been admitted to the hospital on April 17. He is deputed as the driver of Basti Jodhewal station house officer (SHO) Arshpreet Kaur, who is also fighting the virus. He said that his uniform espoused courage in him and helped him remain positive throughout. He says he is eager to join duty as soon as his 14-day quarantine period is complete.The 1992-batch cop has served at various police stations across the state in his 28-year-long career. “I was deputed as driver with the sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur. We had to move around the area and remained deputed at the vegetable market to manage the crowd.”“After assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Anil Kumar Kohli tested positive for the virus, we also underwent the coronavirus test, as we had come in contact with the officer,” he added.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, ADCP (PBI) Sachin Gupta, ADCP city-4 Ajinder Singh, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ACP (industrial area-B) Sandeep Wadehra, ACP (Industrial area-A) Vaibhav Sehgal and ACP (Gill) Jashandeep Singh Gill were present to welcomed him outside the hospital.ADCP Jaskaranjit Singh Teja said that officers like ASI Sukhdev Singh are assets for the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhol-floral-showers-for-ludhiana-asi-who-beat-the-virus/story-G7WZn7qIzIQtrhhtbNiAfL.html
04-05-2020||City||Migrants in Navi Mumbai hassled with paper work but want to return home||Lakhs of migrants in Panvel and Navi Mumbai, who want to go to their hometown, are seen standing in long queues to collect forms, submit papers and to get medical certificate.People were seen waiting outside clinics at Panvel, Kharghar and Vashi. Many had reached clinics much before they opened.Migrants from Kharghar and Panvel are still doing the rounds for a medical certificate but haven’t got one.Babasaheb J Tupe, senior police inspector, Kamothe police station, said, “There was confusion as migrants scrambled to get all papers in place. They have been told that they can get a fitness certificate from any registered clinic after paying.”He added that they are organising medical camps to ensure everyone gets a certificate.The police also appealed to clinics and other private doctors to help workers get a certificate without inconveniencing other patients.“Private doctors are charging around Rs350 for issuing a certificate. The government clinics are charging less but have longer queues. I returned after seeing the crowd,” said Bilal Ansari, 46, a daily wage worker from Uttar Pradesh, who has been making rounds of the police station to get more information.Pradeep Singh, 35, from Jharkhand, said he would prefer going home as it has become difficult to live here without earning.“For the past two to three days, we have been busy in paperwork. But, we are desperate to go back to the home. There has been no income for the past two months. It is difficult to practise social distancing in the slums,” Singh said.Many said there was no clarity and that they are getting information in bits and pieces.“We didn’t know about medical camps. We waited in long queues at the clinic and came to know about the camps later,” said Doman P, 45, a daily wage labourer from Bihar.Activist Suhash Jha said, “Considering the sheer number of migrants wanting to leave city, authorities should have been prepared for the long queues. However, clear guidelines would have eased the migrants’ anxiety. The medical camp will make the process smoother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-in-navi-mumbai-hassled-with-paper-work-but-want-to-return-home/story-QyLNU8fQS82EFWGDayI5jL.html
04-05-2020||Noida||UP’s GB Nagar district declares 36 areas as Covid-19 containment zones||Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj on Monday declared 36 COVID-19 containment zones across the district.The District Magistrate said specific boundaries have been demarcated on ground in these locations by police and administration.“Specific boundaries have been demarcated on the ground in the following locations by police/admin based on contact tracing, geographical spread, enforceability other admin. factors. They shall be reviewed from time to time,” Yathiraj said in a tweet.The zones have been divided under two categories, under the first category, there are places with one positive case within the area of approximately 400 meters. The zones include Sector 9 Noida, Sector 19, Sector 20, Sector 45 and Sector 48. While, under the second category, there are places with more than one positive patient in the area perimeter of approximately 1 km. The areas include Sector 8 and Sector 5 Noida, Sector 10, Sector 15 A and Sector 15. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-s-gb-nagar-district-declares-36-areas-as-covid-19-containment-zones/story-za3icMmAfbW7CeKk2IZoLO.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD welcomes decision to lift curfew in Chandigarh||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday welcomed the Chandigarh administration’s decision to lift curfew in the UT, saying it was much needed and would help in restoring normalcy. “Due balance has been maintained in restarting economic activity and ensuring the health and safety of citizens. Residents must also extend their cooperation by following health protocols religiously,” SAD spokesman Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-welcomes-decision-to-lift-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-ge1tOwH254Or6ynQDuaPUI.html
04-05-2020||City||Covid-19: 36 NCC cadets get online training on precautions while distributing food||Thirty-six NCC cadets of Khalsa College for Women (KCW), Sidhwan Khurd, have completed the integrated government online training (iGOT) for Covid-19 under which they were trained about what precautions they must take while distributing food and medicines to the people.The training was completed under the supervision of commanding officer Colonel Suhail Kumar (5PB girls BN NCC, Moga) and principal Rajwinder Kaur Hundal.The cadets also registered themselves on the Aarogya Setu app launched by the Government of India to create awareness regarding Covid-19 among the public.“The cadets shared their ideas through videos, songs and poems on coronavirus,” Hundal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-36-ncc-cadets-get-online-training-on-precautions-while-distributing-food/story-2TebUGWggXBdGMpBI3sYzO.html
04-05-2020||City||Expectant mothers among those wanting to travel to maternal homes||PUNE: Along with stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students who have been wanting to return to their homes in other districts and states, many expectant mothers are among those keen to return to their maternal homes for delivery.With the Government having lifted a number of restrictions in the non-containment zones as a part of Lockdown 3.0 which began on Monday.As per tradition, many expectant mothers from the city have been keen to return to their maternal homes within and outside the city for their delivery and have been seeking permission from the police commissioner and the district collector for the same. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “We are flooded with requests for travel and permissions from expectant mothers. We are allowing them to travel within reasonable distance, but not all.” Similarly district collector Naval Kishore Ram said each and every individual request from pregnant women was being scrutinised and only those for whom travel was feasible were being allowed.” While a number of women wanted to travel within the city, some, like Sony Kumari, wanted to go other states, as far as Jharkhand. Seven months pregnant, Kumari has been writing to the police for the past four days to allow her to travel by her own vehicle back home. Anumeha Singh Mahajan was elated that she will welcome her first child in June this year at her maternal home in Hadapsar, Pune “My husband is stuck in Bangkok since March-end, and I was alone at home in Rahatne, I am in my ninth month, and I needed to travel to my parents’ home,” she said. Two weeks ago, Mahajan received permission from the police for her medical check-ups and for travelling to her parents’ home across the city at Hadapsar. She had to change her hospital for her delivery which will now happen at Hadapsar. Neha Patil, who is due for delivery in June is looking forward to visit her parents in Nashik for the delivery. “There is a lot of excitement in my maternal home, with this being the first grandchild for my parents. I was registered for delivery in Nashik, but I was prepared to deliver my child in Pune, if the permission did not come through,” said Patil.She said that she lives with her husband in Chinchwad and this was her first delivery and therefore, she wanted to stay with her parents because of the high emotions involved.“There is no one to take care of me in Pune and therefore I applied for permission to travel inter-city to Nashik. The police responded to my phone and my tweet. We will be travelling by our car. It took time to get the permission and I was prepared to deliver in Pune in case I didn’t get my permission,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/expectant-mothers-among-those-wanting-to-travel-to-maternal-homes/story-7DUIBFiDCypwOSsVO2gvQP.html
04-05-2020||City||18 buses leave for J&K with 464 people stranded in Mohali||With 464 people stranded in Mohali, Derabassi and Kharar beginning their journey towards their hometown, Lakhanpur in Jammu and Kashmir, in 18 buses on Monday, the drive to send migrants back started.Mohali Regional Transport Authority (RTA) head Sukhwinder Kumar said, according to the directions of deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, arrangements for medical screening of stranded people were made at Nayagaon before they boarded the buses. Kumar said from Mohali, under the supervision of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Saigal, a total of 179 people were sent back in eight buses, while from Derabassi, under the supervision of SDM Kuldeep Bawa, a total of 93 people were sent back via three buses and from Kharar, 192 people boarded seven buses. He added that while carrying out the process of medical screening before sending the migrants, all due precautions with regard to observance of social distancing guidelines were followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-buses-leave-for-j-k-with-464-people-stranded-in-mohali/story-PbVt917gM3rulKVONAX9GK.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University students protest over closed hostel mess||Students of Panjab University’s boys’ hostel number three held a protest as their mess was closed on Monday. The protesting students said no prior notice was given to them by the hostel warden before the step was taken. The issue was resolved later.As many as 30 students are residing in the hostel currently.The students were on their way to protest outside the residence of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar when they were intercepted by dean students’ welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar. “We wanted the mess to be reopened as it was closed without prior information. We were marching towards the V-C’s residence, but DSW Nahar ensured that we will be provided food,” a students of the hostel said. “The contractor of the mess was trying to close it but we have told him to stay. No student of the university will suffer,” Nahar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-protest-over-closed-hostel-mess/story-lnPPdhEynYAz4pE79WpApN.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||3 attacked with bamboo, sword over argument on wearing mask||Three persons including two brothers were attacked in Chembur using bamboo, sword and chopper after they stopped a man for not wearing a mask while using public toilet, at PL Lokhande Road on Sunday. According to Tilak Nagar police station, Kirtisingh Surendrasingh Rana, 34, his brother Indersingh, 33, and their friend Masood Shaikh, 22, were near the public toilet at Nagewadi at PL Lokhande Road when they indulged in an argument with one Salim Siddique, 38.Kirtisingh’s father runs the public toilet. They asked Siddique to wear a mask before using the toilet, which led to an argument between them,” said Sushil Kamble, senior police inspector, Tilak Nagar police station.Later in the night at around 8.15pm, Siddique and three of his accomplices attacked Kirtisingh, Indersingh and Masood with a bamboo stick while Indersingh was attacked on his head and back using sword and chopper, police said. The accused has past criminal cases.The police have arrested Siddique under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) among others. They are looking out for three other suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-attacked-with-bamboo-sword-over-argument-on-wearing-mask/story-ib5wm2VBIrJ3eHtpVLc01I.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Bail plea of 10 Indonesian nationals who attended Tablighi Jamaat rejected||The metropolitan magistrate court on Monday rejected a bail plea of 10 Indonesian nationals who had been arrested in April after they attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and failed to disclose this information to the police. The 10 accused will remain in judicial custody till May 11.A total of 12 people, including the arrested accused (six men and six women) from Indonesia had visited Delhi in March for the religious meet. After attending the meet they came to Mumbai on March 7 and were staying at an apartment in Bandra. Two of them are currently still under quarantine.The accused were booked for attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder, under the Indian Penal Code, along with other charges. They were arrested by the Bandra police on April 23.Their defense lawyer Ishrat Khan, while seeking bail for the 10 accused, had pleaded that charges of attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder, do not apply to the case.On Monday, when the plea came up for hearing, the prosecution failed to submit a reply on the bail plea. The defense, however, pleaded that looking at the charges applied by the prosecution, the magistrate did not have jurisdiction.The court considered the defendants’ argument and rejected the plea. The accused will now approach the sessions court for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bail-plea-of-10-indonesian-nationals-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-rejected/story-neqzd4TsxIsyQnck70VOqO.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||PIL challenges quarantine of 1,408 people in Nagpur by civic body||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has directed the state and Nagpur civic authorities to respond to a plea challenging the shifting of 1,408 persons, which include women and children from Covid-19 hotspots, to an institutional quarantine. The plea has alleged that though the authorities have taken a precautionary measure, the detention is illegal as the place, where these persons are quarantined, are crowded, and there is a possibility of causing infection to other persons residing near these two places.On Sunday, a single bench of justice Anil Kilor took up the urgent hearing of public interest litigation (PIL) filed by local resident Mohammad Nishat through advocate Tushar Mandlekar. The PIL alleged non-compliance of Covid-19 guidelines by the civic body and that people were being randomly picked up by the authorities and were being quarantined. The plea further said that 1,408 persons from Satranjipura and Mominpura areas were illegally detained by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on the grounds that they were high-risk contacts as they had come in touch with those who tested positive for Covid-19.The action was prompted after a 68-year-old man who tested positive died in Satranjipura. The man had come in contact with a person who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The number of Covid positive cases had started increasing thereafter and hence the NMC decided to take such drastic precautionary measures.Mandlekar submitted that in doing so the authorities violated protocols and guidelines issued by the Central Government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which stipulated that only persons who are Covid-positive and their contacts could be detained and quarantined for 14 days. However, as the NMC was randomly quarantining people it amounted to an infringement of the fundamental rights of freedom of expression and right to life with dignity of these people.On its part, the NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik submitted a response of Dr Pravin Gantawar from the NMC health department which stated that the civic body was strictly following COVID-19 guidelines and all quarantined persons were from the ‘high-risk contact category’ and proper precautions were being taken before putting people in quarantine. Puranik sought further two days to file a reply which was allowed and the matter has been posted for hearing on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-challenges-quarantine-of-1-408-people-in-nagpur-by-civic-body/story-M6SW8mf2oZNBahVMJLXxoK.html
04-05-2020||Noida||12 people, including CISF personnel test positive for Covid in GB Nagar||Twelve people including a CISF personnel tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 179, according to officials.A 20-year-old woman was discharged from hospital after her successful treatment of Covid-19, taking the number of those cured in the district to 102, the officials said.“Total 82 reports have been received in the last 24 hours. Twelve of them were positive and the rest were negative for COVID-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 179,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.One woman was admitted at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and she was discharged on Monday, the officer said.“So far, 102 of the 179 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 77 active cases in the district,” he said.The recovery rate of patients is 56.98 per cent, according to the official statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/12-people-including-cisf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-in-gb-nagar/story-bIyhoeeimzA3sFNNspCcxL.html
04-05-2020||City||Cops let Moose Wala fire from assault rifle, 3 ASIs among 6 suspended as video goes viral||Already facing criticism for glorifying violence and weapons in his songs, Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala triggered a new controversy on Monday when a video went viral on the social media in which he is seen firing from an ’official’ assault rifle at a shooting range in Badbar village of Barnala district. Some Punjab police personnel could be seen assisting the singer as he fires from the ‘official weapon’ at the target. Six cops have been suspended.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said the incident took place at Badbar village on May 1. “Six police personnel, who assisted the singer, have been suspended and a departmental inquiry has been ordered against them,” said Garg.The accused have been identified as assistant sub-inspectors Balkar Singh, Antarjit Singh, Ram Singh; head constable Gurjinder Singh, and constables Jasbir Singh and Harwinder Singh.“All these cops were deployed with the office of deputy superintendent of police (headquarter), Sangrur. I have suspended them and a detailed report has been sent to the DGP office,” said Garg.“Two more cops were from Patiala and I have written to Patiala police for action against them,” the SSP added.It is learnt that Barnala police are investigating the matter and some senior officials may have to face action. Barnala SSP Sandeep Goel could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-let-moose-wala-fire-from-assault-rifle-3-asis-among-6-suspended-as-video-goes-viral/story-4owLsHJmvqsmfNendpXVtK.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor prices jacked up 30% as people queue up outside vends||That city residents love their tipple was evident from the long queues outside liquor shops opening after 41 days as the administration eased Covid-19 restrictions from Monday. However, buyers complained of overbilling by as much as 30%, and said social distancing norms were not followed at some spots.Apart from serpentine queues outside the vends, complaints of overbilling by vendors were received from some places. “I bought a two litre bottle of Blenders Pride. The price printed on the label was Rs 1,600 but the vendor charged me Rs 2,000 and said “take it or leave it” when I protested,” complained a man buying liquor at Sector 15 who did not want to be named.A bottle of Sterling Reserve priced at Rs 350 was selling for Rs 450. Tuborg beer, priced at Rs 85, was being sold for Rs 150. With a pre-lockdown price of Rs 360, a Royal Stag bottle was going for Rs 500.The sharp increase in prices, industry insiders said, was attributable to strong demand as only 40% of the total licensed liquor vends were operating.On Sunday, the UT Administration had allowed shops selling non-essential items, including liquor, to open. Shopkeepers had to ensure that a maximum five persons were present at one time at the shop, with timings fixed from 10 am to 6 pm.The administration had closed down the liquor shops after it imposed curfew in the city on March 24 for containing the spread of covid-19 in the city.NOT ALL VENDS OPENRK Chaudhary, assistant commissioner, UT excise and taxation department said, “There are 75 licensed liquor vends in the city. Of these 60 will be functional during the lockdown restrictions. Fifteen vends located on sector dividing roads (Madhya Marg, Dakshin Marg, etc) and containment zones are closed as per the administration’s orders. On Monday, 30 liquor vends were open, all even numbered shops,” he said, referring to the odd-even scheme in the city.TEAMS FORMED TO ENSURE SOCIAL DISTANCINGEven as the department fixes only the minimum prices, the liquor vendors can fix prices above this minimum price, Chaudhary said, adding that department has asked the vendors not to overcharge buyers.On Monday afternoon, UT excise department officials went into a huddle to address the complaints of overcharging and issues of social distancing norms not being adhered to. The police department also raised concerns to the excise department about crowd management.On reports that vends at some places such as Manimajra and Sector 21 had to be closed because of the rush of buyers, Caudhary said, “There were no untoward incidents, though there were minor hiccups, which were resolved.”“We have formed teams under excise and taxation officers (ETO) who will monitor the sale of liquor. They will ensure that social distancing norms are followed,” added Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/crowds-out-for-liquor-some-forget-about-distancing-some-shops-overcharge/story-liLvwrNzrtRJFVcNUnR2cK.html
04-05-2020||City||Kharghar resident loses ₹2 lakh to online fraud||A college lecturer from Kharghar lost ₹2 lakh after a caller told her bank account has been blocked.Kavita Sawant, 32, received a text message on April 27 that her bank account has been blocked and she needs to contact the customer care.When Sawant called the phone number mentioned in the text message, a man answered the call and he told her that her savings account will be frozen if she did not update her Know Your Customer (KYC) details.The man told her she should do it immediately.To verify if he is actually calling from the bank, she asked him her account statement. When he told her she had ₹6.5 lakh in her bank account, she believed it to be a genuine call, said the police.Telling her she needs a new user ID, he created it for her on the call. The woman later received a message from the bank that a payee had been added to her account for transfer of funds.After 30 minutes, the accused called her again and asked for the one time password (OTP) using which he transferred around ₹1 lakh twice. “The accused also told her the money would be transferred to her account in six transactions. The man’s phone was switched off immediately and the woman realised it was a scam,” said an officer from Kharghar police station.The Kharghar police have registered a case of cheating against the person under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharghar-resident-loses-2-lakh-to-online-fraud/story-sIVsU9ZPTyw5RDWDIzQNCP.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Marginal increase in peak hour traffic after ease in restrictions||With the Maharashtra government easing restriction in non-containment areas, a marginal increase in vehicular traffic was observed during the morning peak hours of Monday.Slow moving traffic was reported in certain patches of arterial roads in the city, such as western express highway (WEH), eastern express highway (EEH) and Sion-Panvel highway. These major roads connect Mumbai with neighbouring cities of Mira Road, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Toll collection plazas at Dahisar, Mulund (EEH and Lal Bahadur Shastri road), and Vashi witnessed the usual slow traffic during the peak hour. However, the traffic was partly due to the barricades installed by the police to check that only people working with essential services or emergency cases are out on the road. “Checking of vehicles is underway and only permitted services and medical emergency is allowed,” said Pravin Padwal, additional commissioner of police (traffic). The traffic control room of the Mumbai Police stated there were no major snarls reported in the city. The state has also allowed functioning of standalone liquor shops in Mumbai, which is a red zone. “We expect shop-keepers will be moving around to warehouses and stockist beginning from Monday to fill up the stocks. We expect this movement to increase from Tuesday,” said a traffic police officer.Lack of public transport and the need to maintain social distancing has resulted in citizens taking their vehicles out on the roads, causing a major hindrance to the administration. Those in essential services are also using their own vehicles as up to three people are allowed in four-wheelers including the driver and no pillion ride is allowed for two-wheelers. In order to ensure vehicles do not create traffic on road, the traffic police had earlier said they would suspend licenses of motorists caught twice for using their vehicles unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/marginal-increase-in-peak-hour-traffic-after-ease-in-restrictions/story-YEaB8GAypf5x2R16uu1GYK.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Screening holds up vehicles, long queues at Chandigarh borders, some enter without checks||Chaos ruled at Chandigarh’s borders as curfew imposed to prevent Covid-19 transmission was lifted on Monday. Long vehicle queues formed at the main entry points as police screening slowed things, but many entered the city unchecked because of the heavy traffic buildup.Stationery shops which opened today were crowded too, all social distancing norms forgotten as people bought books and other essentials for their children’s new school terms.Panchkula, however, reported no such problem as adequate arrangements were made to stop cars and screen passengers and their documents.Scores of vehicles from Mohali and Panchkula entered Chandigarh in the morning as shops for non-essential items and offices opened and intercity movement was allowed for people with the requisite permissions and identity cards.However, because of the rush, police personnel could not screen everyone with thermal scanners. “It is difficult screening each and every vehicle entering the city. Today, the flow of vehicles increased tremendously and people were getting impatient when asked to wait. It put us under pressure at the checkpoints. So, some vehicles drove by without screening,” said a policeman on duty near the Zirakpur-Chandigarh barrier, requesting anonymity.Similar problems were reported at the Panchkula-Chandigarh housing board light point.“People were also flouting two-wheel norms and instead of just one rider, two were on the vehicle. In fact, some people were asked to get down from their scooters and motorcycles and walk back home,” the policeman added.Likewise, parents too crowded stationery and book shops without following social distancing norms to buy books, bags and other essentials for their children before the beginning of new school terms.Very few vehicles, however, moved from Chandigarh to Mohali.In Panchkula, the police managed to keep a strict vigil at checkpoints, only letting in people with passes issued by the district administration after announcements were made on Friday of very stringent screening processes and sealing of entry points.“We have strict orders not to allow anyone from Chandigarh into Panchkula without a pass. Everyone will go through medical screening. Those without a pass will be sent back,” said a police official on duty at the housing board point.After Chandigarh announced intercity travel from Monday, the Panchkula administration on Sunday imposed strict control on entry of outsiders with the exception of essential services.On May 1 the deputy commissioner had ordered managements of organisations asking people from outside to come into Panchkula for work to make arrangements for their accommodation within the city/district. Locals who needed to travel too had to make similar arrangements to prevent daily cross-border transit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/screening-holds-up-vehicles-long-queues-at-chandigarh-borders-some-enter-without-checks/story-DdjSlX2bezBm1gSqg7BbSO.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Moving forward, with ‘cautious optimism’ during the Covid-19 pandemic||More than a month ago, on March 26, to be precise, a data analyst in Pune had described the Covid-19 situation in India as “cautiously optimistic”.Based on the analysis of the available numbers, analyst Sahil Deo had pointed out that the rise in the positive cases in India was well below the global benchmark of 33 per cent increase in cases per day and doubling of cases every 2.1 days. Anything below that was a good sign, he had said while describing the situation as “cautiously optimistic” given the timely measures taken by the state and central governments. As of March 26, there were about 600 positive cases in the country as against the 39,900 cases today.Another note of optimism came from Bengaluru where Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, the leading voice of the Indian biotech industry said that India had tackled the coronavirus much better than many other countries. She suggested in a recent interview that smaller red zones be created rather than entire districts to facilitate the resumption of economic activities and enable people to return to their livelihoods. Mazumdar Shaw pointed out that India had declared lockdown when the country had about 500 cases whereas Italy did it when it had 9,000 cases and the UK, 6,700 cases. The strict pre-emptive measures such as quarantine, curfew, lockdown, and surveillance had stood India in good stead. The social structure in India is different as compared to western countries and therefore, we did not have as many senior citizens dying as happened in the West, she noted. Thus, there are valid reasons for us to be optimistic even as we need to be cautious as Pune moves forward, some two months after Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 positive case was reported on March 9 in this city. In Pune, which has seen 103 deaths and 1,700 positive cases as of May 2, the concentration of cases is in a few slum pockets in five wards. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad has already indicated that lockdown restrictions would continue in these micro-clusters and the situation would be gradually relaxed in the rest of the city to allow resumption of economic activity. The details of this are yet to be announced. The safe return of poor migrants and others stranded due to the lockdown, along with the phased lifting of the restrictions will be the most immediate challenges before the administration. Last week, a group of city doctors helped create public awareness as they sought to dispel the fears in the public about the final rites of patients who had died of Covid-19. This group of doctors from the Prayas Health Group and the Poona Citizen Doctor Forum pointed out that according to the guidelines by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Covid-19 is a respiratory disease and the spread stops when the patient dies. The only safety measure that needs to be observed is to stay away from the viruses present on the body surface and secretions from nose and mouth. They then explained the clear guidelines for healthcare workers, mortuary staff and others directly handling bodies, and family members, priests and mourners. There was no reason to fear infection if the basic guidelines were followed, the doctors advised.This advisory should have come in, say, after the 50th death itself because by then, there was a lot of panic in Pune with regards to the last rites of such patients. The coming weeks are now going to be critical as the city prepares to move forward, hopefully, with a lot of caution, and certainly, with optimism. abhay.vaidya@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-moving-forward-with-cautious-optimism-during-the-covid-19-pandemic/story-stuxvCrLvZxtZi4uvlpz6I.html
04-05-2020||City||22 booked for murder of 47-year-old Congress activist in Punjab’s Kapurthala district||Kapurthala: A 47-year-old local Congress leader, Balkar Singh, alias Mantri, was murdered by 22 villagers over an old enmity at Kala Sanghian here on Sunday evening.Balkar’s brother Terath Singh said that the incident occurred at 6.30pm when a group of villagers, including Bhupinder Singh, opened fire on him before attacking him with sharp-edged weapons.His family rushed him to the local civil hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. Station house officer (SHO) Gurdyal Singh said that a case was registered against the 22 people on the complaint of his family and eyewitnesses. The case was registered under Sections 302, 120B, 148,149 of the IPC and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-booked-for-murder-of-47-year-old-congress-activist-in-punjab-s-kapurthala-district/story-BHGYUsNo266CyohEwVHgJL.html
04-05-2020||Patna||Bihar govt to pay rail fare of migrants, students returning back to state: CM||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that stranded people of Bihar, including migrants and students, coming back to the state via special trains will not have to pay for rail tickets and their fare will be paid by the state government.“I want to thank the Centre for considering the suggestion to run special trains to send the people of Bihar, students and workers who are stranded in other states back. For all people of Bihar who are stranded in different parts of the country like students, migrant labours and tourists, the railways will bring them to Bihar and their fare will be paid by the state government,” he said. “Once they reach Bihar they will be kept in quarantine and after 14 days will be allowed to go back to their final destination. Everything will be paid by the Bihar government,” he said.“A quarantine centre has been set up here for them. All of them will be staying at the quarantine centre for 21 days. After which they will be given a minimum amount of Rs 1000 each. Under this scheme, Rs 1000 has been already given to 19 lakh people in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-to-pay-rail-fare-of-migrants-students-returning-back-to-state-cm/story-jSPCq01wPsReRHjsnsH4OO.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Time for smiles, prayers, friends’ reunions and exercise at the Sukhna Lake||Former Punjab education board employee OP Bansal, aged 73, joined his hands and closed his eyes in prayer once he reached Sukhna Lake on Monday morning.As the UT administration lifted the curfew imposed in the city from March 24 to check the transmission of Covid-19, and allowed people to take their morning constitutional, Bansal said being by the lakeside in the early hours “was a simple joy” that he had missed terribly.Another walker, O Midha, director, department of laws, Chandigarh University, turned 52 on Monday. Being able to walk at the Sukhna was the “best birthday present ever,” he said.Drenched in sweat, 25-year-old Sumedh Kumar, a technician, said nothing could replace the feeling of jogging at the beautiful spot. Ecstatic at being allowed out after being cooped up indoors for 41 days most regulars reached the lake early in the morning to resume their routine. By 8 am more than 40 people had gathered there to walk, exercise and run.Anuj Khattar, aged 53, a BPO owner, said he had been walking every morning around the lake for over 35 years. “Nothing can compare with the satisfaction I got today as we were missing our lake. Although there are fewer people today as the restrictions have been just been removed, hopefully more people should join us soon.”“Finally we can come out for walks, who had imagined that such simple things would be taken away from us. Now we are more appreciative of the good things in life,” said Vinod Bansal, aged 40, an engineer.A third year student at the University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University, who did not wish to be named, said, “I have come here for fresh air after spending days at home. I haven’t told my parents as they would get upset, but I really needed this break.”Midha and Alok Sharma, a doctor, both walking partners here since 1997, have seen each other for the first time after the lockdown.“I thank the almighty that I could come here on my birthday to meet my friends,” smiled Midha.And even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the city, Sharma added, “We are aware of the dangers that coronavirus poses and are taking all precautions, including social distancing and wearing masks, but the joy of walking at the lake is unparalleled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/time-for-smiles-prayers-friends-reunions-and-exercise-at-the-sukhna-lake/story-Nk06X09FUKQTVvH1svxHdI.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||21 new corona cases take Haryana’s Covid-19 count to 463||Chandigarh: With 21 new positive cases, including 11 from Jhajjar district, the count of Covid-19 patients climbed to 463 in Haryana by Monday afternoon.The health department said that of the 11 patients from Jhajjar, most were either vegetable sellers who frequented Delhi’s Azad Mandi or their contacts.Five new cases were reported from Sonepat, where the infection has spread among health workers.Three positive cases were reported from Panipat and one each from Gurugram and Nuh. The three infected people in Panipat include a 65-year-old woman, a 32-year-old man and a 53-year-old man.SIX PATIENTS DISCHARGED IN GURUGRAMMeanwhile, with the recovery of six more patients, all from Gurugram, the number of those cured of Covid-19 in the state rose to 251.This means there are 207 active patients in the state.So far, 33,179 of the total 36,765 samples tested are negative, while the reports of 3,123 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-new-corona-cases-take-haryana-s-covid-19-count-to-463/story-bqVknh1epnV2VPOBgi8yfL.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Union minister against easing Delhi curbs after CM’s ‘time to reopen’ remark||A day after Arvind Kejriwal’s “time to reopen Delhi” remark, Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said minimum relaxations should be given by the Delhi government to curb the spread of the coronavirus infection. The Centre last week extended the nationwide lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus outbreak, by another two weeks, till May 17. However, it has provided some relaxations depending upon the colour-coded - red, orange, green - zones.The minister hesitated in voicing his opinion, lest it be given a political twist. “It would not be right for me to comment as it will be seen as a political statement. On a personal level, I think a lot needs to be done to halt the spread of the coronavirus. In this lockdown 3, I think that minimum relaxations should be given by the Delhi government. But this decision has to be taken by the state. Guidelines have been issued by the home ministry but the states are free to decide,” the minister told reporters. Watch l ‘Delhi should have minimum relaxations’: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan On Sunday evening, Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government will suggest to the Centre that only containment areas in the city be declared as red zones and not the entire district. At present, all 11 districts in the city have been declared as red zones.“The time has come to re-open Delhi. We will have to be ready to live with coronavirus. The lockdown was necessary to contain Covid-19, but Delhi is fully ready to relax lockdown restrictions,” the Delhi chief minister said.Delhi has been under lockdown since March 23.The chief minister said coronavirus is going nowhere and it is impossible that cases of coronavirus will be zero.“Corona(virus) has come. It is impossible that there will be no cases of coronavirus because it has not happened across the country,” he said.Highlighting the adverse impact of coronavirus on the exchequer, Kejriwal said in April 2019, the government earned Rs 3,500 crore while in April this year, it only received Rs 300 crore. He said the Centre has put the entire Delhi under red zone due to which markets, malls cannot open.“We have suggested the Centre to seal those areas where cases of coronavirus have been reported and rest of areas can be allowed for the operation of all activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/union-minister-against-easing-delhi-curbs-after-cm-s-time-to-reopen-remark/story-DXapUsOfYkRCorWDOm0r8J.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi RWAs urge govt to shut down all liquor shops in city||After long queues outside liquor shops in the national capital took social distancing norms for a ride, the Resident Welfare Associations (RWA’s) in the city have urged the government to immediately close down all liquor vends and review arrangements.Several Resident Welfare Associations in Delhi have strongly objected to opening of liquor shops in most parts of the city despite entire Delhi being declared as a Red Zone with over 4,459 coronavirus cases .“The long queues started early in the morning outside liquor shops, even before the shops opened for sale, which led to social distancing going for a toss, in some areas it became a law and order problem and some vends had to be shut,” said V.K. Arora, Convenor of Delhi RWA Forum.Some even suggested the Delhi government to first review the situation and open the vends in proper phased manner to ensure that no social distancing norms are flouted. “The first day of opening of liquor vends was tricky and has already led to long queues and chaos in the city, the government should immediately shut the liquor vends and come up with a policy to regulate the sale by opening in phased manner,” said Rajiv Kakria, member of the RWA of Greater Kailash 1. “The government can adopt odd-even formula to control crowds, can think about home delivery of liquor on lines of the West Bengal government, can introduce rationing per person to prevent hoarding or black marketing,” Kakria suggested. One such unique suggestion came from the General Secretary of Green Park Extension RWA, who suggested to rope in RWAs to distribute liquor. “Even RWA’s can be roped in for distribution of liquor,” Puri said.Many others pointed out at the high risk that these long queues, as they claimed not just liquor shops but unchecked plying of autos and rikshaws, is also a concern. “Delhi is already witnessing high rise of coronavirus cases in the last couple of days, with limited government medical facilities it is looking for further troubles,” said V.N. Bali of East Delhi RWA federation. With the Delhi government opening around 150 select state-run liquor shops in the city, long queues and violation of social distancing norms were witnessed at many places in the national capital on Monday, forcing many such stores to close down.Buyers had begun to gather outside many liquor shops, allowed to operate, as early as 8.30 a.m. leading to long queues. According to a Delhi government official, about 150 liquor shops have been allowed to open in accordance with the latest lockdown relaxations given by the Ministry of Home Affairs.There are around 850 liquor shops in the city, including those run by the state government agencies and private individuals. In the order that allowed these shops to be reopened, the Delhi government instructed all shop incharges and other staff to report at their respective shops at 7 a.m. sharp from Monday onwards. The sale of liquor has been capped at nine litres and one beer case for one customer.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-rwas-urge-govt-to-shut-down-all-liquor-shops-in-city/story-rm7gY0FH9iEhSi7feMTb5I.html
04-05-2020||City||52 pilgrims back from Nanded test positive in Sangrur, take district corona count up to 63||SANGRUR: With a single-day spike of 52 cases in Sangrur, the total count of coronavirus patients increased to 63 in the district on Monday.All 52 patients had returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, last week.The officials said that of the total patients, 48 belong to Sangrur district, three patients are from Nabha in Patiala district and one from Haryana.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said that 154 samples were sent to laboratories and 52 tested positive for coronavirus. “All these pilgrims were already isolated in different centres of the district. The treatment of new patients, including those from Nabha and Haryana, will be started in the district initially,” Thori said.The patients are aged between six and 66 years.Most of the patients belong to Sangrur city, Bhawanigarh and Sunam towns besides Longowal, Dirba, Hasanpur, Kishangarh, Kanjla, Kheri Khurd, Sandour, Mulowal, Gaga and Kular Khurd.Earlier, Sangrur district had 11 cases of Covid-19 and three patients were discharged after treatment. One patient from the district is undergoing treatment in Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-pilgrims-back-from-nanded-test-positive-in-sangrur-take-district-corona-count-up-to-63/story-WFFodunrS1MXlwAE3O3nDO.html
04-05-2020||Noida||Sec 144 extended in Noida till May 17, relaxations subject to restrictions||The district administration has extended Section 144 of the CrPC till May 17 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, with relaxations in the lockdown subject to certain restrictions.The police shared some information on the relaxations through tweets.A notification was issued by Gautam Buddh Nagar Deputy Commissioner of Police Ashutosh Dwivedi, stating that “the Home Ministry has issued detailed guidelines to prevent spread of coronavirus. Under this, now traffic will be banned from 7 pm to 7 am every day. During this time, no person will come out of the house. If anyone comes out of the house during this period, action will be taken against him. Apart from this, people over the age of 65 and children under 10 have been ordered to stay at home.”He said that Gautam Buddh Nagar has been included in the ‘Red Zone’ by the Home Ministry. Hence, all political, cultural, religious, sports events, rallies, processions and all such programmes have been banned.Not more than 50 persons will be allowed to attend any social programme and more than 20 persons at funerals. Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. tweeted: “All shops are allowed to open inside gated residential societies and housing complexes.” All shops selling essential goods are also allowed to open in markets and market complexes. Private offices can operate with up to 33 per cent staff. The rest of the work can be done from home as per the guidelines. The DM said that according to the state and Ministry guidelines for non-contaminated zones, certain activities will be allowed to be conducted. Construction work would be allowed in non-containment zones with permission of the authorities. A web portal would be set up to accord online permission to industries in non-containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sec-144-extended-in-noida-till-may-17-relaxations-subject-to-restrictions/story-g8IPMPx0FrPZzHMF28lvkM.html
04-05-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 lockdown: Over 500 migrants return to Rajasthan from West Bengal||Over 500 migrant workers stranded in West Bengal due to nationwide lockdown reached Bharatpur in Rajasthan in 17 buses on Monday morning, said an official . Sub-divisional magistrate of Bharatpur city Sanjay Goyal said that the private buses that ferried Bengal students studying in Kota’s coaching institutes to the eastern state brought back 510 Rajasthan migrants from Kolkata on their return journey.“All migrants are being sent to their districts by buses after screening by medical department at Uncha Nagla,” he said.Goyal added that the migrants have been put up in government school of Behnera village near Agra-Jaipur national highway No. 21 for medical screening and breakfast. The district administration has arranged food and other facilities for them. In all, 40 buses will bring 973 workers back to the state from West Bengal including the 17 that arrived on Monday morning. The remaining buses are on the way. Meanwhile, 16 buses carrying Rajasthan’s migrant workers from Guwahati in Assam reached Bharatpur late on Sunday night. They were later sent onwards to their home districts.Mahesh Kumar Pandey, a worker who belongs to Bikaner, said, “We have been living in Kolkata for a long time and worked as daily wage labourer.“My five-month-old child has liver problem. The Kolkata hospital where he was admitted discharged him after referring him to a higher centre. I will now take him to Bikaner hospital,” he said. Vrijendra Meena from Jhunjhunu alleged the West Bengal government did not provide them food and medical facilities. “The owner of house was putting pressure on me to pay rent but we had no money because we had no work due to the lockdown,” he said.Kamlesh Chaudhary and Bhavesh Chaudhary from Pali also said they faced difficulty in paying rent. “We had no food and no money to pay rent. We thank Rajasthan government for bringing us home,” he said. “Our families here were worried. We will meet them after a long time,” said Bhuri Lal from Jodhpur, who came with his wife and kids.Till now, 100,000 migrants have returned to Rajasthan from other states while the state has sent 56,000 persons back to their states.The Centre has allowed the movement of migrant workers, tourists, students stranded in other states due to lockdown back to their home states. This is taking place through special trains being run by the Indian Railways and through buses.The third phase of nationwide lockdown kicked in from Monday with some relaxations in the restrictions. The states and Union Territories have drafted their own rules, mostly in line with federal guidelines that have given area-specific relaxations in a graded approach to bring back normalcy amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-lockdown-over-500-migrants-return-to-rajasthan-from-west-bengal/story-PFGBE73tddFXhn21YQWqHO.html
04-05-2020||Bangalore||Liquor stores see long queues as they re-open after 40 days in Karnataka||People stood in long queues even before the official opening time of 9 am in front of liquor stores across Karnataka as they reopened after more than a month amid the Covid-19 lockdown. In some places in the state, people had even ‘reserved’ their spot since Sunday night by leaving slippers, bags and other personal items to represent them. Some celebrated the re-opening of liquor stores by conducting puja – with burning camphor and lighting incense sticks – while in Belgaum reports have come in of crackers being burst.Karnataka, which had shut pubs, malls, restaurants, liquor stores and anyplace else where a drink could be had after the countrywide shutdown was announced, had decided to re-open shops from Monday after heavy lobbying by excise minister H Nagesh with chief minister BS Yediyurappa and the cabinet. Nagesh has said that the state has lost Rs 3000 crore till now due to the ban on liquor sales. Karnataka has an annual target of Rs 22,700 crore for liquor sales. While pubs, restaurants and liquor stores inside malls and multiplexes are still closed, about 4500 standalone liquor stores were re-opened. These are primarily state-owned Mysore Sales International Ltd (MSIL) as well as MRP stores.The move to open up large parts of the state back to business meant that traffic jams, which were not reported for the last month, were witnessed again across the state. Even in Bengaluru, which is a red zone district, there were traffic jams across the city. The move to open up the state also came in for criticism by Janata Dal (Secular) president HK Kumaraswamy.HD Kumaraswamy said the move was premature and that the state government seems to have taken the decision to shore up its revenues rather than safeguard the health of citizens. He also criticised the move to send back migrants, saying it would result in labour shortage and unavailability.Meanwhile, Karnataka which had allowed migrants to travel free of cost on its state-run Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses till Wednesday said it would extend this facility till Friday. On Sunday alone 951 KSRTC buses ferried more than 30,000 people to various destinations. All these migrants are also provided free food and water for the journey, a note from the state government said. Four trains—two to Bihar and one each to Ranchi in Jharkhand and Bhubaneshwar in Odisha—carrying 4800 people also left the state.In the last 12 hours, Karnataka also registered 28 new positive cases of Covid-19 taking the cumulative tally to 642, which includes 26 deaths and 304 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/liquor-stores-see-long-queues-as-they-re-open-after-40-days-in-karnataka/story-l7hVASEuUKdZXKeslfUsgM.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar to get region’s first Covid-19 testing lab soon||Jalandhar: The department of medical education, Punjab, is all set to start the first Covid-19 testing laboratory at the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar by the end of this week. Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur and animal husbandry department director Dr Inderjit Singh visited Jalandhar on Sunday to inspect the setting up of the laboratory. Confirming the development, laboratory deputy director Dr Harwinder Singh Kahlon said that the Punjab government had been exploring the possibility of setting up the Covid-19 testing facility in Jalandhar. “Four of our doctors are going to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot for the training in Covid-19 testing from Monday,” he said. During a recent video conference attended by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, state medical education minister OP Soni, state medical education principal secretary DK Tiwari and BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur, the state’s testing targets till June 30 were discussed.A senior medical education department official said that during the video-conference, the chief minister was keen on a testing lab in Jalandhar from where numerous cases of coronavirus have been reported. The officials assured him that they had already taken the department of animal husbandry on board for setting up a lab on their premises in Jalandhar.The official said that there is a strong possibility that the opportunity to procure equipment drafted by the department of medical education will also be given to the lab. Work is expected to start by the end of this week after the ICMR’s approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-to-get-punjab-s-first-covid-19-testing-lab-soon/story-A610XUdSKk6ahHOrgGL2FM.html
04-05-2020||City||Security force personnel coming from other states should be quarantined for 14 days: Chhattisgarh health dept||Chhattisgarh’s health department has written to the Indian Army and paramilitary forces saying their personnel or officers returning to the state after completing their training or other duties in different parts of the country should be quarantined for 14 days.The state’s health secretary Niharika Barik Singh in her letter to all director generals of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and additional director generals of the army and Service Selection Board (SSB) said the guidelines of state’s health department should be followed.“On arrival of security personnel from other states, information should be shared to the collector and Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) of the concerned district and a test should be conducted. The paramilitary forces or department concerned should make arrangement of separate rooms for 14 days quarantine and daily health check-up should be done,” Singh said on Sunday.“In case of any symptoms related to Covid-19 like high fever, cough, cold, immediate information should be given to the Health and Family Welfare Department. In case the departmental doctor is not available, the examination can be done through the health department physician,” she said.“Arrangements should be made to wash clothes, curtains and other clothes of the people residing in the quarantine and these clothes should be kept separately from other clothes,” she added.The order further states that masks should be available to the sanitation workers and food delivery workers.About 30,000 personnel of paramilitary forces are deployed in Maoist-affected districts of Chhattisgarh including Bastar region for anti-rebel operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-force-personnel-coming-from-other-states-should-be-quarantined-for-14-days-chhattisgarh-health-dept/story-8kBTpOZAc2N9EWto8zldmM.html
04-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown 3.0: What’s allowed and what’s not in UP from today||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued detailed guidelines to be followed during the third phase of the Covid-19 lockdown starting Monday keeping in mind the instructions from the Centre.The notification of new guidelines governing individuals and businesses in the state for the next two weeks was released by the state’s chief secretary. The notification largely follows the guidelines released by the Union home ministry on May 1.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageNineteen districts in Uttar Pradesh, including Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar, have been classified as red zones, 36 districts as orange zones and 20 are green zones.While red zones are classified on the basis of the number of positive cases, recovery rate, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts, green zones include districts that have not seen any positive case in the last 21 days, all the other districts that do not fall into these two categories, are in the orange zone.What are the activities not allowed anywhere?* All kinds of religious and congregational programs or gathering in any kind of religious place, place of worship, religious procession etc. are banned in all zones.* All schools, colleges, educational, training, coaching institutes will be shut. However, online and distance education is permitted.* All types of hospitality services ie hotels, guest houses etc can’t open. Only those which are being used by health workers, police, government officials or for tourists stranded due to lockdown or quarantine are allowed to open.* All cinema theatres, shopping malls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools, amusement parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls and other such places can’t open.* There is a ban on district and inter-state bus transport.* The order also makes it mandatory to wear face masks at all public places and prohibits the gathering of more than five people at any common area. * Permission will have to be taken for organising marriages which cannot be attended by more than 20 people. The administration also places a limit of 20 people for holding of last rites.What are the activities allowed under new guidelines?* The state government has allowed industrial and commercial activities to start from Monday with some restrictions, except for containment areas (hotspot) in the red zone. * Private offices will be opened with 33% capacity and all stand-alone shops, including those inside colonies, will open in urban areas. There will be no distinction between essential and non-essential services.* Operation of standalone liquor vends across the state including the red zones, where maximum restrictions will be imposed during the third phase of national lockdown beginning May 4 till May 17, has been allowed between 10am and 7pm.* Intra-regional transport of goods, including empty trucks, will be fully permitted.Activities which have been granted necessary permission till May 3 under the directions of the lockdown guidelines.There will be no need to seek fresh permission for these activities.What’s allowed and what’s not in red zones (Outside containment areas)?* Cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, cabs, district and inter-state buses, spas and hair salons will not be allowed. * In four-wheeled vehicles allowed to ply, three people, including the driver, can travel but pillions will not be allowed on two-wheelers.* The movement of people for non-essential activities will be restricted from 7pm to 7am.* In all zones, people over 65 years of age will have to live in homes. Pregnant women, those with more than one disease and children below the age of 10 years will remain in their homes.* OPDs and clinics will not open in the containment zone. Apart from this, they will be opened with the permission of the health department in red, orange and green zones.* Building, cafeteria, canteen, verandah, hall entrance cabin, surface, all appliances and elevators, washrooms, toilet, water point and all walls and surfaces in industrial complexes will be sanitised with disinfectants.What’s allowed in orange zones? These activities or services can resume but with some restrictions in orange zones:* Taxi and cab services will be allowed but only with two passengers and the driver only within the district limits.* Intermediate operations of private vehicles which have been permitted.* A maximum of two passengers, other than the driver, will be allowed.What’s allowed in green zones?* Buses can operate with only 50% seats occupied.* Bus depots can be run with 50% capacity while maintaining social distancing norms.* Buses and taxis can only be allowed to operate within the boundaries of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-3-0-what-s-allowed-and-what-s-not-in-up-from-today/story-pTe2yZ0x6BMcL0n6RIFkII.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Unlock Delhi, we’re ready: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked the Centre on Sunday to lift the lockdown in the Capital, underlining that both the government and citizens will have to learn to live with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and that the lockdown – while necessarily – was now causing a grave economic crisis. Kejriwal acknowledged that this may lead to an increase in cases, but said that Delhi’s infrastructure was prepared to deal with it.Outlining the relaxations in the city from Monday, as per central guidelines, the Delhi CM said the state government told the Centre that barring the 97 containment zones in the city, which should remain sealed, the rest of the city should be declared a “green zone”. This was necessary to ease the suffering of the people, as well as ensure the economy got back on its feet, which was necessary for the government itself to function, Kejriwal said.All of Delhi is currently a “red zone” – where restrictions on activities are the most severe. The decision to relax the classification of an administrative jurisdiction rests with the Centre.“Imposing the lockdown was very important. If the Centre had not done so on March 24, there would have been a frightening situation in the country because at that point, we were not ready to deal with the coronavirus disease. We did not have personal protective equipment kits, we did not have testing kits, hospitals were not ready, people were not aware of the idea of social distancing,” Kejriwal said. He emphasised that Delhi had followed all the central guidelines – “which were good, very good” – but it was now time to lift the lockdown.The CM said that the lockdown had created two major difficulties. The first was that people were facing enormous hardship. “People are losing livelihoods. Traders can’t open their shops. There is no industrial activity. More jobs are being lost. Many people will leave Delhi soon.”This has shaken the entire economic architecture, which, in turn, caused the second crisis. “Since the economy is closed, the government is not getting any revenues. In April, every year, the government used to receive ~3,500 crore in revenues. Last month, we got ~300 crore. How will we pay salaries? How will we run the government?”Kejriwal said it was important to understand that Covid-19 is now here to stay. “We will not see a situation now where there are no cases. This is now impossible.” The idea of the lockdown was to prepare, and Delhi, he said, had done so optimally. “We have made adequate arrangements. We have enough testing kits. We have hospitals.”Delhi currently has close to 3,000 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in several state and central government hospitals, and an additional 420 paid beds in private hospitals, according to thehealth department.Kejriwal said last month that the government has a plan to gradually scale the requirement of beds -- in hospitals, hotels and guest houses -- to 30,000 depending on the rise in cases.There are 306 ventilators in public hospitals in the city and about 800 more in private, Delhi government officials said.The Capital also has adequate stock of personal protective equipment (PPEs), with around 300,000 lakh PPE kits being delivered piecemeal and at least 15,000 kits received from the Centre, government officials said.In this backdrop – where Covid-19 could not be eradicated and the city infrastructure was adequate – Delhi, the CM said, had asked the Centre to lift the lockdown. “We have advised the Centre that while 97 containment zones in the city should be entirely sealed, the rest of the city should be declared a green zone. All markets should be open. One way is to make it odd-even, with alternate shops opening every day. But it is time to open Delhi.”While a senior government functionary said the Union home ministry will continue to work together with states, another official said the guidelines are for all states/UTs to follow. The developments come days after the Centre said in its order, released on Friday, that states can enforce stricter rules but not dilute them.Delhi reported 427 new cases on Sunday, taking its total tally to 4,549 including 64 deaths.Lifting the lockdown, Kejriwal acknowledged, will lead to a possible increase in cases. “We are hopeful that Delhi’s economy will open soon. When this happens, there will be an increase in cases. But we are prepared to deal with it.”“If you talk about the number of hospitals and beds for Covid-19 patients, yes, there are more now than there were before. But the ground reality is that there are gaps – non-Covid patients are not getting admissions, many doctors getting infected. The quality of care provided at government hospitals also has to improve. The government needs to address these issues before opening up lockdown,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.Kejriwal also outlined the government’s broad public health strategy at the moment. “Our first priority is to minimise deaths due to the disease; we have been successful in this. The second is to minimise the spread of the disease. That is why we are testing in large numbers now, to be able to the track the infected and treat them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unlock-delhi-we-re-ready-arvind-kejriwal/story-5yQwayQAFZvvCf3xPJSfwK.html
04-05-2020||Kolkata||Two trains to bring back migrants to West Bengal: CM||The West Bengal government on Sunday approved two special trains to bring back migrants from Rajasthan and Kerala following criticism from opposition leaders of not treating the issue of migrant workers with urgency.One train will ferry 1,200 pilgrims from Rajasthan and another will bring back migrants from Kerala, officials familiar with the matter said.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Sunday: “As a part of our promise to bring back citizens of Bengal stranded in other states, 2 special trains from Ajmer & Kerala would leave tomorrow for West Bengal carrying more than 2500 migrant labourers, pilgrims, students & patients. Everyone coming in to be screened as per protocols,” she wrote on Twitter.While there were no press briefings on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, opposition leaders have started contacting other states to arrange for the return of the workers.“...We are afraid the Bengal government’s delay in arranging for the return of the migrant workers would worsen their plight,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of Congress in Lok Sabha and Bengal MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/two-trains-to-bring-back-migrants-to-west-bengal-cm/story-VssllnRnQrmVz0ubjlATgK.html
04-05-2020||City||Covid patients at Ludhiana civil hospital decry poor facilities||Patients undergoing treatment for coronavirus at the Ludhiana civil hospital claimed that they are not getting good food, warm water or other basic facilities at the hospital.During Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains’ visit to the hospital, the patients conveyed their problems to him through the window of the isolation ward.Bains even went live on social media while interacting with the patients. The patients expressed that they are finding sand particles in the food, they are not being provided with warm water and there is no facility of steam inhalation.One patient also complained that the washrooms are in a poor condition.Bains assured the patients that he will provide good food and even ginger tea to the patients so that they can recover faster. He also talked to senior medical officer Geeta Kataria to ensure that the patients get a good diet and all better facilities while staying in isolation wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patients-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital-decry-poor-facilities/story-A5CuqIwxpnbuGoHL3igyfJ.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Decision to set up IFSC HQ in Guj erroneous: Sharad Pawar slams Centre||In a letter to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Sunday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has slammed the central government’s decision to set up the headquarters of the International Finance Services Centre (IFSC) in Gandhinagar instead of Mumbai and termed the establishment of the centre in Gujarat’s capital as “egregious, erroneous and unwarranted.”In the scathing letter, a picture of which he had tweeted on Sunday, the veteran politician wrote, “It [the decision] will also be perceived as a move to shift financial institutions and business houses away from Maharashtra and will create unnecessary political disturbances. It will not only cause financial damage to the country but also bring international discredit to it by undermining the importance of Mumbai.”The former Union minister also said that the central government receives government securities (G-sec) worth ₹5.95 lakh crore from Maharashtra against Gujarat’s contribution of ₹1.40 lakh crore. He also said that Mumbai has been recognised among the world’s top 10 centres of commerce in terms of global financial flow, generating 6.16% of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) and accounting for 25% of industrial output and 70% of capital transactions to India economy. “If you see the general psyche of all business communities, bankers and other financial institutions, Mumbai is their natural choice for setting up such a unified authority. The Central government’s decision will be taken as an act of undermining the strategic importance of Mumbai that boasts as the nation’s financial capital,” Pawar wrote. “Even the institutions across the world will be taken a back with this shocking decision,” he added.The former Maharashtra chief minister has also said that the PM must consider establishing IFSC in India’s financial capital. “I expect Hon @PMOIndia to take a rational, judicious decision keeping aside the state politics and consider it as an issue of utmost national importance,” Pawar had tweeted.The NCP chief’s reaction has come a day after former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that it was the then Congress-NCP government which is to be blamed for the move, as it did not consider the option when it first came up in 2007. Fadnavis also claimed that the previous state government, during his tenure, had submitted a proposal to the Centre to allow the functioning of two IFSCs in the country – in Mumbai and Gujarat – and added that it was still under consideration.The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) units in Mumbai too have indulged in a war of words over the Centre’s decision. Reacting to the NCP chief’s scathing letter, BJP legislator Ashish Shelar said that it is still possible to establish an IFSC in Mumbai.“Those criticising [the Centre] today, what did you do when you were in power between 2007 and 2014?” Shelar tweeted pointing at the then Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra.He further said, “You are in power today, start the process. Don’t just criticise.”Congress spokesperson, Sachin Sawant, however, said that the decision to establish IFSC lies with the Central government. “Two committee reports during the tenure of UPA [United Progressive Alliance] government suggested that IFSC must be established in Mumbai. There is no report, which talks of Gandhinagar. The decision to establish IFSC was taken by the BJP government in 2015, within a year they came into power at the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/decision-to-set-up-ifsc-hq-in-guj-erroneous-sharad-pawar-slams-centre/story-srlbm4aarjwYK2VMsXg0jI.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Shops selling non-essential items to open in Panchkula on alternate days||The Panchkula administration has issued fresh directions allowing shops rendering essential services to open on all days, and the remaining on every alternate day, starting from Monday. The order issued by Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja classified activities into three categories for purpose of regulation.In the ‘A’ category, all shops rendering essential services including bakeries, grocery and departmental stores, chemists, confectioneries and books and stationary shops will be allowed to open on all days as per conditions, between 8am to 6pm.In the ‘B’ category, shops for services including plumbing, electrical works, AC repair, construction material, vehicle repair, hardware and paints, furniture and electrical appliances will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 8am to 6pm.In the ‘C’ category, shops dealing in gifts, toys, sports goods, suitcases, and garments; and dry cleaners, jewelers and opticians will remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at the same time. “Any activity not covered will fall into the ‘B’ category,” the order states. Officials said activities allowed as per recent orders will not be permitted in containment zones.DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said as per national directives for Covid-19 containment, people will have to comply with safety measures including wearing face covers, which is compulsory in all public and work places, and social distancing norms must be followed. However, some of already prohibited activities will remain suspended for two more weeks; including air travel, passenger movement by trains, public transport, inter-state movement of individuals, colleges, schools, cinema halls, shopping malls and religious places.Inter and intra-district plying of buses will also remain prohibited.Shops selling liquor, paan and tobacco products will ensure a minimum distance of six feet between customers and ensure that not more than five persons are present at the shops at a time. Consumption of liquor and other tobacco products in public places is not allowed.Also, organisations or managers of public places must not allow gathering of five or more persons, as per the order.Gatherings related to marriages must ensure social distancing and more than 50 guests will not be allowed.Also, gatherings related to funerals/last rites must ensure social distancing and not more than 20 people will be allowed.Spitting in public places is punishable with a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shops-selling-non-essential-items-to-open-in-panchkula-on-alternate-days/story-KoD828tniRD3bf2lqEFOFJ.html
04-05-2020||City||11 from Mumbai Police test positive for coronavirus||Eleven Mumbai Police personnel have been tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and Sunday. Six of the personnel who have been tested positive are from Pydhonie police station, said senior inspector S Dudhgaokar. However, he refused to divulge any further information on the cases. “On Saturday, police officers from south region underwent screening at a testing centre for police personnel at JJ Hospital, during which six police personnel from Pydhonie were tested positive. On Friday, during the police personnel from the central region were screened, during which three personnel from Nagpada police station and two constables from Mahim had been tested positive for coronavirus,” said a senior police officer. The three personnel from Nagpada police station have been admitted and their contacts are being tested. Nagpada is a red zone, with a high number of cases. This is not the first case where Pydhonie police station personnel were tested positive for coronavirus. “Earlier, an assistant police inspector who had to be deployed at Varsha, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s official residence at Malabar Hill on April 19, was stopped outside the premises after she was detected with fever. She was later found positive for coronavirus and is currently home quarantined after her treatment,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-from-mumbai-police-test-positive-for-coronavirus/story-G2Uz41UNwW7Knem36CBDwI.html
04-05-2020||City||PM2.5 in Mumbai was lower than WHO’s safe limit during lockdown||Mumbai: The city recorded this year’s cleanest air day on Sunday, with the air quality index (AQI) falling below 40.The concentration of PM2.5 (breathable particulate matter solid and liquid particles which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller) was 20 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) on Sunday, which fell below the daily safe standard prescribed by the World Health Organization (25μg/m³) for the first time this year. It was also much lower than the national standard 60 μg/m³.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Sunday’s AQI was 38 for PM2.5 pollutant falling under the ‘good’ category (AQI between 0-50) with eight of 10 locations in Mumbai recording ‘good’ air quality, while Andheri (51) and BKC (61) were the most-polluted locations with AQI levels in the ‘satisfactory’ category.“Mumbai recorded its cleanest air day in 2020 on Sunday owing to favourable weather conditions. The sea breeze set in early allowing minimal pollutant concentration to disperse leading to ‘good’ air quality,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR. “Our models are showing that AQI will remain within the ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ category for Mumbai until the lockdown is called off.” The concentration of PM10 (larger coarser particles) was 43 μg/m³ against the national safe standard of 100 μg/m³ for 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pm2-5-in-mumbai-was-lower-than-who-s-safe-limit-during-lockdown/story-UlCWdw6VIkEkhIbN66PErM.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||No odd-even rule for vehicles, shop timings curtailed in Chandigarh as curfew lifted||Modifying some of the relaxations and restrictions announced on Saturday, the Chandigarh administration on Sunday decided not to implement the odd-even formula for vehicles while reducing the market timings to eight hours from 12 hours.The lockdown will continue for another two weeks while the curfew imposed in the city on March 24 will be lifted from Monday.The development comes after traders and resident bodies questioned the move, with even social media users pitching in. In the detailed order issued on Sunday, the administration stated that all shops dealing in non-essential goods in internal sector markets (neighbourhood shops) will remain open from 10am to 6pm on odd-even basis. It means, shops with numbers ending with even digit will be open on even-numbered dates and those with odd on odd-numbered dates. In the Saturday order, the timings were fixed as 7am to 7pm, corresponding with the window given for the movement of people.Shops selling essential goods, such as groceries, milk, vegetables and medicines, will remain open on all days. However, the relaxations don’t cover hotels, restaurants, discotheques, salons, barber shops, spa centres, gyms and apni mandis, and these will remain shut.Meanwhile, shops selling liquor, paan, gutka and tobacco will have to ensure minimum six-foot distance between customers, and also ensure that not more than five of them are present at one time in the shop. Also, only sale of liquor is allowed and taverns will remain closed.MALLS, CONGESTED AND MAIN MARKETS TO REMAIN SHUTIn view of need for social distancing, all congested markets, such as Patel Market in Sector 15, Gandhi Market in Sector 18, Sadar Bazar and Palika Bazar in Sector 19, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Janata Market in Sector 27, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and Rehri Market in Sector 46, will remain closed. Significantly, some of the market associations had declared on Sunday that they would keep their establishments closed on their own if there were no instructions from the administration.Shops in Sector 17, malls and market complexes such, as Elante Mall, DLF Mall, and shops located on sector dividing roads, such as Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg, will also remain closed. Criticising the administrations decision on the Sector 17 market, Chandigarh Business Council president Neeraj Bajaj said: “Sector 17 has spacious shops with ample parking and verandahs. Social distancing could have been easily observed here. In fact, Sector 17 should have been the first market to open to test whether social distancing will work in the city post curfew.”Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman Charanjiv Singh said: “Opening shops for more than five hours doesn’t make sense. We shopkeepers feel exposed dealing with public for such a long time.”MOVEMENT PROHIBITED BETWEEN 7PM AND 7AMAll non-essential activities and people movement will remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7am and residents will have to stay indoors as per the prohibitory orders issued by the district magistrate.However, reversing the odd-even rule, all vehicles can ply between 7am and 7pm. Four-wheelers can have maximum two passengers besides the driver while a two-wheeler cannot have a pillion rider.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said: “We realised that odd-even rule for vehicles will be difficult for people when there is no public transport. Also, carpooling will promote infection, though it will prevent pollution.” Also, persons above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years have to stay at home at all times, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes, as per the national directives.MANDATORY MASKS, RESTRICTED GATHERINGSWearing of face cover (mask) is also compulsory in public places as well as work places, as per the order issued on Sunday. Work places have to keep adequate stock of such face covers. Meanwhile, no organisation or manager of public place can allow gathering of five or more people. Marriages related gatherings have to ensure social distancing, and the maximum number of guests allowed can not be more than 50. Funeral rites related gatherings too have to ensure social distancing and the maximum numbers allowed is 20.RESIDENT BODIES REMAIN DIVIDEDThe administration had on Saturday decided to lift the curfew while restricting the containment zones to six affected pockets, including parts of hotspots Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30, where no relaxations are to be granted.Residents remained divided over both the Saturday and Sunday orders. Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “The administration has taken a bold decision and we stand behind it. Life cannot stop just because of Covid-19 and sooner or later we will have to go back to our previous routines.”However, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairman Hitesh Puri felt the relaxation is still too long. “The move should have been done in a phased manner. Eight-hour relaxation is too long; the market hours should be reduced to six as fresh cases are still being reported in Chandigarh.”OTHER REVISED, NEW DECISIONSAll government offices will be opened on May 4, but no public dealing will take place till May 11. Even Sampark Centres will open from May 11.Interstate travel will be allowed for permitted activities only. Passes issued by the deputy commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula will be honoured, though thermal scanning will be done at entry points.Traders residing in Mohali and Panchkula but having shops in Chandigarh will require passes from the respective deputy commissioners, clarified UT principal secretary, home, Arun Gupta.KHER’S ADVICE GOES UNHEEDEDAdvocating for continuation of strict restrictions in the city, MP Kirron Kher had voiced strong reservations over the administration’s decision to allow opening up of markets, businesses and workplaces. “I shared my concerns with the UT officials on Saturday over allowing major relaxations at time when the cases are increasing in the city. Only essential services and shops should be allowed to be open now.” However, the administration made no major change in its decision despite this advice. Commenting on it, Parida said: “As an MP, she has every right to give her views. All should respect her opinion. The administrator has taken the decision after taking views of all stakeholders and experts, keeping in view the home ministry’s directions.”ENJOY THE CONFUSION, SAYS PARIDAAfter the Saturday order, UT adviser Manoj Parida took to Twitter, responding 700 queries, to bring clarity on various decisions, especially the odd-even rule, but ended up suggesting: “Enjoy the confusion”. Pointing out the formula’s impracticality, a Twitter user asked Parida that if his shop number is odd and his vehicle number is even, how would he go to his shop? Parida suggested he opens his shop every second day, assuming he sold essential goods. When another user pointed out that shops in Chandigarh villages do not have numbers, Parida suggested he should “enjoy the confusion”. Finally, Parida assured everyone that the decisions will be reconsidered before implementation, as was done on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-odd-even-rule-for-vehicles-shop-timings-curtailed-in-chandigarh-as-curfew-lifted/story-2i2jSJUinHR0yab4FRXjiP.html
04-05-2020||City||Doctors create awareness on Covid-19 among Mumbra patients||As fear of Covid-19 outbreak grips densely-populated Mumbra, general practitioners in the locality are facing dual challenges – keeping themselves safe from the virus and convincing patients to adhere to the norms of social distancing. “We have to take a lot of precautions because safety of all other patients and doctors can be at risk if a patient turns out to be Covid-19 positive. For patients with symptoms similar to Covid-19, hold phone conversations to assess the severity of the situation. Depending on the pattern and severity of symptoms, we decide if they visit the clinic ,” said Dr. Alfarooq Raut, a general practitioner in Mumbra. A few days ago, two of Raut’s patients tested positive for the virus. “Thankfully I had spoken to them over the phone,” he added. Until Satuday, there were 372 total coronavirus cases in all of Thane Municipal Corporation’s (TMC) jurisdiction, 55 were from Mumbra. On April 2, Mumbra had only had two cases. Non-adherence to social distancing norms by many patients visiting their clinics is a bigger cause of worry for doctors than direct risks associated in checking patients.“I had a patient with travel history who failed to isolate. I had to call the police to ensure he complied. As doctors who are working in such a situation, we have to also take care of all these allied responsibilities,” said Dr. Moinuddin Rawoot, president of the Medical Practitioners’ Association Mumbra-Kausa, which has nearly 350 doctors under its ambit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-create-awareness-on-covid-19-among-mumbra-patients/story-gZnTajZ1Tqn9cVar5kquVP.html
04-05-2020||Lucknow||Cheers! After 6 weeks, liquor shops to open from today||After 42 days of closure, standalone liquor shops would begin sale of the heady brew from Monday under police watch between 10 am and 7 pm across Uttar Pradesh. The sale timings have been reduced by three hours and vends in hotspots or containment zones would remain closed, officials confirmed. The decision to open the shops was taken by the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday, a day before lockdown 3.0 begins with some relaxations across specified zones. Beer joints and regular bars across the state would remain closed as the excise department officials said they were trying to work out a method to ensure minimum ‘contact’ sales. Principal secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, while confirming the decision to open standalone liquor shops, said the excise department would release a detailed guideline on the sale of liquor that would be done in police presence to avoid overcrowding.“Excise department people would also be present at all liquor shops during the sale,” he said, adding that all liquor shops would not have more than five people at any point in time.The state government is staring at a loss in excess of Rs 32,000 million (Rs 3,200 crore) due to the extended closure of liquor vends.Meanwhile, all the vends whose country-made wholesale liquor licence had expired on March 31 but were unable to clear their stock due to lockdown that was enforced since March 22, would be given 7 days time to clear their stock.Also, due to the lockdown, the state government has decided to relax the binding on liquor sellers to lift complete mimimum guarantee quota (MGQ) of country-made liquor for March 2020. The department has also relaxed the MGQ clause for April as the liquor sellers had approached the excise department saying that due to lockdown there was no way they could fulfil the excise policy clause of picking a certain pre-fixed quota of countrymade liquor from the government.“We have also relaxed the binding on such liquor shops selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor and beer to generate 20 per cent or higher sale revenue in 2019-20 as compared to the revenue earned in corresponding period in 2018-19,” Bhoosreddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cheers-after-6-weeks-liquor-shops-to-open-from-today/story-8hnITOGwsTSOFwfPS4R6HO.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Number of Covid +ve healthcare workers in north Delhi hospitals doubles to 13||The number of healthcare workers falling victim to Covid-19 at North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s three biggest hospitals — Hindu Rao in Malka Ganj, Kasturba in Daryaganj and the Rajan Babu TB Hospital in Kingsway Camp — more than doubled to 13 on Sunday from six a day before.The fresh cases included three women doctors from the gynaecology department of Kasturba Hospital. A 25-year-old postgraduate student of the department of the hospital had tested positive for the virus last Wednesday. Later, another doctor had tested Covid positive on Saturday, taking the number of doctors infected by the virus to five.There were allegations that the 25-year-old student had complained of high fever and body ache, but the authorities only asked her to go on leave and did not get her tested. Meanwhile, other doctors were frequently visiting her room.In Hindu Rao Hospital, three more doctors tested positive for Covid on Sunday afterone of their colleague from the ophthalmology department was found Covid positive a day earlier. The chain of transmission here had begun with a nurse testing positive for the highly infectious disease on April 25.Thereafter, 76 healthcare workers, who came in contact with the nurse, were tested and another nurse, who worked closely with the first victim, was found positive on Thursday. In total, six doctors and nurses are confirmed to have contracted the infection at this hospital.Meanwhile, a laboratory technician at Hindu Rao also said he had tested positive on Saturday, most likely getting the virus from his Covid positive wife, a nurse at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh.In the third north corporation hospital, Rajan Babu TB Hospital, a ward helper was found Covid positive last Tuesday. “Meanwhile, three other non-employees at the Hindu Rao Hospital have also tested positive for the diseases on Sunday. These are spouses of our Covid-positive staffers and one patient,” a senior north corporation officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/number-of-covid-ve-healthcare-workers-in-north-delhi-hospitals-doubles-to-13/story-MEekS1wn0NfkYusMNFvQoJ.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||With 427 new cases, Capital records biggest single-day spike||With 427 new cases, Delhi on Sunday witnessed the highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases – taking the cumulative total of positive cases diagnosed so far to 4,549, said the health bulletin shared by the government.Delhi, on Sunday, also recorded recovery of 106 Covid-19 patients and no fresh death, which brings down the total number of active cases to 3,123. The total number of deaths stays 64, the government data said.On Saturday, Delhi had recorded 384 fresh Covid-19 cases which happens to be the second highest single day spike for the Capital now.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier attributed the high number of cases in Delhi to scaled up testing being done in the in the city which, according to the government, stands somewhere around 2600 people per million population.On Sunday, health minister Satyendar Jain said, “Delhi has so far tested more than 58,000 people… Delay in arrival of test results at times contribute to bulk numbers on a single day. For a better picture, one should look at the doubling rate. Delhi currently has a doubling rate of 11.5 compared to around 4 recorded one month ago.”Doubling rate is an assessment used to represent the time it takes for the number of Covid-19 cases to double within a given geographic area. Districts in Delhi does the assessment in every seven days, senior officials in the health department said. Bengali Market to be de-sealed The Delhi government on Sunday also scaled down containment efforts in New Delhi’s Bengali Market and a lane in Kailash Hiils neighbourhood in South-East Delhi, bringing down the total number of containment zones to 94 in the city.The popular Bengali Market, which was the first and only Covid-19 containment zone in Lutyens’ Delhi, will be de-sealed from Monday. An order to scale down the containment measures in the popular market and surrounding areas was taken on Sunday after no Covid-19 case was reported for 28 days.The same protocol applies to the other sealed area too.In an order issued by District Magistrate Tanvi Garg on Sunday, the authorities were asked to scale down the measures, though lockdown provisions will continue to be in force.The upscale neighbourhood made its way to the list after a surveillance team of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) found 35 workers of a famous pastry shop living under “unhygienic conditions” violating social-distancing norms. Two workers who had fever-like symptoms (common in Covid-19 patients) will undergo tests.The surveillance was conducted after three persons were found positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the neighbourhood.YK Anand, president of Babar road RWA said, “It is a huge relief. Though we were provided all services at home, it is a good thing that our area has not reported any new cases.” District magistrate (southeast Delhi) Harleen Kaur did not respond to phone calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-427-new-cases-capital-records-biggest-single-day-spike/story-uTZMj5Si9UHOtolP87xfaI.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Rules for movement of stranded persons issued by Delhi government||The Delhi government on Sunday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the movement of stranded migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and students in adherence to the central government’s orders. The SOP directed government officials and the police to join hands to compile a database of the numbers of those stranded, so they could be sent back to their home states, and “encourage” them to download the Arogya Setu mobile application.The SOP document, which HT has seen, stated that the additional district magistrates and additional district commissioners of police “shall register such stranded persons” and prepare the database. An app has also been developed for this purpose, which will be handled by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s advisor Gopal Mohan, and the CEO of the Delhi Urban Shelter Housing Board Vikas Anand, among others.The resident commissioners of various states have been asked to help find such stranded persons. People will be sent back on both buses and trains.The SOP, issued Sunday by chief secretary Vijay Dev, authorised the district magistrates of the city to supervise the preparation of a “comprehensive database” of people stranded in Delhi because of the lockdown, which has now been extended to May 17.The SOP said those who wish to travel on their own would get transit passes from the district magistrates. “While leaving the NCT, such persons may be encouraged to use Aarogya Setu App through which their health status can be monitored and tracked,” it said.While several other states have started the process of sending back stranded migrant workers and students in batches, Delhi is still in its counting phase. Thousands of stranded migrants have now taken shelter in various shelter homes and government schools-turned-shelters arranged by the government. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has brought back about 500 engineering aspirants from the city who were stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota—a major private coaching hub for engineering entrance exams.The SOP also stressed on medically screening every individual and allowing only those found asymptomatic to return. It said that the number of buses and trains required will be decided by Delhi government officials and nodal officers appointed by other states. The secretary of the social welfare department PK Gupta has been appointed as the state nodal officer in Delhi’s case.“Buses shall be used for transport of groups of persons. The buses will be sanitized and shall follow safe social distancing norms in seating. Commissioner Transport, MD of Delhi Transport Corporation and MD of Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation shall coordinate with state nodal officers and provide buses for the movement of the stranded persons from their respective places (mostly shelter homes) to the inter-state bus terminals/locations specified at the inter-state borders [sic],” the SOP said.It further said: “Movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons is also allowed by special trains to be operated by Ministry of Railways. Railways will designate nodal officers for coordinating with states/UTs for their movement. Railways will also issue detailed guidelines for sale of ticket [sic].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rules-for-movement-of-stranded-persons-issued-by-delhi-government/story-27zWOf5DW7aoiT7isfDR2M.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Two more hospitals may join Covid fight soon; private cabs to act as ambulances||As the Covid-19 pandemic rages in the city, Delhi government on Sunday said it is ready to start operations at two — of its three — government hospitals that have been under construction since the first tenure of the AAP government .The government on Sunday appointed medical directors for its two hospitals in Dwarka and Ambedkar Nagar. The hospitals together will add over 1,800 beds to the existing 11,770 beds in Delhi government-run hospitals.“This is part of the routine ongoing work to open up more hospitals. Work will begin to open these hospitals up soon. However, the hospital in Burari (whose construction is also almost finished) will take a while to open as the government is still deciding whether it will be on a PPP model or not,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.The services of these hospitals might be included for Covid-19, if need be.“Currently, there are two designated hospitals under Delhi government with 2,500 beds to take care of Covid-19 patients. However, if there is need for more beds, then the new hospitals might also pitch in as it would be easier to keep the people with viral infection in isolation at the new facilities. There will be no intermixing with non-Covid-19 patients,” according to the official.Earlier, the Delhi government had allocated Covid-19 areas in five designated hospitals. However, fearing spread of infection, only two hospitals were completely earmarked for dealing with Covid-19 cases exclusively. CAB AMBULANCESAround 200 taxis of an app-based cab-aggregator service will be available across the city to ferry people in need of non-Covid-19 medical care, during the lockdown. Only non-critical patients will be transported in these taxis.Patients across the city right now are solely dependent on ambulance service for transportation during medical emergencies, with no public transport available due to the lockdown.“It is decided to continue the use of these vehicles as ambulance service to carry non-Covid, non-critical patients to and from hospitals in coordination with CATS Ambulance helpline 102,” the government order read.The cabs will be allocated through the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) Ambulance service at the helpline number — 102. The Delhi government has also issued four other cell-phone numbers to reach CATS call centre -- 7291000071, 7291000078, 7291000093, 7291000094.The taxis are being provided to the Delhi government free of charge by the aggregator service.The government run CATS service has around 151 ambulances for emergencies across the city, of which about 60 are deputed for transporting Covid-19 positive or suspected cases. The Delhi government had launched the ‘Home to Hospital Care Scheme’ in 2015 to provide free ambulance service for all medical emergencies. Earlier, the service was restricted to accidents and deliveries.On Saturday, at least 15 people working in the modern control room of CATS services in Laxmi Nagar had tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-more-hospitals-may-join-covid-fight-soon-private-cabs-to-act-as-ambulances/story-qomIm3ctQk58tbttivCpgL.html
04-05-2020||City||HANDWARA ENCOUNTER: Proud of my son’s sacrifice, says Major Sood’s father||A pall of gloom descended on Amravati Enclave in Pinjore block of Panchkula district after the news of death of Major Anuj Sood (30) of 21 Rashtriya Rifles reached here. Maj Sood was among the five security personnel who were killed in an encounter with militants in Jammu Kashmir’s Handwara on Sunday. His father Brigadier Chandrakant Sood (retd) shifted from Gurugram here along with wife eight months ago. He lives in a rented accommodation in Amravati Enclave where their new house is under construction. Major Anuj’s wife is working in a private company in Pune.“He has made a supreme sacrifice for saving lives of others. And that’s what he was trained for. I feel a little sad for his wife as he had to move for operations after just three-four months of his marriage in 2017,” his father said.Meanwhile, Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta also visited their house to condole express his condolences. The mortal remains of the deceased will reach Panchkula by Monday.Major Sood was born on December 17, 1989 in Bangalore where his father was posted at that time. After his school education, he got admission into the National Defence Academy (NDA), Pune, in 2012.Major Anuj’s sister Harshita is also serving as a Captain in the army. She is a national-level shooter and is currently undergoing training at the Army Marksmanship Unit at Mhow, Indore. His elder sister lives in Australia while mother Suman is working as a principal in a government school in Yamunanagar.Alma mater remembers beloved ‘Fauji’Major Sood, who studied at Punjab Public School (PPS) from 2006 to 2008, Nabha, was nicknamed as ‘Fauji’ in the school. PPS headmaster Dr Jagpreet Singh said, “The news of Major Sood came as major blow to Nabhaites.” The teachers and his schoolmates fondly remembered their beloved ‘Fauji’ as a brilliant student, excellent sportsman and a soldier to the core who would stand out in every field. His house master Russeljit Singh Khattra said, “Anuj was a fine orator and missed no extracurricular opportunity.”“Fauji and some other students, including me, used to run away after ringing door bells of our headmaster, bursar and another teacher,” said Raghav his former classmate. His father Brigadier Sood was also a PPS alumnus of 1976 batch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/handwara-encounter-proud-of-my-son-s-sacrifice-says-major-sood-s-father/story-ayt91hIW5wGTnqpUHVP4NM.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||₹15 lakh compensation for employees dying of Covid: New Delhi Municipal Council||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Saturday announced a compensation of ₹15 lakh to the kin of any of its employee who dies of Covid-19 contracted while on duty.“This would include all manners of engagement with us -- regular, contractual and outsourced wagers. All such cases will be screened by a committee set up by us, comprising of Director (Medical Services), Director (Finance) and concerned head of department with the Director (Welfare), before the amount is sanctioned to the legal heir of the deceased,” a senior officer with NDMC said. “This compensation will be available to all eligible cases for a period of three months from the date of issue of this order. There is no age limit. It will not cover those not attending duties, and if death from Covid cannot be ascertained or attributed to duty.”The Delhi Government had earlier declared ₹1 crore compensation to all “Covid warriors”, including doctor, nurse, paramedical staff, security/sanitation staff or any other government officer including police officer, who dies from the disease. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) offered ₹10 lakh in the same context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/15-lakh-compensation-for-employees-dying-of-covid-new-delhi-municipal-council/story-eIPXYfqLC8GL0pduCUlzNI.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man deposits cheque signed by Covid patient, bank panics||Staffers at the State Bank of India’s (SBI) Model Town branch panicked on Friday when a 51-year-old man deposited a cheque that was issued and signed by his friend’s brother, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and is quarantined at home, the police said. The bank informed the police and reportedly told them that many staff members had touched the cheque.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said that a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered for the violation of home-quarantine rules. The first information report (FIR) was filed on the complaint of the bank’s branch manager. HT has a copy of the FIRIn her complaint, the branch manager also mentioned that the man who wrote the cheque had also visited the bank earlier in the week. He was “quite abusive” and “created a ruckus”, the manager alleged in the complaint.The manager refused to comment on the matter when she was contacted on the phone.“A police team visited his home in Model Town and found that a home-quarantine notice was pasted outside his house and he was a Covid-positive patient,” DCP Arya said.Senior police officers said that the bank’s staffers were apprehensive that the man may have been infected at the time he visited the bank. A contact-tracing procedure has been initiated to ascertain how many people the man came in contact with while being infected with the virus, a police officer said.“I have no information on this particular case, but I’ll send the SDM of Model Town to visit the quarantined house and see how a Covid-positive man managed to leave his house,” Deepak Shinde, district magistrate (north), said.A police officer associated with the case said that on Friday, the 51-year-old man deposited the cheque, without informing the bank staffers that it was signed and issued by a person who was infected with the coronavirus disease.HT contacted the 51-year-old man to know if he was aware that the person whose cheque he had collected was infected with the virus. The man said, “I knew he was tested positive for the coronavirus disease but received the cheque from his brother who is my friend. I did it in good faith.” He refused to comment further, saying that there was nothing to tell as a case has already been registered.According to the officer, the contact-tracing procedure is necessary to know if the 51-year-old man was in physical contact with the infected person while receiving the cheque or had been meeting him or his family members earlier as well.“We’ve geo-fenced the infected man’s cellphone. We will examine his cellphone location to ascertain his movements. The location of other cellphones around his house will help us find out who all have visited the area. All such persons will be questioned,” the officer added.The Centre’s last week’s guidelines allowed mild or pre-symptomatic coronavirus cases to be home-quarantined, provided he or she lives in a place that allows strict isolation without having to intermingle with the rest of the family and a caregiver is present 24x7 and is in direct touch with a nearby Covid-19 hospital. Under the guidelines, the patient has to sign an undertaking of strict compliance with the dos and don’ts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-deposits-cheque-signed-by-covid-patient-bank-panics/story-Abm2SzkW4FPU8vSJjhZO5M.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 50 can gather for a wedding, 20 for a funeral||Maximum 50 people would be allowed at wedding functions and not more than 20 people could attend a funeral, as per a latest order which lists the relaxations prescribed by the Centre for the ‘red zone’ in the national capital during the ongoing national lockdown.“Not more than 50 people are allowed at wedding functions and not more than 20 at last rites of a deceased person,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during a video conference. Strict restrictions had been in place in the national capital as part of the measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The latest order has come in as the Centre announced the extension of the national lockdown till May 17. Earlier, the lockdown had been announced till May 3. Besides gatherings standalone shops in neighbourhoods and those selling essential commodities in shopping complexes will continue to remain open in the national capital from Monday, the Delhi government order said on Sunday. However, malls and market complexes will remain closed, the order clarified. The Delhi government in an earlier order, issued on April 15, had allowed standalone shops in neighbourhoods to reopen but ensure that social distancing is followed. Traders on Sunday said that even though there was no change in the new order regarding the opening of shops, there is still no clarity on the definition of “standalone shops” and what items are allowed to be sold during this extended lockdown.They also said that not many such shops, except for grocery stores, reopened April 15.Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), while welcoming the government’s order, said that to implement this well, the authorities must define what constitutes neighbourhood shops and standalone shops and what are the items that these shops can sell.“There has been a lot of confusion since the initial order was issued on April 15 and not many owners have opened shop since. It also needs to be clarified whether curfew passes are required for the opening of such shops, as people might face harassment from enforcing authorities. There should be clear and exhaustive guidelines regarding the rules for such shops to open so that traders feel confident to resume their businesses,” Khandelwal said.Brijesh Goyal, the convener of the Chamber of Trade and Industry, said that the traders are in support of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s recommendation of allowing shops to open on “odd-even” days.“Just like the CM suggested, we are of the opinion that slowly shops should be allowed to reopen. Shops could be allowed to open on alternative days, or for some time in the day, but there should be some leniency now. Traders are facing huge losses,” Goyal said.The trader associations in popular markets in Delhi said that the lockdown is hitting business, but they support the government’s decision to not allow market places to reopen yet.“We had decided that even if the government allows markets to reopen, we will keep our shops closed. Sarojini Nagar is known for the crowd it attracts, and if shops are reopened, it will be difficult to control the crowd. It will be a health hazard for the shoppers as well as shop owners and workers,” Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders’ Association, said. However, not everyone was happy with the extension of this lockdown on their businesses. Suhail Sawhney, a cloth trader in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden, said that he has already incurred losses worth lakhs of rupees because his shops have remained closed.“We do understand that it is a difficult time but we need to have some window where we can do business. How will we pay our staff and how will we sustain our businesses if we remain closed for over a month like this?” Sawhney said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-50-can-gather-for-a-wedding-20-for-a-funeral/story-y2rs6a3dVF2seUUr8yYzHJ.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Screening a must for all crossing Haryana borders||People stranded in Haryana, including the migrant labourers, will be appropriately screened and examined for Covid- 19 symptoms or influenza-like illness (ILI) characteristics before they are sent back to their home states. Similarly, the states sending people to Haryana will also have to ensure they are screened. “Only those who do not show Covid-19 symptoms or ILI characteristics will be allowed to proceed,” stated the standard operating procedure (SoP) prepared by the state government for both inward and outward movement of stranded people. Movement of persons from containment zones, however, will not be permitted. A webpage on e-disha portal for the registration and documentation for this purpose has been created. People of Haryana residing in other states who want to come back and those living in Haryana willing to move to their parent states should mandatorily get themselves registered at the web portal, said a top official. The portal can be accessed at www.edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantServiceSoP for private vehiclesPeople who want to come back to Haryana in their private vehicles will register themselves on the web link and also download the permission form before starting their journey. They will also have to submit this during medical screening at the border checkpoints. The district administrations will do a proper medical screening of such people at the posts. Screening places will have proper arrangements for parking of vehicles, food, drinking water and toilets. If any person shows symptoms of Covid-19 infection or ILI characteristics, he/she will be necessarily put in institutional quarantine. People travelling in their private vehicles will ensure that their vehicles are properly sanitised and social distancing is strictly adhered to,” the SoP stated, adding that on arrival at their destination, asymptomatic persons are advised to remain in home or institutional quarantine for at least 14 days. Nodal officers for co-ordinationHaryana has appointed six nodal officers for coordination with other states. Anurag Rastogi (987-220-0093) for UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Punjab; Ajay Singh Tomar (701-573-0779) for Rajasthan; TL Satyaprakash (999-917-8178) for Karnataka; Mohammed Shayin (981-060-5945 & 814-611-1222) for Kerala and Tamil Nadu; Ajit Balaji Joshi (941-600-6665) for Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand and Aamna Tasneem (822-190-6650) for HP, J&K, Ladakh, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Orissa, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/screening-a-must-for-all-crossing-haryana-borders/story-EbvJxB5GzOZfmlautIIO9H.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt wants Centre to redefine Covid zones||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asked the Union government to reconsider its methodology of categorising red, orange and green zones, at least for Delhi. He recommended that only containment zones in the city be kept as red zones, and further relaxations be allowed in areas outside them. All 11 revenue districts in Delhi are currently listed as red zones by the central government, which essentially means all of them have recorded Covid-19 cases in the last 21 days. Currently, 94 containment zones are spread across these 11 revenue districts in the city – they range from plots and lanes to cluster of neighbourhood blocks. As per the current definition, however, this makes the entire district a red zone. Officials familiar with the matter who asked not to be named said that Delhi could also ask for a ward-level classification, instead of district-level, since Delhi is geographically a small state that should not be treated at par with large states such as Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. There are 272 wards in Delhi.Kejriwal announced that his government will provide all the relaxations within the ambit of the Union government’s order for red zones (in terms of districts) across the country (except containment zones) for the rest of the national lockdown, which has been extended till May 17.But Delhi faces a twin challenge of providing relaxations as per the central guidelines while maintaining a stringent control on the spread of Covid-19 with the city reporting the maximum hike in cases on Sunday when 427 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease.Kejriwal said the relaxations are critical for the state government to jump-start the state economy, which has been badly hit by the continued lockdown. According to government officials, the revenue collection for April was down by around 91.5% compared to the same month last year. The average April revenue of ₹3,500 crore fell to ₹300 crore, said officials.“The whole of Delhi is under red zone and, so far, we have followed all guidelines issued by the centre in the strictest way to contain the spread of coronavirus. But Delhi is now ready for more relaxations,” Kejriwal said in a video briefing.“I have suggested to the central government that containment zones be sealed and categorised as red zones but the rest of Delhi be classified green. If needed, markets use an odd-even rule, so that traders can take turn in opening shops on alternate days based on shop numbers. This can ensure social distancing,” he added, saying that categorising an entire district was is not fair in a place such as Delhi.Till May 17, services such as public transport, para-transit, cab aggregators, schools and colleges, coaching centres, hotels, restaurants, malls, markets, cinema halls, barber shops, salons, sports complexes and gyms, political and social gathering, and religious institutes among others would remain out of bounds for the people, an order issued by the Delhi government said.It, however, allows movement of people from 7 am to 7 pm; plying of private cars (with not more than three occupants) and two-wheelers (with no pillion riders) for activities permitted by the order issued; services of self-employed service providers; limited gathering for marriages (50) and last rites of the dead (20); standalone shops, including those selling alcohol (under L-6 and L-8 categories), in neighbourhoods, residential complexes and anywhere other than malls, shopping complexes and markets; and shops selling essentials.The district administration, however, is still deliberating on ways to implement the relaxations provided under the order, several district magistrates and sub-divisional magistrates told HT.“We may start issuing passes to individuals covered under the extended ambit of relaxations now,” said a government official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-wants-centre-to-redefine-covid-zones/story-kBetgi6TXPfrnSBe6Reg1J.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||65% CEOs anticipate over 40% revenue loss: Survey||The Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown is expected to result in revenue loss and job cuts, revealed a survey conducted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) based on the responses of more than 300 company heads across India.Around 65% CEOs across the country expect revenue to fall by more than 40% in the current quarter (April-June 2020). The survey, ‘CII CEOs Snap Poll on Impact of Covid-19 on Economy and Industry’, was released on Saturday. CII is a non-government business association comprising private and public sector companies. Two-thirds of those surveyed were company heads of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).The survey revealed that 54% CEOs also anticipate job losses in their sectors post the lockdown. Of this, 45% expect 15-30% job-cuts. Of those surveyed, 44.7% are of the view that it will take more than a year to resume normalcy in the economy, while 34% anticipate their companies to recover in a period of 6-12 months. The only relief from the survey is that 65% of those surveyed have not experienced wage/salary-cut in their firms. However, 48% feel that if a salary-cut is imposed, the tenure will largely remain undecided.Complete shutdown of operations, lack of demand for products, credit crunch, unavailability or constraints in movement of labour, no access to raw materials are some of the main constraints in the operation of businesses, the survey revealed.Taking cognisance of the deteriorating industry expectations, Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of CII, said “While the lockdown was necessary to mitigate the impact of coronavirus on the population, it has had dire implications for economic activity. At this hour, the industry awaits a stimulus package for economic revival and livelihood sustenance besides calibrated exit from lockdown.”In Maharashtra, as on Saturday, 8,220 units are in production with 1.6 lakh workers reporting to sites after the state introduced certain relaxations post April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/65-ceos-anticipate-over-40-revenue-loss-survey/story-gZCOeXxhKLaeN4j3UZDqgK.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s private firms putting in place mechanisms to keep virus at bay||The Delhi government on Sunday allowed private companies to operate from Monday, albeit with 33% of their staff strength. From testing the health status of employees, rearranging seating plans to ensure social distancing and working out an arrangement to help employees get to work as public transport options remain suspended, private firms say they are coming up with plans to go back to work after curbs are lifted. Soon after the Delhi government released the order on Sunday, many firms said they are now putting their heads together to ensure that normalcy is restored while avoiding any risk of infection, in light of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.Prashant Shridhar, a management consultant at a private firm in South Delhi’s Okhla, has been asked to join work from Tuesday after nearly a month of working from home. He said he has spoken to his team head on transportation problems, considering he used to depend on the Delhi Metro for the commute.“I have sent out an e-mail voicing my concerns. I don’t own a car, mainly because there is a metro station less than 200 metres from my house and the rail network connects my workplace as well. I was told by my seniors that they might arrange for an office cab,” said Shridhar.Not just employees, owners and managers are also worried about the added responsibility of keeping the virus at bay. Most of them say they are getting employees’ temperature screened before letting them enter and have made the use of masks mandatory at all times inside the office premises.Dharmendra Singh, the co-founder of Mad4Ad, a private advertising firm with offices in Delhi and Noida, said they were looking forward to resuming work with at least some employees, and that a green signal from the government will help start-ups such as his to stay afloat.“We have regularly been conducting health surveys of our employees to keep a tab on their health status. That is of primary importance to us because a healthy team will keep us going. We are yet to chalk out teams that will start coming to office from next week but the stress is still on conducting digital meetings with clients and online presentations. However, coordination will improve if we have at least some people here at work,” said Singh.In an e-mail response, Tech Tonic, a mobile accessory company in the national Capital, said they have asked employees above the age of 45 to continue working from home.“We welcome the government’s announcement but since people above a certain age are more vulnerable to the coronavirus, we will only call in our younger teammates to office. We are working out a full-fledged plan to start work in the coming days,” the company said in the e-mail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-private-firms-putting-in-place-mechanisms-to-keep-virus-at-bay/story-gBvnjFrGz9LMnHu4xKM9BJ.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Industrial associations in Delhi seek clarity on reopening guidelines||Hours after the Delhi government decided to allow access controlled activities in industrial estates and townships following the Union home ministry’s order, there was confusion among industry owners as to which areas can open.To give more clarity on the order, the government will address representatives of over 80 industrial associations through a video conference on Monday at 3pm, said Brajesh Goyal, convener of the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) trade and industry wing in Delhi.“My phone has been flooded with calls and messages enquiring about the implementation of the order. There are some issues that need to be clarified. We will address queries during the conference,” said Goyal.He said so far, going by the order, all industrial areas will be able to start operations, but only if they have mechanisms in place of controlling access to the compound.“In order to resume operations, industrial associations will have to ensure proper mechanisms of controlling the entry and exit of workers, practice norms of social distancing and keeping the area sanitised,” said Goyal.Delhi has 29 notified industrial areas such as Naraina, Kirti Nagar, Okhla, Narela and Bawana, among others.Sunil Chadha, general secretary of Mundka industrial areas, said that unlike other cities, there are no access controlled industrial estates in Delhi. “While industries of essential supplies are operating in Delhi, we want the Delhi government to give clarity on operations in Delhi’s industrial areas,” he said. Industrial associations said the government making arrangements for migrant workers to go back to their respective states will only add to the problem once industrial operations are allowed on full-scale.“Before opening the city’s borders and sending migrants back, the government should allow industrial areas to start so that migrant workers can work so as to earn money,” he said. Also, industrial representatives said there is no clarity on whether all types of industries can open and if they can open full-scale or not. “We are discussing amongst ourselves as to the various interpretations of the order. If we can open units after access control, it will be beneficial to both the owners and the workers, as the economy has suffered,” said Sameer Nayyar, secretary, Delhi Factory Owners’ Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/industrial-associations-in-delhi-seek-clarity-on-reopening-guidelines/story-6cORoIKjcfr7Nl9ncFrdcL.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana industries to get permission to operate on weekly basis||Haryana government on Sunday decided that permission to all the industrial and commercial establishments in red, orange and green zones would be granted on a weekly basis from Monday onwards. The revised guidelines will replace the old guidelines issued by the state government.An official spokesperson said that as per the latest MHA guidelines, activities in a region shall be allowed based on the risk profiling of the districts into red, orange, and green zones. For the week one starting from May 4 to10, industrial areas with access control IT/ IT-enabled services located in the red zone would be allowed to carry out their activities with 33% workforce while industries others than IT/ITES can start their operations with 50% workforce.In the orange zone, IT/ITES would be allowed to carry out their activities with 50% workforce while others can start their operations with 75% staff. In the green zone, both IT/ITES and others can carry out their operations with 100% staff strength.Industries in the rural areas would also run on similar lines in all three zones. E-commerce industrial units located in the red zone would be permitted to carry out activities for essential goods only. The spokesperson said other industries located in urban areas would be allowed to carry out their operations in only orange (50% staff in IT/ITES and 75% for others) and green zone (both IT/ITES and others can carry out their operations with 100% staff).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-industries-to-get-permission-to-operate-on-weekly-basis/story-CsMXRIsMwM8JtstLt5zFkP.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Stand-alone liquor stores with L6, L8 licences allowed to open||The Delhi government has allowed stand-alone liquor shops in the city to open from Monday, 40 days since they were shut. Also, stand-alone shops selling paan, gutka and tobacco products have been allowed to reopen. These shops are allowed to open from 9am to 6.30pm, said officials.There are around 150 liquor shops that are eligible to open in the city. Establishments, however, have been mandated to maintain strict social distancing, including a prohibition on gatherings of more than five persons at a time at the outlet. “These shops shall ensure a minimum six feet distance among customers and also ensure that not more than five persons are present at one time at the shop,” an order issued by the Delhi government stated.None of the exemptions is applicable for containment zones, said officials.The government also made it clear that the consumption of liquor, paan, gutka, tobacco, etc., in public places will not be allowed.A senior government official said not all liquor vends will be allowed to open. Firstly, liquor shops in markets, shopping complexes or malls are not allowed to open. Secondly, only the stores having L6 and L8 licences will be permitted.L6 licence is for retail vends of Indian liquor/beer, granted only to selected undertakings of the Delhi government, such as DTTDC, DSIDC, DSCSC and DCCWS. L8 licences are for retail vends selling country liquor.“The number of such shops (with L6 and L8 licences) is more than 500, but that number is not important as not all will be eligible to open, because they have to be stand-alone shops. So, we have asked our teams to identify such stand-alone liquor shops across the city,” an official of the excise department said.A senior official said that around 150 liquor shops are eligible to open in the city.Liquor is a major revenue source for Delhi, accounting for ₹5,000 crore annually. Sale of liquor was suspended until till May 3, resulting in a loss of around ₹500 crore, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stand-alone-liquor-stores-with-l6-l8-licences-allowed-to-open/story-oTmhK2mBcsG3xfSx675z5K.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt says construction work can resume if labour is available on site||The Delhi government on Sunday gave its nod to the resumption of construction activities on major infrastructure projects in the city from May 4. The relaxation, however, comes with a rider — construction can be resumed only on those projects for which workers are “available on-site”.The Union government had said that “is-situ” construction on government infrastructure projects could resume from April 20, but the Delhi government continued the ban due to an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city-state during the second phase of the nation lockdown, which has now been extended again till May 17 but with some relaxations.Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said the Delhi government decision comes as a huge relief because there has been little progress on a majority of infrastructure projects since last November, when a ban on construction to contain pollution levels was imposed. The ban was lifted in February and then reimposed on March 25.PK Vats, PWD’s engineer-in-chief, said the resumption would allow the agency to resume work on the 1.2km tunnel between Mathura Road and the Ring Road, which is part of the Central government’s ITPO Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, Barapulla Phase-3 elevated corridor, flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur, and an underpass connecting Benito Juarez Road with San Martin Road.“Construction activities on infrastructure projects were completely shut in the national Capital for over 40 days. Such a move would certainly set the ball rolling. From Monday, we will start the assessment of the availability of labour and inventory of construction materials at the site. Labourers at some project sites are available, so we can start construction activities there in a few days,” Vats said.A senior PWD official, on the condition of anonymity, however, said that a large number of workers have gone to their villages or towns. “Those who had gone to celebrate Holi have not returned from their home towns. The workforce has been reduced further, after the outbreak of the disease,” the official said.But Delhi Metro Rail Corportation (DMRC) officials said they have over 3,500 workers at construction sites in Delhi-NCR.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “We are prepared to start construction work at its sites if allowed by the government. All government guidelines and directions shall be followed in this regard.”On December 31, 2019, DMRC had started construction work on its Phase-IV network at Haiderpur Badli Mor.Renewable energy projects will also be permitted. In this case, even if workers are not at the site, they will be allowed. This means projects such as installation of solar panels can resume or start in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-says-construction-work-can-resume-if-labour-is-available-on-site/story-WE9W0r8CSSBYwxb3F4iP4M.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Dharavi crosses 500 mark, sees highest single-day jump of 94 in Covid-19 cases||Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster and one of Mumbai’s hotspots of Covid-19, crossed the 500 mark with 94 new cases – the highest single-day jump in the area – on Sunday bringing its total to 590. The toll stands at 20, with two more deaths on Sunday.The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, after which the cases crossed the 100 mark on April 17, 200 mark on April 24, 250 cases on April 26 and 300 cases on April 28. The toll doubled from 10 deaths by April 17 to 20 deaths as of May 3.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said pro-active screening of residents is leading to the rise in numbers. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North ward, which covers Dharavi, said, “We are screening at various sources such as municipal dispensaries, 350 clinics of private doctors and tracing high-risk contacts. We have successfully screened more than 79,000 people in Dharavi, which is around 2,500 per week.”Elaborating on the efforts, he said, “We have institutionally quarantined 2,050 people at Dharavi Municipal School, Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex, Manohar Joshi Vidyalaya and Mahim Nature Park.”An officer from Dharavi, who was associated with the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), tested positive on Sunday. According to MFB, he is asymptomatic, and his family has been home quaratined followed by sanitisation of the first floor of Dharavi fire station. Prabhat Rahangdale, chief fire officer of MFB, said, “As per the protocol, all precautions have been taken. The Dharavi fire station is completely operational.”The city on Sunday saw 441 cases, which took the count to 8,800 from 8,359 on Saturday. The death count went up to 342 on Sunday with 21 new deaths.Meanwhile, two new deaths were reported in Mahim and Dadar area on Sunday, the neighbouring areas of Dharavi. Mahim reported 16 new cases on Sunday, taking the total to 68, followed by four new cases in Dadar, which took the total to 50.A 49-year-old employee of the BMC working as a supervisor in the solid waste management (SWM) department was died of coronavirus on Sunday. The employee was a resident of Dadar and used to reside in staff quarters. The employee was admitted in Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Parel.On Sunday, an employee of BEST died at KEM Hospital. He was not reporting to work since April 22 owing to an illness, and was detected of coronavirus on May 1. The employee had high blood pressure, according to BEST. In a statement issued on Sunday, BEST said that it has examined around 8,865 employees, more than 5,000 employees have been given vitamin tablets, 1,500 high-risk employees have been asked to stay home or given indoor duties. At least 400 BEST employees have been asked to home quarantine, and 36 have been reported positive.According to the BMC, there are 1,577 containment zones in the city, of which 533 are in red zone, 633 in blue and 359 in orange zone. On Sunday, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi met all assistant municipal commissioners and deputy municipal commissioners. The meeting was also attended briefly by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray via video conference, and all BMC officials were asked to concentrate and focus on contact-tracing. The BMC officials were also asked to keep proper records of contact tracing, and travel history of the positive patients. The officers were also asked to follow-up with those recovering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-s-dharavi-crosses-500-mark-sees-highest-single-day-jump-of-94-in-covid-19-cases/story-QGGKJaFVemNfIuZSgiPBnO.html
04-05-2020||City||Shops in Ludhiana to open for counter sale from 7am to 11am only: DC||As Ludhiana falls in the red zone, shops selling essential commodities will open for counter sale from 7am to 11am only.This was clarified by deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal here on Sunday.The DC said shopkeepers would be allowed to make home delivery of items only from 11am to 7pm. These timings would continue till May 17, the DC said.He said shopkeepers would have to strictly ensure that all their workers wear masks, there is no rush of people and customers maintain a distance of 2 metres from each other. If any shopkeeper failed to ensure this, the permission would be cancelled, the DC added.He clarified, “The people, who want to visit shops from 7am to 11am do not require any passes and will have to go on foot only as they cannot use any vehicles. If any person is found using a vehicle, strict action will be taken against him.”The DC said only one member of a family was allowed to go to the shop to buy essential commodities. He advised people to wear masks when they go out of their homes, wash hands properly and clean the items after purchase.The DC also clarified that the curfew passes already issued and valid till May 3 would be valid till May 17, the new date of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-to-open-for-counter-sale-from-7am-to-11am-only-dc/story-MQICSW4WeHKNSalmaYOY2N.html
04-05-2020||City||Police distribute tea, snacks to cops on night duty||Members of the police department have started distributing tea and snacks to the personnel deputed on night duty.The department has already been supplying food to the cops on duty during the day.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Deepak Pareek said, “We have taken the initiative in recognition of the need of the personnel on night duty. Many NGOs are also helping us in distributing tea and snacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-distribute-tea-snacks-to-cops-on-night-duty/story-atz60hlkyXQ3CrM0XVuA2O.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 500 students brought back from Kota||Nearly 500 Delhi students studying in Kota were brought back to the capital on Sunday morning by the Delhi government. They had been stranded in Rajasthan for over a month due to the Covid-19 lockdown. While the government had arranged for 40 buses to bring back 813 students, only 480 were from Delhi, the government said in a statement. The remaining students were “reported to belong to other places”, it added.Following their arrival at ISBT Kashmere Gate in Delhi, the students were screened for Covid-19 at 11 counters, made for different districts, by 11 medical teams comprising a doctor and a paramedic each. “In front of every district-wise counter, 100 circles were drawn at a distance of 6 feet so that social distancing norms can be followed properly during screening,” the government said. The bus station and the premises were sanitised prior to the arrival of the students. Since parents were asked not to come to the bus station, students were given coupons indicating the DTC bus number designated for their specific route. Students boarded the buses, which had been sanitised, following the completion of their medical screening process and reached their homes later in the day.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot asked those who returned to practice self-isolation for two weeks. “I am delighted that we brought back all our students from Kota safely. I would like to request all the students who came back yesterday to stay in home-isolation for 14 days to ensure the safety of their family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-500-students-brought-back-from-kota/story-YDsyAcnGV1im4zchoIRgcI.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 3 dead, 109 Nanded returnees among 172 test +ve in Punjab||Three persons infected with the coronavirus died while 172 fresh cases of the disease were reported in Punjab on Sunday, taking the total number of patients tested positive so far to 1,149.Kamla Devi (62) of Basti Jodhewal in Ludhiana and Narayan Dass (65) of Kapurthala, who were undergoing treatment at the Covid-19 unit of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), succumbed to the infection on Sunday. Ashok Kumar (45), a mason from Ali Ke village in Ferozepur district, also died of the disease.With this, 23 persons have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state so far.Of the 172 newly detected patients, 109 are those who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra. In Ludhiana, a house surgeon, a woman, was found infected.SBS Nagar district saw a 200% rise in Covid-19 cases after 57 Nanded returnees tested positive. A total of 62 returnees from Nanded, including 12 cotton workers, have tested positive so far in the district.Muktsar district saw the second highest number of cases at 43. Of these patients, 42 are Nanded-returnees, said an official. With this, the number of those infected in the district jumped 8 times to touch the figure of 49.In Tarn Taran district, 26 Nanded pilgrims, including four children, tested positive on Sunday. Of those tested positive are nine females. Three of the patient are in their sixties. The district so far has 40 cases.In Barnala district, 15 persons, including 11 Nanded-returned pilgrims, tested positive on Sunday. The patients were being shifted to an isolation facility at Sohal Patti, a health department official said. With this, the number of active cases in the district is 17.Nine Nanded-returned devotees from Anandpur Sahib and Nurpur Bedi areas in Rupnagar district were found infected on Sunday. The patients, who were quarantined at a gurdwara serai in Anandpur Sahib after their arrival from Nanded, have been shifted to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital in Banur.Amritsar recorded six fresh cases, taking the total tally of the positive patients in the district to 214. Of the six new patients, five are those who recently returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, while one is of a lab attendant at Government Medical College, Amritsar. Of the 214, 198 are Nanded returnees.Also, four more persons tested positive in Jalandhar. With this, a total of 124 positive cases have been reported in the district so far. The health department officials said the four patients are close contact of those found positive earlier.In Hoshiarpur district, three more positive cases were reported. An official said the three were labourers who recently returned from Maharashtra.Two male residents of Lalru town in Mohali district, aged 47 and 34, who returned from Nanded three days ago, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.The district now has a total of 95 cases.Of the 61 people who came back from Nanded in the district in the past five days, 21 have tested positive.In Gurdaspur, three bus drivers, who had brought pilgrims from Nanded also tested positive on Sunday. The district administration has quarantined 20 bus drivers, who brought pilgrims from Hazoor Sahib.(Inputs from Ludhiana, SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Barnala, Ferozepur, Rupnagar, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-3-dead-109-nanded-returnees-among-172-test-ve-in-punjab/story-QpiiZM80IpA4sXktwkDOdO.html
04-05-2020||City||Ludhiana resident booked for raping 17-year-old cousin||A resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar of Ludhiana was booked on Saturday for raping his 17-year-old cousin, who had come from Chandigarh to see her uncle, aunt and cousin here in January and returned on March 8.The victim had lodged an FIR against her uncle in Chandigarh and the Chandigarh police had sent the FIR to the Ludhiana police for action.Hailing from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, the victim, living with her sister and brother-in-law in Sector 18 of Chandigarh, stated that in January, she had come to see her uncle, aunt and cousin, who live in Kabir Colony, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Ludhiana.She added, “On March 6, when I was sleeping, my cousin came to my room and raped me. The accused threatened me against revealing the incident to anyone.”The victim added, “The next day, I made a call to my sister and asked her to take me to Chandigarh. On March 8, my borther-in-law came and took me back to Chandigarh, but I kept mum about the incident. After I missed my periods, I narrated the incident to my sister, who took me to the police station and lodged an FIR.”Sub-inspector Beena Rani, investigating the case, said after receiving information from the Chandigarh police, they lodged an FIR under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at the Dugri police station. The accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sbs-nagar-resident-booked-for-raping-17-year-old-cousin/story-skwhgG8pKLEjpMW71YerEK.html
04-05-2020||City||Homeopathy docs in Ludhiana availing parcel service to send medicines to patients in other cities||Amid the coronavirus lockdown, it is our social as well as moral responsibility to provide treatment to our patients, says Dr Pardeep Singh, a city-based homeopathy doctor, who is sending medicines to his patients by post.“As movement has been restricted, we have no other way, but to send the medicines to our patients who are in different cities and villages through parcels,” he said. The homeopathy consultant, who has a clinic in New Prem Nagar near Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), said many of his regular patients based in different cities fell short of the medication, following which, he started sending them their medicines through parcels.Many residents are also using the services of the postal department that has been categorised as essential to ensure that their loved ones get the medicines they need.Dr Pardeep said his patients, who are continuing their treatment from him, are based in Jalandhar City, Shahkot, Moga, Haryana and Delhi. “Due to the lockdown, they have not been able to come for their routine check-ups. If the people, who have been taking medicines for an ailment since many years, stop it for even a month for some reason, his or her recovery process goes back almost by one year,” the 28-year-old doctor said, adding that he has been sending the parcels through the post office’s Dandi Swami Branch.‘HOMEOPATHY REQUIRES PREPARATION OF MEDICINE DOSES’Dr Rajesh Sofat, a homoeopath whose clinic is based on Pakhowal Road, said a homeopathic treatment requires preparation of medicine doses, making it difficult to prescribe the medicines to a patient over phone.“In homeopathy, we treat every patient differently based on his/her medical history, body, immune system and other factors. We prepare medicines for every patient separately which is why prescribing them medicines over phone is not an option,” he said.Dr Sofat, who is also a professor in Lord Mahavira Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, said he has been sending medicines to his regular patients in various cities, including Jalandhar, Phagwara, Barnala and Bengaluru. “I am sending the stock of medicines as per the demands of the patients. For some, the doses are being made for 15 days, while for others, one-month doses are being parcelled,” he said.Jagminder Singh Bedi, an inspector of Moffusil (Rural) post office, said they are delivering the medicine parcels on priority basis in view of the ongoing conditions. “Though the government has allowed the courier companies to operate, not many have started the operations, so, we have been carrying out all the parcel services as part of essential services. The department of posts is also providing pick-up service of medicine parcels from the clinics and distributors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homeopathy-doctors-in-ludhiana-availing-parcel-service-to-send-medicines-to-patients-in-other-cities/story-qBxCabcA8iv4H3IFKKnfwJ.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||17-yr-old trafficked girl forced to work as domestic help, rescued||A 17-year-old girl, allegedly trafficked from Ranchi in Jharkhand last June, was rescued by the city police from a residence in Sushant Lok-1, where she was working as a domestic help. She was allegedly sold to the employer for ₹60,000, said police.The girl’s statement was recorded by the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and she was sent to a childcare institution, where she is under isolation, before undergoing a medical examination, including a Covid-19 test.Activists of Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), an NGO, in Panchkula and Delhi had informed the police that the girl had been trafficked from Ranchi and was being forced to work against her will at a residence in the city.According to an FIR lodged at the Sector 29 police station, after police verification and counselling of the girl, a case under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 75 and 79 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, were lodged against three persons — two traffickers and employer in New Delhi.The girl’s employers at the Sushant Lok residence are also liable to be booked under the law.According to the police, the girl said that the trafficker had taken her to Delhi in 2019, where a relative of his arranged for her to work as a domestic help at a residence in C-Block in Greater Kailash. Her employer then sent her to work at his daughter’s residence in Sushant Lok-1 of Gurugram.Alleging that her employers at the Gurugram residence would not serve her food and made her work late hours, the girl told the police that she was not allowed to step out of the house and was not paid for her work. “I would be beaten up often. I would cry and often told them that I wanted to return to my village,” the girl said.According to the police, the girl managed to talk to her mother in Ranchi, by dialling her uncle’s phone, who advised her to contact her aunt in Delhi once the lockdown is lifted.Meanwhile, the girl’s mother contacted a Ranchi-based NGO, Pratigya, which informed the Delhi-based BBA. Members of the BBA in Panchkula, subsequently, took up the matter with the Gurugram police.Manish Sharma, BBA spokesperson said, “The police must probe in-depth the role of the two traffickers and arrest them at the earliest. Although the police acted swiftly in this case, there were some lacunae in the case so far as their training is concerned. It appears that they were not aware of child-related laws. The girl must have been treated with sympathy. The next important step should be to ensure that the girl is properly rehabilitated and her wages recovered from her employer,” he said.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police, DLF, said that they took prompt action on the complaint and rescued the girl within a few hours. “Her statement was recorded and we had informed the child welfare committee members who have shifted her to one of the CCI’s in the city. We have informed her mother and relatives who would reach the city and take a decision on her rehabilitation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/17-yr-old-trafficked-girl-forced-to-work-as-domestic-help-rescued/story-szr8y8R2Pu3JNOT204gyDP.html
04-05-2020||Gurugram||Lockdown 3.0: Pandemonium after migrant workers gather for ‘registration’||Pandemonium ensued at a government school in village Khoh, IMT Manesar, after hundreds of migrant workers allegedly assembled there to register themselves for the interstate movement to their respective native states on Sunday morning. The administration officials, however, denied that any such registration process was being conducted at the spot. The police said no persons were injured as a team of at least 20 policemen was rushed to the area to disperse the crowd to prevent a law and order situation.According to the police, the incident took place on Sunday morning near at a government school, where a large crowd of migrant population had lined up to collect food being distributed by the district administration.Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Manesar, said, “In addition to people who had lined up for the food, many migrant workers arrived at the spot after they received information that registration for returning to their native states was being conducted. To avoid a law and order situation, a team from IMT Manesar police station was rushed to the spot to disperse the crowd since the area is quite congested. No persons were injured and the situation is under control. Legal action would be taken against people who violated the guidelines of lockdown and social distancing.”In a video that surfaced online, scores of migrant workers could be seen running out of a premises, where they had lined up to collect food, as police sirens blared in the background.Rajender Singh, sarpanch, village Khoh, said that around 10.30 am, he received information that a huge crowd of migrant workers had assembled near a government school. “Some rumours had circulated that forms are being filled for registration of migrant workers so they could return to their native states, following which at least 2000 migrants assembled. I informed the police and the situation was sorted out,” said Singh.Bijender Rana, tehsildar, Manesar, denied that the administration was conducting any registration process at the spot.“The authenticity of the alleged video is being verified. The migrant workers are provided food at the concerned school on a daily basis. I am not aware of any rumours regarding filing up of forms for interstate movement of migrants,” he said.On Saturday, the Haryana government had launched an online portal for online registration of migrant workers and stranded persons, who wished to return to their home states. The government had said that the migrants would have to register themselves on a webpage or register through a mobile application (Jan Sahayak Help me) from Google Playstore. Additionally, if any migrant worker does not have access to the above two and is stuck in Haryana, he/she may take assistance from the district administration by dialling 1950 or call centre number 1100, the officials had said.According to preliminary estimates, lakhs of migrant workers are stuck in the state due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 spread. On Saturday, the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had appealed to the migrant labourers to remain in the state and not return to their native villages as several industries were going to resume operations in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/pandemonium-after-migrant-workers-gather-for-registration/story-MVDJeWyQcQp7QY5WPGMLOO.html
04-05-2020||City||45-day free online placement, personality devp programme starts at Arya College||Amid lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, the authorities at Arya College have started a 45-day free online placement and personality development programme for the students.Giving details, principal Savita Uppal said the college has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the coaching institute, Bulls Eye, under the leadership of placement cell in-charge, professor Rama Bansal.“Under the MoU, the Bulls Eye faculty will provide tutorial videos, ebooks, assignments and tests and will deliver live sessions online for free,” Uppal said. Bansal said 160 students have already registered themselves for the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-day-free-online-placement-personality-devp-programme-starts-at-arya-college/story-aRdQP8PMRcXWZ9HBy9BdrN.html
04-05-2020||City||Ludhiana teacher pens song to motivate colleagues amid lockdown||To motivate teachers to conduct online classes for two hours daily, a government schoolteacher, Harpreet Singh Jagraon, has uploaded a four-minute YouTube video of him singing a Punjabi song ‘Online Pda Layie (let’s teach online)’.The video was launched by the state education department on Saturday.In the video, Jagraon, while highlighting the importance of education, asks teachers to make extra efforts in teaching students online so that their studies do not get affected due to the lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.The song, which is written by Sukhdev Hathuria, cluster head teacher in a government school, also encourages the teachers to connect with students through various online apps. “The schools were closed due to coronavirus outbreak before the start of the academic session. Though earlier, classes were held in schools for six hours daily, now, even if the teachers conduct online classes for about three hours every day, a lot of syllabus can be completed,” Jagraon said, adding that the teachers can use this time to make innovative videos that explain various concepts. Jagraon said, “As the lockdown has been extended in the state till May 17, teachers must encourage students to study online. Through the song, we are trying to make every teacher understand the significance of engaging all students in academics and co-curricular activities online.” The video garnered 1,007 views within 48 hours of it being uploaded on YouTube, Jagraon added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-edu-dept-launches-song-on-importance-of-online-classes-amid-lockdown/story-Sv2kZLeraH20asj2tnTieP.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police say lack of doctors poses a problem in clearing migrants for travel||The Mumbai Police, which has been entrusted with the work of drawing a list of migrant workers, tourists, students, pilgrims and others stranded in their jurisdiction, said that lack of doctors and funding are two major issues they are facing with the compilation work. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “We have received about 10,000 applications so far and expect about 1.5 lakh people to apply in total.” “We have registered medical practitioners and the zonal DCPs working to verify the medical documents provided,” Ashok said, adding that there is also a need to verify if the applicant is a migrant worker or a city resident looking to spend the lockdown in their hometown. “This is a problem and hence, we have asked migrant labourers to apply in groups and one group leader will collect the forms and submit them as well. This will also help in social distancing,” he said. The Mumbai Police also wrote a letter to the municipal commissioner, seeking help to solve the shortage of doctors to screen the applicants and verify medical documents.A senior IPS officer confirmed the development to HT, adding, “Local registered medical practitioners are not supporting us. They refuse to examine the migrants or issue medical clearance certificates. “We have written to municipal commissioner Praveen Paredeshi in this regard and raised our concerns.”“Our personnel have communicated with many doctors, requesting them for help through various WhatsApp groups. We also offered our personal protection equipment (PPE) to them and assured that we would take care of all the safety requirements,” the officer said. “The police are taking all possible measures to overcome the hurdles and ensure the effective and smooth execution of the task of sending back stranded migrants to their hometowns,” said Vinoy Kumar Choubey, additional director general (law and order), Mumbai. Shashikant Bhandare, senior inspector at Nirmal Nagar police station, said, “We have requested four doctors to open their clinics so that migrants can get medical certificates.” Someshwar Kamthe senior inspector Amboli police station added that officers have also been deployed at each clinic to maintain social distancing norms. Migrant labourers voice their issues Sajan Ali, 36, a migrant labourer from Bihar, stranded in Kandivli (East), who worked as a site supervisor said, “I am stuck with 60 migrants from Bihar and West Bengal at the construction site. We somehow managed to get the medical certificate but now we are asked to pay for our travel. On a bus having a capacity of 50 people, only 25 will be allowed. The estimated cost is ₹ 1.50 lakh and since we did not get paid for the past 50 days, it’s not possible to arrange this amount.” Ajay Ram, 35, a cook who resides with five other workers in Mulund (East), has been trying to figure out a way to reach his home in Jharkhand. “We got forms from the police station, filled them, but they did not accept them back and told us to submit them online,” said Ram. “The doctor charged each of us ₹200 for a medical certificate,” he said.Complaints of people crowding clinics Several people complained to the police about crowding at clinics on Sunday. “The local police have been instructed to patrol clinics in their area to maintain social distancing,” said DCP Ashok. Mahendra Nerlekar senior inspector, Jogeshwar police station added that announcements are being made outside clinics instructing people to maintain safety measures.25 labourers left for Rajasthan in busSangram Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, said, “On Sunday we sent a bus to Rajasthan with 25 people after subjecting them to medical tests. If a group is arranging a bus to travel they will be granted permission after following due procedure.”361 police across state test positive Till Sunday morning, a total of 361 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, of which 49 have recovered while 309 are still being treated. The home department arranged a special bus for mass Covid-19 screening. On Sunday it was used to screen 60 to 70 personnel at Worli police station. The department plans to use it at other police stations as well. FIRs further dip to just 54 cases on Saturday As the number of cases of Covid-19 is increasing, the number of first information reports (FIRs) for lockdown violations in the city has witnessed a steep fall with only 54 cases registered on Saturday. A maximum of 32 are for gathering in one place and 12 are for not wearing masks. The rest are for illegal use of vehicles and operating non-essential shops. In all 156 were booked and 33 arrested. Maximum forms distributed in DharaviVeeresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police (central region), said, “Around 10,000 travel forms were distributed in the central region, including the dense slums of Dharavi and Shahunagar where migrants are stranded in huge numbers.” Officers in charge at Shahu Nagar, Dharavi, Wadala TT, and Worli police stations took extra efforts and requested private doctors to operate their clinics. “We are also taking the help of NGOs to rope in more doctors,” said Prabhu. (Inputs from Suraj Ojha, Faisal Tandel, Pratik Salunke and Jayprakash S Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-say-lack-of-doctors-poses-a-problem-in-clearing-migrants-for-travel/story-cJO09ASikjhKYytdLSB6yH.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi lockdown 3.0: 29 activities allowed, restricted and exempted. Read here||Extending lockdown for the third time in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the time has come to re-open Delhi as people will have to be ready to live with the coronavirus, and said it is impossible that Covid-19 infection cases will be zero.The third lockdown for Delhi will come into play on Monday. In a video briefing, Kejriwal said the Delhi government will suggest to the Centre that only containment areas in the city be declared as red zones and not the entire district. At present, all 11 districts in the city have been declared as red zones. “Time has come to re-open Delhi. We will have to be ready to live with coronavirus. We will have to get used to it,” he said.Here are the list of activities which remain prohibited in Delhi1. Air travel2. Rail travel3. Delhi metro will remain closed4. Inter-state buses and within Delhi5. Schools, college, educational institutions, coaching institutes, training institutes,6. Hospitality sector including hotels, restaurants7. Places where public gathering takes place like movie halls, malls, gymnasium,sports complex8. Social, political, cultural or any other gathering9. Religious places.10. Cycle-rickshaw, auto-rickshaw, taxi, cab aggregators, salon, barbershops andparlours11. Malls, market complex and markets12. From 7 pm to 7 am people can not come out of their houses unless foressential services like medical.However, people aged 65 and above, people with co-morbidity, pregnant womenand kids below 10 years need to remain in their homes unless medical emergency.Here are some activities allowed in Delhi:1. Essential shops and stationery shops.2. Standalone shops, neighbourhood colony shops and shops in residentialcomplexes, both essential and non-essential.3. Print and electronic media4. IT-related services shops, call centres, data centres, warehousing services, coldstorage, private security and facility management services.5. All industrial estates will open wherever access control is there.6. Essential goods manufacturing units and supply chain, IT hardwaremanufacturing units.7. Packaging material manufacturing units will be open8. Agricultural activities9. Financial sector activities10. Goods carrier-related servicesHere are some activities allowed in Delhi but with exceptions:1. E-commerce activities can only deliver essential goods2. In cars, besides the driver, only two people will be allowed but only for permittedactivities3. In two-wheelers, only one person will be allowed4. Construction activities but only those whose workers live nearby5. Not more than 50 people are allowed at wedding functions6. Not more than 20 at last rites of a deceased person7. Spitting at public places is strictly not allowed(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-extended-in-delhi-what-s-restricted-allowed-and-exempted-explained-in-3-lists/story-UrgR1eKyUH5uTFV7PIax3M.html
04-05-2020||Pune||5 shops per lane of non-essential items, including liquor, now operate in Pune amid lockdown 3.0||Almost after 40 days of lockdown, Pune will witness gradual opening up from Monday with the police and district administration offering partial relaxation following the state government’s revised order on Sunday.According to police, five shops of non-essential goods per lane between 10am and 6pm will be allowed to operate in non-containment areas of the city while liquor stores will reopen in the district. Containment zones, which will be restricted to hotspots, will remain under lockdown in light of the positive Covid19 cases in the areas. The essential commodities’ shops like groceries, vegetables, milk, meat, among others, will be open from 10am and 6pm.“After 7pm, nothing will be allowed to function. Everything will be completely shut,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police. His order also mentions, “People above the age of 65, pregnant women, children below age of 10 and those with serious medical conditions, have been asked to stay indoors.” A list of police station-wise containment zones has been made. The containment zones are the same with an addition of three-four spots. Essential shops in containment zones will be allowed to operate between 10am and 2pm.However, which five shops and the extent of a “lane” was not clarified by either the state government order or the Pune police order. For areas like MG road and JM road, which are long lanes with scores of shops, clarification is yet to be provided.“We are trying to call the district collector, divisional commissioner and we even tried to message them, but they are not reachable. We are in a confused state of mind. In a place like Laxmi road, there are over 1,000 shops. How will we choose which five of the 1,000 shops will be opened? Nobody is asking us,” said Fatehchand Ranka, head of Pune Saraf Association and director of Ranka Jewellers.As per the Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, the administration will offer graded relaxation in Pune district including the city.“We are going to allow information technology (IT) companies to operate with a work force of 33% at Hinjewadi. In Chakan and Talegaon industrial belts, they will be allowed to open fully. Aa far as PMC and PCMC non-containment areas are concerned, we are going to allow certain things while certain things will remain closed,” said Ram.A detailed order is expected from the collector’s office on Monday.Malls and other social organisations will continue to remain shut.The shops that will be allowed to function will include non-essential stand-alone shops including wine shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-set-for-gradual-ease-of-restrictions/story-IDxeb626CHas96jsg5oMXK.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Government hostel in Pune to be converted into temporary prison||PUNE A government hostel building near Press Colony will be turned into a temporary jail as Yerawada Central Jail remains under lockdown without the entry of unauthorised officials or new inmates, according to officials.A proposal by Yerawada Jail Superintendent to convert backward class girls (Gunvant) government hostel located near Press Colony in Yerwada was submitted to the collector’s office. On Sunday, the proposal was accepted, according to a document shared by a senior jail official.The hostel is run by social justice and special assistance department of the state government.In the second week of April, authorities at Yerawada in Pune; Arthur road and Byculla, in Mumbai, and prisons at Thane and Kalyan had stopped accepting new inmates. Following the development, Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, prison, Maharashtra, had issued an order declaring a lockdown in these prisons on April 9.While the administration of the temporary prison will be taken care off by the jail staff, the security of the facility will be done by Pune city police, according to jail authorities.UT Pawar, superintendent, Yerawada Central Jail, said, “The new admissions will be kept there. We cannot be sure if they are carriers of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. We have taken this step as a preventive measure, we cannot risk the lives of inmates”“We, therefore, suggested space and the collector has now granted permission to start the use,” said Pawar.“There are 16 rooms in the hostel that are expected to hold not more than 100-150 inmates,” according to SP Pawar.Even though an order by collector Naval Kishore Ram has been issued and the jail authorities have taken possession of the hostel, the operation is yet to begin.The jail officials will make a representation to the city police authorities and seek police protection to the temporary facility, according to the SP Yerawada Jail.The launch of the temporary facility is subject to the availability of police protection, according to SP Pawar.On the other hand, the jail has been releasing under trial prisoners that fit the criteria defined by a high-powered committee to decongest jails in light of Covid-19 pandemic.Until May 2, 388 under trial inmates from Yerawada Central Jail have been released on personal bond. In the countrywide initiative, a total of 5,105 have been released from 47 major prisons in Maharashtra so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/government-hostel-in-pune-to-be-converted-into-temporary-prison/story-83xE8IJoo5sgnUhGgfSQVI.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Observation home at Pune’s Yerawada enjoys benefits of organic vegetable garden||PUNE Amid the lockdown period the children lodged at the observation home in Yerawada get fresh organic vegetables every day due to the vegetable garden developed by them at the campus with support from Hope for the Children Foundation (HFCF).This foundation has collaborated with the observation home, the Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Udyog Kendra in Yerawada, for the past five years to help support the rehabilitation of the children in conflict with law.Superintendent GN Padghan, said, “Our children are getting organic and fresh vegetables every day due to the support extended by of Hope for the Children Foundation . We thank the organisers for carrying out the initiative.”“The children are in complete control and care of the garden and perform activities like watering the plants and relish the fresh produce grown within the campus area. Through the said project, the children have learnt the art of energy conservation, water conservation , biodiversity, food safety and security, better nutrition and healthy living,” he said.Work began on the vegetable garden in January 2020, and three months after the plantation, the kitchen garden is currently providing daily fresh organic vegetables such as eggplants, tomatoes, green chillies, coriander, ladies’ finger, cluster beans, carrots and potatoes, various gourds, curry leaves, onion, sweet corn, methi, spinach and other green leafy vegetables.Over the years, the foundation has helped in restoring a training hall, plant flowers and trees in the campus and has painted the kitchen.The foundation has utilised the available space of 30,000 square feet to the fullest ,contributing to the wellness of the children by developing a kitchen garden and sustainable farming. The objectives were to provide fresh produce to the children, engage them in learning how to grow their own organic produce, help them connect with mother earth and support the observation home with food sustainability.Assistance was provided by Eco Factory Foundation, a non - profit organisation with experience in working towards developing sustainable green solution and empowering and strengthening the agro-sector and farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/observation-home-at-yerawada-enjoys-benefits-of-organic-vegetable-garden/story-IthQc0U0UQZ9aky5OwVOvO.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Association considering carrom tournament without spectators: Arun Kedar||PUNE The all India carrom federation and the Maharashtra carrom association have cancelled five tournaments in the last two months due to the ongoing covid-19 pandemic and officials believe more will be postponed in 2020.The organisers are now planning to hold tournaments without spectators, once the government allows sports activities across the country. According to Arun Kedar, treasurer, all India carrom federation and vice president of Maharashtra carrom association keeping social distancing in a sport like carrom is very hard.“In other sports, spectators at least keep some distance from players but in carrom, everyone surrounds the players. Only inches separate the referee, players and the spectators.”Kedar said.The association believes it will be hard to conduct tournaments through the end of December due to the covid-19 threat.“One more thing which will impact carrom in Maharashtra is red zone cities. All these regions host many tournaments but now when games will resume there is uncertainty,” added Kedar.Carrom tournaments are generally played throughout the year, but during monsoon season many new players connect with the sport.“In monsoon many people don’t get chance to play outdoor games and many of them are inclined towards carrom and we get many new players during monsoon,” Kedar said.Players miss club practiceThe basics of the game are learned by playing in a club, therefore a lot of players prefer it.“In carrom, there are two types of players – seniors who like to practice on their own at home while others who go to club for daily practice. New players are usually found more in the second type and in this year we will be missing such players and the worrying part is if these new players don’t play carrom regularly they will lose interest in the sport,” added Kedar.Digital learning for players To keep players updated with carrom knowledge, the state association is sharing videos of classical matches and also sharing facts of the game among players and coaches.“These matches teach many things to players and one can concentrate on how champions execute their game plan in the final matches. Every day we share couple of games and facts to improve the knowledge of the game among players,” he added.In the coming days, the national association is planning to come out with informative videos.“Instead of reading booklet of game laws or online documents, we are planning to make informative videos to give carrom lovers something different. The making of the video is currently under progress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/association-considering-carrom-tournament-without-spectators/story-Gmmk631J04V3MaTJvaMNeI.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Builders raise doubts about procurement of raw material in Pune||PUNE Following the government order on commencing construction work from May 4 the Pune district administration has allowed resumption of construction activity in the areas outside the Covid-19 (coronavirus) containment zones within the city limits. While real estate body Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) has welcomed the move, it raised apprehension about the execution of order given the lack of clarity on the supply of raw material.“We are allowing under-construction works in non- affected areas in Pune district, including non-containment zones in the city,” said district collector Naval Kishore Ram. He added the move was aimed at discouraging migrant workers from returning home.Suhas Merchant, president, Credai, said, “Although the offices in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will still be closed, the sites will open even as we have to apply for permissions with local offices for engineers and supervisors to reach the site. There is also a confusion on how we are going to procure raw material, without which we cant restart any construction activity.”According to Merchant, there are around 10,000 projects (small, large capacity) underway in city’s Baner, Pashan, Balewadi, PMRDA (Bhugaon, Mhalunge and Sus road) and in PCMC areas.“We want to complete several of the work onsite, on the basement, mezzanines before the rainy season and hopefully within the next two to three days, we should have clarity on where we stand with more than 10,000 projects underway,” he said.According to the order issued by Ram, health screening of labourers should be done twice a week while only those workers who are physically fit will be permitted to work. The order states that all pre-monsoon related works including flood protection, waterproofing, construction of retaining walls and backfilling etc have been allowed at the construction sites in the non-containment zones.Shrikant Paranjape of Paranjape Constructions, said, “We are ready to begin work tomorrow provided my engineers can reach the sites. As of now, it looks difficult with some parts of the city under the red zone, though our work sites are all outside Pune, we will begin work as soon as we have clarity over the issue of raw materials and goods reaching the site.”Some of the other developers and builders, plan to take some days to take stock of what is in store.“We plan to do a formal assessment of the post COVID infrastructure, for with the new orders allowing the migrant labourers also to travel back to their homes, we need to find out how many are there, only then can we begin,” Ranjit Naik Navare of Naik Navare Associates.Ram said,“ We have received many complaints from the labour camps that they were frustrated sitting idle with no work and no pay. These two factors made us open up the interstate travel permissions, and also the permission to open the construction sites where we are sure social distancing will be followed with work only within the sites and no one allowed from outside.”“We have also allowed goods, raw materials to the site,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/builders-raise-doubts-about-procurement-of-raw-material-in-pune/story-WOaqiAY7dBvhlAKJpJVdiO.html
04-05-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Despite doorstep service, people still venture out, risking the life of others, says Abhijeet Gaikwad||Abhijeet Gaikwad (30) is a chemist who runs Kushi Medicals and Surgicals in Thergaon not only keeps his shop open for walk-in customers but also ensures that medicines are delivered to the doorstep. He works at the store till 2 pm and then home delivers medicines till 8pm in the Pimpri-Chinchwad. He speaks to HT about his role in times of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) pandemicWhat exactly is your role in this crisis?My duty is to provide medicines to the needy. In lockdown, I have doubled up my duty. I am operating the store and I am also delivering medicines at home.How does your day begin and roll out?Being a chemist, my priority is going to the shop daily. Sometimes my family members object to it due to the fear of Covid-19, but I cannot sit at home during the time of crisis. The police have given us permission to keep the store open till 2 pm, so from 9 am to 2 pm I am at the shop. I have shared my phone number in various WhatsApp groups for home delivery. Most residents send a copy of the prescription on WhatsApp and then I deliver the medicines at home for free. I do deliveries till 8 pm. The orders I have received are mostly from diabetic and high/ low blood pressure patients.What precautions are you taking?I am taking general precautions like wearing mask, washing hands and taking a bath after reaching home. Other then these, while delivering the medicines, we prefer online payment. If they are giving us cash, I prefer to take money in an envelope to avoid hand touch. I follow all government guideline and check the prescription before delivering medicines.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune?The Pune administration is doing very good job, be it the police, doctors or even vegetable, fruit vendors and chemist. However, there is a lack of awareness and people are still coming out of their homes on the pretext of buying medicines, but they only want to roam on the street. It is because of this that we have to shut shops at 2 pm. People, who are educated, also do not understand the importance of staying at home. Another thing is that people are panic buying. Everything is available at the doorstep including groceries, vegetables, medicines, milk and other essential items, despite this people still venture out of homes putting everyone at risk.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?The Pune district administration is doing a commendable job. I don’t see any gaps in health and relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/despite-doorstep-service-of-essential-items-people-still-venture-out-risking-everyone-s-life/story-o7znAu9C69KJbrtyio3JLN.html
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chaos in Chandigarh as 2,000 Himachalis gather for evacuation||The evacuation of residents of Himachal Pradesh from the tricity began on a chaotic note as social distancing norm was ignored, while several people were denied boarding amid the curfew in Chandigarh.A day after Himachal Pradesh government announced they were running special buses to bring home those stranded in the tricity, thousands gathered outside Himachal Bhawan in Sector 27 with huge anticipation. In fact, the crowd became so massive, even in the wee hours, that HP administration had to call the police to control it. Thereafter, it was decided that students and women would be given a priority, dashing the hopes of many others.Of the 2,000 or so people gathered at the spot, only 1,314 were evacuated.In a statement, Jai Ram Thakur, chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, said, “As many as 1,314 persons stranded in the tricity were brought back to the home state in 51 buses. These included 609 from Kangra, 335 from Hamirpur, 132 from Una and 238 from Chamba.”Bihari Lal, who came to Sector 28 from Nayagaon around 5.30 am was denied boarding by authorities. “I came with great difficulty with my son and wife. It was raining so they asked us to sit in the hall. There were hundreds of others inside, and as the day progressed, more and more people began to come,” he said.Suman Kumari, 50, who came from Sector 19 on foot, said, “We were asked to stand outside when they announced that the facility was only for females and students. However, the notice released by HP government did not mention so.”“An argument broke out between people after which the police also resorted to violent means of controlling the situation. Some of us who were making videos of the episode were stopped from doing so by the police,” said Bihari Lal.“It is pertinent to mention that Chandigarh has been designated as red zone by the Government of India while most Himachal districts are either in orange or green zones. The manner in which social distancing was ignored here will lead to a sharp increase in cases in HP,” said Shubham Thakur, an engineer based in IT park from Kangra.In a statement, the Himachal CM said that people coming home particularly from the red or orange zones must ensure that while remaining in home quarantine, they maintain social distancing even with family members.Omkar Chand Sharma, nodal officer, Himachal Pradesh, refused to comment on the matter whereas Sanjay Kundu, principal secretary to CM said that all protocols mandated by ministry of home affairs (MHA) were followed and communications to respective states and the UT were sent out. He also said that HP has clarified that only those who are stranded and in distress will be evacuated from now. DSP Charanjeet, Chandigarh Police, said, “No one had expected that such a large crowd would gather. The HP government had called for Chandigarh police at 6 am, but many people had come even before that. Chandigarh Police later had to enforce social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chaos-in-chandigarh-as-2-000-himachalis-gather-for-evacuation/story-eKawSPW8W4C5VzREryZlTJ.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s Sassoon hospital gets ICMR nod for blood plasma therapy||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given permission to Pune-based Sassoon General Hospital to carry out plasma therapy, offering hopes to those Covid-19 patients who are critical, according to a senior health official. The ICMR nod to government-run Sassoon hospital came on Saturday, when city’s death count of Covid-19 positive patients crossed 100 with 68 of them at Sassoon hospital itself.Sassoon hospital is now the second such facility in the state after Mumbai to explore the therapy on critically ill Covid-19 patients. In Mumbai, a patient died even after plasma therapy earlier last week.“With the permission from ICMR granted, we will take further steps in terms of the therapy in the next two to three days,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee.It was former Sassoon hospital dean Dr Ajay Chandanwale who had sent the proposal to ICMR requesting permission for plasma therapy, accordingly the required equipments were also brought to the hospital.To give plasma therapy to a positive Covid-19 patient, coverage under insurance and also Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) permission is a must. After these clearances were obtained, the way to start the procedure has been cleared.A city-based firm Avinash Bhosale infrastructure limited (ABIL ) group last week donated Rs 28 lakh to Sassoon hospital to buy equipments required to extract plasma from the blood of a recovered patient.“We have received all the necessary approvals as per the protocol and soon the clinical trials for plasma therapy will start on Covid-19 positive patients. The process of making a list of donors who have recovered from the disease and are willing to donate plasma is being made. The samples will be sent for testing to National Institute of Virology (NIV) for antibodies against virus,” said Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram.According to Salunkhe, the administration has prepared a list of donors and a message is being communicated to them.“We have prepared a list of around 35 probable donors who were cured, recovered and discharged from the Naidu Hospital earlier in March. Our counsellors and social workers are in continuous touch with them, their entire screening and checkup will be done and then its process will start. The first transmission has not yet happened in Pune and only Sassoon hospital has got the approval from the ICMR. In the next couple of days the things will get clearer and the actual process of the plasma therapy will start in the city,” said Salunkhe||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-hospital-gets-icmr-nod-for-blood-plasma-therapy/story-A9gi9mLrM0HMzcqM8DhDML.html
04-05-2020||City||Contaminated water in Ludhiana’s Prem Nagar colony a threat to lives of residents||Residents of Prem Nagar Colony in the Meharban area here have been living in a miserable condition for the past two months as polluted water continues to stagnate and flow into the residential area, endangering their lives.The residents of the colony, with a population of over 5,000, had first raised the issue in March.Mahesh Makkar, who runs a hosiery unit in the area, said, “Earlier, the source of the contaminated water was considered to be the dyeing units in the area. However, the units are now closed due to lockdown and residents have not been able detect the source of polluted water.”“We now suspected that the source of the dirty water is choked sewers. Stagnant water is posing a serious threat to the safety of the people. Foul smell continues to emanate all the time from area. Though we have not carried out any test, but as the water is discolouring and eroding the walls of houses, it definitely has chemicals,” commented Makkar.“I am going to send a complaint to the chairman of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) requesting him to find the source of contamination and take necessary action,” he said.“So far, we have not allowed dyeing units to operate, so chemical waste discharge is not possible. I will depute an officer to visit the area and necessary action will be taken after the area is checked,” said PPCB superintendent engineer Sandeep Behl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/contaminated-water-in-ludhiana-s-prem-nagar-colony-a-threat-to-lives-of-residents/story-G5i4qt7OCLHTfLwOMngKiM.html
04-05-2020||City||Bike-borne miscreants stab insurance agent outside his house in Ludhiana||Three unidentified assailants stabbed an insurance agent in front of his house in Bachittar Nagar of Jamalpur area on Sunday morning. The incident was captured in a closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera installed near the house.The victim has been identified as Uday Kant, 52.The CCTV footage showed three men on a motorcycle stopping near his house. Two of them talk to the victim briefly and as soon as he turns to go inside the house, they stab him with sharp-edged weapons.On hearing Uday Kant’s screams, his family came out and rushed him to a nearby hospital, which referred him to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.Avdhesh Kumar, son of the injured, said that around 5.30am when his father was standing outside the house, a bike stopped near him. Three men on a bike came near his father and talked to him for a few seconds before stabbing him and fleeing the spot.Jamalpur station house officer (SHO) inspector Harjinder Singh said that prima facie it appears that the accused are known to the victim and the matter seems to be of some old rivalry as the accused did not snatch anything. The police will record the statement of the victim soon, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bike-borne-miscreants-stab-insurance-agent-outside-his-house-in-ludhiana/story-mLRBzphQafKFnhhuOjb1DP.html
04-05-2020||Pune||Pune may have 9,642 Covid-19 positive cases by May 31, says civic chief||The city may report at least 9,600 Covid-19 positive cases by the end of this month, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.To house Covid-19 positive patients, the civic body is now planning to turn its institutional quarantine centres into isolation centres, where positive patients can receive treatment instead of quarantining the suspected cases.“We are estimating about 9,642 positive cases by May end and so, we are preparing for the same. Currently, we have ten institutional quarantine centres where suspected patients who have come in close contact with positive patients are being kept. This is like a rolling stock where suspected patients are replaced every 14 days, Gaikwad said.As of April 30, the civic body found a total of 15,909 contacts of positive patients in various areas which includes family members or neighbours or people that might have come in contact with the person who was tested positive in the last 14 days.Out of these 15,909 suspects, 5,507 were found to be high risk and 10,402 were found to be low risk.The high-risk contacts include those who have other health ailments like diabetes and hypertension. Pregnant women and senior citizens are also considered a high risk that needs institutional quarantine.Currently, the civic body has a capacity of 2,085 beds at the 10 institutional quarantine centres. Quarantine centres stop the spread of the virus in cases where the person is not yet detected positive, but might turn positive later.“The institutional quarantine will be turned into isolation centres for the treatment of patients. Creating proper institutional quarantine also takes a lot of effort right from arranging beds, arranging food and also toilet facilities,” Gaikwad added.So, far at least 5,000 high-risk contacts needed institutional quarantine, the civic body currently has 2,000 beds at the quarantine centres.“We are focusing more on providing hospitality to suspected patients rather than completely focus on treating the positive patients due to the sheer number. We have to provide food, toilet facility and beds to all of them. Right from providing toothbrush to ensuring that all the basic needs are fulfilled, my staff is completely dedicated to that. Logistics is a major challenge for us right now,” Gaikwad said.He further added that the civic body will not follow the revised Indian council of medical research (ICMR) guidelines which call for home quarantine of suspected patients.“We are doing around 1,000 tests per day which means 1,000 people need to be housed as they are suspected patients till their test reports come out. Earlier, the high-risk contacts were being quarantined at institutional centres for 14 days which will now be discontinued. These people will be asked to continue quarantine at home,” he added.According to Gaikwad, the civic body is looking at resolving this problem by taking over marriage halls and appointing central kitchen teams where fresh food can be provided.The civic administration is yet to take over the Balewadi sports complex hostel which will have a capacity of over 10,000 beds.“We recently received over 1,000 mattresses, we have to place the beds in a way that we can remove them after a month or two once the pandemic is over and we vacate the premises,” he said.The civic body claims that 100 percent of the city’s populace has been surveyed as of April 30, and about 50 percent of the population is being resurveyed for precautionary measures through door-to-door surveys. On an average of about 2, 00,000 residents have been visited daily by PMC officials since the last 10 days.Institutional quarantine centres:The ten institutional quarantine centres have a total of 2,085 beds:1. Sinhgad Girls Hostel Panhala (IQ): 3502. Sinhgad Inst, Raigad Hostel: 2853. SM Joshi College, Hadapsar: 1204. Trinity College Hostel, Kondhwa: 1505. Sinhgad College, Kondhwa: 1506. COEP College Hostel, Shivajinagar: 3007. Haji Gulam Azam Educational Trust, Camp: 1008. GPP: 1509. Industrial Training Institute, Aundh: 12010. Sant Dnyaneshwar Hostel, Yerawada: 360For every 2.6 high-risk contacts, Pune has one bed at the institutional quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-may-have-9-642-covid-19-positive-cases-by-may-31-says-civic-chief/story-MfCYHOCzYVYOENEqD5urGL.html
04-05-2020||Mumbai||Man inquires about missing food order, loses ₹2.25 lakh||A 40-year-old businessman from Borivli who had ordered food products online was scammed of Rs 2.25 lakh when he shared his bank details with a fake customer care executive. The complainant had called on a fake helpline number which he found via a search engine, to ask about two bhujiya packets worth Rs 400 that he had ordered but not received.A first information report (FIR) was registered by the Borivli police station on Saturday and the case is being investigated by the state cyber police.According to the Borivli police, on April 22, the complainant had ordered groceries from a retail website. While he received all the products, he did not get two bhujiya packets worth Rs 400 which he had ordered.On May 1 the businessman searched for a helpline number of the grocery website online and got a fake number which had been uploaded by a cyber-fraudster. When he called on the number, the fraudster asked the businessman to give his bank account number, registered mobile number, and the three-digit CVV of his ATM card.The fraudster then sent him a link and asked him to forward it to another mobile number. He then asked the complainant to pass on his UPI pin and the subsequent OTP received. Within two hours, four transactions were made from the complainant’s account and a total of Rs 2.25 lakh was withdrawn. Ritesh Bhatia a cybercrime investigator said, “The fraudster was successful in setting up the UPI account on his device by convincing the victim to share his banking details. The fraudster also had the card details and hence, was successful in withdrawing such large amounts within seconds. It’s surprising to know that people still don’t hesitate to share OTP s and CVV numbers.”Harish Baijal, deputy inspector general of state cyber police, said that cyber fraud has been on the rise during the lockdown as more people are shopping online. “There has been a spurt in such cases and fraudsters are adopting new modus operandi to dupe people during the lockdown. People need to be careful. We keep issuing advisories and create awareness through our Twitter handle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-inquires-about-missing-food-order-loses-2-22-lakh/story-QPSvRRXEoG4Ncg7rilEIeL.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi Police comes to the rescue of a doctor on duty||It’s a nightmare if your car breaks down on your way to the hospital! Now imagine the plight if you are a doctor who is out amid Covid-19 lockdown to reach the hospital to treat patients. At a time when repair shops are all shut, and no other on road assistance is available either, this isn’t a good situation to be in. READ| Virat Kohli, Ishant Sharma laud Delhi Police for work during lockdownAnd this is what Dr Mansha Zarabi Kaul had to face recently. The Greater Kailash-based medic’s car broke down on a morning when she had to go to a hospital. Feel helpless, she decided to call Delhi Police for assistance. Recalling the incident, Kaul says, “My car broke down and I had to reach my hospital in Indirapuram and I was clueless what to do! Everything is shut due to lockdown... Then I called the police station and the cops on the other end of the phone were quick to respond and send help. They even arranged a mechanic to get a spare part.” Applauding the help she received in just the nick of time, Kaul adds, “The efforts of the police personnel were commendable in helping me fix my vehicle. I feel great and expect them to continue offering such help to other citizens as well.” READ | With senior citizens left to fend for themselves, Delhi Police step inThough it seems as just another incident in the city where a car is broken and is repaired within a few minutes, it wasn’t easy in this case. Som Nath Paruthi, SHO of Greater Kailash Police Station, says, “First we had to locate the house of a mechanic in our nearby premises, and then took him to the house of Dr Kaul. The toughest part was to find out the spare part for the car that was needed to repair it. After some efforts we managed to get it and felt happy to help a doctor, who are the real heroes of our country. It felt good when she WhatsApped us later thanking us; it was a beautiful gesture from her side.” Well, it’s true when they say that real heroes don’t wear capes! Author tweets @ruchikagarg271||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-police-comes-to-the-rescue-of-a-doctor-on-duty/story-RbwTGvs7c3fuhST8Qgkt5O.html
04-05-2020||Delhi||A shot of life: Delhi Police drive expecting mothers to hospitals||Amid lockdown, Delhi Police has been successfully ‘delivering good news’ to city folks. So far, about 178 cases have been reported where the cops helped in transporting expecting mothers to hospitals, while ensuring their safely en route.Pankaj Kumar Sharma, a resident of Badarpur, who is now a father to a baby girl, says, “I dialled several helpline numbers when my wife started experiencing labour pain, but couldn’t get through any one of them. Then, out of sheer panic I rang up the Delhi Police and the personnel reached our house within 20 minutes to take us to a hospital. I’m grateful to them for having saved the life of my wife and child.” It’s the PCR vans — used during patrolling to ensure that social distancing is being followed — that are acting as emergency ambulances to save lives of pregnant women who have gone into labour during this time. “We are trying our best to save precious lives. We have been successful in helping out all the 178 cases we have handled so far. All mothers and babies are doing fine,” says Sharat Kumar Sinha, DCP, PCR, adding that during the coronavirus pandemic, when movement is restricted, people are looking up to the police for help. “In the time of lockdown, the movement of private vehicles is restricted and the ambulances are mostly busy in handling the patients affected by coronavirus. In such times, our PCR vans are doubling up as ambulances to take expecting mothers to the hospital. We usually allow one family member to accompany the patient so that they feel reassured, and the mandate of social distancing is also respected,” adds Sinha. Heena Khatun, a resident of Maharani Bagh, is now a mother to a girl. “When my sister-in-law started experiencing labour pains, we couldn’t think of anything and called the police. They were quick to respond to our call, the PCR arrived at 2 o’clock in the night to assist us, and took us to a hospital. The baby and mother are healthy, thanks to the Police,” says a relative of Khatun, on condition of anonymity. Read: Just 14 robberies as Delhi’s crime rate dips in lockdownSometimes, the nearest hospital is only 15km far, and the police covers that distance rapidly owing to lesser traffic on the roads due to lockdown. “We are always there to help out people. A woman in labour pain is especially critical, and therefore providing help in such cases is always a priority for us... Most of the calls we receive are well past midnight and we respond to calls from remote locations too. We are only doing our duty,” shares Sinha. Author tweets @FizzyBuddha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-shot-of-life-delhi-police-drive-expecting-mothers-to-hospitals/story-cH2347MSxxgfg5TQifag5O.html
