05-05-2020||City||How apps developed by IT department helping maintain social distancing in HP||To facilitate people of the state during lockdown and curfew, the IT department played a vital role to provide contactless services and to maintain social distancing even within the government offices.The department has developed and implemented various IT applications to facilitate residents and administration during the coronavirus lockdown.The idea of these apps is to maintain social distancing and contactless services amongst the public and even with government officials. The government at various levels is using the technology platforms provided by the IT department for gathering information, monitoring and decision-making in an efficient manner said Rohan Chand, director of the IT department.To provide efficient and digitised facilities to people, Covid curfew ePass application was developed. This application has been beneficial in reducing physical interaction and applicants can get e-pass online through a link sent via SMS. So far 4,75,529 applications have been received and about 1,57,990 e-Passes have been issued after scrutiny and verification.To facilitate the interstate movement of HP residents stranded in other states and likewise people of other states stranded in Himachal Pradesh, now such persons can also apply for e-Pass at http://covidepass.hp.gov.in. Officials said that Covid curfew ePass has proved a boon to a large number of persons stranded in different parts of the country.To further strengthen this, state nodal officer and state joint nodal officer along with other nodal officers have been appointed to collect, collate and compile the data pertaining to the requests received for interstate movement and formulation of a comprehensive plan, devise protocol and facilitate the movement of people.For maintaining the record of quarantined persons, a health worker has been assigned to each quarantined person, to track the violation of quarantined location by Covid-19 suspects and generate alerts in case of violations, the department has developed the Covid Quarantine App (http://covid19.hp.gov.in).Corona Mukt Himachal Mobile App is also part of this system which is to be installed on the mobile phone of a quarantined person. It has the facility of locking the quarantine location, so that alerts are generated in case of violations. Besides this, the training of health officials (NHM, DSOs and BMOs) was done by the IT department at districts and block levels through video conference. The data of about 445 quarantined persons has already been entered.To provide a common place for all government orders, advisories and media bulletins to avoid any misinformation or rumour, the department has developed ‘Covid Government Orders’ available on http://covidorders.hp.gov.in.An application has also been developed for monitoring law and order related issues across the state. An application has been developed to monitor the law and order related issues across the state. The application named ‘Law and Order Monitoring and Reporting System’ provides facility to superintendents of police and police stations for uploading law and order related information, as desired by the Union ministry of home affairs and consolidate the same on the portal and make the same available to the state government, director-general of police, SPs and SHOs.Each police station is required to report law and order related status on the portal four times a day and six-hourly report daily containing the number of violations of lockdown/curfew, arrests made, vehicles seized, FIRs registered, fines imposed and law and order incidents reported including preventive actions taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-apps-developed-by-it-department-helping-maintain-social-distancing-in-hp/story-DmRCKowejnfY2CDPOen14H.html
05-05-2020||City||State govt failed to conduct screening, testing of people entering HP: Cong||Expressing concern over the two fresh cases of coronavirus in the state, Himachal Pradesh Congress president Kuldeep Rathore on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government claiming that it is not conducting proper screening and scanning of the people who are returning to Himachal from other states.While addressing a press conference here, Rathore questioned the data presented by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video-conferencing last week. “If collecting information by sending Asha and Anganwadi workers to every household is screening, then it is a very surprising claim by him,” he said.“As per the information, out of 70 lakh people in the state, only 7,000 have been tested, which is only 0.1% of the total population,” the state Congress chief said, adding that the state does not has enough number of testing kits then how can the state government claim Himachal is corona-free.Accusing Jai Ram of misguiding the state residents, Rathore said that we are worried about the Covid-19 spread in the state. “We need a basic structure to fight the virus,” he said.Hitting out at the central government, Rathore said that the Centre can make arrangements for evacuating around 15 lakhs non-resident Indians (NRIs) from different countries but it cannot make arrangements to send poor people and labourers, who are stranded within the country, home. None of the NRIs were screened or tested, he claimed.He also demanded the Centre to issue white papers of the PM-Cares Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-govt-failed-to-conduct-screening-testing-of-people-entering-hp-cong/story-V1sElIVg21MejkRXCrSsHM.html
05-05-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad high court reserves verdict on Ghazipur MP’s PIL on ‘azaan’||The Allahabad high court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by BSP MP from Ghazipur Afzal Ansari seeking lifting of ban on ‘azaan’ (call to prayer) from mosques in Ghazipur. After hearing the counsel for the petitioner and the state counsel, a division bench comprising justice Shashi Kant Gupta and justice Ajit Kumar ordered to reserve the judgment. Earlier, appearing the petitioner’s counsel Syed Safdar Ali Kazmi argued that there was no specific order in the central or state government guidelines to prohibit azaan from mosques. Therefore, the arbitrary decision taken by the district administration of Ghazipur was illegal. The state government through additional advocate general Manish Goyal submitted its stand before the court stating that religious activity of any religious group through loudspeaker had been restricted across UP in view of the guidelines of lockdown imposed to check spread of Covid-19.The govt also said since Ghazipur district had been declared a corona hotspot, as per the guidelines issued by union ministry of home affairs on March 24, 2020 certain restrictions were imposed there. The state government in its affidavit also submitted a list of instances filed disclosing how people assembled in mosques in Ghazipur following a call through ‘azaan’ and the administration had a tough time in controlling the situation.In the PIL petition filed on April 28, the MP had alleged that all of a sudden from April 24 onwards it was found that azaan from mosques was prohibited by local administration of Ghazipur and police and that if anyone dared to make azaan, they would be booked under National Security Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-high-court-reserves-verdict-on-ghazipur-mp-s-pil-on-azaan/story-LgEWWKnU5VLsYo49QHlefO.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Appointment of OSD to ex-Akali minister as commission member sparks row||The appointment of Ravee Ahluwalia, who was officer on special duty (OSD) to former Akali minister Surjit Singh Rakhra during the previous government, as member of the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, has sparked a row in the ruling Congress in the state. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur besides some Congress MLAs have raised objection to the appointment that was notified by principal secretary (social security and women & child development) Raji P Shrivastva on Monday. What has shocked the Congress workers is the fact that Ravee had actively campaigned against Amarinder’s son Raninder Singh who lost from the Samana assembly seat in 2012 to Rakhra. Later, as OSD to Rakhra, he also remained in the forefront of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)’s campaign against Preneet Kaur when she lost in the 2014 parliamentary polls. He was OSD to Rakhra till 2017. “I don’t approve of this appointment. I am surprised how and why it was done. Ravee has worked against Raninder and the Congress. How we can reward him with a post. Our workers are demoralised over this. I will take up the matter with the CM,” said Preneet. Usually, the nomination of those from the Patiala constituency for government posts is made on the recommendation of Preneet, who consults party MLAs and workers.Congress’ Samana MLA Rajinder Singh, who upped the ante, against the move said, “This appointment has certainly demoralised our party workers. I am sure this was not brought to the notice of the CM. I will approach him.”Rajinder Singh defeated Rakhra in the 2017 polls.Rajpura MLA of the ruling party, Hardial Singh Kamboj, also questioned the decision. “Everyone knows that as Rakhra’s OSD, Ravee worked against our party and remained in the forefront of the SAD campaign against Raninder and Preneet Kaur. I wonder who rewarded him with this post. The appointment certainly needs to be probed as no one from our parliamentary segment has recommended his name.” When contacted, Ahluwalia said he left association with Rakhra even before the 2017 elections. “My appointment was made purely on the basis of merit. I applied for the post advertised in November 2019 and they finalised my name by assessing my bio data. Moreover, no major remunerations come with this post,” he said.The department officials said the terms, conditions and perks of the commission chairperson and members will be notified later as per budgetary provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/appointment-of-osd-to-ex-akali-minister-as-commission-member-sparks-row/story-ok4Y5nvACXozKSwhH3XAsO.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||57% of Mumbai’s containment zones are congested: BMC data||More than half of the city’s containment zones are congested spaces consisting majorly of informal settlements. An analysis of the data published by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on its website reveals that 1,179 of the 2,083 or about 57% containment zones in the city are congested, as identified by the BMC. Over 400 of the 2,083 containment zones have been removed from the list, an official said. In 16 of the total 24 wards, more than 50% of the containment zones are congested, while six wards have containment zones where 70% of the areas are congested. The civic body defines containment zones as “places where positive (cases) have been detected and that surrounding area have been sealed to protect everyone inside and outside from further spread (of Covid-19).” While it has not defined congested spaces in exact terms, a look at the data shows that it consists mostly of informal settlements. A BMC ward officer from central Mumbai, on condition of anonymity, said, “The definition [of congested areas] includes both, places which are highly populated and places that are also not easily accessible making it all the more difficult to impose containment measures.”According to the data, the L ward or Kurla, which is a largely crowded area, has 233 containment zones, of which 193 or 83% are congested areas. Similarly, H-East ward which consists of Bandra’s slum pockets has 135 containment zones, of which, 70% are congested spaces.In A ward (which includes areas like Fort), seven to nine containment zones have been identified as congested pockets.Pankaj Joshi, executive director of the Urban Design Research Institute (UDRI) said, “High-density and indoor crowding in informal settlements makes social distancing impossible in Mumbai. In all, 80% of the informal settlements live in houses that are less than 10 square metres.”A 2016 survey done during the revision of the city’s Development Plan (DP) also found that the per capita residential area in the city is 8.3 square meters. About 42% of the city’s population lives in slums occupying only 33.96 sq km or just 8% of Mumbai’s total area.“Slum-rehabilitation has to be looked at more holistically post the lockdown with more models of development like self-housing,” Joshi added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/57-of-mumbai-s-containment-zones-are-congested-bmc-data/story-QulXw7TMsh2gRv9i79amTK.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hizb militant held in Doda, arms, ammo recovered||Security forces on Tuesday nabbed a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist in J&K’s Doda district.“Rashtriya Rifles, 33 Battalion of the CRPF and SOG Doda, in a joint operation, arrested Tanveer Ahmed, 27, of Gundana’s Sheikhpura village this morning,” said a senior police officer.“One pistol and 10 rounds were recovered from his possession. Initial interrogation revealed that he was previously associated with Haroon (terrorist of the same outfit, who was killed in January) and at present, with Tahir of Pulwama and Masood of Doda (both Hizbul terrorists active in Doda),” the officer added. There has been a sudden spurt in terror attacks and infiltration bids in Jammu and Kashmir.At least three CRPF men were killed on Monday evening after terrorists attacked a party in Handwara town of Kupwara district. Two days before that, a colonel, a major, two soldiers and a police sub-inspector were killed in action in Handwara.Security forces had on April 17 eliminated two Hizbul terrorists, who had hacked a special police officer to death and critically injured another on April 13 in Dachhan area of Kishtwar.On April 6, five commandos belonging to elite Special Forces lost their lives along the Line of Control in Keran sector in an intense close-quarter fight with as many terrorists, who had infiltrated into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hizb-militant-held-in-doda-arms-ammo-recovered/story-JXsogseycIO9gnXOsmEDrL.html
05-05-2020||City||Stay home, I’m always there for you: Himachal Pradesh CM||Urging people of the state to stay at home, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said he was always there to look after their needs. “We all will together defeat the coronavirus,” Thakur said, adding that people, though not used to such lockdowns, have supported the government in its every decision.The chief minister said that he was continuously monitoring the situation and holding daily conferences with the DCs and police chiefs of the district to ensure that no Himachali, including daily wagers, poor and labourers, faces any problem during the lockdown. Meanwhile, rural development minister Virendar Kanwar said the government has exempted local labourers engaged in harvesting of crops by farmers from curfew passes. He said automobile workshops are open for any emergent repair and maintenance. ‘State committed towards welfare of labourers’ The HP government is committed to ensuring welfare of labourers and several initiatives have been taken to bring labour reforms in the state, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said.He was presiding over a presentation on labour reforms made by the labour and employment department here.The CM said amid lockdown, daily inspections were being carried out across the state by field functionaries of the labour department to prevent exploitation of labour.As many as 1,373 such inspections have been carried out in the state, said Thakur, adding that more than 90% of the employers have paid wages/salaries to their employees.He said that complaints regarding non-payment of wages to the workers were being viewed seriously.Thakur said that monetary help of ₹2,000 each was being provided to the workers registered with State Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board for the months of March and April.He said deputy labour commissioner has been designated as nodal officer for Covid-19 to redress the grievances of stranded migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-home-i-m-always-there-for-you-himachal-pradesh-cm/story-Xw9AsJPoppVPAzxlWh517J.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||With relaxations kicking in, Chandigarh residents should act responsibly says industrialist-philanthropist RK Saboo||Industrialist-philanthropist RK Saboo on Tuesday welcomed the UT administration’s decision to open up major parts of the city. “The city being in the red zone, we thought the curfew with all restrictions would continue. However, the UT administration under the leadership of VP Singh Badnore took the bold and forward-looking decision and opened up major parts of the city. Even the economic aspect has been duly considered by allowing the factories to open,” he said.Now it is for the citizens to show that they are worthy of these relaxations, he said, noting that Chandigarh is a city of educated people, and it is the “individual responsibility of each one of us to act in a disciplined manner”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-relaxations-kicking-in-chandigarh-residents-should-act-responsibly-says-industrialist-philanthropist-rk-saboo/story-mTQm0pgpcwJvtYHnb8GkdM.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Shramik Special trains ferry 7,000 migrants from Maharashtra||More than 7,000 migrant workers have travelled to their home states from Maharashtra in Shramik Special trains since Saturday. The trains are operating from multiple locations in Maharashtra and are going to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar.“Trains are being organised as per the demand raised by the state government. The state government is taking permission from other states and only after the permission is received, the train departs,’’ said a senior railway official on condition of anonymity. Shramik Special trains have 24 coaches. Each coach carries 54 workers, who are seated so that the middle berths remain vacant to maintain social distancing.So far, from Nashik road station, 847 migrant workers have travelled to Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and 314 have gone to Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. From Bhiwandi station, 1,104 workers have travelled to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and 700 have gone to Jaipur, in Rajasthan. From Nagpur station, 977 workers have travelled to Lucknow and 1,200 travelled to Lucknow from Akola. From Vasai Road station, 1,200 workers have travelled to Gorakhpur. On Tuesday evening, 1,200 workers set off from Kalyan to Darbhanga in Bihar.To get a seat on a Shramik Special train , workers must submit an application to the district collector’s office and have medical certificates to prove they are Covid-negative. The workers selected for travel are taken to the railway stations in buses organised by the state.Preference is being given to those with families, the elderly and those who have journeyed on foot. While there is a ticket fee, Railways authorities said 85% of the ticket fee would be borne by the Railways and 15% would be borne by the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Centre to bear the cost of the workers’ tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shramik-specialtrains-ferry-7-000-migrants-from-maharashtra/story-FxwjmxbziUBJyFzIHXbfRL.html
05-05-2020||City||KDMC asks residents working in Mumbai to stay back||Residents of Kalyan, Dombivli and Ulhasnagar who are travelling to Mumbai every day for work will not be allowed to enter the city limits from May 8. They have been asked to stay back in Mumbai till May 17 in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19.Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation recorded 11 Covid positive cases on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 224.“I respect and salute those who are part of essential or emergency services and travel to Mumbai regularly for work. However, among the 224 Covid positive cases in Kalyan, 73 are those who work in these sectors and 28 of their relatives have also been affected. We want to check such cases and stop the spread of the virus,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Suryavanshi said they are forced to bar their entry from May 8 to May 17 for the safety of residents and the family members of those working in Mumbai.“Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has agreed to provide facilities to stay in hotels for those under healthcare services, however, those who are working in the banking or other sectors have been given two days’ time to make provisions for their stay. We are taking this step after keeping in mind the safety of the family members and neighbours of those who are offering such services,” added Suryavanshi. He said the residents who work in Mumbai will have to submit their details on the email ID given on the KDMC website.Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) too has decided to do the same.“All those who are working in Mumbai need to give details of their name, address, office address and contact details and submit it to the municipal corporation as soon as possible,” said Sudhakar Deshmukh, UMC commissioner. UMC has 16 Covid positive patients. Activists, politicians happy with decisionFor the past one week, positive cases in Kalyan have been increasing and politicians and activists had demanded that those going to Mumbai given accommodation there.“Officials have observed that the cases in the past few days were of those who are either in close contact of positive patients or are travelling to Mumbai for work. To curb the spread of the virus, it is essential to stop people from travelling so that fewer people get infected. KDMC has asked those who are part of essential and emergency services to share their details. Officials have two days’ time for making arrangements,” said Pramod (Raju) Patil, MLA, Kalyan.Activist Sreenivas Ghanekar said the KDMC must have consulted the state government and BMC before announcing this decision. “After getting the list of people travelling to Mumbai every day, the authorities will be able to ensure accommodation facility. The step will also help figure out if the Covid-19 spread is actually from those working outside,” said Ghanekar.A nurse, who lives in Dombivli and works in a government hospital in Mumbai, is happy with the decision but is worried about the facilities she will get.“I welcome the decision even though I will not meet my family. At least, I will be happy that they are safe. Most of us working in Mumbai travel by the same public buses, making us more vulnerable. I am only concerned about the accommodation given to us,” said the nurse, travels to work every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-asks-residents-working-in-mumbai-to-stay-back/story-vrdNLVzgKq4RNrjppYd0gI.html
05-05-2020||City||Shops, liquor vends in Una sealed for violation of social distancing norms||Una deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar on Tuesday inspected bazaars across the district and sealed shops and liquor vends where social distancing norms were not being followed.He carried out inspections in Ghaluwal, Saloh, Panjawar and Gagret markets and told shopkeepers to keep goods inside the shops or face action.He also directed to remove the vehicles parked haphazardly in market areas. DC also asked shopkeepers to download the Aarogya Setu App.Six youths found roaming unnecessarily on bikes in the Gagret area were sent to institutional quarantine. “Any carelessness and negligence can prove dangerous and thus the district will again be declared a red zone,” he added.He asked owners of all liquor vends to display the rate list to avoid overcharging.Later in the day, DC visited the border areas at Pandoga and Gagret and interacted with the staff deployed on the inter-state barrier. He directed the personnel on the border to screen every person entering the state and inform the health authorities if any person is found with flu-like symptoms so that their proper medical examination could be conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-liquor-vends-in-una-sealed-for-violation-of-social-distancing-norms/story-TYMVk1U0pSY885x6yxSq8M.html
05-05-2020||City||KDMC mayor dons nurse’s uniform, visits Dombivli hospital||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) mayor Vinita Rane on Tuesday donned the nurse’s uniform and visited Shastri Nagar civil hospital, a Covid-19 facility, in Dombivli.Rane, a former nurse, had sought permission from the KDMC commissioner to allow her to work among Covid-19 patients.This came a few days after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) mayor Kishori Pednekar put on the nurse’s uniform and interacted with the healthcare employees at Nair Hospital in Mumbai.Rane has worked as a nurse at Nair Hospital for 32 years before joining politics.After the civic chief’s nod, Rane visited the Shastri Nagar civil hospital on Tuesday as a nurse.She wore the personal protection equipment (PPE) and went to various wards. “On my first day in a Covid-19 hospital, I learnt how to use the PPE kit. I went to all the wards to get first-hand knowledge of the situation. I am also here to boost the spirit of the medical staff, who have been working endlessly,” said Rane.“This is a voluntary service that I will continue during my free time,” she added.Last month, Rane had written to the KDMC commissioner after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s call all retired medical personnel to lend a helping hand to curb the novel coronavirus disease. “I cannot rest when my former colleagues and members of the medical staff are toiling round the clock attending to patients,” she had said while submitting the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-mayor-dons-nurse-s-uniform-visits-dombivli-hospital/story-J1nEPeaqjAbHI98WHMmxrL.html
05-05-2020||Lucknow||Hospitals start OPD under fresh guidelines in Lucknow||Several hospitals in Lucknow started OPD under the fresh guidelines – screening patients for coronavirus symptoms even before they are seen for the problem they report to the doctor.“The OPDs now have an additional screening area. Before patient can reach doctors’ chamber they are screened for any Covid-19 symptoms. This not only ensures the infected ones will identified but also instills confidence among patients,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director Healthcity hospital, who has initiated the new protocol in his hospital and has been part of the committee that framed it.The protocol demands hospitals to ensure no patient enters OPD area or goes into a ward without screening.In case admission is required, till screening or Covid test is done, patient remains in an isolation facility/triage area in the hospital and is attended by teams wearing protective gear.“The effort is to give health services a push in such a manner that hospitals can run smoothly and do not have to face actions such as closure by making mistakes in infection control exercise,” said Dr Kapoor.“In the laboratories it has been ensured that patients have least contact with doctor and staff. The sampling areas have been redesigned to maintain distance between the patients and lab staff,” said Dr Rama Srivastava, president IMA, Lucknow.About 50 hospitals in the state capital have started OPD facility under the fresh protocol and now the health department is also monitoring their working. More hospitals are likely to join the list in the next few days. “The idea is to make sure those with symptoms of Covid-9 are identified and attended separately,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal, chairperson, Nursing Home Cell, IMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hospitals-start-opd-under-fresh-guidelines-in-lucknow/story-JNb6yJjtlb5ZMppJxMuvfP.html
05-05-2020||City||Jogindernagar patient returned from Delhi in taxi with three others||The Jogindernagar man, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, had travelled in a taxi to his native place with three others, health officials informed on Tuesday.“Four people, three from Jogindernagar in Mandi district, and one from Baijnath of Kangra district, hired a taxi from Delhi on April 28 and reached Himachal Pradesh the next day,” Mandi chief medical officer Jeevanand Chauhan said, adding that the positive patient, who lived in Delhi and was working in a private company in Noida, was under home quarantine since he had returned.“He got fever on the evening of April 30. After fever didn’t subside, his sample was sent for testing,” the medical officer said.The other two youth from Jogindernagar, who had travelled with the positive patient, have been quarantined at an institutional facility in the district and Kangra administration has been informed about the third. While the details of the driver have also been shared with the Delhi authorities, Chauhan said.Apart from it, the Mandi district authorities have also sent samples of 27 primary contacts of the positive man for the testing, he added.BADDI WORKING WOMEN’S HOSTEL SEALEDThe Solan district authorities have sealed the Working Women’s Hostel in the industrial town Baddi, after a woman who was residing in the facility here tested positive for Covid-19 in Punjab.The woman hails from Gurdaspur and had been working in a private company in Baddi. She was stuck here after the lockdown and had returned to her hometown last week. As per the reports, before returning to her hometown, the woman had visited hospitals in Baddi and Nalagarh for treatment of some other illness.Meanwhile, the district authorities have taken samples of around 50 people who were in her contact and sent it for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jogindernagar-patient-returned-from-delhi-in-taxi-with-three-others/story-thu51HkT0VTPP1I9mmLX3N.html
05-05-2020||City||Not quarantined after Kalwa hospital doctor tested positive: Medical staff||A faculty of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, popularly known as Kalwa hospital, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The 55-year-old woman doctor got herself tested on May 3 after she showed symptoms of cold and sore throat. Dr Shaileshwar Natrajan, the dean of the hospital, said, “The unit head of medicine department tested positive for coronavirus. Around four doctors of the department had come in contact with her.”The resident doctors and faculty members, who had been working with her, said they are neither being quarantined nor tested despite some of them showing symptoms.A resident doctor, requesting anonymity, said, “We are not being quarantined even though the doctor was working with us. Some of us are showing symptoms like cold, cough and sore throat ache. We have not been tested despite being one of her high-risk contacts.”The doctors also alleged that no personal protection equipment (PPE) kits have been given to them even while working in isolation ward.The doctor added, “They do not insist on PPE while working in isolation ward at times. We have asked them to quarantine those who had come in contact with the doctor but nothing has been done.”The dean refuted the allegations saying that all safety equipment is provided to the medical staff and those who were working with the doctor will be quarantined. He said, “We provide required safety kit for doctors who work in isolation wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-quarantined-after-kalwa-hospital-doctor-tested-positive-medical-staff/story-Ni3IRImKrsoI5061PVGaFP.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||People residing in Chandigarh’s containment zones continue to battle uncertainty||As the rest of the city starts to get a sense of normalcy, people in the six containment zones are still grappling with panic, stigma and uncertainty.The residents of these zones have to stand for 4 to 5 hours daily in long queues for ration and vegetables even as residents in other parts of the city start moving freely. Some residents in the containment zones complained that even quarantined people stand in lines along with non-quarantined people for buying essential commodities and social distancing norms are still being flouted in some parts of Bapu Dham Colony, Labour Colony, Sector 30, and Kachi Colony in Dhanas.More than 75% of the total cases in the city are from the six containment zones, including Bapu Dham Colony, Labour Colony in Sector 30, Dhanas Kachi Colony, part of Sector 38, parts of Sector 52 and part of Shastri Nagar in Manimajra.Bapu Dham Colony with 58 cases of the total 115 Covid-19 cases in the city accounts for nearly 50% of the city’s cases, while Labour Colony, Sector 30, has 20 cases.These areas have been sealed by the UT Administration. Around 80,000 people live in these zones.Social stigmaMore than 40 positive cases have come from the neighbourhood of Varinder Pal, 46, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Pal said, “Even a throat itch sends shiver down our spine. People are restless and struggling to cope with the tag of epicentre of the pandemic in the city.”After he came in contact with a Covid-19 positive person at his shop in Bapu Dham Colony, Ajay Sharma, 43, was quarantined. “Near my house cum shop, there lives a family with multiple positive cases and one of them came to my shop. I informed the authorities about it. They quarantined me even after I didn’t show any symptoms, but with asymptomatic cases increasing, my family of eight is concerned about our future.”Living in a containment zone, residents complained they have been stigmatised. “Some of the junior UT officials, vendors and police personnel often humiliate us and blame us for the spread of disease in the city. Even our friends from other city areas look down upon us, but it is not our fault. It can happen anywhere and to anybody,” Sharma said.Similar sentiments were expressed by Surinder Pal, a professional photographer and a resident of Labour Colony, Sector 30. “When we go to buy ration from the delivery bus, the vendor throws stuff at us instead of politely giving it us. Even after repeated requests, they treat us like criminals.”Social distancing a distant dreamIn the colonies, people are jam-packed. “In one of my adjacent houses, 25 people live together and in another, family of 15. With only 4-feet-high walls separating one house from another and strong social cohesion, people still venture out to interact with each other,” said Pal.Even though police inspect the areas, but in the inner lanes, people can still be seen roaming outside their houses.“There are volunteers deputed to bring ration and vegetables to the door steps of quarantined houses. But, they still venture out, covering their stamped hands with gloves and stand in lines. Though their neighbours identify them, but most people have no clue. This is a very dangerous situation for all us. Administration must ensure separate queues for them,” said Manjit Garcha, a resident of Labour Colony.Dalip Sharma, councillor from Bapu Dham Colony, said, “I receive around 300 calls from local people seeking help on different issues daily. Some of the panicky calls were from the 700 migrant workers trapped in the containment zone. Struggling with fast depleting resources, they are desperate to leave for their native states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/people-residing-in-chandigarh-s-containment-zones-continue-to-battle-uncertainty/story-xRHWjrotP5wbtAIOUo0msO.html
05-05-2020||City||Prices of vegetables to shoot up as mandis at Khandsa, Farrukhnagar and Pataudi shut||Gurugram: As the Khandsa mandi, the wholesale market for vegetables and fruits in Gurugram, has been shut till May 8 after nine vendors were found Covid-19 positive, local vegetable sellers said on Tuesday that retail prices of kitchen staples like onion, potato and tomato will increase from Wednesday.However, officials of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) said they have enough stock to meet the city’s demand for the next three days. The situation may get worse as two other mandis -- at Pataudi and Farrukhnagar -- have also been shut for two days starting May 6 in order to facilitate disinfection and protect wholesalers and retailers from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“With the announcement of the closure of Khandsa mandi, retailers procured the stock on Monday night that can last for the next three days. Dealers have also restricted the supply to vendors coming from other states for the period,” said Vinay Yadav, HSAMB secretary (Gurugram district). On Monday night, the HSAMB had to close the mandi after nine vegetable sellers were confirmed Covid-19 positive, having links with Delhi’s Azadpur mandi where 17 positive cases have been reported.Retail prices of vegetables at markets like Sadar Bazar already shoot up on Tuesday. “On Monday, the price of potato was Rs 20 per kg, which has gone up to Rs 40, while onion rates have increased from Rs 30 per kg to Rs 45 per kg. Prices of some other vegetables like ginger and tomato my also go up,” said Rohit Yadav, a vegetable seller at Sadar Bazar, who has stock available for the next two days. Some retailers said that they don’t have enough stock that will last till Friday (May 8). “I have limited stock with me. I was solely dependent on the Khandsa wholesale market for vegetables. It will lead to rise in prices,” said Subhash Lal, another retailer from Sadar Bazar.However, HSAMB officials said several teams are already deployed in different retail markets to check the price fluctuation. “Our teams will be visiting major vegetable markets to check the prices at which vegetables and fruits are being sold. If anyone is found selling at a higher rate, action will be taken accordingly,” said Vinay Yadav of HSAMB. Raj Kumar Beniwal, chief marketing enforcement officer, HSAMB, said, “Our focus is on ensuring demand and supply and controlling price fluctuations. We will take legal action against vegetable sellers who are found disrupting the market prices.”“There will be no dearth of the vegetable stock till May 8. The supply chain will be maintained. We will be supplying the stock from other districts of Haryana,” Beniwal said.DEPENDENCY ON SMALL MANDIS, OTHER DISTRICTSEvery day 5,000-6,000 quintals of vegetables and fruits arrive at the Khandsa mandi from Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, neighbouring districts like Nuh within the state and from states of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. But on Tuesday, there was no fresh arrival at the mandi.HSAMB’s Vinay Yadav said, “Locally produced vegetables and green leafy vegetables are being sold by the farmers in smaller mandis like Badshahpur, from where retailers can easily procure the produce. To ensure the supply is not affected in the condominiums and residential areas, the vegetable collection centres of retail chains is completely functional. Farmers from Pataudi and Farrukhnagar are providing their stock to these collection centres.” Currently, there are 60 collection centres where farmers sell their produce to retail chains.Raj Kumar Aggarwal, a wholesaler at Khandsa mandi, said, “There are small mandis within 10-15 kilometres area of Gurugram where many retailers buy vegetables. Before the major mandis were closed, sellers and retailers had stocked up the produce. In case the stock is over, small mandis are still functional where farmers are dropping their produce from nearby districts.”Some online marketplaces said that their prices will remain unaffected irrespective of what happens at Khandsa wholesale market. Naveen Yadav, who works at Fruit Uncle (online fruit and vegetable store), said, “We are getting our supplies directly from the farmers in Haryana, so we are not facing any shortage of supply whatsoever.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prices-of-vegetables-to-shoot-up-as-mandis-at-khandsa-farrukhnagar-and-pataudi-shut/story-dZipw7YqLJgdBuPCafAF1O.html
05-05-2020||City||Ludhiana YAD distributing ration kits among priests||The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) commenced a drive on May 3 to distribute ration kits among the granthis (priests) of various gurdwaras in the city. Around 20 kits, which include flour, pulses and oil, are distributed among different villages on a daily basis.YAD district president Prabhjot Dhaliwal said, “The NGOs and the administration are working to provide food to the needy, but no one paid heed to the problems being faced by granthis.”“The drive was initiated under the guidance of former cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia,” he said.Dhaliwal said they were also distributing sanitisers and masks. “My team has been working for over a month to help the needy residents. We had distributed sanitisers, gloves and masks among the villagers and police personnel deputed at check points to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-yad-distributing-ration-kits-among-priests/story-wi1yMSfJFEhIJr4RASmEdK.html
05-05-2020||City||Turned back from Haryana border, migrant families return to Zirakpur village only to be refused entry||With a hope to get back home, a group of migrant labourers including women and children had left Phabat village but were compelled to return from the Punjab–Haryana border as they were not allowed to cross over.Seven-month pregnant Ridhima carrying her two-year-old walked 34 km (17 km on each side) to village Phabat late on Monday night, only to be told they could not enter the village.She is among 40 such migrants, rendered jobless, who had to return from Jhermeri border of Punjab–Haryana after Haryana police denied them entry. They had used cycles and prams to walk 17km to reach Jhermeri in hope of crossing over to reach home in Uttar Pradesh. They had walked along the railway track to reach the border but CRPF deployed by Haryana police sent them back.“We walked a bit, then rested a bit. Can’t walk for long in this condition,” said Ridhima, whose major worry is to feed her child. She is among six women who are pregnant.“I had thought we would go back home, so she could deliver the child there. Now we have no money or ration,” said Kallu, Ridhima husband, who is a daily wager and currently jobless. He underwent a stomach surgery only recently and his stitches were removed about 15 days ago. “We are helpless. We could have gone home and done farm work to feed ourselves,” he added, saying they are a family of 12.“We had left the village to go home, but now we have lost the roof over our heads,” said Shripal, another daily wager who along with his family came back.The migrants stayed for about two days at the border where they were medically examined and provided food and water.“We kept pleading with them (Haryana police) to let us go but they didn’t pay heed,” said Malti, a mother of three.To check the spread of the epidemic, states have sealed their borders. To cross over to Haryana, these migrants were expected to hand over a copy of their Aadhaar card with all details of their names and address. But none of them had an Aadhaar card or a curfew pass so they were not allowed to cross over.The villagers have given a written complaint to Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa; naib tehsildar Varinder Singh Dhoot; Zirakpur SHO Gurwant Singh; and Dhakoli SMO Pommy Chatrath.The villagers refused to let them enter as they had left without informing anyone on May 2, and now fear they might bring infection to the village. “We are sending back all the families to their hutments where they were living where they will be home-quarantined for next two weeks. They were examined at the border itself and we will provide them with food,” said Kuldeep Bawa, SDM of Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/turned-back-from-haryana-border-migrant-families-return-to-zirakpur-village-only-to-be-refused-entry/story-jTq0D4UhGex4Tmt3BTqjPJ.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||State department nod to transport SSC, HSC answer sheets||To ensure the timely declaration of SSC and HSC results, the state education department has now issued guidelines for allowing the movement of staff for transporting the answer papers of students from one place to another.Citing a Supreme Court order which makes it mandatory for the department to release results of SSC and HSC by June 10, the department has granted special permission for its workers, teachers and school staff to work even as the state is under lockdown. “In a case where the papers are in schools or custody, they can be transported to the examiners and they can evaluate them. Further, these evaluated papers can be sent for moderation to the moderators through staff which is deployed for the purpose,” reads the circular issued by the department to all municipal commissioners and district collectors.Nearly 15 lakh students appear the SSC exams from the state of which 3.5 lakh are from the Mumbai division which also includes Thane, Raigad and Palghar. While Raigad is in Orange zone as per the state government’s official list, the other areas are in the red zone. The board is hoping that once permissions are in place, evaluation of answer papers can take place soon and results can be declared in time. The state board usually declares Class 12 results in the last week of May and Class 10 results are out by the second week of June.“Teachers and other staff can use their vehicles for the task or can use hired vehicles provided to them. Similarly, the staff of the board can also travel to investigate the cases of malpractices that have been reported during the board exam,” it further reads.Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji School in Andheri said that the decision should have been taken earlier. “Now teachers would have to race against time to complete evaluation. Nevertheless, the board should now announce the marking formula for the last Geography exam which was cancelled due to the situation,” he added.HSC exams took place between February 18 and March 18, 2020, while SSC exams took place between March 3 and March 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-department-nod-to-transport-ssc-hsc-answer-sheets/story-tUImM0LppbwebzOEkVDdrJ.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Animal lovers come to the rescue of Shimla’s stray dogs amid lockdown||The shutting down of eateries and dhabas has left Shimla’s stray animals in the lurch with a majority of street dogs losing their sole source of food. However, thanks to animal lovers who decided to do their bit as street dogs in most parts of the city are now being adopted.Stray dogs wandering in search of food had raised serious concern for the municipal corporation in Shimla town. This encouraged the residents to adopt more street dogs.Shimla rural legislator Vikramaditya Singh, son of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh joined the list as he adopted two stray dogs. Shimla Beopar Mandal has adopted 70 dogs roaming on Mall Road and Lower Bazaar under the community adopting scheme. “In this difficult time, it is the duty of every citizen to take care of stray dogs. We are also encouraging traders to adopt more stray dogs” said Shimla Beopar Mandal President Inderjit Singh.In the wake of an increasing population of stray dogs, Shimla MC had launched “Street Dog Adoption and Management Programme”, offering incentives such as garbage collection fee and parking fee exemption to those who would adopt a dog from the street.So far nearly 155 dogs have been adopted in Shimla town. The programme was conceived by MC commissioner Pankaj Rai who got the cue from his visit to the United States last year. “We will keep appealing the residents and MC councilors to adopt more and more street dogs, “ said Neeraj Mohan, Veterinary Public Health Officer. According to MC estimates, there are around 2,000 stray dogs within the municipal limits of Shimla.Rohit Jamwal, director of elementary education adopted six stray dogs. Jamwal himself has remained a municipal commissioner.To make the scheme foolproof, those who adopt a stray dog will also have to ensure that the dogs are given adequate medical care, support and life conditions. If found lacking on any of the fronts, they would be slapped with a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/animal-lovers-come-to-the-rescue-of-shimla-s-stray-dogs-amid-lockdown/story-dHHyR1pI0I24KXTKyVko8N.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh, get ready to pay more for liquor, petrol||Get ready to shell out more money for liquor and fuel in the union territory of Chandigarh.The UT administration is actively considering levying additional cess on liquor, petrol and diesel for revenue generation. A decision in this regard was taken during the daily review meeting held under Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday.A senior UT officer said, “Revenue generation has been hit hard amid the epidemic. We are mulling over imposing additional cess on liquor, diesel and petrol to generate revenue. The finance department has been asked to work out details for imposing this additional cess.”Notably, petrol in Chandigarh costs ₹65.82 per litre while diesel costs ₹59.30 per litre.Confirming the decision, Ajoy Kumar Sinha, UT’s finance secretary, said that keeping in view the reduced sources of revenue, some additional cess could be considered. The decision on the rate of cess is also under consideration.To generate revenue, the Delhi government has imposed a 70 percent “special corona fee” on sale of liquor besides raising the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. Haryana, too, has hiked VAT on fuel.Meanwhile, there was marked fall in people queuing up outside liquor vends on Tuesday from Monday night itself. Long winding queues could be seen outside liquor shops on Monday, which opened after 41 days when the administration eased Covid-19 restrictions from Monday.The serpentine queues at most vends, at some places more than a 100 people at a time on Monday, trickled down to smaller queues with a handful of people on Tuesday.On Sunday, the Chandigarh administration had allowed shops selling non-essential items, including liquor, to open. The vends are to open according to the odd-even formula, with odd numbered stores to open on odd dates, and even numbered stores on even days. Liquor vends on roads dividing sectors, as well as those in the six containment zones, are to remain closed.Of the 75 licensed vends, 30 were open on Tuesday. Shopkeepers had to ensure that not more than five persons be present at a time in the shop, with timings fixed from 10 am to 6 pm.The liquor shops had closed after curfew was imposed in the city on March 24 to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city.Keeping in view the heavy rush of customers at book shops, the UT administration decided to exempt them from the odd-even stipulation and allow them to open on all days. This will help reduce congestion at the stores.The UT administrator has also directed that discount and concession available to consumers for timely payment of property tax, water bills etc. should not be denied and last date of payment be extended accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-get-ready-to-pay-more-for-liquor-petrol/story-uBtMB5Zjo3ekMuqqTyl7UI.html
05-05-2020||Gurugram||Liquor sale in Gurugram to start from Wednesday, Haryana imposes cess||Around 218 liquor shops located in Gururgam will open on Wednesday, after the state government on Tuesday announced a series of relaxations, following the implementation of Lockdown 3.0 in the district. The government has imposed a variable Covid cess on liquor items to support areas and institutions, which have been adversely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government is also analysing the experience of other states that had opened liquor vends on Monday. Haryana has been suffering average monthly revenue loss of ₹3,00 crore due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, said officials.The state excise officials said they have sent a list of liquor vends that can allowed to be open following the issuance of the safety guidelines by the ministry of home affairs (MHA).The decision was taken after the deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who holds the additional portfolios of excise and taxation, held a meeting in Chandigarh and ordered all the taxation commissioners (DETCs) of the state to get the liquor vends open by the morning of May 6. It was also decided that the vends would allowed to be open between 7am and 7pm daily.“We have also sought a report from the deputy commissioners on whether the vends should be opened or not as Covid-19 situation varies from one district to another,” said Chautala, adding that beer bottles will attract a corona cess between ₹2 each on a pint, a can, and a 650ml bottle. On Indian-made foreign liquor(IMFL) bottles, the cess will be anywhere between ₹4 and ₹10 and for imported foreign liquor(IFL) ₹20 per bottle will be charged,” he said.H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (west), said that the state has imposed the Covid cess on the sale of liquor from both wholesalers as well as retail outlets across the city. “Further, only liquor vends have been granted permission to open. The ahatas, also known as anukat kash, are not allowed to start their operations until further orders. It would be the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that no liquor is consumed in and around his retail outlet. Otherwise, the licence to run the liquor vend will be cancelled,” he said.Officials said, as per the order, no crowding at the sales counter shall be tolerated by the district administration.A distance of at least six feet shall be maintained by the customers under all circumstances and only five customers at a time will be allowed to stand at the sales counter of the retail liquor vend.Aruna Singh, DETC (east), said that they have formed teams, who will be deployed at all the liquor vends and will ensure that no one violates the rules and regulations. “ They have been instructed to ensure that proper demarcation is maintained outside the shops and to check if face masks and hand sanitisers are placed at the counters,” she said.Officials said except for those in the containment zones, all liquor shops will be operational.Muhammad Akil, Gurugram police commissioner said, that they have deployed teams across the city to monitor liquor vends. “Teams have been assigned the task to ensure that demarcation for social distancing is carried out on Tuesday night and to check if each person is wearing a face mask and using hand sanitisers before entering the shops,” he said.Akil said he has also directed the police team to set up a barricade at least 100 metres before the liquor shops so that the situation can be controlled if there is overcrowding.“We have asked the excise officials to deploy one of their officials at each liquor shop to control the crowd. Anyone found violating the rules and regulations will be booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code(IPC) and we will ask for the cancellation of their licences,” said Akil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/liquor-sale-in-gurugram-to-start-from-wednesday-haryana-imposes-cess/story-F9YQ8l3hJMarGwNz3VNjRP.html
05-05-2020||Gurugram||Three more Covid cases, count now 87; health team to trace Khandsa Mandi trail||Three more cases of the Coronavirus disease were confirmed on Tuesday from Sector 18, Islampur and Surat Nagar; all had contact with those who have earlier tested positive for the highly contagious Covid-19. The tally of infected persons in the district was 87, of whom 51 have recovered and 36 were being treated in hospitals. With fresh cases emerging from high-risk and high-contact areas, such as hospitals and vegetable markets, district administration is focussing on tracing the contacts of the positive individuals to ensure the virus, Sars-CoV-2, does not spread as some economic activity has resumed in the district. Tuesday’s list includes a 22-year-old man from Islampur, whose parents had contracted Covid-19 and a resident of Sector 18, whose roommate tested positive in Panipat. “A Class-IV employee at the Primary Health Centre from Surat Nagar also tested positive. We are doing her contact tracing,” chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said. THE KHANDSA TRAILThe district health department on Tuesday said more people from Khandsa mandi are likely to be confirmed coronavirus (Covid-19) positive. The team plans to take up the humungous exercise of tracing hawkers who purchased vegetables from the nine vegetable sellers who tested positive on Monday. Dr Punia said test results of 71 vegetable sellers of Khandsa are awaited.Nine vegetable sellers and wholesale dealers at Khandsa Mandi were confirmed Covid-19 positive on Monday. Of these, seven had come in contact with Covid-19 cases from Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and two had come in contact with people in Nasik and West Bengal. The cases came into light when the health team conducted targeted sampling of people in the mandi last week. Sampling was done after cases surfaced in Jhajjar and Sonepat with links to Azadpur Mandi—Asia’s largest wholesale market of fruits and vegetables in Delhi which has reported 17 Covid-19 cases till now. The district health team then screened at least 1,600 people and took samples of 128 people.“Samples of over 35 people, in contact with nine vegetable sellers of Khandsa Mandi, have been sent for RT-PCR testing,” Dr Punia said. Gauging the seriousness of the situations, Dr Punia said they will prepare a list of vegetable hawkers who were in contact with the sellers and dealers who tested positive. “A list of such hawkers will be prepared. Their samples will be collected,” Dr Punia said, adding that random sampling of people would be done in areas where these hawkers have sold vegetables.“Since Gurugram is a big city it will take time to prepare the complete list of such hawkers based on the information provided by the sellers at Khandsa Mandi. They will be traced and their samples will be taken. To check infection whether the disease has spread to areas where they sold fruits and vegetables, we will do random sampling,” he said, adding that the health team will take help from MCG councilors in reaching out to people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-more-covid-cases-count-now-87-health-team-to-trace-khandsa-mandi-trail/story-7KXTIDWkgcFdRaQEH7iPwN.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Contractor booked following arhtiya’s suicide in Mohali||After an arhtiya committed suicide by hanging himself at his shop in the Kurali grain marker, over an alleged financial dispute, police booked a contractor for abetment to suicide on Tuesday.The accused has been identified as Vinod Kumar. The arhtiya’s body was found by his family who came to his shop looking for him after he did not respond to repeated phone calls. Police have recovered a suicide note which said the accused owed him money.The deceased’s nephew stated in his complaint that Kumar owed his uncle ₹1.5 crore. “30% of the sum was to be paid in March, but Vinod refused, which left my uncle mentally disturbed and lead to his suicide,” the complainant said.Kurali (city) SHO Jaskar Singh said that they have registered a case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code. “The suicide note recovered does specify the amount Vinod had to pay but only mentions that he had some dues,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/contractor-booked-following-arhtiya-s-suicide-in-mohali/story-3NCUphl6ctxKiJm93lU5dO.html
05-05-2020||City||Delhi High Court asks govt to de-seal two Apeejay schools||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday set aside a Delhi government order sealing two branches of the Apeejay School. Directing that both premises be de-sealed immediately, the court said the schools were not given a show-cause notice, or any opportunity of being heard.Two branches of Apeejay School — Saket and Sheikh Sarai — were sealed by the Delhi government’s education department on Monday for charging hiked fees from students in violation of the directions issued by its orders. The action was taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, enforced in the city amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said the sealing cannot be “sustained” because the schools were not heard but did not comment on the orders of registration of an FIR.The court said the Directorate of Education (DoE) is permitted to issue a show-cause notice to the school, which will file a response to the notice within a week. The judge said the DoE shall fix an appropriate date of hearing before the competent authority, which would pass an order in accordance with law.While officials at the DoE refused to comment and said “they are examining the order”, the Apeejay Schools issued a statement welcoming the court’s decision. “We are following all government norms as applicable. Education should be a partnership, not an adversarial political ploy. We continue to have faith in the law, and will work closely with visionary government leaders,” the statement read.“Since no show cause notice or opportunity of hearing was given to the petitioner schools before sealing of their premises, the impugned action of sealing cannot be sustained,” the court said in its order.The court however, clarified, that it has neither considered nor commented upon the merits of the contentions of either party and the DoE is at liberty to take appropriate action in accordance with law, if so warranted, after granting an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners.Appearing for the school, senior advocate HL Tikku, told the court that school has complied with all the directions issued by the DoE, however, in so far as the fee hike is concerned, the same was enhanced for the year 2019 – 2020. Since, this was not permitted by the DoE, a plea had been filed in the court which is pending adjudication.He also contended that no show cause notice or an opportunity of hearing was granted to the petitioners prior to the passing of the order of sealing of the school premises and of sealing the schools.Following this, the court said that it is an admitted position that after April 11 and April 18, no show cause notice has given to the school to explain their position and no opportunity has been given to them to show that it had complied with the directions contained in those orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-high-court-asks-govt-to-de-seal-two-apeejay-schools/story-TQWwOPJSnsWwuPEJ4MJxtK.html
05-05-2020||City||TMC sends show-cause notice to Kalwa hospital||The Thane civic commissioner has sent a show-cause notice to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa for handing over the body of a suspected Covid patient without following proper protocol. The patient tested positive after the funeral which was attended by many.This is second such incident where the hospital has handed over the body to the relatives without following protocol for suspected coronavirus patients.A 50-year-old man from Wagale Estate had trouble breathing and was admitted to the hospital. The doctors suspected he had suffered a heart attack. The man died on April 30 during treatment. His test report came on May 3 and he had tested positive for coronavirus. And, many relatives had attended his funeral.An official from Thane Municipal Corporation said, “The civic commissioner has sent show-cause notice to the dean and medical superintendent of the hospital as the body was handed over without any precaution.”An official from Kalwa hospital said that they have not received the notice yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-sends-show-cause-notice-to-kalwa-hospital/story-7djxBVHCtqGjnawG12HyHK.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Spike in cases: Chandigarh PGIMER’s Covid hospital now 50% occupied||With Chandigarh witnessing a surge in number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the past week and a half, the basic infrastructure reserved for the isolation and treatment of the patients in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has got occupied to half its capacity.The dedicated Covid-19 hospital established in the Nehru Hospital Extension Block of the PGIMER has 200 beds, of which 30 are ventilators. Presently, 100 patients have been admitted here, which include 93 active cases from Chandigarh, while seven from neighbouring states.Confirming the same on Tuesday, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said there has been huge influx of Covid-19 patients which are being referred from Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. “Our workforce is doing exceptionally well to deal with the increasing cases,” Ram said.Dean (academics) GD Puri, who is supervising the Covid operations at PGIMER, said, “We are regularly upgrading the arrangements as per the feedback of the officials concerned. Around 40 healthcare workers are discharging their duties at the Covid-19 hospital in each of the four shifts every day. The load is gradually increasing and so are our plans and preparations.” EXIGENCY PLANSTo date, Chandigarh’s Covid-19 tally stands at 115 cases, out of which 21 have been treated and one has died due to the infection. The health department of Chandigarh has predicted 3,600 active cases at the peak in the city, out of which 360 would develop severe symptoms that will require comprehensive care in the hospitals.The UT health department has planned to exhaust 90% capacity of Nehru Hospital Extension building after which the patients would be admitted to the civil hospital in Sector 48, the second dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the city.The 10% capacity will be reserved for those who may develop severe symptoms. Subsequently, in case of an emergency, the established protocol is of admitting only severe cases, while patients with mild or no symptoms will be admitted to covid facilities planned to be established at Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22, Panchayat Bhawan in Sector 18, hostels of Panjab University, GMCH-32, private hospitals and nursing homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/spike-in-cases-pgimer-s-covid-hospital-now-50-occupied/story-hrmPYfNLb2aVagKMOU4nPJ.html
05-05-2020||City||Punjab: Cong MLA sparks row as audio demanding ‘courtesy call’ from SHO hits internet||Congress MLA from Patti Harminder Singh Gill sparked controversy on Tuesday after an audio clip of him allegedly threatening a newly-appointed SHO for not paying him a courtesy visit surfaced on the internet.This has come at a time when the whole country is expressing gratitude towards the police force for combating Covid-19 on the frontlines.As per the unverified audio clip, which is spreading rapidly on social media platforms, the MLA is talking to Harike police SHO sub-inspector Navdeep Singh in a rude and haughty manner.The call recording begins with Gill’s personal assistant making the cop aware that the MLA was on the line. “Since when have you been posted here,” Gill asks, to which the SHO says, “Sir, a day before yesterday.”“Don’t you know there is an MLA in Patti constituency to whom you need to make a call,” Gill questions Singh, who replies, “I had taken permission from the sir (seems the SSP).”To this, Gill says, “Listen to me for a minute my young brother, MLAs have some powers. We are not imbeciles who will sit back and watch SHO or munshis take charge here...How will you do your ‘SHOship’ without talking to the MLA? Did you make a courtesy call to me? Did I go to Pakistan? How many MLAs are in Patti constituency? Have you fallen from the sky? Have you become the god?........You talk to your SSP. Is MLA not important to you?” Gill continues.He further says, “Whenever a cop does his work, you stop him. I asked police officer Kulbir Singh for some work, but you have resisted him. Why you have stopped him?”When the SHO said he was unaware of this, Gill is heard saying in a threatening tone, “No issues. You will get the knowledge soon.” Before the call is disconnected, the SHO says “sorry” to the MLA.On Tuesday, Gill took to Facebook to post a clarification on the audio recording. He also demanded action against the SHO for sharing the audio clip online. “If I have uttered anything wrong in the recording, action should be taken against me as per the law. And if the SHO has violated his duty, appropriate step should be taken against him,” he posted on his Facebook page.However, he later deleted the post and shared a new one which read, “I am a disciplined sepoy of the Congress party. The matter has reached the CM house. On the CM’s direction, I am deleting all my posts regarding the matter from Facebook.”Justifying his stand, Gill told HT that he wanted to leave no communication gap between the administration and a public representative. “If I seem to have talked rudely, I feel for it. But I didn’t give him any threats,” he said adding that the SHO had illegally shared the call recording on social media, using fake IDs.The SHO could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Also, no senior district police official was willing to comment on the issue.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) district president Virsa Singh Valtoha has demanded an FIR against the MLA for threatening a government official.AAP SEEKS LEGAL ACTION AGAINST CONG MLAThe Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday sought registration of a case against the Congress MLA from Patti, Harminder Singh Gill, for insulting and threatening the station house officer of Harike Pattan police station.In a joint statement issued from party headquarters Tuesday, AAP’s state unit president Bhagwant Mann and leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema also demanded Gill’s immediate expulsion from the Congress obstructing and threatening a public servant. They said that Gill’s actions were a reflection of how some ruling party leaders, MLAs and ministers were browbeating officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cong-mla-sparks-row-as-audio-demanding-courtesy-call-from-sho-hits-internet/story-x7Op6Kn9wky7ftItPCRMbK.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||32% spike in non-Covid deaths of senior citizens in April in Chandigarh, admn to examine trend||Chandigarh has seen a 32% spike in non-Covid deaths among senior citizens (60 years and above) in April compared to last year.Last year, 118 deaths of senior citizens were reported in April, which increased to 156 this time, as per data obtained from the municipal corporation’s birth and death control department. Director of health services Dr G Dewan said examining birth and death data is not a routine practice; but owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, a check is being kept on the trend. He said data of non-Covid deaths in March showed no unusual trend. “In fact, number of deaths had gone down due to various reasons, including dip in accidents.” “If a category has seen hike in deaths in April, we will get the trend examined, and check the cause,” he said.  Dr Dewan said that the cause of death is mentioned in every death form and this file is maintained by the MC. “I will get all forms collected and check if there are deaths caused by respiratory disease or chest pain, which are symptoms of Covid-19 . Accordingly, we will see if there need for further examination,” he added.As per sources, PGIMER is already testing non-Covid deaths who had symptoms of the infection. Sources added they have sampled five cases which have all tested negative. Will share data: MC MC’s medical officer health (MoH) Dr Amrit Warring, who is also the deputy registrar of death and birth control, said data has been compiled after obtaining figures from all crematoriums in the city. “There seems to be no unusual trend in non-Covid deaths. But, health authorities can analyse it better. We will share whatever is available with us,” he added. In March, number of deaths reported were 219 against 271 reported during the corresponding time period last year. Meanwhile, in January, 331 deaths were reported against 311 last year, while 237 deaths in February against 263 during the corresponding time period for last year. In April 2020, four deaths were recorded in the age group of one to 20, while 11 deaths were reported in 2019. In the age group of 20 to 40, 15 deaths were reported in April 2020 while 35 were reported in 2019 for the time period.In the age group of 40 to 60, 51 deaths were recorded in April 2020, while 41 were recorded in 2019 for the corresponding time period. Total deaths recorded in April 2020 were 226 while 205 were recorded in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-spike-in-non-covid-deaths-of-senior-citizens-in-april-in-chandigarh-admn-to-examine-trend/story-hSC4TwUH0E8M00zdAl96WJ.html
05-05-2020||City||10 booked, after group clash in Mohali village, 5 injured||Police have booked 10 persons, including the sarpanch of Siswan village, after two groups clashed leaving five injured, including a father and two sons. The clash took place owing to old rivalry. On the complaint of the injured Rajinder Kumar Sharma his son Shiv Kumar and Govind Pal Sharma, police booked the seven accused— sarpanch Sandeep Kumar, Vicky, Rahul Kumar alias Achru, Akhil Gupta alias Bhudi, Kalu, Raman Kumar and Mukesh Gupta. Shiv said the sarpanch was nursing a grudge against them as his father had fought an election against Sandeep and even accused him of illegal felling of khair trees to sell the wood. “The police had even caught his tractor loaded of khair recently, and since then Sandeep has been nursing a grudge, suspecting we had tipped off the police,” said Shiv, who along with his brother and father admitted to GMSH sector 16, Chandigarh.Police have registered a case against the seven accused under Section 323(voluntarily causing hurt), 325(voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 148(Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly to prosecute common object) of IPC in police station Mullanpur.Police have also booked Rajinder and his sons Shiv and Govind, after Akhil and Rahul were admitted to Kharar civil hospital owing to injuries sustained in the attack. As per police, Akhil said that they had a fight with Shiv and his family after they threatened to kill them. A case under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or mean) and 506(criminal intimidation) of IPC was registered in police station Mullanpur.“We have registered cases on the complaints from both parties. They fought due to an old rivalry and are related to each other. The medical legal reports are awaited after which more sections can be added to the case registered,” said investigating officer and sub-inspector Satwinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-booked-after-group-clash-in-mohali-village-5-injured/story-Tlz2Dt7AVYQFf8TouBXBuM.html
05-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records highest single-day spike with 47 new cases||Navi Mumbai recorded its highest single-day spike of Covid cases, with 47 new cases on Tuesday. A week ago, the city had recorded 43 cases. The total number of Covid cases is 395.A newborn of a Covid positive woman tested positive. Nine of the new cases are from APMC market, four are police personnel and three work in hospitals. A computer operator living in Digha and working in Mumbai, who was suffering from breathlessness and diabetes passed away on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-47-new-cases/story-fFiJmi3aoYMmmz5miviT1L.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Shelter home caretaker tests positive, inmates demand screening for all, many suffer from comorbidities||A day after a 32-year-old caretaker of a shelter in central Delhi’s Jhandewalan area tested positive for Covid-19, occupants of four such homes run by an NGO in the area said on Tuesday that all of them should be screened for the infection. According to officials, there are 56 inmates at the shelter whose caretaker tested positive and 206 in the entire cluster. The NGO working for the homeless wrote to the central Delhi district magistrate and other authorities, urging them to test all caretakers and occupants of all shelters in the city as they share community toilets and other facilities. Besides the 223 regular shelter homes for the homeless—115 of them are portacabins, 11 are buildings and 19 are tents—the government has converted 256 school buildings into shelters for migrant workers stranded in the city due to the lockdown. According to officials, there are a total 3,725 inmates at all the shelters across the city.“The caretaker was responsible for shelter number 14 and was working day and night to provide food and other forms of assistance to occupants,” Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist working for the homeless and founder of Centre for Holistic Development, wrote in a letter to the DM. Aledia said any delay in providing medical care to these homeless persons would put their lives at risk as well as others who may come in contact with them at community toilets, ration shops, pharmacies and other such places. According to district health officials, on April 27, the caretaker had complained of body ache and was taken to Lady Hardinge Hospital where his sample was sent for testing. On May 1, his test report confirmed him positive but he could go to collect the report only on May 4. He has been transferred to a quarantine facility in AIIMS Jhajjar. Nidhi Srivastava, DM (central) said, “We got to know about the caretaker testing positive late Monday night. We have started screening occupants with symptoms at the cluster of shelters at Jhandewalan. We had been carrying out selective screening earlier also, and will extend the exercise to other shelters in the district.” Several homeless persons at these shelters, including the elderly, are already suffering from ailments such as TB, HIV, as well as withdrawal symptoms from lack of substance abuse amid the lockdown. “The inmates have, on several occasions, complained of fever, sore throat and dehydration besides their long-standing ailments but their Covid tests have not been conducted. Even if one of them has the infection, it can spread to so many others who are housed with them or the staff working in the shelters. The government must understand the seriousness of the issue and test all these people,” Aledia said. Bipin Rai, member, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), the nodal agency for making arrangements of stay for the homeless in the city, said he is aware of the case and plans to prioritise batches of people for treatment based on where symptoms are being reported. “We will start with the areas where the need for testing is higher. The district health teams have been already put on the task,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shelter-home-caretaker-tests-positive-inmates-demand-screening-for-all-many-suffer-from-comorbidities/story-j42Gvsb7R5UWm94doPajJN.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Punjab slows down on testing after Nanded pilgrims’ arrival||Punjab has witnessed a sharp decline in Covid-19 testing since the return of Sikh pilgrims to Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded more than a week ago, reveals the state health department’s daily status report. The low testing has raised eyebrows as more than 12,000 Punjabis, including nearly 4,200 Nanded devotees, who were stuck outside Punjab amid the lockdown, were allowed to enter the state since April 26 when the state government tested 1,965 samples, the highest in a day so far. On April 29, the department tested only 690 samples, the lowest in the last 10 days. On April 30, May 1, May 2, May 3 and the following day, 1,596, 936, 881, 1,094 and 1,098 samples were tested, respectively, the report says.As per the health department’s media bulletin, of the 14,228 samples collected in the state between April 26 and May 4, test reports of 11,427 have been received. This despite the fact that the government claims have a testing capacity of 2,500 samples a day while having roped in a private player, Path Labs, for the purpose five days back. Till Tuesday, the health department was able to test only 2,900 Nanded pilgrims of which 969 have turned out to be positive.“At a time when testing should have been increased manifold keeping in view the high percentage of Nanded-returned pilgrims getting infected, low testing could be a tactic not to show a sudden jump in Covid-19 cases as number of positive patients will also increase,” a senior health department official said.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has already instructed the department to increase the testing capacity to 6,000 a day by May 15.A senior health department official said testing figures are not properly updated as the district health authorities could not give data on the samples taken by Path Labs.“Nearly 4,400 samples taken by Path Labs are not included in the data as the district authorities could not update us on this. Path Labs sends samples to Delhi and their testing takes more time than our facilities in Punjab,” said health department’s Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-punjab-slows-down-on-testing-after-nanded-pilgrims-arrival/story-sa4vvR9TgVCtaBR43hyB8L.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Inmate held for murder bid on Kharar rehab centre owner||A day after six inmates of a drug rehabilitation centre in Radiala village of Kharar were booked for thrashing and kidnapping the centre owner and fleeing with ₹1.6 lakh cash, gold jewellery, three cellphones, a Bolero SUV and a Lancer car, police arrested one of the accused on Tuesday.Police have also recovered the Lancer from the accused, Suman Sharma, hailing from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh, who was booked along with five other inmates for attacking the complainant, Vikramjit Singh.Suman had been undergoing treatment at the centre for the last three months and was staying with his mother in Kharar. She is presently stuck in Himachal Pradesh owing to the lockdown.The police are raiding to arrest other accused identified as Gurjit Singh, Jaswant Singh, Kulwant Singh and Raj Kumar, and Mohit Pandey, who was working at the centre post recovery from addiction.‘WERE FED UP’ “Hum pareshan the (We were fed up)”, is what Suman, who was sent to judicial custody on Tuesday, told the police. He said the centre was overcrowded and they were beaten up regularly. As per Vikramjit, who lived on the centre premises, said the accused attacked him with sharp-edged weapons, bundled him in his vehicle and drove for about 60km to Bellolpur village in Chamkaur Sahib, where they tied him to a tree in a jungle and thrashed him before fleeing with his valuables. He had managed to free himself and contacted the police and reached Kharar civil hospital, where he was admitted for treatment.A case has been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 392 (robbery), 364 (kidnapping in order to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly to prosecute common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Kharar (Sadar) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/inmate-held-for-murder-bid-on-kharar-rehab-centre-owner/story-HmIm8dnUiwUug8dSAOrdqN.html
05-05-2020||City||Thane records highest single-day spike with 40 new cases||Thane recorded 40 cases and two deaths on Tuesday. This is the highest single-day spike in the city, taking the total cases to 452. The death toll till now is 18.Among the new cases, 21employees of a software company at Vartak Nagar tested positive.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “A 45-year-old resident of Wagale Estate, who had tested positive on May 4, died today. He was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa with complaints of breathlessness, fever, malaria like symptoms and cough. He did not have any comorbid condition. The second death is of a 60-year-old man from Kausa who was admitted in Kalwa Hospital and died on May 2. His Covid test report came after he died. He tested positive.”Wagale Estate, Lokmanya Sawarkar Nagar, Kalwa and Diva saw a rise in Covid cases on Tuesday. Diva, which had very few cases a few weeks ago, saw a spurt this month.RT Kendre, official on special duty for Covid-19, said, “The internal transmission in housing societies has increased. There is a rise in cases in slum areas too. This is a cause of concern.”Twenty-one employees of a software company at Yantra Park campus were found to be Covid positive. The office was sealed by TMC last week after three of its employees had tested positive.An officer of Vartak Nagar ward said, “Twenty-one employees who were among the high-risk contact of the three earlier cases tested positive on Tuesday. Some of the IT companies providing technical and software support to emergency services were operational. Eleven among the 21 found positive are from Thane, while the rest are from Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and other cities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-40-new-cases/story-5GM509R5vOs6C5JMiCgeXO.html
05-05-2020||City||Parents allowed to stay with Covid positive kids in hospital in Tarn Taran||At least five children, among the only ones in their family who tested positive for the disease, have been allowed to have a parent or close relative stay with them in the isolation ward of the civil hospital. All families have returned from Nanded.On Sunday, the emotional reaction of parents of a 3-year-old girl moved the authorities to allow both the father and mother to stay with her. The family, along with 10 other members, had been quarantined at Mai Bhago College. Another family from Rataul village was also allowed this. “The test reports of my wife, my 11-year-old son, my younger brother and his 2-year-old daughter came on Sunday. Barring my son, all were negative. My wife has been staying with my son in the hospital,” said the 40-year-old father. Another six-year-old boy was tested positive on Sunday, but his father, mother and a younger daughter (3-year-old) tested negative. The family is staying put at the hospital.Another 4-year-old girl, who along with her grandparents, had returned from Nanded, has tested positive. “My 60-year-old wife has been living with her in the isolation ward,” said the grandfather. The fifth case is of another 11-year-old boy from Khemkaran village, who tested positive on April 30; his mother is staying with her. Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said it was a challenge to isolate the kids, but in all such cases, a separate room had been provided. “There is, of course, the increased chance of infection, but the 11-year-old had threatened to commit suicide. Parents have been advised to always wear masks. All such persons will be retested once their children get cured.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-allowed-to-stay-with-covid-positive-kids-in-hospital-in-tarn-taran/story-fYLSSbRtCvhNpMxubb7ocK.html
05-05-2020||City||Gear up to handle influx of NRIs, stranded persons: Punjab CM||As a number of NRIs and stranded people from across the country are expected to reach Punjab in the coming days, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday issued a series of directives, including strict orders to the health department to ensure mandatory screening of all such returnees, to check the spread of Covid-19, with institutional quarantine for those coming back from high-risk regions of India, and hotel/home quarantine for the NRIs.The state government has also decided to rope in universities and state-run labs. The chief minister has sanctioned an immediate amount of ₹12 crore for equipment and operational expense for 6 such institutions—Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL), North Zone Jalandhar; GADVASU, Ludhiana; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjabi University, Patiala; Punjab Biotech Incubator, Mohali, and Punjab Forensic Lab, Mohali.The CM also directed the DCs to prepare a list of private hotels that can be utilised for paid quarantine, while asking the health department to make an inventory of functional/non-functional private hospitals. The decisions were announced during a video conference held by the chief minister with the health and medical experts. During the meeting, Captain also ordered an immediate readiness audit of level 1 and 2 facilities, pointing out that as of now, 21,000 Punjabis settled abroad want to return home. He also directed the expert committee to formulate its guidelines and protocols and not take any chance.Stating that he does not believe in the reliability of the certificates that the respective nations would give to the returnees, Amarinder said the NRIs should be given the options for quarantine, on payment basis, in hotels and at home, under supervision, pending testing, which should be done within 4-5 days of arrival.On those coming from within the country, the chief minister said given the Maharashtra (Nanded) experience, wherein 27% of the 1000 Punjabis who had returned so far had already shown positive results, the state government would take no chances. All such returnees would have to be quarantined in state centres, he added.Earlier in his detailed presentation, Dr KK Talwar underlined the need for RT-PCR testing of all those returning from red zones around the country. If positive, they should be shifted to Level 1, 2 or 3 healthcare facilities as per the clinical status, and if negative, they should be strictly home quarantined for 14 days, put on COVA app, and follow-ups be done by health teams, Talwar said.Additional chief secretary, industries, Vini Mahajan said Punjab would be the first state to adopt a “scientific strategy” for viral load testing, going beyond ICMR guidelines. The Centre for Policy Research (CPR), in association with various US and Indian universities, had come out with a comprehensive plan for such testing, she said, adding that experts from Johns Hopkins University will be providing guidance on this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gear-up-to-handle-influx-of-nris-stranded-persons-punjab-cm/story-OPA4ko9CyiYmLLqblv7MPM.html
05-05-2020||City||411 people from Uttarakhand, J&K stranded in Mohali return home||With the drive to send back stranded people entering its second day, around 411 people from Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir started their journeys back home in 14 buses. Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner of Mohali, said the stranded people were thoroughly screened as part of the medical procedure.Social distancing norms were strictly observed at the time of carrying out the screening process and boarding of buses, he said.A total of 116 people were sent back in four buses to J&K from Mohali, while from Kharar, 72 people were sent back via three buses. For Uttarakhand, a total of 223 people boarded seven buses back home from Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/411-people-from-uttarakhand-j-k-stranded-in-mohali-return-home/story-FjrEAo8GV3UYFaxmWELYYN.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||91% of Covid patients who died in Punjab had chronic health issues||A total of 91% of coronavirus patients who died in Punjab had at least one other major chronic health condition, revealed an analysis of Covid-19 deaths carried out by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and the state health department.The most common medical conditions behind the infection-related fatalities in the state were hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. These underlying medical ailments are being considered as high-risk factors for infected persons the world over, particularly in the United States, which is the worst-affected country.There have been 26 Covid-19 fatalities in Punjab which had a death rate (deaths as a percentage of those who tested positive) of 7%, the highest in the country, until a week ago but it has dropped to below 2% now following a sharp spike in the count of coronavirus positive cases. And, most of those who died had at least one or more comorbidity, meaning they had at least one other chronic disease in addition to Covid-19.Of them, 58% had either diabetes or hypertension as a chronic health condition whereas 9% had heart disease and 6% were suffering from bronchitis. Asthma, obesity, HIV, pneumonia and rheumatoid arthritis were the other underlying illnesses that increased their risk. Only 9% of Covid-19 patients who died had no comorbidity, according to the analysis of deaths till May 2.Former director of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, Dr KK Talwar said patients with comorbidity were much more vulnerable than others because these underlying medical ailments could be a precipitating factor and increase the risk substantially.“My advice to people with serious chronic diseases will be that they take their medicines regularly and not be casual about it. They need to keep their blood pressure, diabetes or cardiac status under control by medication they are taking. Second, they should avoid exposure,” he said on the precautions vulnerable people need to take to protect themselves.THOSE IN THEIR 50s AMONG WORST-HITAn analysis of age-wise spread and death rate as of May 2 shows that people in their 50s are among those worst-hit by the pandemic in Punjab. Of the people infected with coronavirus, 19% are in this age group and face the highest risk as 38% of those who died in Punjab due to the virus were aged between 50 and 59. Another equally vulnerable lot is persons above 60 years who account for 16% of coronavirus cases and 43% deaths. Also, two in three, or say 67%, persons infected with Covid-19 in the state belong to the active working population between the age of 21 and 60. Of these, 33% are aged between 21 and 40 and the remaining 34% in the 41 to 60 age-group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/91-of-covid-patients-who-died-in-punjab-had-chronic-health-issues/story-bUWejAIn7GYzIX4llbRegM.html
05-05-2020||City||Gangster Jaggu contracts infection in jail, source not clear||Gangster Jagdeep Singh, aka Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, 29, on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 in Batala, where he was in police custody for questioning in connection with a high-profile murder case of a former Akali sarpanch of Dhilwan village in Gurdaspur district.Batala senior superintendent of police Opinderjit Singh said Bhagwanpuria’s swab samples were collected at the civil hospital during his medical check-up on May 2 and he tested positive for coronavirus. However, he is asymptomatic, police said.The SSP said there was no clarity on the source of infection. However, sources said Bhagwanpuria most probably got infected in Patiala jail from where he was brought on production warrant to Batala on April 30.Civil surgeon Dr Kisan Chand said, “Police brought him for the test. We can’t say anything about the source and police are investigating.”A list of Bhagwanpuria’s direct and indirect contacts has been prepared. On the list are the names of several police personnel, including SP, DSP-rank officers, who have been quarantined. Their samples have also been collected for test. Bhagwanpuria was in police remand at the Civil Lines station.“As his remand ends today, he will be produced before a court on Wednesday and isolated in the hospital as per the advice of health officials,” said the SSP.It’s a conspiracy: MotherBhagwanpuria’s mother Harjit Kaur rushed to the police station and accused the cops of “hatching a conspiracy to eliminate him”. She sat on dharna outside the police station.Terming the allegations baseless, Batala SP (headquarter) Jasbir Singh Rai said, “His report is a concern for us as well because many of our colleagues came in contact with him. So far, 40 police personnel who come in his contact have been identified.”Judge, court staff opt for self quarantineHarsimrandeep Kaur, the civil judge in whose court the gangster was produced twice, through a letter told her seniors that she, her parents and five staffers of her court would observe 14-day self-quarantine in interest of public health.Facing 59 casesBhagwanpuria has 59 cases of murder, robbery, dacoity and snatching against him in various police stations of Punjab. Officials say his crime record is the worst in the state.A native of Bhagwanpur village in Batala, Bhagwanpuria was a petty chain snatcher till 2011. The Tarn Taran police booked him for running a heroin smuggling racket from Patiala Central Jail. A recent dossier by the police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) says that the jailed gangster has 33 accomplices in and outside Punjab who take orders from him. Most of his accomplices are active in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts.Patiala jail put on alertThe Patiala central jail has been put on alert after Bhagwanpuria was detected positive for Covid-19. Health department rushed a team to the jail for contact tracing and screening of the inmates. The jail houses nearly 2,200 inmates.Bhagwanpuria was lodged in Patiala jail before he was taken by Batala police on production warrant on April 30.Jail superintendent Karanjit Singh Sandhu said Jaggu was lodged in a separate cell since April 21. “We are monitoring the situation and even coordinating with health department for screening of high risk inmates,” he said.An official said he was separated from other inmates after a mobile phone was recovered from his possession.“Prior to his isolation, he was staying with at least 20 inmates in one of the barracks,” an official said.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said a team of four doctors has been sent to the jail to initiate contact tracing process so that high risk inmates can be identified and quarantined as per standard operations protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-jaggu-contracts-infection-in-jail-source-not-clear/story-NFiICVQySbs3acZXjBGaSN.html
05-05-2020||City||Nitish briefs Opposition of govt’s action plan to deal with pandemic||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Tuesday apprised the legislature party leaders of the Opposition parties, including Congress, RJD, HAM-S and CPI-ML, of the Bihar government’s efforts in tackling Covid-19 pandemic, assistance to the poor and the arrangements following the return of thousands of migrants from different states, while seeking their cooperation.Bihar Legislative Assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary had convened the meeting of all the Legislature party leaders from wherever they were at the behest of the CM to discuss the situation in the wake of the pandemic.This was the first opportunity since the premature adjournment of the Bihar Legislative Assembly on March 16 due to pandemic that the leader of the House had interacted with the Opposition leaders. Disaster management principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit and Patna commissioner Sanjay Agarwal also gave presentations on how the government was handling the pandemic, providing assistance to the needy.Kumar said that the Bihar government had stuck to Centre’s guidelines and as soon as there was nod for bringing the stranded migrants, arrangements were made. “Whoever wants to return to Bihar is welcome. We will make all arrangements. But everyone should remember that Covid-19 requires utmost precaution . Even a country like the USA is struggling,” he added.Kumar also answered Opposition’s charges as to why he was not moving around. “I am one CM who has been known for being in the midst of people, but this is no time to do that. My movement may lead to crowding and cause problems. This is the time to maintain social distancing. When the situation demands, I will certainly be out to meet people,” he added.Kumar said that Bihar government was treading cautiously as most of the infection in Bihar had come from outside. “The cases have crossed 500-mark, but it can spiral fast with slight carelessness. Panchayat representatives have been quite actively involved in creating awareness,” he said, directing the officials to tell the DMs to be in touch with the local MLAs and also provide any information the leaders of Opposition wanted.Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said that the Opposition should extend cooperation in the disbursal of ₹ 12,612-crore assistance from the Centre and state government to the needy through banks and distribution of foodgrains. “There will be no poor in the state who won’t get a minimum of ₹ 3,000 apart from foodgrains,” he added.The meeting, held through video conferencing, was significant, as the Opposition Congress and the RJD had been consistently attacking the government over the manner in which it tackled the issue of stranded migrants and students.In place of Leader of Opposition Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav, whose relentless tweets despite absence from Patna has generated a lot of heat, senior RJD leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui participated in the meeting and urged the CM to keep an eye on ‘communal virus’. “I know you are alert about it. But any room for communal virus to spread will be dangerous,” he added.Congress’s Sadanand Singh said that officials in the control rooms and administration did not pick up phones to share information. On this, the CM said that he could easily contact him or any of the ministers. Others who attended the meeting included HAM-S president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and CPI-ML’s Mehboob Alam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nitish-briefs-opposition-of-govt-s-action-plan-to-deal-with-pandemic/story-jfoCC5R2xOUrNctYH99KIM.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Containment zones in Paschim Vihar, Hari Nagar unsealed||The Delhi government on Tuesday de-contained two more areas in west district after no new Covid-19 case was reported from those localities in last 28 days. The areas where restrictions were scaled down include B Blocks of Paschim Vihar and Hari Nagar. According to district administration officials, these areas were declared containment zones on April 8 after one positive case was reported from these localities, each. Till Tuesday evening, 13 areas had been unsealed bringing the number of containment zones down to 87. Officials said they had repeatedly and regularly surveyed the health of residents in the localities. “Active surveillance of the area and nearby vicinity was carried out by the health department teams. No new cases emerged, hence scaling down process was started,” the official said, adding that health department would continue follow up operations and normal lockdown restrictions will remain in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/containment-zones-in-paschim-vihar-hari-nagar-unsealed/story-HCK6FDB2WDhN39pjuLFNcI.html
05-05-2020||City||Seven new cases takes Bihar’s Covid tally to 535||PATNA: The government Tuesday claimed that migrant workers, who returned to Bihar from other states during the lockdown, accounted for only 65 cases of coronavirus, as the total number of cases rose to 535 across 32 of the 38 districts, with four deaths in the state so far.Bihar reported seven new cases, five from Katihar and one each from Siwan and Kaimur, on Tuesday. This was the lowest number of cases the state had reported in a single day since April 19, when it reported 10 cases, as per government data shared through a tweet by Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar.The ascendancy in number of positive cases began from April 19 with the state registering total 440 cases since then.Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh Tuesday said the 65 cases attributed to migrant workers were spread across 21 districts of Bihar.“Of these 65 cases, Madhubani accounted for nine, Rohtas eight and five cases each were reported from Patna, West Champaran, Sitamarhi and Aurangabad,” said Singh, giving a break-up of districts where most such cases had been reported from.Bihar went for lockdown from March 23, two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the national lockdown from March 25. Around 1.90 lakh migrant workers are believed to have reached Bihar during the lockdown, the third phase of which will end on May 17.Meanwhile, 13 patients were discharged after recovery from government facilities on Tuesday, taking the total number of people to have recovered from the virus in the state so far to 142.“Bihar’s case recovery rate is 26.84%,” said Singh. The national average recovery rate was 27.5%.The 535 Covid-19 cases were spread across 32 of Bihar’s 38 districts, with Munger topping at 102. It was followed by Buxar (56), Rohtas (52), Patna (44), Nalanda (36), Siwan (32), Kaimur (31), Madhubani (23), Gopalganj, Bhojpur (18 each), Aurangabad, Begusarai (13 each), Bhagalpur, West Champaran (11 each), Katihar (10) East Champaran (9), Saran (8), Gaya, Sitamarhi (6 each), Darbhanga, Arwal (5 each), Lakhisarai, Nawada, Jehanabad, (4 each), Banka, Vaishali (3 each), Madhepura, Araria (2 each), Purnea, Sheikhpura, Sheohar, Samastipur (1 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-new-cases-takes-bihar-s-covid-tally-to-535/story-twqmZnsBZJv1579Op6xPLN.html
05-05-2020||City||Students, migrants return amid warm welcome at Darbhanga railway station||Students, migrant workers return amidst warm welcomeDARBHANGA Top police and district administration officers were present at the Darbhanga railway station to welcome as many as 1200 students from Kota in Rajasthan and a batch of 1197 migrant workers from Thrissur in Kerala who returned by special trains here on Tuesday.The students, who reached at 8am, were accorded warm welcome by the top brass of district and police administration. As soon as the train halted at Darbhanga station, the students were asked to follow the social distancing guidelines. The station was aesthetically decorated with flowers and barricaded to provide smooth passage to them even as their luggage were sanitised on way to medical screening stalls, which were made at platform number 1.Darbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagrajan SM was among the first to greet the students with bouquet and presented them the masks with Mithila painting done on them. Also present on the occasion were SSP Babu Ram, city SP Yogendra Kumar besides a large number of security officials. “Our homecoming is like a dream and we are very thankful to the state government and district administration for making such a nice arrangement upon our arrival”, said Ashok Labh (name changed), who later headed for Madhubani district in special buses made available for the students’ travel by respective district administrations.In the absence of porters, the students had to face some hardship to move outside with heavy luggage. However, some of the railway staff and RPF personnel came to their rescue. The students were also given food packets and a water bottle each after they were sensitized with spray and screened with thermal scanner. Darbhanga DM said that the students would be put to home quarantine. Likewise, the migrant workers, who arrived from Thrissur by Shramik Special train would be quarantined at respective block headquarters for 21 day period, he said. The special train departed from Thrissur in Kerala at 5.15 pm on Sunday and reached Darbhanga station at 4 pm on Tuesday.Speaking on the occasion, the Darbhanga SSP said that entire station campus and circulating area had been cordoned off for security purpose with additional deployment of CRPF and RPF personnel.Madhubani DM Nilesh Deore informed that as many as many as 23 buses had been sent to bring back the students from Darbhanga.Meanwhile, local artiste Asha Devi expressed happiness that she had done Mithila painting on masks after district administration had placed an order in this regard. “Even in adverse situation, we got an opportunity to earn and promote Mithila culture,” she pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-migrants-return-amid-warm-welcome-at-darbhanga-railway-station/story-Xrt6dQjtnH3EauOKNAy4RK.html
05-05-2020||City||Not ready to wait, anxious Bihar migrants continue to walk back home||Despite trains bringing back thousands of stranded migrant labourers from different states, not all of them are ready to wait for their turn.An early morning visit to Gopalganj border,connecting Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, reveals the endless queue of migrants on the way to their native places. Men, women and children with their belongings are on the move, come rain or shine.On Tuesday by 9am, thousands of people from places like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi arrived on the Gopalganj border on foot, carts, taxis — anything they could manage. As many as 20 counters were set up for labourers to undergo thermal screening and get registered.Mohammad Jabbar, 24, a native of Khagaria district, who is differently-abled, came on his tricycle from Delhi. Jabbar started his journey on April 23. He used to work in a fish market at Gazipur on Delhi border. “It was tiring. I left Delhi as I had no other option left,” he said, adding, “I used to cover over 50km every day and took a painkiller during the drive.” His is not the only case. Md Armaan left from Jaipur for Araria with 80 people on April 1.“All of us used to work together in a stitching unit, which supplied garments to a foreign company, but everything stopped after lockdown. We were unable to sustain ourselves there without money. The landlord asked for rent and disconnected power and water supply when we failed to pay the same” he added.Supaul resident Mohammad Iqbal left from Alwar in Rajasthan with 26 others. “Without work, there was no point in staying there,” Iqbal said.Meanwhile, many labourers rued that they did not receive the ₹1,000 assistance in their bank accounts that the Bihar government had announced. Labourers Rekha Kumari, Rabita Kumari, both residents of Champaran said only a few of them were able to avail the cash assistance announced by the state government. “We failed to register and gave up after two or three attempts,” said Chandan Kumar, adding, that only those workers were able to avail ₹1,000 who have bank account in Bihar.Meanwhile, a group of 40 students on the way to Saharsa from Madhya Pradesh reached Gopalganj by a taxi, paying ₹55,000. One of the students pleading anonymity said they just ate biscuits during the travel. “In the name of health check- up, we were only thermally screened. We were not given any certificates,” said another student.In another case, Rohit Kumar of Purnea said that he along with eight others moved from Bareilly on April 1 and reached here late on Monday night.The wait for another group, comprising of 73 people is getting longer since there is no vehicle to take them to West Bengal from the border area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-ready-to-wait-anxious-bihar-migrants-continue-to-walk-back-home/story-7f4rHoPmbVZ28yNeM1GANJ.html
05-05-2020||City||Kalyan bridge work starts, holds up traffic||Those working in the emergency services sector were stuck in traffic at Durgadi junction in Kalyan on Tuesday as premonsoon repair works on the bridge has started. Along with repair work, the new bridge is being built along the new one. Vehicles slowed down from 8.30am to 10am on Tuesday. A long queue of vehicles could be seen from Lal Chowki to Durgadi bridge in Kalyan. A resident of Lal Chowki, Kalyan, who works in the accounts department of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said he returned home as the bus was stuck near Durgadi brige for a long time.“Every day, we travel to our work place in Mumbai by BEST bus. However, we were stuck near Durgadi junction for an hour. I returned home seeing the bad traffic. The traffic police should have diverted vehicles to another road. Most commuters are from the emergency services and the mismanaged traffic led to inconvenience,” he said.The traffic personnel from Kalyan said the traffic jam occurred due to the ongoing repair work.“The pre-monsoon maintenance work of the old bridge has started. Besides, the construction of new bridge is also going on. The work affected the traffic today but it was cleared within an hour,” said Sukhdev Patil, traffic in charge of Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-bridge-work-starts-holds-up-traffic/story-HnB16cYRsHaA5wwDsOlcQN.html
05-05-2020||City||Cop’s wife, two sons among 4 booked for killing depot holder over ration distribution in Punjab||The city police on Tuesday booked a cop’s wife, his two sons and one more person for killing a 55-year-old depot holder of food and civil supplies department, Punjab, over ration distribution at Kila Mohalla locality here on Monday.Deceased identified as Ghasita Mall Lahori, a resident of Kapurthala, was the person in-charge for issuing slips to the families of smart card holders, who could avail free wheat and pulses under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna (PMGKAY). The government has intimated an exercise of issuing slips to the beneficiaries to maintain social distancing. Once the slips are collected, the food materials are delivered at the doorsteps by the government workers.On Monday, Debo, wife of Daulati Ram, a Punjab Police home guard posted at Kapurthala headquarters, along with her two sons—Bholu, Joban— and their friend Arjun Kumar thrashed Lahori after he refused to issue them slips citing that they do not have their names registered as beneficiaries in the list provided by the F&C department, a police officer said.“Locals and nephew of the deceased rushed Lahori to Kapurthala civil hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. We have registered a case against the four on the statements given by Lahori’s family,” superintendent of police (Investigation) Manpreet Singh said.Dr Sandeep Dhawan of the civil hospital said that the preliminary reports suggest that the victim died of a cardiac arrest, however, the exact cause of death will be ascertained after post-mortem report.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused at City Kapurthala police station, the SP said.This was second murder in Kapurthala district in three days. Earlier, a 47-year-old Congress activist was murdered by 22 villagers over an old enmity at Kala Sanghian here on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-s-wife-two-sons-among-4-booked-for-killing-depot-holder-over-ration-distribution-in-punjab/story-uv6l6qN1o0pwTzdAUAi4cJ.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||No point in shifting seat of power every 6 months: J&K HC to Centre, admn||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Tuesday observed that there were no sufficient and logical reasons to justify shifting of seat of power, called Darbar Move, every six months between Jammu and Srinagar.With these observations Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal placed the matter before the secretary, Union ministry of home affairs, and chief secretary of Jammu and Kashmir Union territory.They left it on the constitutional authorities to take the final call.The “archaic and obsolete” practice started by the erstwhile Dogra rulers of the princely state around 1872 had been causing a whopping loss of Rs 200 crore to the state exchequer every year. Taking suo-motu cognisance of a PIL, the division bench observed, “We have also noted above the limitations on the extent of our jurisdiction whereby we stand precluded from making a declaration on the permissibility or the continuation of the practice of the Darbar Move. We defer this task to the best wisdom of those on whom the Constitution of India bestows this solemn duty keeping in view the interest of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the larger interest of its people and the mandate of the Constitution of India.”The high court, after a marathon hearing, observed that “no reasons or grounds are forthcoming for enabling and supporting considerations of administrative efficiency, legal justification or constitutional basis for affecting the Darbar Move”.“Regions of both Jammu and Srinagar equally require administration and governance round the year without interruption. It is unfair and opposed to public interest to deprive either region completely of access to government machinery for six months at a time,” the court said.It also questioned the annual expenditure of Rs 200 crore to sustain and perpetuate an arrangement of biannual shifting of its capital in a ‘hopelessly fiscally deprived’ UT with severe underdevelopment.‘Darbar Move does not hold weight today’After citing facts and figures supported by logical conclusions, the division bench observed that the “practice of Darbar Move does not hold weight today. This justification of the Darbar Move has lost all relevance”. “Jammu and Kashmir are already suffering from high fiscal deficit and the expenditure on the Darbar Move is an unwarranted burden on the depleted resources of the Union territory,” the bench stated.It also observed that the practice results in “wastage of tremendous amount of time, efforts and energy on inefficient and unnecessary activity” and hence rationalisation of the Darbar Move was urgently required. ‘It all started amid Covid lockdown’Advocate Monika Kohli, amicus appointed in the case, said, “It all started amid Covid lockdown after a man from Kashmir whose son was stranded in Iran moved an application before the court for his evacuation and it was treated as suo-motu PIL”. “While all this was on, the administration announced Darbar Move in April. Some of the lawyers from Kashmir expressed their concern that how Darbar Move can happen amid lockdown,” she said.“Subsequently, it was brought into the notice of the HC, which wanted to know if it (Darbar Move) was legally required and mandatory or just a practice, and also sought reports from various departments on the money spent on this exercise,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-point-in-shifting-seat-of-power-every-6-months-j-k-hc-to-centre-admn/story-vMxiw60vrmABIq29KOSiEL.html
05-05-2020||City||Sidhu Moose Wala video row: Two more cops suspended, says Patiala SSP||A day after Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala was booked and six police personnel were suspended following a video making rounds in which the singer can be seen firing an official assault rifle, two more cops, including Julkan SHO Gurpreet Singh Bhinder, have been put under suspension on Tuesday.Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said that a departmental inquiry has been initiated against Bhinder and head constable Gagandeep Singh, who can be seen in the video.In the video, Moose Wala is firing the assault rifle at a shooting range at Badbar village in Barnala. “During investigation, it came to fore that SHO Bhinder illegally attached head constable Gagandeep with Sangrur DSP (headquarters) Daljit Singh Virk without informing the senior officers of Patiala district since past three months,” the SSP said.Virk has already been put under suspension as the cops in the video were attached with the DSP. Head constable Gagandeep Singh was originally posted at Julkan police station but he remained attached with the Sangrur DSP without any formal orders.“There was no mention of any such attachment or movement of Gagandeep in the formal registers at Julkan police station,” the SSP said.He said that a separate show-cause notice has been issued to SHO Bhinder regarding violation of orders of Punjab DGP regarding unauthorised deployment of force.“As per orders, three-month pay worth Rs 1.70 lakh of unauthorised gunman will be recovered from the SHO. This is the first such case in Punjab where this kind of recovery will be made,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sidhu-moose-wala-video-row-two-more-cops-suspended-says-patiala-ssp/story-VEEzth3dJ3UOeZJL1Q9MUP.html
05-05-2020||City||Sangrur police book Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala for curfew violations||A day after the Barnala police booked Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala for violating curfew, another video of the singer has surfaced on Tuesday where he is firing from private pistol/revolver at Ladda Kothi shooting range.Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg said Moose Wala, his friends and some cops fired gunshots at Ladda Kothi shooting range on Sangrur-Dhuri road, around 6km from Sangrur on May 1.“We have registered an FIR against Moose Wala, Karam Singh Lehal, Inder Singh Grewal and Jang Sher Singh, along with some cops who took him to the shooting range,” SSP Garg added.The case was registered under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Dhuri Sadar police station.“We have started probe and all accused will be arrested soon,” the SSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sangrur-police-book-punjabi-singer-sidhu-moose-wala-for-curfew-violations/story-JQjoivQOG3tkxIrJkpBXRK.html
05-05-2020||Jaipur||For liquor in Jaipur, buyers draw circles to follow social distancing||Without letting the ‘gamchha’ wrapped as a mask on his face slip, a man bent low and drew a perfect circle with chalk in his hand. He passed the remaining white stick to the one behind him in the queue and obediently stood in his circle. They are not playing; neither the circle is on the blackboard in a classroom but on the scorching charcoal street that leads to a liquor shop in Jaipur.“One box of chalk has been consumed since morning,” said an assistant offering chalk to alcohol buyers to draw circles to stand and maintain social distancing in the ever-lengthening queue outside the liquor shop on Ajmer Road.While the teachers have grabbed mouse and keyboards as all classes are being held online, liquor buyers have the good old chalk between their fingers. “Mein to le kar hi aaya (I came with the chalk),” said another man, standing in 57th circle... a good 150 metres from the shop.The liquor shops opened on May 4 after a gap of almost 42 days of lockdown due to corona pandemic but the joy of overenthusiastic liquor buyers was short lived as they flouted the norms of social distancing and crowded at the counters. The result: within an hour of the opening of the shops, the police had to order their closure.Lessons learnt, everyone returned on Tuesday well behaved and prepared for the ‘test’. “Today we have put barricades and our assistants are moving amid queues of buyers with hand sanitisers,” said Manoj sitting at the counter of a wine shop on New Sanganer Road.Shops didn’t open till the buyers disciplined themselves. There are 206 vends in Jaipur, out of which only 140 opened on Tuesday, said district excise officer Sunil Bhati.Labourers, students, old businessmen, white-collar workers... the queue had everyone waiting since morning. Those who got the bottles could be identified not just by the sparkle in eyes but a bounce in steps and clank of invisible bottles tucked in pockets and thelas.“Hum dus mazdoor kisi tarah 500 rupya ikattha kiya,” one labourer with three tiny bottles tucked in his trousers’ waist said how he pooled money with his friends to buy wine as due to lockdown he lost his job and went without liquor for more than a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/for-liquor-in-jaipur-buyers-draw-circles-to-follow-social-distancing/story-I02XVhEtQkdLXP2AZklnoL.html
05-05-2020||City||Sassoon’s milk bank a saviour for newborns||PUNE:The human milk bank at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune turned out to be a life saver for a boy who was born to a Covid-19 positive mother.The child was born on April 16 to a 25-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19, according to a statement issued by the District Information Office, Pune.After learning about the infection just before the delivery of the child, the family members as well as the doctors were struggling to ensure that the new born child is not affected. The child tested negative for the virus, however, it could not be allowed to go near the Covid-19 positive mother. The mother had come from the Khadki Bazar, said officials.Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of paediatric department at BJ Government Medical College attached with the Sassoon, said “Multiple babies benefit from the milk bank. We follow due process before accepting the milk. Consent form is filled out. There are very strict criteria’s; if the woman fits it, only then milk is accepted. The milk then undergoes various tests and procedures.” The feeding is happening through the hospital staff - nurses and doctors - with the consent of the mother and the family members, according to the District Information Office.The mother herself could not be reached for a comment as she is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Another official from the hospital said that the bank which began operations in 2013 gets milk from patients from two other hospitals besides Sassoon. The bank collects excess milk from lactating mothers and stores it for babies who cannot have access to their mother’s milk which could happen for various reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-s-milk-bank-a-saviour-for-newborns/story-53QkuMsiok1URYfkPCMyIK.html
05-05-2020||City||Shortage of workforce puts a damper on reopening of industry in Mohali||The relaxation in curfew that has allowed businessmen to reopen industry in the state will do little to overcome the losses suffered since the lockdown came into force. Reason: Nearly 60% of the labour workforce has returned to their home state.Industrialists are now grappling with labour shortage, wondering how to increase productivity at a time when there is hardly anybody around to do the work.As per Mohali Industries Association (MIA), the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in Mohali district has suffered a loss of around ₹1,000 crore in the last 45 days, while the overall loss is estimated at ₹1,500 crore.There are around 13,000 MSME units and 49 large industrial units in Mohali that employ 1.3 lakh persons, out of which 78,000 labourers have gone back to their native states. The units in the district are located in Mohali, Dera Bassi, Chanalon in Kurali and Chappar Chiri.Yogesh Sagar, president of MIA, said, “We have already paid the salaries for April and have requested the state government to do something to stop the workers from going back.”Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of MIA, said most of the skilled workers had left and it was really difficult to restart the units. “It will at least take us one year to revive the business.”Harjinder Singh Pannu, general manager, district industry centre, said, “We are calculating the losses. For now we have only allowed those industries/establishments that can make arrangements for workers’ stay within the premises and/or in adjacent buildings, but such units are few. And the migrants have started returning home.”Since the industrial policy was revised almost two years ago, the MSMEs scheme for Mohali had been drawing big profits for the district. Major sectors like IT, agro and food processing, automobiles and auto parts, textiles, engineering, pharmaceuticals, electronics, sports, hand tools and leather industry were planning to set up base here. But the lockdown has put a damper on those plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shortage-of-workforce-puts-a-damper-on-reopening-of-industry-in-mohali/story-wA6rdlOSlk5JMdYY8ZkvZI.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Uran wetlands proposed as conservation reserves by forest department||Large flocks of migratory birds visiting wetlands in and around Mumbai during the Covid-19 lockdown have drawn the forest department’s attention and led to enhance protection for these ecologically sensitive zones.Alongside wetlands at Navi Mumbai (NRI Complex and TS Chanakya), the Maharashtra forest department intends on declaring three of the most threatened wetland areas in Uran – Panje, Bhendhkal, and Belpada – as conservation reserves as well. These wetlands have been marked for the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone (NMSEZ) — an integrated industrial township.Conservation reserves are demarcated as protected areas in buffer zones of bird migration corridors, national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, or reserved and protected forests.The mangrove cell shared a letter with HT issued to the Raigad collector and City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco) last week, seeking comments on why the Uran wetlands should get protected status. For the first time, the department denoted each site as a ‘wetland’ in the letter, irrespective of their official status.“The mangrove cell intends to propose protection and conservation measures for the said wetlands under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 (for declaration of conservation reserves) to the Maharashtra government,” the letter undersigned by Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell) said, asking for comments from district and planning authorities. “The Navi Mumbai region has some important wetland habitats for a number of migratory and resident bird species but also play an important ecological role since they protect surrounding areas from flooding,” the letter stated.The letter was based on recommendations by the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) in their 2019 report on the status of coastal wetlands and water birds of Navi Mumbai. “The high numbers of flamingos congregating at TSC [TS Chanakya] and NRI Complex wetlands during the ongoing coronavirus-enforced lockdown is further evidence of the importance of these sites for threatened migratory birds,” the letter added. Unlike the two wetlands in Navi Mumbai, the Uran wetlands – spread across over 500-hectare core area for migratory bird roosting – have not had any migratory birds visiting them at all this year, especially Panje, which dried up completely due to high tide blockages during the lockdown.The Raigad district administration said it was yet to see the contents of the letter. Cidco said it did not have jurisdiction over the three wetland sites. “Large patches of land from Panje and Bhendkhal were sold by Cidco to a private company for the NMSEZ project across 1,250 hectares. Belpada falls in the jurisdiction of Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust. It is these bodies the forest department needs to approach for a no-objection certificate, and not Cidco,” said Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco.Certain sections of the Uran wetlands have been witnessing aggressive debris and mud dumping, blocking of high tidewater, and construction activities before and during the lockdown period. Last week, more security cabins were set up at Panje, restricting entry and exit for outsiders. “These wetlands were a destination of 1.5 lakh birds, especially flamingos, until last year but they have turned into dry patches. Not a single flamingo is spotted now as they are being forced to smaller areas such as Talawe due to overall loss of habitat along the eastern seafront,” said environmentalist BN Kumar.“Indiscriminate burial of these wetlands will lead to flooding as it had across 20 villages last monsoon. On the contrary, restoration will help local fishing communities,” said Nandkumar Pawar, another environmentalist. “They are the perfect alternative habitats for a quarter of a million migratory birds that have been displaced due to the construction of the Navi Mumbai International Airport site.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uran-wetlands-proposed-as-conservation-reserves-by-forest-department/story-lCZugtuIHfaEAYSkwkNRAI.html
05-05-2020||City||Landlord booked for raping minor sisters for months in Ludhiana||A 45-year-old man has been booked for repeatedly raping the two minor daughters of his tenant for several months in Gurmel Park area of Tibba.Mother of the victims, aged 12 and nine, said the accused, Balkar Singh, also threatened her daughters to keep mum. In her complaint, the victims’ mother, who works at a hosiery factory, said she and her husband, a labourer, had three children, including two daughters. They live in a rented accommodation, while the accused lives with his family in an adjoining house. ACCUSED WOULD CALL GIRLS AT HIS HOUSE IN ABSENCE OF THEIR PARENTSThe complainant said from past one month, she had been home due to the coronavirus lockdown. On Monday, her younger daughter told her that Balkar used to call her sister and her to his house and rape the duo when their parents were out for work earlier. On being coaxed, the 12-year-old girl also revealed that their neighbour had raped her repeatedly, and whenever she tried to raise the alarm, he threatened to kill her, the complainant told police. Investigating official sub-inspector Amandeep Kaur said the accused was a labourer and his wife worked with the victims’ mother. Tibba police have registered a case under Sections 376-AB (rape on women under twelve years of age), 376 (2) (n) (committing rape repeatedly on the same person), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Efforts are on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landlord-booked-for-raping-minor-sisters-for-months-in-ludhiana/story-GlVAmisAEFti72L4wjQEkM.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||10 Indonesian nationals who attended Tablighi Jamat move sessions court for bail||The 10 Indonesian nationals booked for failure to disclose details about their participation at Tablighi Jamaat gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi have approached the sessions court for bail on Tuesday.The group, arrested in April, was denied bail by the metropolitan magistrate court on Monday. After the rejection, they have now approached the sessions court for bail. The hearing of the bail plea is scheduled on May 8.As per the case registered with Bandra police, a total of 12 people, including the arrested accused (six men and six women) from Indonesia had visited Delhi in March for the religious meet. After attending the meet they came to Mumbai on March 7 and were staying at an apartment in Bandra. Two of them are currently still under quarantine.The accused were booked for attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder, under the Indian Penal Code, along with other charges. They were arrested by the Bandra police on April 23.Their defence lawyer Ishrat Khan, while seeking bail for the 10 accused, had pleaded that charges of attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder, do not apply to the case. The defence has pleaded that the accused are falsely implicated and should be released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-indonesian-nationals-who-attended-tablighi-jamat-move-sessions-court-for-bail/story-XZqjoqUzoK6THz9AqWtFvO.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||No Covid-19 case in Mohali for two days, active cases stand at 50||No fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case was reported from Mohali for the second consecutive day, on Tuesday. So far, 95 people have tested positive in the district, of which 43 have been cured and two have died. The tally of active cases currently stands at 50.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “We received reports of around 60 persons on Tuesday, all of which have come back negative. We have sent 81 samples again whose reports we will get tomorrow. The 50 patients who are currently undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, are stable and responding well to treatment.”The civil surgeon appealed to people to not leave their homes and only go out if there is an urgent need. He also asked them to visit hospitals only in case of serious problem. He said they should contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice. He also asked everyone to wash their hands frequently and maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-covid-19-case-in-mohali-for-two-days-active-cases-stand-at-50/story-F0C8NHZr2x1sUxf2HknDqL.html
05-05-2020||Patna||Bihar Cong MLC sends legal notice to Sushil Modi||Bihar Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra on Tuesday sent a legal notice to state Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi, who had claimed that Congress and RJD MLAs have not made any contribution to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF).In a tweet on Monday, Modi had said that the MLAs of RJD and Congress have not contributed a single rupee to the CMRF.“I had asked Sushil Modi to tender an apology to the Congress leaders over his remark and delete his untrue tweets. However, he has not withdrawn the tweets or tendered any apologies. Therefore, I have sent a legal notice to Sushil Modi,” said Mishra in a video message.Mishra said that Sushil Modi’s remark that Congress MLAs have not contributed anything to the Chief Minister Relief Fund are “blatant lies”.“Through the legal notice sent to Sushil Modi, I have asked him how he can lie about Chief Minister Relief Fund despite being the Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister of the state, that too at a time of such crisis,” he said.The legal notice said that the allegations made by Modi are “baseless” and with “mala fide intentions” to defame the Congress leaders and added that the donation has become a “political issue” for him.“Your actions amount to the commission of the offence of the defamation under Section 499 (defamation) as well as are actionable by the way of a civil proceeding,” the notice said.“That my client, being of a forgiving disposition, is willing to compound your offence if you immediately withdraw your defamatory and untrue tweet and issue a public apology through the same forum, failing which I have the instructions to initiate civil and criminal proceedings as per the law of the land,” it added.Mishra said that Bihar Youth Congress vice president Kumar Rohit has also filed a complaint to the Superintendent of Police over Sushil Modi’s remark and sought actions against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-cong-mlc-sends-legal-notice-to-sushil-modi/story-7AaF7tOUJBuiODCEhOASwK.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to conduct viva for PhD scholars via video conferencing||Panjab University has decided to conduct viva for PhD scholars online as classes remain suspended amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. Other members present included registrar Karamjeet Singh, dean colleges development council (DCDC) Sanjay Kaushik and dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla.The vivas will be held in respective departments of the Phd students; and if the facility is not available at the department, it will be held at the university’s computer centre via Skype or any other virtual platform.Members of the committee have also issued guidelines to be followed while conducting the vivas.“Chairperson of the department concerned, supervisor(s), and candidates must be present during the viva. Other faculty and research scholars will attend online from their homes to ensure the interaction as is public viva-voce,” PU’s office order said.It was also decided during the meeting that the secrecy department of the university must process the thesis for those research scholars whose PhD is pending with them, and send to the examiner for evaluation, after following due procedure. Also, report from the examiner must be preferably taken online.In March, the syndicate, which is the university’s apex executive body had given its nod to the proposal of conducting viva for research scholars through video conferencing only where a student cannot appear physically due to valid reasons.It has been decided that employees including guest faculty, temporary, contract teachers and contractual non-teaching staff whose term is expiring at the end of current academic session that ends on May 8 will be rehired as per requirement, when the normal functioning of the university resumes.Panjab University DUI RK Singla said, “Once the university reopens, students will be given a few weeks to attend classes so that syllabus and other practical work be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-conduct-viva-for-phd-scholars-via-video-conferencing/story-Vedz0USAWa46m7xWUzjt9H.html
05-05-2020||City||KDMC and UMC to not allow entry for those working in Mumbai under essential or emergency services||: In an attempt to curb the increasing cases of Covid-19, those working under essential or emergency services in Mumbai will not be allowed entry into Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) from May 8 onwards. There are many residing within KDMC or UMC and working in Mumbai, but as of now they have been asked to stay within Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation jurisdiction until May 17.“I respect and salute the courage of those who are a part of essential or emergency services and travel to Mumbai on a regular basis to ensure service. However, among the 224 positive cases in KDMC, 73 are those who work in these services and 28 of their relatives have also been affected. Thus, 101 of the total number of cases are due to those who are traveling to Mumbai regularly and we are looking forward to curb such instances that will give rise to spread of the virus,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.“BMC has agreed to provide facilities to stay in hotels for those under healthcare services, however, those who are working in the banking or other sectors have been given two days’ time to make provisions for their stay. We are taking this step after keeping in mind the safety of the family members and neighbours of those who are offering such services,” added Suryavanshi. Similar decision was taken by the UMC as well, both have asked the people to fill in their name and details and provide it to the authorities so that their family’s safety can also be looked into. “All those who are working in Mumbai need to give details of their name, address, office address and contact details and submit it to the corporation as soon as possible,” said Sudhakar Deshmukh, Commissioner, UMC. UMC has 16 positive patients till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-and-umc-to-not-allow-entry-for-those-working-in-mumbai-under-essential-or-emergency-services/story-V8MZHuplSKhnrgqP9giZzM.html
05-05-2020||City||LPG delivery man robbed of ₹19,500, mobile phone in Ludhiana||In the fourth such attack on LPG delivery men during the Covid-19 curfew since March 23, a 42-year-old man was robbed of Rs 19,500 by three motorcycle-borne men on Monday.The victim, Vijay Yadav, told the police that he was returning to the gas agency after delivering LPG cylinders to customers.When he reached near Ajit Nagar, three men blocked his way and demanded the cash he was carrying. “When I resisted, two of them restrained me, while the third man threatened to kill me with a sharp-edged weapon. The accused then fled after snatching the Rs. 19,500 I had and my mobile phone,” he alleged.He immediately informed the Salem Tabri police, who have registered a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Janak Raj, who is investigating the case, said they were scanning the CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the accused.NOT A FIRSTAPRIL 19: An employee of a gas agency was robbed of Rs 8,000 by motorcycle-borne miscreants on Chuharpur Road.APRIL 8: Rs 10,500 in cash were snatched near Mukand Singh Nagar.MARCH 31: Two men on a motorcycle robbed an LPG delivery man at gunpoint on the Kakowal Road. Before this robbery, the accused had attempted to rob another delivery man, who had managed to flee to safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lpg-delivery-man-robbed-of-19-500-mobile-phone-in-ludhiana/story-cYf3I0xBZZBXHKGUoidWWJ.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Stuck students in dilemma: Go back home or stick to study schedules||Mukbang Pertin, 23, a civil services aspirant in Delhi from Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh, is unsure if he should think about going back home or rather stay here and focus on his studies. There is no clarity on when the next date of the exam he is preparing for will be announced after the nationwide lockdown was extended, with some relaxations, till May 17 on Friday. While many aspirants had left when the lockdown was announced initially, some like Pertin decided to stay back.As the government makes arrangements to send outstation students back home, a number of aspirants preparing for civil and state service and other competitive examinations, say they are in a fix. Most of them say that they have already registered for various examinations and going back now will only hamper their preparation and routine. Many said that had even joined online coaching classes in Delhi. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC)-preliminary examination was scheduled to be held on May 31. However, on April 28, the government had announced that an in-principle decision has been taken to postpone the preliminary exam, but an official announcement will be made only after May 3. Pertin had registered for the test and was preparing for the exams.A majority of students preparing for the medical entrance exam NEET and engineering exam JEE, who were staying at hostels of their respective coaching centres, have already left. According to officials of several coaching institutes, the hostels were vacated immediately after the Delhi government issued an order on March 12. The National Testing Agency — that conducts both NEET and JEE — has already postponed the exams till further orders in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic.“More than half the students living in rented rooms in my building had left initially. I don’t know if leaving for home now is a good idea. The government before making an announcement should come out with a clear notification of the exam schedule. It will affect our study routine. Even those who have gone back are not clear when and where the exams take place for which they have already registered,” said Pertin, who lives in a rented accommodation in Old Rajinder Nagar.A large number of students preparing for union and state board exams live in different pockets of the city — like Mukherjee Nagar, Old Rajinder Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Munirka, Ber Sarai, Jia Sarai and Munirka — which have over the years become a hub for aspirants preparing for competitive examinations.Prasun Kumar, 25, who lives in a paying guest accommodation in Mukherjee Nagar, said that except for very pressing issues — like failure to pay rent — students wouldn’t want to go home at this time as it was a crucial moment for the upcoming exams. Kumar, who is preparing for Staff Selection Commission (SSC) exams, said that the CGL (a preliminary exam) had started around March 16 and was being held in phases. But only half the students could take the exam before it was postponed indefinitely on March 22 for the rest of the students.“The students had stayed back for the exams. They don’t know now when will it be conducted again. Many of us are taking online classes for the main exams. Here we have WiFi connection and can focus on our studies. Back home, connectivity is a major issue. Also, going back without knowing the new schedule of exams will only cause anxiety and uncertainty,” said Kumar, who hails from Bihar’s Sirsa. He added that some of his friends, who had gone back home early on, want to come back for lack of internet connectivity and not being able to focus on their studies.“Going back and then coming again for the exams will disrupt the entire routine. Unless there is a clear notification from the government, going back is not a solution,” said Vinay Rana, 28, another student preparing for civil services, who lives in a rented accommodation in Ber Sarai. Rana hails from Himachal Pradesh.A senior Delhi government official, who did not wish to be named, said that they are preparing the logistics for the movement of stranded students and others back to their hometowns. “We have kept students on priority and will ensure their interests are safeguarded. A set of rules is being prepared for the same,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stuck-students-in-dilemma-go-back-home-or-stick-to-study-schedules/story-yCoTj5DuABCvNeR9k3IE8M.html
05-05-2020||City||Entry into Mohali district from notified entry points only: DC||Girish Dayalan, Mohali’s district magistrate, along with nodal officers, on Tuesday, notified the entry points on highways and link roads into the district. For people entering the district from Himachal Pradesh, the check-point has been set up at Siswan Baddi road in Siswan village. For those entering the District from Haryana, the interstate border check points on highways have been set up near Sekhon banquet hall in Zirakpur on Panchkula highway. Other interstate check points for those entering districts from Haryana have been set up at Ambala to Naraingarh highway and Ambala to Chandigarh highway at Jharmari in Lalru. Similarly, interstate border check points have been set up at various link roads in Peer Muchhalla, T-point Antala in Panchkula, Barwala road, Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road in Dera Bassi and Daffarpur and Harmilap Nagar in Baltana.Additionally, people authorised to travel and are travelling from neighbouring states to other states through Mohali, are not allowed to stay in the district. However, there will be no embargo on goods carriers coming to the district but their screening is a must.The nodal officer will ensure registration of data of inbound passengers at http://covid.punjab.gov.in/policereg as per the standard operating procedure.Mohali’s civil surgeon will depute health workers for round-the-clock duty at these entry points for screening each person entering the state. Anybody found symptomatic will be taken to nearest sub-divisional hospital. If found positive, the person will be shifted to the notified isolation facility.The nodal officer will send the data collected about persons coming from other states wishing go to other districts of Punjab, to the respective district commissioners to ensure supervision of all such persons for at least 14 days. In case of migrants coming into the state, a separate area in the village will be earmarked to ensure that migratory labour stays at the designated place with observation of social distancing guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/entry-into-mohali-district-from-notified-entry-points-only-dc/story-70SAnsO70rP99icdSGBHYP.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||HC notice to AIIMS on shelter home inmates not receiving requisite medication||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought a status report from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on a plea which alleged that homeless patients suffering from critical illnesses residing in the night shelter at the hospital are not being provided the medication they were earlier receiving from the pharmacy at AIIMS. The plea sought some arrangement to be made so these patients could be provided with medication until the lockdown is lifted, and the pharmacy at AIIMS is functional again. According to the counsel for AIIMS, the functioning of the pharmacy has been affected due to a large workforce of the AIIMS not being able to reach the pharmacy during the lockdown.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar issued a notice to the Centre and the AIIMS on the plea by a social worker Rachna Malik who sought that medicines be given to such patients until the lockdown is lifted.The plea filed through advocate Vaibhav Pratap Singh stated that patients at the night shelter are unable to access medicines for inter alia cancer, hypertension, diabetes, neurological conditions, as a few examples. It stated that if the medication was not provided, their conditions would likely deteriorate, at which point they would need to be admitted for emergency in-patient care, which would further burden the present health care infrastructure and may even be fatal.During the hearing via video conferencing, the counsel appearing for AIIMS, told the court that the pharmacy at AIIMS has been functioning in a limited manner, and medicines for cancer and AIDS are being distributed from the pharmacy. He states that on account of a large workforce of the AIIMS not being able to reach the pharmacy due to the lockdown, the functioning of the pharmacy has been affected. He sought time to place a detailed status report on record.Following this, the court granted him time and posted the matter for a hearing on May 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-notice-to-aiims-on-shelter-home-inmates-not-receiving-requisite-medication/story-L4OHVhdKqVKU5TJyoSCrfI.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Man killed for intervening in a fight, two held||A 32-year-old man was stabbed by another man and his juvenile friend in outer Delhi’s Nangloi on Monday evening after he tried to intervene in a drunken brawl between two men. The police have arrested the man and the juvenile. According to the police, they received a call on Monday at the Nangloi police station from one Pankaj Kishore who reported that his brother has been stabbed by two men. A police team that reached the spot found that the man had been rushed to Maharaja Agrasen hospital where he was pronounced dead. The deceased man was identified as Ashish Kishore; he ran a dairy business in Nangloi. “A preliminary enquiry revealed that on Monday evening, one Gauri Shankar, who was drunk, got into a verbal quarrel with another man, identified as one Nathu. At the same time, Ashish Kishore, who was in the vicinity, saw the two men fighting and intervened, trying to pacify them. In the meantime, another man, later identified as one Jatin, 22, arrived there with a juvenile friend and started threatening Ashish Kishore against interfering,” a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said. The police said that despite threats, Kishore did not leave the place and continued trying to pacify the men. “Jatin and Kishore had a verbal spat. Jatin then caught Kishore and overpowered him and the juvenile stabbed Kishore in the chest, leaving him dead,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) A Koan said they registered a case of murder at the Nangloi police station and have arrested Jatin. They also apprehended the juvenile who stabbed Kishore. Both of them are unemployed and their criminal background is being checked. “The crime is being investigated further,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-killed-for-intervening-in-a-fight-two-held/story-hDCrsIR3VhD2hn3gZIvblM.html
05-05-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: 16 accused test negative for Covid-19, reports of 23 cops awaited||Around 16 accused who had undergone testing for Covid-19 have tested negative on Monday evening. The accused are involved in the Palghar lynching case of April 16 where three people were killed. The reports of the 23 cops who were on escort duty are awaited.Dr Abhijit Khandare, taluka medical officer, Palghar, said “The tests were conducted after a 55-year-old accused, among the 115 held in the Palghar lynching case tested positive. The said accused is now in the prison ward of the JJ Hospital in isolation.The accused is a resident of Divshi-Wakipada in Dahanu was arrested by the Kasa police on 17 April and since then was lodged in the Wada police lockup along with 20 other accused in the murder case. He was produced before the Dahanu court and is remanded in police custody till 14 May along with the 114 accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-16-accused-test-negative-for-covid-19-reports-of-23-cops-awaited/story-3d0bCh92j7lIjBdvqptWFN.html
05-05-2020||City||Heading to find place on train to UP, teen killed in hit-and-run mishap||A 17-year-old Uttar Pradesh boy was killed after a speeding jeep hit him and drove off on the Dhuri railway overbridge on Monday.Police said the boy, Abhishek Kumar of Janpath Colony, South City, and his parents had heard a rumour that a train was leaving for Uttar Pradesh from the Dhandhari railway station, while no such service was announced.His mother Sadhna told the police that she, along with her husband and son, were walking towards the railway station to board the train. When they reached the Dhuri overbridge, a speeding white jeep crushed her son to death and sped away.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Raj, who is investigating the case, said on the mother’s statement, they had booked the unidentified jeep driver under Sections 279 (rash driving) , 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Police are scanning CCTV cameras nearby to trace the accused.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has clarified that the administration was sending text messages to migrant workers shortlisted to board the special trains. The text message will include the date and venue where these people can board a bus near their residence, and from there, only the shortlisted people will be transported to the railway station and provided train tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heading-to-find-place-on-train-to-up-teen-killed-in-hit-and-run-mishap/story-Fh0ntjUSJ8EExe3fQWVT3O.html
05-05-2020||City||Hisar man accuses lover’s family of killing her for ‘honour’||Police launched an investigation after a 27-year-old man alleged that his 23-year-old lover was killed by her family members in Uklana town of Hisar district.The man, in a written complaint, stated that he was in a live-in-relationship with the woman and her family was opposed to it. A few days ago, she went home and did not return. He later found out that she had died, leading him to suspect it was an ‘honour killing’.Though no FIR has been launched so far, police are investigating the matter. Sub-inspector Mal Singh, the investigating officer, said, “We came to know that the girl had died of electrocution and her family members had cremated the body. However, we are looking at all angles and probing if it was an honour killing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-man-accuses-lover-s-family-of-killing-her-for-honour/story-1bz8K2UJNrKw8qkY2GnXJM.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to reserve 2 dialysis machines for Covid patients in all hospitals||Haryana government has decided to reserve two dialysis machines each in all district hospitals and medical colleges of the state, exclusively for Covid-19 patients. A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. An official spokesperson said that deputy commissioners have been authorised to ensure the opening of shops in all markets falling in green and orange districts as per the requirement in consultation with all market associations in such a manner that norms of social distancing are properly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-reserve-2-dialysis-machines-for-covid-patients-in-all-hospitals/story-1rJLGOwq8mWikns2ITwXRI.html
05-05-2020||City||Huge rush at liquor shops may cost cancellation of licence||PUNE: Liquor shops may face cancellation of licence if they are unable to manage the huge rush and crowding. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “Despite repeated appeals if consumers continue to crowd near liquor shops, strict action will taken against the owners, including cancellation of licence. We have asked the shop owners to not allow more than 50 customers and they should maintain social distancing and other preventive norms.” Meanwhile, many liquor and wine shops in the city remained open for the second consecutive day on Tuesday amidst presence of police force and those who volunteered to manage the crowd.Long queues were observed outside the wine shops in Baner, Aundh, Pashan, Deccan, Warje, Undri, Kondhwa, Wanowrie, Vishrantwadi and Hadapsar areas of the city. Huge rush made it difficult for police and those running the shops to maintain social distancing and discipline the crowds.According to the state excise department, at least 300 wine shops were open in Pune metropolitan region. They estimated that more than 5,000 people made purchases.Santosh Zagade, superintendent of police, state excise department, Pune said the rush was because consumers believe that the stock will get over soon.“We expect the situation to drastically improve once people get their stock. Bulk buying will ensure that consumers stay indoors for a long time. We have appealed to liquor shop owners to take steps to maintain social distancing and other safeguards,” he said.Sandeep Ghule, a dealer in Undri, said, “We ensured a proper queue was maintained and sold liquor to every person standing in the queue. Our stock is running out as consumers are going for bulk buying after 40-day lockdown.”Tony Gomes, manager of a shop in Hadapsar, said that consumers will follow social distance norms more strictly in the coming days after the initial rush. “We request the police and excise authorities to visits liquor shops and instil confidence by extending support,” he said.Priscilla Francis, a buyer, said. “I could not buy on Monday because of huge rush and long queue in front of the shop, but today I managed to get two bottles of liquor. The government’s decision is welcome as it provided us with our favourite drink during the lockdown period,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/huge-rush-at-liquor-shops-on-day-2-of-lockdown-3-0/story-NDj7RC5dOeew2CR9c4NNNP.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Vistara announces no-pay leave for senior staffers for May and June||Vistara announced pay cut for its employees for May and June. The airline said that all employees except pilots would have to accept compulsory no-pay leave. The decision will not however, affect junior-level employees.“We will be reducing the monthly base flying allowance for pilots to 20 hours for the month of May and June 2020 and adjustments will be made in the monthly salary accordingly,” the employees were told.A spokesperson from the airline confirmed the development, and said, ““With the latest lockdown extension until 17 May 2020, our operations continue to be suspended until the date, prolonging the period of no-revenues as well. Vistara is making every effort to save jobs of more than 4,000 of its people while conserving cash, and pursuing to reduce operational expenditures, which includes staff costs. For the months of May and June 2020, Vistara’s senior staff will take compulsory no-pay leave of one to four days in each of the two months, depending on employment grades [four days for senior-most employees]. The monthly base flying allowance for pilots has been reduced to 20 hours for these two months, and adjustments will be made to their monthly remunerations accordingly. This decision does not impact 70% of Vistara staff, including cabin crew, frontline staff and junior corporate office employees.”Since April 15, Vistara has operated more than 20 cargo flights using Boeing B787-9 and carried 140 tonnes of commercial and relief cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vistara-announces-no-pay-leave-for-senior-staffers-for-may-and-june/story-3FsfpUFmxGxjTSmsRkdqiN.html
05-05-2020||Football||Stranded for more than a month, Mohun Bagan, East Bengal coaches and players return home||Stranded for more than a month due to nationwide lockdown, the foreign players of Mohun Bagan and East Bengal, along with their coaches, on Tuesday left for their homes following an arduous 29-hour bus ride from. The 13-member group, comprising mostly of Spaniards, made a quiet exit from India in the wee hours of Tuesday by a specially-arranged Dutch Airlines flight from New Delhi. They will travel to their respective homes from Amsterdam.Kibu Vicuna, who guided Mohun Bagan to I-League title, said he would love to return soon to celebrate the success with football-crazy Kolkata fans. Vicuna-coached Mohun Bagan won their second I-League title with four rounds left before the I-League came to an end because of coronavirus-forced lockdown.“When normalcy returns, I would love to come back and celebrate with all the players, fans, club officials and members,” the Spaniard was quoted as saying by the official website of All India Football Federation just before departure.“None of us ever really got the opportunity to say our goodbyes properly. It was all over the phone. I am a person who likes to do this kind of thing face-to-face,” he added with a tinge of regret. The 48-year-old got the success in his very first season in India but ironically he had to leave the club which was acquired by Indian Super League winning ATK, a team coached by Antonio Lopez Habas.“It has been a fantastic year for me -- both personally and professionally. I feel I now feel complete as a coach. When we won that last match against Aizawl, we were so happy. We all celebrated with the fans,” said Vicuna who will coach ISL side Kerala Blasters this coming season.There was the return-leg derby left but the COVID-19 pandemic by then had stalled all the sporting activities, including I-League. “The Derby was still at the back of our minds, but we would never have thought that that would have been our last match,” the Spaniard said.“I would like to thank all the fans of Mohun Bagan. We got so much love throughout the season, it’s absolutely unbelievable. I feel like I am leaving a piece of my heart back in Kolkata.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/stranded-for-more-than-a-month-mohun-bagan-east-bengal-coaches-and-players-return-home/story-fwRpvLh9SrEbk8aRMqXWXL.html
05-05-2020||City||TMC to barricade 97 residential buildings in containment zones||The Thane Municipal Corporation has tightened its reign on containment zones by barricading the boundaries on all four sides of these zones to ensure no one can walk in or out without any emergency. The corporation has identified 113 such zones, which comprises of 97 residential buildings and 37 localities including slums where the east, west, north and south boundaries are barricaded, while the lockdown norms are still stringent in these zones.With over 400 cases, Thane city is in a red zone wherein most lockdown norms are still in place. Thane civic commissioner, Vijay Singhal, issued a circular on Monday evening on what will be allowed in containment zones and outside of the zones.An officer from TMC requesting anonymity said, “Earlier we used to declare containment areas and seal them restricting movement, however now we have demarcated proper boundaries of these areas on all four sides. They are barricaded so that residents cannot move in and out without an emergency. The police department will ensure that the barricades are in place in these areas. The zones have over 97 residential buildings in all the ten wards, whereas 37 chawls, slums and other localities are included in these.”The stringent measures are undertaken to prevent the spear of the virus in other areas of the city from the containment zones.Commissioner Singhal said, “As per my directives, the police will completely seal the boundaries of the containment zones. Only medical facilities and shops selling essential commodities will be allowed in this zone. These shops will also remain open for a time specified by the concern authorities.”The circular also states that some of the lockdown rules are eased outside of containment zones. He added, “The single shops in residential complexes can remain open. No more than five shops selling non-essential commodities will be allowed on a particular road. The residents can use four-wheelers, however not more than 2 people apart from the driver will be allowed, while double seat on a bike is banned.”The shops which are permitted by the local police will, however, have to follow all social distancing norms and also keep a hand sanitizer at the counter.Workplaces to be secureThe circular also highlighted several social distancing norms to be followed by workplaces. The workplaces will have to keep the staff number minimum to ensure that social distancing is followed at the desks. The social distancing should also be followed in office canteens during the lunch hours. Singhal said, “A shift system should be in place, to ensure minimum employees are in the office. Thermal scanning of people should be done at entry and exit points of the offices. The list of COVID hospitals and helpline numbers should be displayed, while each employee should have Arogya Setu application on his phone. Employees showing symptoms should also be tested for COVID 19.”Wedding with limited guests allowedSocial distancing should also be followed at any wedding ceremony. Not more than 50 guests will be allowed at such a wedding ceremony or any other private function. Funerals will also be permitted with merely 20 or fewer people.Pre-monsoon and construction activitySinghal has permitted the premonsoon work of different concerned authorities with prior permissions. The structural repairs, rainwater harvesting, waterproofing and metro works will also be allowed. In case of construction activity, those where the labours are not called outside of the city and can stay at the construction site will also be permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-to-barricade-97-residential-buildings-in-containment-zones/story-dCzGyVzqP5wiiBv9L32r6K.html
05-05-2020||Lucknow||93 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in UP, total climbs to 2,859||Ninety-three fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 2,859, a senior official said here on Tuesday.Briefing reporters, Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said so far, 2,859 Covid-19 cases have been reported from 65 districts of the state.He said 944 Covid-19 patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals till now.The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,862, he said.Prasad said 20 laboratories are working and pool testing is also going in the state.“On Monday, 300 pools were tested in which there were 1,440 samples. Of the 300 pools, 34 pools were found positive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/93-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-up-total-climbs-to-2-859/story-p5BsJNGEIFah9WrPCgR48I.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||No Covid-19 test for tiger cub: Nagpur college returns samples, asks the forest department to approach approved lab||The Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) on Tuesday sent back swab samples of a three-month-old tiger cub suspected of having Covid-19, without testing them.NVC asked the forest department to approach institutes approved by the Centre for animal testing in India. “We realised that it is ethically incorrect to perform the Covid-19 test for the wild animal since we do not have the Centre’s approval. In such circumstances, the samples need to be sent to the closest approved institute, and this has been conveyed to the forest department,” said Dr AP Somkuwar, associate dean, NVC.The college is planning to get approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to be designated as an approved institute for further animal testing in Maharashtra.HT reported on Monday that swab samples of the female cub, rescued from paddy fields in Mul taluka of Chandrapur district, were collected on April 28 by the forest department after concerns of improper protective equipment during the rescue and initial ill health of the cub. Samples were sent to NVC after it was suspected that the cub might be the first case of a wild animal in Maharashtra contracting the virus. The test results were expected on Tuesday.The cub is currently being kept at a transit treatment centre in Chandrapur and is healthy, said officials.NVC’s last-minute decision left the forest department in a lurch. “If this was the case, the college could have informed us much earlier. During the lockdown, it is difficult to get permissions and interstate transportation. However, the process will begin immediately,” said AL Sonkusare, divisional forest officer (territorial), Chandrapur.SV Ramarao, chief conservator of forest, Chandrapur said, “The final decision will be taken by the chief wildlife warden as he is the nodal authority.”After the first confirmed case of a tiger testing positive for Covid-19 in New York was reported on April 5, three animal institutes were approved by the Centre for Covid-19 animal testing — National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal; National Research Centre on Equines in Hisar, Haryana, and Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra said, “Following NVC’s decision. we have decided to send the swab samples to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. We are working on the permissions for inter state transport. Once all permissions are in place, the samples will be sent. In the meantime, the cub will remain in the transit treatment centre at Chandrapur, and efforts to runite her with her mother are put on hold till we get the results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-covid-19-test-for-tiger-cub-nagpur-college-returns-samples-asks-the-forest-department-to-approach-approved-lab/story-NU2HneJgggtYA9bKpyzIyO.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Lalbaughcha Raja mandal provides assistance through janta clinics||: One of the most visited Ganpati pandals in the city Lalbaugcharaja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal inaugurated a mobile clinic service on Monday, wherein volunteers from the mandal will be visiting Covid-19 affected areas along with officials from civic body to provide services there.Balasaheb Kamble, president of Lalbaugcharaja Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal, said two doctors and a volunteer visited Ambewadi on Tuesday morning, and will be visiting a particular location at Currey Road in the evening.“It is a BMC initiative, but we are providing volunteers to help with thermal scanning as well as counselling in Covid affected areas,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lalbaughcha-raja-mandal-provides-assistance-through-janta-clinics/story-rf4JD4upOcsy9bYYzPifYK.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Entrance exam dates to be announced in 2 days: State education minister||: Hours after the union HRD ministry announced new dates for professional undergraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic year, state education minister Uday Samant released a statement clarifying that dates for university examinations and entrance exams held by the state common entrance test (CET) cell will be announced in two days. Students will be intimated, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/entrance-exam-dates-to-be-announced-in-2-days-state-education-minister/story-vpa2MlesvyNXLIGVNFVhHO.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Migrants from Kerala stranded in state demand train, bus services||Even as a special train was arranged from Bhiwandi to take migrants from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, back home, the Bombay Kerala Muslim Jamaath has been reaching out to authorities in Maharashtra as well as in Kerala, requesting them to arrange for a bus for migrants from the southern state to head back to their homes.The association approached state transport minister Anil Parab and PK Kunhalikutty, a Member of Parliament from Kerala, over the issue.“There are around 500 migrants who have registered with us who have all their documents in place. But no train has been arranged for them. Even if a bus is arranged, these migrants are willing to pay for the transport. The state government should provide them with buses from state transport services,” said Abdul Rehman CH, president, Bombay Kerala Muslim Jamaath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-from-kerala-stranded-in-state-demand-train-bus-services/story-pMbnboe8lRv2HeXsrY1adL.html
05-05-2020||City||As mercury rises, Covid warriors in Mohali hospitals feel ‘stifled’ in PPE kits||The rising temperatures have made life difficult for medical staff using personal protective equipment (PPE) while working in designated Covid-19 treating centres in the district, with most of them unable eat, drink or even use toilet facilities during their eight-hour shifts.Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, which is treating 71 Covid-19 patients from three districts, Mohali, Fathegarh Sahib and Rupnagar, has a team with seven members in every shift, including a doctor, two nursing staff, two ward attendants and two persons from housekeeping, all wearing the PPE kits for eight hours.Dr SPS Goraya, the hospital’s medical superintendent, says: “Once the staff wear the kits they can only remove it at the end of their duty hours. These days due to the soaring temperatures the situation is getting worse.”Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, medical specialist at the Phase-6 Civil Hospital, says “after wearing the kit, we cannot eat or drink anything. We sweat a lot and sometimes it’s difficult to breathe.”Nothing can be done about it, however, he says, adding, “Duty comes first and our passion to treat patients keeps us in high spirits.”So how do they cope? Dr Bhooshan says the mantra is “drink very little water and eat a heavy meal before the shift.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-mercury-rises-covid-warriors-in-mohali-hospitals-feel-stifled-in-ppe-kits/story-6d2p0nZIpbCQFcALeLnASP.html
05-05-2020||Noida||13 new Covid-19 cases in Noida, total reaches 192||Thirteen people, including two healthcare workers and a baby, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday, taking the total tally in the district to 192, officials said.Also, seven people, including a child, were discharged from hospitals after their successful treatment for Covid-19, as the number of cured people in the district reached 109, they said.“A total of 52 reports have been received in the last 24 hours. Thirteen of them were positive and the rest were Covid-19 negative. The cumulative positive cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 192,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.“So far, 102 of the 179 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 83 active cases in the district,” he said.The recovery rate of patients is 56.77 per cent, according to official statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/13-new-covid-19-cases-in-noida-total-reaches-192/story-hZLApZnnZ55e8KWfBL26LP.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid warriors battle dehydration and heat while screening residents in Chandigarh’s containment zones||Many get dehydrated, some faint as the summer heat intensifies, but there’s no stopping Chandigarh’s healthcare workers. Clad in blue protective gear from head to toe, dripping with sweat, they remain undaunted, focused only on screening patients at the city’s hotspots, Bapu Dham and Sector 30.Work hours stretch from 18 to 19 hours, and many have not taken a single day off or seen other family members.Days without a breakA valiant fighter with 40% disability, municipal corporation (MC) official Gagandeep Sharma has worked at a stretch from March 17. A team coordinator, he sends workers for contact tracing and then compiles data. “How can I ask for an off while my boss (Anil Garg, additional commissioner, MC) is also working without a break,” he says.Sharma recalls the call he received on April 24 at 10.30 pm about one person testing positive in Bapu Dham Colony. “Two teams that I alerted and sent to the colony had quarantined 40 to 50 people by 1:30am. By the next day all 190 contacts had been quarantined.”A fireman now assigned work to trace contacts of Covid-19 patients, Satyendra says he had returned home from work, washed his clothes and was about to sit for dinner when he got the alert. “By 11pm we were in Bapu Dham and had quarantined at least nine houses,” he says. He finished dinner after getting back home at 2:30am.Living in separate section of his house, Satyendra communicates with his family through video calls. His parents back in the village call him three to four times day. He misses them.Screening 25,000 people in two days“We were concerned after hearing about the infections in Bapu Dham Colony,” says Dr Vandana Bhatia, medical officer at the Sector 26 Civil Dispensary.With the support of Dr G Dewan, director, health services, she says her team managed to screen over 25,000 people there in two days. Now 58 have tested positive. Temperatures were high. “Two to three girls (health workers) fainted because of dehydration. A man urging people to get screened, fainted,” Dr Bhatia adds.The next day he was back at work.First, health workers screened over a 100 buildings with 20-25 persons each on two days .Then they were asked to screen the entire Bapu Dham Colony, covering over 25,000 people. The next day, at 7am, 75 to 80 health workers were at Dr Bhatia’s dispensary and given maps of areas they were to cover and protection kits. “We had to shout to enable people living on second and third floors to hear us asking them to get screened. Many did not cooperate till the police were called. A woman said we were creating a nuisance by shouting and disturbing their sleeping children. I was shocked,” says Dr Bhatia.While she spoke to Hindustan Times praising her team, they had started screening residents of Chandigarh’s second hotspot, Sector 30, where 20 people have tested positive.At home, she cannot meet her mother-in-law, in her 80s, because of health risks. Her husband, however, refuses to stay apart from her. “He makes me tea when I go back,” she smiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-warriors-battle-dehydration-and-heat-while-screening-residents-in-chandigarh-s-containment-zones/story-ezQVMJLOtOu0vQ5VLM4ACN.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 side-effect: Haryana departments forget to get Bills passed by assembly notified||The spread of Covid-19 in Haryana seems to have diverted the attention of the state government from certain administrative issues.Of the 16 Bills passed by the Haryana assembly during the budget session, five are yet to be notified by the law and legislative department. According to the law-making process, once the governor accords his assent to a Bill passed by the state assembly, the Bill has to be notified as an Act (a law). “The government cannot enforce a change in the law or a new law unless a notification is issued,” said an official.Eight bills each were passed by the state assembly on March 2 and 3.Sources said that as a result of Covid-19 and the lockdown, many departments have forgotten to send the files to the law secretary for gazette notification of the assented Bills despite the fact these Bills have been assented to by the governor. Some of the departments, however, seem to be waking up now and will get the Bills notified in the coming days.Among the five Bills awaiting notification by the law and legislative department are the Haryana Official Language (amendment) Bill, 2020; the Haryana Scheduled Castes (Reservation in Admission in Government Educational Institutions) Bill, 2020; the Haryana Consolidation of Project Land (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, 2020; the Haryana State Higher Education Council (Amendment) Bill, 2020; and the Prohibition of Child Marriage in (Haryana Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-side-effect-haryana-departments-forget-to-get-bills-passed-by-assembly-notified/story-WRJXN0wRqKGKvChkQvzxjI.html
05-05-2020||Pune||PMC identifies 69 micro-clusters as containment zones||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has now moved from containment zones to micro-clusters. The civic body has so far identified 69 areas as micro containment zones, or clusters, in Pune as of May 4, said officials.The PMC has imposed lockdown restrictions in these areas only while easing curbs in rest of Pune as the third phase of the lockdown came into effect Monday.According to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, restrictions have been retained in areas where maximum Covid-19 cases are reported.“Pune’s total area is 310 sq km and only 10 sq km area has been declared as micro containment zones or micro-clusters. These areas are mainly slums and high density areas where high numbers of Covid-19 cases are reported,” said Gaikwad.The earlier order of the PMC had declared the whole of Pune as a containment zone till May 3. Now the restrictions have become area specific. “Covid-19 cases are mainly emerging from these micro clusters. Considering this, the civic body will concentrate more on the 69 areas and make efforts to control situation there. For the rest 97 per cent of the city, some relaxations have been given,’ said Gaikwad. From containment zones to micro clustersRestrictions in micro containment clusters- Police will seal the newly announced micro containment zones-No entry or exit for residents in this zone-Fixed time window for essential commodities-No pass needed for vehicles carrying milk, vegetables, medicines and groceriesIn other areas of city-No public transport- Timings for shops selling essential items is 10am to 7pm-Only 5 non-essential commodity shops will remain open. Which shops, and time, yet to be decided-No pillion riders on two-wheeler-Infrastructure related work can resume- Construction activity can resume if the workers reside on site- E-commerce allowed to carry out home deliveryMicro containment zones in PuneKasba Vishrambaug Wada ward- Mangalwar peth (Junna bazaar), Parvati Darshan, Parvati chawl slum, Dandekar bridge slum, Dattawadi, Indiranagar, slum near Neelam talkies, Kasba peth, Nana peth, Bhavani pethKondhwa Yeolewadi ward- Kondwa Budruk, Kakade Wasti, Naughting Hill Society, Undri, Holewasti, Katraj, Sukhsagarnagar, Amba Mata templeKothrud Bavdhan ward- Kothrud Shivtara building, Chandragupta Society areaDhole Patil ward- Pune Station, Tadiwala road, Ghorpadi, VikasnagarShivajinagar-Ghole road ward- Shivajinagar Railway Station slum, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, Kamgaar Ayukt, Congress Bhavan Dhankawadi -Sahakarnagar ward-Parvati, Taljai slum, Shivdarshan, Dhankawadi, Gulabnagar, Chaitanyanagar, Ambegaon Khurda, Jambulwadi Sai Samruddhi areaAhmednagar road ward- Wadgaon sheri, Ramnagar, Tempo chowk, Lohegaon, Kalwad vastiBibvewadi ward-Gultekadi, Dias plot, Ambedkarnagar - Market yard, Meenati Thackeraynagar, Upper Indiranagar, Bibvewadi survey number 650, Seventh Day Adventists Mission area, Premnagar slumYerawada-Dhanori ward- Yerawada, Gandhinagar, Tadigutta, Nagpur chawl, Alandi road, Indiranagar, Phulenagar, Kalas-Jadhav vastiWanowrie-Ramtekdi ward- Hadapsar, Ramnagar, Ramtekdi, Gosavi vasti, Vaiduwadi, Sayyadnagar, Gulam Alinagar, Kondhwa Khurda, Shivnerinagar, Bhagodayanagar, Tamboli Bazar, Mithanagar, Wanworie SRPF||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-identifies-69-micro-clusters-as-containment-zones/story-XpUI2EA5xmkWvAqOArefqN.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Apps help maintain social distancing in Himachal||To facilitate the people of the state during lockdown and to ensure social distancing in public, the department of Information Technology (IT) has been developing applications to provide contactless service to people and to maintain social distancing within the government offices.State IT department director Rohan Chand said that the idea of these apps was to maintain social distancing and contactless services among the public and with government officials.The government is using the technology platforms provided by the IT department for gathering information, monitoring and decision-making in an efficient manner.E-PASS APPLICATIONTo provide these digitised facilities to the people, the department has developed a Covid curfew e-pass application, which is available on http://covidepass.hp.gov.in portal. Applicants desirous of entering or exit the state in their own vehicle can apply for an e-pass and those applicants who want to enter the state or exit the state and don’t have their own vehicle can register on the portal.People can apply for curfew pass on the website and the district administration will issue the pass online after verification. This application has been beneficial in reducing physical interaction and applicants can get e-pass online through a link sent through SMS.As many as 4,75,529 applications have been received and around 1,57,990 e-passes have been issued after scrutiny and verification, till date.INTERSTATE MOVEMENT In order to facilitate interstate movement of people stranded in Himachal Pradesh and vice versa, applicants can apply on http://covidepass.hp.gov.in. Covid curfew e-passes have been a boon for the large number of people stranded in different parts of the country. To strengthen this, the state nodal officer and state joint nodal officer along with other nodal officers have been appointed to collect, collate and compile data pertaining to the requests received for interstate movement and formulation of comprehensive plan, devise protocol and facilitate movement of people.For maintaining records of quarantined persons, a health worker has been assigned to each quarantined person. To track violation of quarantined locations by Covid-19 suspects and generate alerts in case of violations, the COVID quarantine app (http://covid19.hp.gov.in) has been developed.CORONA MUKT HIMACHAL APPThe ‘corona mukt Himachal’ mobile app is also part of this system. The app is to be installed on the mobile phone of quarantined person. It has the facility of locking the quarantine location, so that alerts are generated in case of violations. Besides this, the training of health officials (NHM, DSOs and BMOs) was done by the IT department at district and block levels through video conferencing. The data of around 445 quarantined persons has already been entered.PREVENTING MISINFORMATIONTo provide a common place for all government orders, advisories and media bulletins to avoid any misinformation, the department has developed ‘Covid government orders’ app, which is available on http://covidorders.hp.gov.in .The facility has been provided to secretariat and district level officers to upload Covid-19 related notifications at a single place to make them available to the citizens. More than 571 notifications are available on this portal.LAW AND ORDERAn application has also been developed for monitoring law and order related issues across the state. The application named ‘Law and order monitoring and reporting system’ provides the facility to superintendents of police and police stations for uploading law and order related information, as desired by Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of IndiaEach police station is required to report law and order related statuses on the portal four times a day and six hourly reports containing number of violations, arrests, vehicles seized, FIRs registered, fines imposed and law and order incidents reported, including preventive actions taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/apps-help-maintain-social-distancing-in-himachal/story-jlVZx2Y3Y4nsqjOMYfF50J.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Police station sealed in Punjab’s Muktsar district after two cops test positive for Covid-19||A police station in Muktsar district was sealed on Tuesday after two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) posted at Malout sub division were found infected with Covid-19.Muktsar SSP Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu said that the entire staff of Malout City police station and the police teams posted at Rajasthan border have been quarantined. He said the family members of the ASIs and their colleagues are being examined by the health department.On Tuesday, three Punjab policemen were among 15 fresh cases of Covid-19 found in Muktsar. Sandhu said the third cop, a constable, with the 13th battalion of Punjab Armed Police (PAP) was stationed in Chandigarh but he was on duty at Bhullar village bordering Rajasthan.The SSP said it was during a random sampling on April 28 that the three police personnel were found infected by the virus. They all were asymptomatic, the SSP added.“It is a matter of concern for us and we are trying to trace the source of the infection. The Punjab Armed Police constable was on duty at Rajasthan border and to ascertain the cause of infection is a challenging task. Our teams are trying to identify contacts of the affected persons,” the SSP said.Meanwhile, the total number of coronavirus patients in Muktsar district has reached 63.Earlier, 49 people were declared positive out of which one person who was tested positive in Muktsar was shifted to Faridkot as he was a resident of that place.A spokesperson of the district administration said that of Tuesday’s 15 cases, 10 are labourers who came from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. One is a Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, pilgrim and is already quarantined in Muktsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-station-sealed-in-punjab-s-muktsar-district-after-two-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-02C6XKTkZ2vWZaxrOsKtxI.html
05-05-2020||Jaipur||Worked 16 hours, non-stop for 40 days, says police official handling Jaipur’s Covid-19 hotspot||Rajendra Singh Nain is managing the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in Jaipur, the state capital of Rajasthan. The assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Ramganj circle, is in charge of the area with around 100 narrow lanes and an approximate population of around 800,000.The 54-year-old officer didn’t take a day off for around 40 days after the first case of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was detected in Ramganj.So far, 515 Covid-19 cases have been reported only from Ramganj police station area. While Rajasthan 3099 cases of the coronavirus disease, Jaipur has 1036.A curfew was imposed in Ramganj immediately after the detection of first Covid-19 case on March 26 in an area behind a locality in Rahmani Masjid.After the curfew in Ramgaj, the first thing Nain did was form a technical team to get the call recordings of the first person detected with the deadly virus in the area.“The first positive person was not able to talk about things in detail. So, in order to know his contact history, the technical team analysed his call records and obtained details of 52 people who came in direct contact with him and later the entire chain was identified,” said Nain.In the initial days, the officer not only looked after the deployment of 600 police personnel in three shifts but also managed the needs of people like vegetables, water and other essential items.“Not only me but my entire team from Ramganj and Galta Gate police station, the two areas which falls under my limits, worked for 14 to 16 hours a day. After one shift changed, my duty was to ensure that the next lot has been properly deployed across various points,” Nain said.“The first off which I took was around 12 days ago. But at that time too I had to stay alert.”Most of the times, Nain, said he missed talking to his two sons as he used to reach home late in the night.The officer said he has a separate room in his house. As soon as he reaches home, the first thing he does is to take his shoes off and sanitise them. He then washes his clothes, takes a bath and then has his dinner.“While my family sits on the dining table and I sit on the floor and keep a distance of five to seven metres from them. I talk to my kids after that in the lawn by maintaining a physical distance of at least five metres,” the ACP said.Nain said his family— wife Aman Nain, elder son Abhinav Singh Nain and younger son Anubhav Nain—are his pillars of strength. “Their motivation means a lot to me. Whenever I am disappointed they would boost me and tell me dad ‘You are a warrior and we are proud of you’. These words keep me alive and give me the strength to work hard selflessly a do as much as possible,” he said.ACP Nain said another which keeps him and team members pumped up is that out of 515 positive cases in Ramganj and Galta Gate police station area so far, more than 300 people have turned negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/worked-16-hours-non-stop-for-40-days-says-police-official-handling-jaipur-s-covid-19-hotspot/story-O382F4Af1ZLUARPFlgzpsI.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s first ‘Shramik Express’ ferrying 1,188 migrant workers departs from Jalandhar to Jharkhand||Punjab’s first Shramik Express left the Jalandhar railway station for Daltonganj in Jharkhand with around 1,188 migrant workers on Tuesday.The labourers who were finally headed home after over a month’s wait were both excited and emotional. Those who had enrolled themselves on the state government’s portal were informed of the train’s schedule through an SMS.Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said medical teams had screened of all travellers at three points - Khalsa School, Nakodar Road and Guru Nanak Dev University regional campus. Subsequently, they were brought to the railway station in 20 buses. Bhullar said social distancing norms were strictly enforced.OUT OF SAVINGS, MIGRANTS EAGER TO GO HOMEOne of the workers, Manoj Kumar, 25, who was travelling with his wife and two children, said he had come to Jalandhar from Jharkhand in February to work at a factory but had run out of money as the factory shut operations during the lockdown.“I was left with no savings and was surviving on the ration provided by the government and NGOs. I have been eagerly waiting for the day I will be able to meet my parents again,” he said.Most migrants said they had run of money and with no source of earning available to them, they wanted to return to their native villages as soon as possible.Some workers said that they will return to Punjab once the situation normalises.FACED HARASSMENTMany of them had to face harassment during the lockdown. A worker, Vikas Kumar, 18, said, “I had to move in with my friends after my landlord chucked me out when I could not pay rent. I told my landlord that I did not have money but he was adamant. I’m glad to be returning home.”40-year-old Dina Nath said he had been living in Punjab for five years but since the factory he worked at had closed, he had decided to head back home. “I am returning to take care of my family and kids amid the crises”, said Nath. Kailash Kumar had come to Punjab in January with three friends but as they are out of work, he has decided to return and look for some work closer to home.PUNJAB GOVERNMENT TO RUN TWO TRAINS FROM JALANDHAR The Punjab government has written to Ferozepur division divisional railway manager asking him to run one train each to Varanasi and Lucknow from Jalandhar on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-first-shramik-express-ferrying-1-188-migrant-workers-departs-from-jalandhar-to-jharkhand/story-rJnKrt5TcF6zWuzNl2PRMO.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria tests positive for Covid-19 in Batala||BATALA: Gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, 29, on Tuesday tested positive for Covid-19 in Batala, where he was in police custody in connection with high-profile murder case of the Dhilwan Akali sarpanch.Batala senior superintendent of police Opinderjit Singh said Bhagwanpuria’s samples were collected at the civil hospital in town during his medical check-up on May 2 and he had tested positive for coronavirus disease.The SSP said that is not sure about the source of infection and has informed the civil surgeon.A list of Bhagwanpuria’s direct and indirect contacts is being prepared. On the list are several police personnel, including DSP-rank officers, who have been quarantined and are being tested for the virus.The Batala police had brought Bhagwanpuria,who was lodged in Patiala Central Jail, on production warrant for questioning in the murder case on April 30, following which he was questioned by the police.RUNS RACKET FROM JAILThe Tarn Taran police booked him for running a heroin smuggling racket while inside Patiala Central Jail. A recent dossier by the police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) says that the jailed gangster has 33 accomplices in and outside Punjab who take orders from him.Most of his accomplices are active in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. WORST CRIME RECORDSince 2011, Bhagwanpuria has 59 cases of murder, robbery, dacoity and snatching against him in various police stations of Punjab. Officials says his crime record is the worst in the state.A native of Bhagwanpur village under Kotli Surat Mallian of Batala, the gangster’s original name is Jagdeep Singh, who started out as a small-time chain snatcher till 2011 when he came in contact with gangsters and was involved in heinous crimes.In October 2019, AIG, counter intelligence, Jalandhar, Harkampreet Singh Khakh arrested Mannu Mehmapuria, a key aide of Bhagwanpuria, who admitted having killed another A-category gangster Gopi Ghanshampuria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-notorious-gangster-jaggu-bhagwanpuria-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-batala/story-o69hjxhcdyR2UrwTxTEbML.html
05-05-2020||City||1.5-yr-old among 42 fresh Covid-19 cases in Gurdaspur||Causing a sharp spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district, 42 persons tested positive on Tuesday.All of them had returned from Sikh shrine Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra.Their samples, whose results were received on Tuesday, had been sent for examination on May 2.The test outcome has sent a new wave of fear among the residents of Gurdaspur district.The fresh positive cases – comprising 14 women and 28 men – include a one-and-a-half-year-old male child from Wadala Bangar village and an 86-year-old man from Sultani village. One of them is a 27-year-old prisoner of Bhagwanpur Kotli Surat Malhi locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-5-yr-old-among-42-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-gurdaspur/story-9AkNViAq4zBLNYxQK156NI.html
05-05-2020||Kolkata||Train with more than 1,100 labourers, pilgrims reaches Bengal from Rajasthan||Over 1,100 labourers and pilgrims were greeted with flowers on Tuesday as they reached Dankuni in West Bengal’s Howrah district in a train from Rajasthan.The 24-coach train, which left Ajmer in the western state on Monday morning, reached Dankuni station at 10.40 am, official sources said.Flower petals were showered on the train as it chugged into the platform, with state ministers Moloy Ghatak and Tapan Dasgupta waiting at the station to receive the passengers.All 1,186 passengers, including women and children, were subjected to medical examination for any COVID-19 symptom at a camp set up by the Health Department outside the station.Those exhibiting COVID-19-like symptoms would be provided requisite medical attention, while the rest would be transported to their destination in different districts of the state by buses, the sources said.The coaches were emptied one at a time, maintaining social distancing norms, they said.The Rajasthan chief secretary had recently written to his West Bengal counterpart, seeking his consent for sending home the stranded pilgrims and labourers from Ajmer and other places in the western state, amid the lockdown.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Sunday said that two trains -- one from Rajasthan and another from Kerala -- would bring home around 2,500 labourers, pilgrims and patients.The train from Kerala, which left Thiruvananthapuram on Monday, is scheduled to reach Baharampur in Murshidabad district on Wednesday, the sources added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/train-with-more-than-1-100-labourers-pilgrims-reaches-bengal-from-rajasthan/story-r001wfm5N2iwsK9LqKqG1J.html
05-05-2020||Jaipur||Col Sharma killed in Handwara anti-terror operation cremated in Jaipur||Col Ashutosh Sharma, who was killed during an anti-terror operation in north Kashmir, was cremated with full military honours in Jaipur on Tuesday morning.His wife Pallavi Sharma and brother lit the funeral pyre at a cremation ground in the presence of other family members and Army officers.Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and South Western Army chief Lt Gen Alok Kler paid tributes to Col Sharma at Jaipur Military Station’s 61, Cavalry Ground.They consoled Col Sharma’s family members as Pallavi put up a brave face and greeting them with folded hands.Soldier Welfare Minister Pratap Singh, MP Rajyavardhan Rathore, Jaipur Collector Jogaram and other senior officials of the Army laid wreaths and paid their tributes. A unit of the South Western Command gave a guard of honour to Col Sharma and three volley gun shots were fired. Colonel Sharma was among the five security personnel killed in the encounter on Sunday. He is the second Commanding Officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles who lost his life in combating terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/col-sharma-killed-in-handwara-anti-terror-operation-cremated-in-jaipur/story-bO7AeE1e9JFW3XaEj2mwEL.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Handwara martyr Major Anuj Sood cremated in Chandigarh||The mortal remains of Major Anuj Sood, who was killed in an anti-terror operation in North Kashmir, were consigned to flames with full military honours at the Manimajra cremation ground on Tuesday.He was one of the five personnel killed in action during an encounter with militants in Handwara area of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday night.Sood’s mortal remains, wrapped in tricolour, had arrived in Chandigarh on Monday evening. They were taken to the cremation ground from his residence in Amravati Enclave in Panchkula on Tuesday. In wake of the coronavirus pandemic, only a limited number of senior army officers and Major Sood’s family members, including his wife Aakriti, father Brigadier Chandrakant Sood (retd), sister Harshita, who is also an army officer, mother, in-laws and some close relatives were present during the cremation.The officer was given a gun salute and his pyre was lit by his father.Lt Gen GS Sangha, chief of staff, western command, paid him tribute on behalf of the army.Haryana assembly speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and commissioner of police Saurabh Singh also paid their respects.Sood’s father said he was a true son of the nation.“He has made a supreme sacrifice for saving lives of others and that’s what he was trained for. I feel sad for his wife as he had to move for operations after just three-four months of his marriage in 2017,” his father said. He said Sood only had one dream, which was to join the Army. According to his family, the officer was scheduled to return home after a gap of six months as he had completed his operational tenure in the valley. He was about to get a new posting, but due to lockdown, he had to continue with his tenure there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/handwara-martyr-major-anuj-sood-cremated-in-chandigarh/story-r7QsOOyX2boyrRDGMCdMKK.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||36 test positive for Covid-19 in Fazilka, case count touches 40||Thirty-six people tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Fazilka on Tuesday.Fazilka civil surgeon Harchand Singh said, “Last night, we received the reports of 33 persons who had entered the state on April 28. Of them, 30 were found positive while three tested negative.”Four other patients tested positive in the afternoon, taking the number of positive cases to 40. There are already four active cases in the region. “All newly diagnosed persons had returned from Nanded and were asymptomatic,”said the civil surgeon.Of the 36 patients, seven belong to Jalalabad, 10 to Fazilka and 14 to Abohar sub-division while one was from Rajasthan. The particulars of four patients are awaited. So far, 81 pilgrims have returned from Nanded in the district. Only the reports of 73 people have been received so far, of which 40 were found positive while four reports are awaited.As many as 1,409 samples have been collected, 645 reports have been received and 764 results are pending so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/32-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-fazilka/story-ndIBPO0wjgAcODg9BUoM2M.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai coronavirus update: 9,310 cases, 361 deaths in Maharashtra’s Covid-19 hotspot; Section 144 imposed||Eighteen people died of the coronavirus disease on Monday in Mumbai, the capital of worst-affected Maharashtra, taking the toll in the state to 583. Thirty five people died of Covid-19 across the state on Monday.Mumbai is among the worst-hit cities in the state, the others being Thane, Raigad, Pune and Palghar. These districts have nearly 90 per cent of the state’s Covid-19 cases.Mumbai Police have announced that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has been imposed in the city till May 17, news agency ANI reported. Section 144 of CrPC prohibits the assembly of four or more people in an area.“The Movement of one or more persons for all non-essential services, except for medical reasons, will be prohibited between 8 pm and 7 am,” the police said in a statement reported by ANI.As per state authorities, Mumbai has recorded 9,310 cases and 361 deaths so far. Dharavi, Asia’s biggest slum, alone recorded 42 new cases, taking the tally to 632 cases. Twenty people have been killed in Dharavi so far.Three employees of civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), including an assessment inspector serving in hotspot Dharavi, had died due to the infection. In a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Municipal Union said civic staff were risking their lives while ensuring the outbreak is contained.The Mulund area or T ward of the BMC, which had one of the lowest numbers of Covid-19 cases, saw a 42 per cent hike on Monday, with 52 cases in a single day. The tally of positive cases in Mulund is now 123.T ward was among the top three wards including R North (Dahisar-Borivli) and C ward (Kalbadevi-Chira Bazaar) that had the lowest number of cases in the past one month. This one-day spike in the T ward has created a worrisome situation for the civic administration.Of the 52 infected, a majority were found in Amarnagar, Indiranagar, and Ramgad slums.The number of coronavirus cases in Dadar and Mahim increased by four and three respectively, taking the tally to 54 and 71.There are 1,927 active containment zones in the city at present, of which 641 are red zones (congested, need police help), 502 are orange zones (congested but manageable), and 784 are blue zones (manageable gated communities).Maharashtra, meanwhile, recorded a single-day jump of 1,567 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 14,541.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-coronavirus-update-9-310-cases-361-deaths-in-maharashtra-s-covid-19-hotspot-section-144-imposed/story-4gIjDqg9j6my7fU6JekeiP.html
05-05-2020||Bangalore||Cong announcement of bearing travel cost of migrant workers ‘street play’: Sudhakar||Describing Congress’ announcement to bear the cost of travel of migrant workers as “streetplay,” Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday accused the party of ‘playing politics’ even on the issue of Covid-19 and compared its mindset to Roman emperor Nero.He said the Congress instead of giving money to the concerned as per rules, was advertising about it.“Looking at Congress moving around in the streets and advertising about its willingness to pay the bus and train charges for the labourers, it is clear that it is a big street play.Instead of giving money to the concerned as per rules, they are making loud claims about it in front of cameras,” Sudhakar said in a tweet. ಕೊರೋನಾ ವಿಷಯದಲ್ಲೂ ರಾಜಕೀಯವೇ ತಮಗೆ ಮುಖ್ಯ ಮತ್ತು ಲಾಭ ಅನ್ನುವ ಇವರ ಮನಸ್ಥಿತಿಗು ಹಾಗು ರೋಮ್ ನ ಅಂದಿನ ದೊರೆ ನೀರೋ ಗು ವ್ಯತ್ಯಾಸವಿಲ್ಲ.ಯಾಕೆಂದರೆ ‘Nero was fiddling when Rome was burning’ @blsanthosh @BSYBJP @BSBommai“There is no deference between your (Congress) mind set- looking at politics and gaining mileage out of it even on the issue of corona, and that of Nero, because Nero was fiddling when Rome was burning,” he said in another tweet.The Congress on Monday had said its state units will bear the cost of rail travel of needy migrant workers stranded at their workplaces due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and seeking to return home.Karnataka Congress Chief D K Shivakumar had announced giving Rs 1 crore cheque to Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation from the party for ensuring free transport to working class and labourers, who were suffering to reach home because of high rates being charged.However, the KSRTC, which subsequently announced free travel for those stranded within the state, has not accepted the cheque and has instead asked it to be given to Chief Minister’s relief fund.On Monday, urging the state government to immediately take necessary action to arrange for trains to bring back all stranded Kannadigas from other states, Congress had said, it was also ready to bear the monetary costs to be paid to the Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/cong-announcement-of-bearing-travel-cost-of-migrant-workers-street-play-sudhakar/story-n60voQ0ajBOXoL7Xen9pNM.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||After ‘corona fee’, long queues back outside Delhi liquor shops||People thronged liquor shops in Delhi once again on Tuesday a day after the government imposed a 70% “special corona fee” on the sale of alcohol on maximum retail price. A snaking queue was seen outside a liquor shop in Chander Nagar area of the national capital. A man was even seen showering flower petals on people waiting to buy alcohol. “You are the economy of our country... The government does not have any money,” the man wearing a mask was heard saying in the clip tweeted by news agency ANI.#WATCH Delhi: A man showers flower petals on people standing in queue outside liquor shops in Chander Nagar area of Delhi. The man says, "You are the economy of our country, government does not have any money". #CoronaLockdown pic.twitter.com/CISdu2V86VAnd in Laxmi Nagar, people stood outside a liquor shop with their positions in the queue have been written on their hands.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to ANI, Vasant Vihar’s sub-divisional magistrate has issued a show-cause notice to the manager of the government wine and beer after a large number of people gathered at the shop violating social distancing norms on Monday.The standalone liquor outlets had opened on Monday and the government was forced to close them after people jostled and violated the social distancing norms that have been in place due to the coronavirus pandemic. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe Delhi government had allowed the opening of standalone liquor shops between 9am and 6.30pm, according to directives issued by the Union home ministry after the national lockdown was extended till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-corona-fee-long-queues-back-outside-delhi-liquor-shops/story-XoB6V2K0IU2bhtnOISpdXJ.html
05-05-2020||Ranchi||Stranded migrants return to Jharkhand from Rajasthan||As many as 905 migrant labourers of Jharkhand reached Barkakana railway station of Ramgarh district, from Rajasthan’s Nagaur, on Monday. They were later sent to their respective districts on buses arranged by the state government.Speaking to the reporters, Ramgarh Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sandeep Singh said: “We are sending the migrants to their respective 21 districts. Arrangements have been made to send them back safely, food arrangements have also been ensured, masks and sanitizers have also been provided.”“The maximum number of labourers are from Garhwah district, approximately 370. 160 are from Palamu, 100 from Dhanbad and one from Ramgarh,” he added. Meanwhile, Ramgarh MLA Mamta Devi told the media persons that the labourers did not pay any transportation fare. “Our Chief Minister started calling back the stranded people of Jharkhand since the Labour Day on May 1. Today also migrants were called back, free of cost. We are sending them to their respective districts,” she said. A migrant labourer Lakhhan Chaudhary said, “I was stuck in Nagaur amid the lockdown. Jharkhand Government and administration helped me to come back to my State, I would like to thank them. Food was also provided to us. Now I am returning to my district. We did not pay for anything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/stranded-migrants-return-to-jharkhand-from-rajasthan/story-XQPFYaxhcnFaq71eA46j6H.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||23-year-old arrested for spreading fake news about Covid-19 in Kapurthala||A 23-year-old was arrested for spreading rumours about a person testing positive for Covid-19 in Subhanpur village, Kapurthala, on Tuesday.The accused, Arashpreet Singh, circulated a video on WhatsApp groups claiming that a woman in the locality had tested positive for the deadly virus when health workers conducted a survey.Inquiry officer and assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmail Singh said a case had been registered after local panchayat members and heath officials filed a complaint against the man for spreading fake news about a coronavirus.The woman in question had tested negative. The accused has been arrested under Sections 188 (disobeying a public official’s order) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-year-old-arrested-for-spreading-fake-news-about-covid-19-in-kapurthala/story-ZAxTbM4GGKfqisuCHpTCRM.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Gautam Gambhir on lockdown: I don’t want a single picture of me distributing rations, I hate it||He gets disturbed while talking about the plight of migrant workers, irked on the mention of those who boast about their contribution to a cause. Balancing his duties as the Lok Sabha MP from East Delhi, and spending time at home with his family, Gautam Gambhir has his hands full and is staying calm. As the country enters third phase of the lockdown, the former cricketer talks to us about the measures being taken in his constituency “to bring the crisis under control”, relief work done by the Gautam Gambhir Foundation, and urges everyone “to be united, as this is the only way to win this battle”. Excerpts:Over 40 days into the lockdown... how are you holding up?I’ve got the opportunity to do all the things that I haven’t done throughout my life,actually. I’ve always been busy, first because of cricket, and then politics. Now, I’m spending with my little ones — making them sleep, playing with them — seeing them grow is the best feeling. I’ve been telling everyone that look at this lockdown from a positive point of view.Your daughters must be surprised to see you at home all these days. Was it tough to explain the situation outside, to your kids?The younger one (Anaiza, 3) is too small, and loves to play,so she doesn’t have that question. But, the elder one (Aazeen (6) does ask sometimes ‘why can’t we go out’, so I’ve told her there’s a lockdown. She’s only waiting for this to finish and then probably wants to go to Hamley’s for her birthday presents (she turned 6 on April 1). Also, she misses her school, friends, though she’s doing online classes, it’s not the same.Like many others celebrities and public figures, are you also being over active on social media during this time? Do you mind that or are you comfortable with the idea?It depends what do you want to gain out of this lockdown. I’ve always wanted to keep things private. Yes, I do have posted certain pictures and videos of my daughters on Instagram, which probably I haven’t done that in the past, but I don’t believe in putting everything out on social media. I don’t believe in putting my personal life, what my kids or I am doing at home on social media because some things need to be kept private as well. Lot of people do make videos and stuff but that’s their way of living life.  Two cats in one house, how long can they go without pawing each other?? 😹😸😻A post shared by  Gautam Gambhir (@gautamgambhir55) on Apr 26, 2020 at 12:05am PDTThat way you really haven’t talked much about the relief work your foundation is doing. Tell us something about that. What all has been done so far?One thing I want to share is that I’ve made very clear to my foundation team that whenever we distribute this the rations and food, I don’t ever wan’t a single picture of me because I hate it. I don’t want that. I see a lot of people who distribute kits with their own picture on it and I don’t believe in it.When you’re giving something to someone, why do you want to have your own marketing stuff on that? Okay, I won’t lie, we’ve got carry bags which has my foundation’s name on it, but not my photograph or anything, because if it gets lost, people should know that this entire thing is from the foundation. Apart from that I haven’t put a single video of me distributing. If you’re doing a good cause, do it from your heart not for people to start talking about it. If that’s your mission to do it, then your entire scenario and vision change about things. But if your intent is to help someone, then you don’t bother whether people are talking about it or not. It gives so much of self satisfaction.And there are many who claim they’re doing their bit but actually are not. To avoid such questions being posed later, are you maintaining any kind of a record for whatever relief work your foundation is doing?I’ve never lied about things. I’ve always given the right numbers and the data as well. I’ll never say that, ‘you know I’ve distributed 50,000 or 10 lakh packets till now. No, we distribute eight to 10 thousand cooked food and ration packets everyday and that’s the number. We have the data also for it — wherever it goes, we give them slips, they give us their IDs and mention which slum they belong to. We have given around 4,500 PPE kits so far, and we’ve got receipts from four different hospitals. So, everything is very black and white.  I bow down to my volunteers for risking their lives in last 30 days. Together we have distributed: Ration kits & meals to 10,000 every day 90,000 baby food kits 15,000 N95 Masks 4200 PPE Kits 2000 Bedding kits to Shelter Homes We will keep moving!🇮🇳@ggf_india @bjp4delhiA post shared by  Gautam Gambhir (@gautamgambhir55) on Apr 23, 2020 at 3:08am PDTBesides this, how are you keeping a check on the number of Covid-19 cases in your constituency?We’ve got around eight to nine hotspots in our constituency, so the entire focus is try to help people in these seald areas, as they’re the ones who’ll be deprived of lot of things. So, with the help of ACP and DCP, we try and give them as much ration as we can. But, at the same time, we’ve to be very careful that people don’t start hoarding it — that’s very dangerous. We want things to go to the needy. We don’t want people to collect stuff and say, ‘Oh, I have ration for another two or three months’. No, this is not what our aim is. We make sure we try and touch as many lives as possible. Also, from 9-10.30am every day, I interact with a lot of people in my constituency, all the volunteers who are distributing these kits. I keep telling them that it should go to the needy, it should go to the last man standing, last man who needs it.Despite so many people following the lockdown guidelines religiously, there have been cases where some group didn’t cooperate and posed a risk to everyone’s lives. Do you think some people are flouting these norms in the name of religion?This is the time where the country needs to be united, irrespective of caste, creed, religion and even social status. This will show our strength. Doesn’t matter which religion you belong to, if there are certain norms and advisories from the government, you have to follow them, otherwise a strict action needs to be taken. I’ve seen some videos where people have attacked doctors, nurses and police offers. My heart goes out to them. They haven’t gone back home for days and they also have families to take care of. They’re fighting on the frontline for us, they should be absolutely well-equipped to fight this battle, they need support more than anyone else in the country right now. We should try support them as much as we can.  Coming together of everyone in time of need is a true reflection of INDIA! We r making sure those in shelter homes have clean sheets, pillows, towels & masks I really appreciate Le Meridien & GM Ms Meena Bhatia’s generous contribution towards this cause! @bjp4delhi @ggf_indiaA post shared by  Gautam Gambhir (@gautamgambhir55) on Apr 9, 2020 at 11:13pm PDTBut what about people without masks and in poor hygiene conditions roaming on the streets? Aren’t they equally dangerous to getting or spreading the virus? What’s is being done to take care of that aspect?That’s what shelter homes were built for — to put these people there, provide them enough food to eat, maintain their hygiene, monitor them regularly and make sure they don’t go out, do not spread this virus if god forbid they have a virus. That’s what our foundation did as well. We have two shelter homes — Ghazipur and Yamuna Sports Complex. With a help of a 5-star hotel, who provided us with bed sheets, pillow covers, sanitizers, soaps, lot of things for hygiene, we’ve given it all to those shelter homes. Also, just having shelter homes will not solve the purpose, to maintain hygiene is very important. You need to see how many (people) do you need in one room because can’t just keep putting people without social distancing, it can be very dangerous.The haunting visuals of migrant workers stuck various parts of the country are still fresh in people’s minds. Do you think we could have been better prepared to handle the situation? Did they deserve all that pain?It happened in my constituency, at Anand Vihar bus stand. It was so disturbing. When our CM was doing this press conference, he said they’re feeding one crore people everyday. And then we saw the amount of people at Anand Vihar bus stand. They were two completely contrasting things. So, why don’t you just give the right data? Don’t give numbers for the heck of it. You’re only trying to fool yourself by doing that. There’s nothing wrong in accepting that we haven’t done it but will do in the future. We need to be honest to our own self and that’s the only way we can win this battle.Interact with the author at @monikarawal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gautam-gambhir-on-lockdown-i-don-t-want-a-single-picture-of-me-distributing-rations-i-hate-it/story-8R5tR38b9DE197P65wQ3gP.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in Napean Sea road building in Mumbai, 2 women rescued||Two women were rescued from a building in Mumbai which caught fire on Tuesday morning. The fire was reported on the sixth floor of Atlas building at Napean sea road.It is a 10-storey residential building. No casualties have been reported. The fire was reported at 4.41 am on Tuesday morning, and the fire brigade arrived at the spot at 4.55 am. The fire increased in intensity and was reported a level 2 (medium intensity fire) blaze.Chief Fire Officer P Rahangdale said, “Two women were trapped on the upper floors of the building and were rescued by the fire brigade safely. Cooling operation is still going on.” The fire was brought under control after four hours of fire fighting, at 8.40 am, with the help of three fire engines, four jumbo tankers, one fire truck, one quick response vehicle, and one turn table ladder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-women-rescued-by-fire-brigade-after-fire-at-napean-sea-road-residential-building/story-S33o3EIxJ0ijDRteXMXMuJ.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||‘Life isn’t all about sunshine’: Manish Sisodia after Delhi’s ‘corona fee’ on booze and fuel price hike||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, on Tuesday appeared to give a reason for the government’s decision to levy a “special corona fee” on liquor and hiking petrol and diesel prices in the national capital.Late on Monday, Manish Sisodia’s finance department said it will impose a “special corona fee” on the sale of alcohol which will be 70% of the maximum retail price (MRP). “70 per cent of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor sold through retail licencees for consumption off the premises… It will be 70 per cent of the MRP. The new rates will be imposed from Tuesday morning,” the finance department’s order said.Also Read: ‘We’ve to learn to live with Covid-19’, says Delhi deputy CM Manish SisodiaAnd a day later, the Delhi government raised the value added tax (VAT) on petrol from 27% to 30%, and on diesel from 16.75 % to 30% affecting the price of auto fuels in the Capital.“Life isn’t all about rainbows and sunshine. Tough times need Tough solutions - my learning as Finance Minister,” Arvind Kejriwal’s deputy tweeted. Life isn't all about rainbows and sunshine. Tough times need Tough solutions - my learning as Finance MinisterExperts say the twin steps of the Delhi government will help in boosting revenue as the Covid-19 lockdown has kept most of the businesses shut in the national capital.Manish Sisodia’s boss and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Sunday that his government is finding it difficult to pay salaries due to revenue loss of Rs 3,200 crore in April, as compared to the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/life-isn-t-all-about-sunshine-manish-sisodia-after-delhi-s-corona-fee-on-booze-and-fuel-price-hike/story-eLS2ho4MnjVCULm0BdtESJ.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||13 fresh cases take Chandigarh’s Covid count to 115||With 13 fresh cases of infection coming to the fore, the Covid-19 tally rose to 115 in Chandigarh on Monday.Among the fresh cases, 10 are from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, two from the other containment zone in Sector 30B and one — a 60-year-old woman — from the rehabilitation colony in Dhanas.The woman’s seven family contacts and six community contacts have been sampled. Her husband had returned from Bengaluru during the lockdown, which could be the source of infection, though it is not confirmed yet, said officials. The woman had reached Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, with flu-like symptoms on Monday. Among those infected in Bapu Dham Colony, six are from the same family and are community contacts of two already diagnosed patients. Others include two men, aged 20 and 42, and two girls, aged 4 and 16. In the case of 42-year-old man, 10 family contacts and 15 community contacts have been traced. Contact tracing is underway in other cases.In Sector 30, a 49-year-old man and 12-year-old woman of the same household have tested positive. They are family contacts of a patient from the same sector.With the fresh cases, the chain of transmission in Bapu Dham Colony, which has been attributed to a single source, has infected 58 people, accounting for 50% of Chandigarh’s count.Meanwhile, in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, only one patient from Chandigarh — a Sector 38 resident — is admitted in the intensive care unit, said official spokesperson Dr Ashok Kumar. Other patients are admitted in the wards and are showing good signs of recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nine-test-positive-in-chandigarh-covid-19-count-reaches-111/story-Z0XrEmpix1EMSxAMOclHWP.html
05-05-2020||Business||Petrol price up by Rs 1.67 per litre, diesel by Rs 7.10 a litre in Delhi||Residents of Delhi will have to pay more for petrol and diesel after the government announced it has raised the value added tax (VAT) on petrol to 30% from the existing 27% while 30% on diesel from the existing 16.75%.Petrol prices rose by Rs 1.67 a litre and diesel prices went up by Rs 7.10 in Delhi on Tuesday after nearly 50 days after state government raised VAT on auto fuel.Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 71.26 a litre as against Rs 69.59 previously and diesel Rs 69.39 per litre from Rs 62.29.Delhi government officials said the move to hike fuel prices is expected to boost the government revenue, which has been hit hard due to the coronavirus lockdown. “Life isn’t all about rainbows and sunshine. Tough times need Tough solutions - my learning as Finance Minister,” Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said in a tweet after the prices of the petrol and diesel were raised.This comes after the Delhi government on Monday night said it will impose a 70% “special corona fee” on sale of liquor.Petrol in Chennai also become costlier by Rs 3.26 and is being sold at Rs 75.54 per litre, while diesel has been priced at Rs 68.22. Petrol and diesel prices have also increased in Assam, Haryana, Nagaland, Karnataka, West Bengal due to the increase in VAT imposed by the state governments.Petrol and diesel prices in Mumbai remained unchanged. According to the official website of Indian Oil Corporation on Tuesday, petrol costs Rs 76.31 per litre in Mumbai and diesel costs Rs 66.21 a litre. In Kolkata, a litre of petrol will cost Rs 73.30 per litre whereas diesel is now priced at Rs 65.62 per litre..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/petrol-price-up-by-rs-1-67-per-litre-diesel-by-rs-7-10-a-litre-in-delhi/story-D7ew5J9Rz3SPBqyO3eoV5N.html
05-05-2020||Kolkata||400-bed Kolkata private hospital shuts down ops after doctors, staff contract Covid-19||A 400-bed multi-speciality hospital in West Bengal’s Kolkata decided to shut down its operations, barring a few, on Monday evening, saying a number of doctors, nurses, staff members and attendants have contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Peerless Hospital is among the big private institutions where Covid-19 patients were being treated. A senior doctor at Peerless Hospital in south Kolkata, who did not want to be named, said more than 10 people have been affected and at least three among them are doctors.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“This has created a great deal of panic amongst patients, health professionals as well as the surrounding community which has been reflected by mass absenteeism, dissatisfaction and uncertainty in them. Majority staffers are admitted here and the rest are in quarantine,” Dr Sujit Kar Purakayastha, managing director of Peerless Hospital, said in a statement on Monday.“Covid-19 Task Force of the hospital, as well as the Peerless administration, have decided to close down the hospital services from May 5 with the intention of wide sanitisation and other measures till further decision,” Dr Purakayastha said.The statement, however, said that the hospital would continue to run its maternity, radiology, dialysis, cancer chemotherapy and laboratory departments.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakPeerless is the second private hospital to shut down operation after doctors and staff members contracted Covid-19. The first was Chernock Hospital in New Town in the eastern fringes of Kolkata. It stopped operations last month.“The number doctors, nurses and other hospital staff infected till April 30 is more than 100,” Dr Koushik Chaki, secretary of the West Bengal Doctors Forum that raised the issue before the government on April 28, said. Two doctors, including a senior state health department official, have also died of Covid-19 so far.Incidentally, on May 1, when eight people died, marking the highest toll in a day in West Bengal since the outbreak, the state government asked private hospitals to admit all patients without asking for certificates that said they were nor infected or, face penal action.The order has triggered fear that the coronavirus disease may spread among staff and patients in private hospitals that are unaffected till now. “There are reports that patients in need of regular critical care related to blood transfusion, dialysis, chemotherapy, obstetric care, institutional deliveries, immunization etc are facing hardship due to private hospitals/ healthcare facilities either remaining non-functional or turning away patients out of fear of contracting Covid-19. Some hospitals are insisting on Covid-free certificates before allowing the patients in,” the government’s 30-page order said. The order said healthcare services have to be normalised in a “planned manner,” giving “highest priority” to the safety of healthcare staff, following Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.“Failure to adhere to the above shall be viewed adversely and shall make the health facilities liable for penal action under the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act,” wrote the government. There are 67 Covid-19 hospitals and 16 test centres in West Bengal. A section of these is private institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/400-bed-kolkata-private-hospital-shuts-down-ops-after-doctors-staff-contract-covid-19/story-5XuJ9uzaFzsfSAROwYp1hJ.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Lonely Planet Paharganj||From early morning till late in the night, the lane would be teeming with crowds. The cafes would fill up with guests ordering lemon ginger tea and the Israeli dish of shakshuka. The restaurants would play Buddhist tantra music. The pavement mehendi wallas would be drawing elaborate hennas on arms and ankles. And inevitably, there would be touts to whisper into your ears, “Do you want ganja?”This was Paharganj, Delhi’s bustling hotel district, particularly popular among foreign backpackers.But they are no longer to be seen. And neither is the rest of the crowd.“Bilkula sannata (total silence),” says Deepak Dialani, Paharganj’s longest surviving bookseller whose little shop in Main Bazaar has been in business since 27 April, 1996.Chatting on WhatsApp from the isolation of his home in Paharganj’s Wazir Singh Gali, Mr Dialani mutters that “never ever did I see apna (my) Paharganj so eerily quiet.” In the past, the notoriously chaotic district had refused to quiet down even in the most terrible moments of Delhi’s contemporary history, the bookseller says. “Even when there was a curfew due to the killings of Sikhs, after Indira Gandhi’s assassination, you would still find kids playing cricket on the traffic-free streets.”Nobody’s playing cricket (nor badminton) on the streets now. The lanes that never slept are as dead as the graveyard.Mr Dialani, however, does go out once or twice a week to get ration from grocery shops in nearby Nehru Bazar. “You can only see a few people out for necessary shopping.”On his way to the grocers, he passes by the Main Bazaar’s hotels and cafes that were full of foreign tourists, waiters and cooks in the BC (Before Corona) era. The foreigners left the hotels soon after the lockdown began. They were evacuated in the “badi-badi gaadiyan (big vehicles)” sent by their embassies, says Mr Dialani. He isn’t sure of what has become of the people who worked in the cafes. “They have simply disappeared... all is closed.”His shop hasn’t opened for more than a month either. This too is a tragedy. Jackson’s bookstore has the city’s best collection of used books in Hebrew, French, Japanese, German and Italian. It would stay open all along the year without interruption. He would keep the shop open even during the Holi festival.The bookseller isn’t looking forward to the end of lockdown. “My main customers are foreign tourists... Paharganj’s main business comes from them... they won’t be coming back very soon... perhaps for many, many months.”Until some years ago, Paharganj had at least half a dozen used bookstores. Over the years all of them shut down one by one. Only Jackson’s survive. “I won’t let coronavirus kill my shop,” says the bookseller in calm confidence.He now poses for a photograph with his wife, Neena, and daughter, Irshita, and Kala Nag, Black Snake—a paperback thriller he is reading these days.When the pandemic recedes, Mr Dialani will again open his shop daily from 10am to 10pm, seven days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-lonely-planet-paharganj/story-c683rlM6xWWqktpikrP9qI.html
05-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 lockdown: Standalone shops allowed to open in Faridabad, concern in Haryana after spike in cases||The district administration in Faridabad has said that standalone shops in residential areas are allowed to open as part of the relaxation given during the two-week lockdown which began on Monday.“Standalone shops and small shops in residential colonies can open. Shops providing material to industries will open. There is no restriction on opening of shops in villages but malls will not open,” Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner, Faridabad said on Monday.“Faridabad district is a red zone so large market places and large market complexes are not allowed to open. Only those shops which provide essential services will open,” Yadav added.Seventy five fresh cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 surfaced in Haryana on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 517, a health department bulletin said.So far, six people have succumbed to the infection in the state.Among the new virus cases, the maximum 29 were reported from Sonipat, followed by 23 cases from Ambala; 14 in Jhajjar; three in Panipat; two each in Jind and Faridabad; and one each in Gurgaon and Nuh.Faridabad is the worst-affected district with 75 Covid-19 cases, followed by Gurugram and Sonipat with 73 cases, Nuh with 59, Jhajjar with 56, Ambala with 37 and Palwal with 36 cases. According to the bulletin, the number of active cases has gone up to 257 from 81 in a few days.Haryana’s recovery rate, which had been one of the best in the country, dropped from 72 per cent last week to 49.13 per cent.He said during third phase of the coronavirus lockdown, which began on Monday, several relaxations have been given but it was observed that many people did not follow the guidelines.“It seems people have not yet made social distancing a habit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-lockdown-standalone-shops-allowed-to-open-in-faridabad-concern-in-haryana-after-spike-in-cases/story-UGqoAChxZADLQu1zrXFOyO.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Movement curbs still in place at Delhi’s borders with Noida, Gurugram||While certain rules, part of the restrictions imposed across the country in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, were relaxed on Monday, Delhi’s interstate borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained almost sealed.In Gurugram, over 1,000 travellers, expecting a relaxation in curbs in view of Lockdown 3.0, returned disappointed as police personnel restricted their entry to Delhi. Borders between the two cities were sealed last week and the entry of only those engaged in essential services, carrying valid passes, is allowed. Meanwhile, law enforcement officials kept a strict vigil at the Gautam Budh Nagar-Delhi border on Monday—only those carrying valid passes were allowed to enter and exit the district via the interstate border after thorough verification.The Gurugram police said that as many as 1,045 people were turned away from borders between 7am and 6pm on Monday. They had said on Sunday that intra-district movement was allowed, but there would no movement between the national Capital and Gurugram, due to the rising number of cases in Delhi.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that people had assumed that they would be allowed to cross the border as they had received emails from their employers to resume work, but they did not have passes. “People requested to be allowed as they had not received salaries for the last two months and if they did not report, would not be paid,” he said.With 85 Covid-19 cases, Gurugram is on the Union government’s orange zone list. Its 11 borders with Delhi, which is a red zone, were sealed last week.While the Union home ministry issued federal guidelines on Friday, states and local authorities can frame rules specific to them based on ground reality. Based on that, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate (DM) Suhas LY tweeted the dos and don’ts of interstate travel on Sunday. “Restriction on interstate movement/interdistrict movement stands as before. No interstate/inter-district movement of personnel allowed for permitted activities also (except for previously allowed purpose like Covid-19 duty, emergency services, etc.) [sic],” he tweeted.However, health workers on Covid-19 duty, media personnel with authorisation letters and policemen, among a few others, are exempt. “Most people who are aware of the regulations are not coming to the border. But there are a few exceptions. All restrictions on the movement at the interstate border with Delhi are in place as they were earlier,” Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar district, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/movement-curbs-still-in-place-at-delhi-s-borders-with-noida-gurugram/story-0WYDeyyzikXOOA5MvbO3BP.html
05-05-2020||Bhopal||FIR against over 400 unidentified migrants for pelting stones at cops in Madhya Pradesh||An FIR has been lodged against over 400 unidentified migrant workers for stone pelting at police in Sendhwa area of Barwani, Madhya Pradesh, officials said.At least 3 police personnel had received injuries in the incident, said Rajendra Solanki, Sub-Inspector at Sendhwa Rural Police Station.On Sunday, migrant workers had blocked the national highway here and allegedly pelted stones at the police in which three cops received minor injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/fir-against-over-400-unidentified-migrants-for-pelting-stones-at-cops-in-madhya-pradesh/story-Luru4lFVPrXQKmyEe4n7iM.html
05-05-2020||Patna||Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi’s ‘failed to donate’ charge draws RJD-Cong’s ire||Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Monday drew flak from the opposition for charging the RJD-Congress combine with failure to contribute “a single paisa” into the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund from which money is drawn to provide assistance to those badly affected by the lockdown.The senior BJP leader had made the allegation in a tweet on Sunday wherein he had also launched a veiled attack on a sitting Congress MLA, who had shot off a letter to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, seeking return of Rs 50 lakh released from his local area development fund.“During the crisis that has arisen out of corona outbreak and lockdown, legislators of JD(U) and BJP contributed their one-month salary. Those in the RJD-Congress, failed to contribute a single paisa and displayed their insensitivity by demanding return of Rs 50 lakh,” Sushil Modi known for routinely taking potshots at political adversaries via the micro-blogging site had remarked.His allusion was to Md Tauseef Alam, the multiple-term MLA from Bahadurganj in Kishanganj district, who had written the angry letter last week and displayed its copies to the media alleging that his constituency had been in a state of “total neglect” by the health machinery, with even bare essentials like hand sanitisers in short supply.Modi’s tweet drew an indignant response from Congress MLC and AICC panelist Prem Chandra Mishra, who warned the deputy CM that he take back his words, failing which he will be slapped with a legal notice.“I had myself donated my salary in March. So have many of my party colleagues. The Deputy CM has made remark that is false and seeks to demean us in the eyes of the public. He should withdraw his remarks else we will send him a legal notice,” Mishra told reporters.Danish Rizwan, spokesman of the Hindustani Awam Morcha founded and headed by former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, said in a statement that his party boss who is a sitting MLA had donated his one-month salary and posted on social media a screenshot of the transaction receipt.“Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi must apologise for coming out with a false remark that seeks to defame opposition leaders,” Rizwan said.RJD MLA and spokesman Bhai Virendra pointed out that the partys de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav had announced that 50 per cent of his salary for his remaining term, which comes to an end with the expiry of the assembly later this year, shall go to the ‘corona eradication fund’ set up by the health department.“Moreover, 15 per cent pay cut has been announced by the government for all members of the legislature, which has only been welcomed by the opposition and ought to be seen as a contribution. It does not behoove a person holding a high office to make petty comments,” he added.Notably, contributions were made to the ‘corona eradication fund’ from the Mukhyamantri Kshetra Vikas Yojana, Bihar’s revamped version of the local area development fund for members of the bicameral legislature, following a cabinet nod for release of Rs 50 lakh from the quota of each legislator.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had said that legislators were “free to contribute more” out of the fund, which empowers every member of either house to recommend works worth Rs 3 crore every year.While the corona eradication fund is meant for fighting the pandemic and preventing its spread, allocations from the Chief Ministers Relief Fund go towards schemes like monetary assistance to stranded migrant laborers, running of relief centres where they are provided with food, shelter and medical aid.Meanwhile, the BJP sought to back the deputy CM to the hilt.The party’s state unit spokesman Nikhil Anand came out with a strongly-worded statement claiming that “Congress-RJD leaders consider the public money at their disposal, raised through the efforts of the common people, as their private property. They should be ashamed of what Tausif has done”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bihar-deputy-cm-sushil-modi-s-failed-to-donate-charge-draws-rjd-cong-s-ire/story-T8w4ZBiXQUoI6CtQS7BQ3M.html
05-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MC forms 100 teams to ferry migrants to stations||With migrants set to leave for the home states in special trains started by the government, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has constituted 100 teams to ferry them to the railway station from their houses.As many as 100 buses are expected to run in a day, ferrying 1,200-1,500 migrants. To ensure social distancing, only 30 labourers would be in a bus at a time. As per the MC officials, six trains are expected run from Ludhiana junction and every train would ferry 1,200-1,500 passengers.Each MC team would have a leader and would constitute two health workers/volunteers and two police personnel.The teams would be working in two shifts with 50 buses in each shift and each bus would be sanitised after every round. Thermal scanner would be provided to health workers/volunteers for conducting screening of labourers before they catch the bus and a certificate would be issued to the labourer.MC Commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar conducted a meeting with the staff on Monday and as per the orders issued in this regard, police station wise list of workers who have registered themselves for going back home. The list would further be bifurcated and every team would have a list of 30 workers living in the same area/location and same destination (state).Teams would also be deputed for alerting the labourers over phone so that they are ready before the bus arrives. It would be mandatory for the labourer to keep the pass in their mobile phones.TICKETS TO BE ISSUED IN BUSES The teams would issue railway tickets to the labourers in the bus so that they don’t need to gather at the ticket counter. The MC teams would receive the tickets a day before arrival of the train.The money collected and remaining tickets would be handed over to the nodal officer deputed at the railway station. The teams would be apprised about the fair before commencing the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-forms-100-teams-to-ferry-migrants-to-stations/story-i5KrDK1vJDmiGxJ90KIyCM.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s vehicular pollution dropped by three-fourth during lockdown period: Study||Transport pollution levels declined by three-fourth across Mumbai and Pune between March 24 and April 25 (lockdown period), as compared to the period between February 20 and March 20, revealed an analysis published by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Sunday.Meanwhile, the pollutant-measuring indicator, air quality index (AQI), in Mumbai was 37 (good), making it the cleanest air day so far this year, while Pune recorded 47, also under the ‘good’ category.The month-wise comparison of air quality levels for four cities – Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Ahmedabad – also revealed that the highest reduction was witnessed in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels for Pune at 70%, followed by Mumbai (69%). Delhi and Ahmedabad recorded a 33% and 30% decline in NO2 levels. Average NO2 concentration fell from 23 parts per billion (ppb) before lockdown month to 7 ppb during lockdown for Mumbai, and 24 ppb to 7 ppb for Pune.“Drastic NO2 decline in Mumbai and Pune indicate that vehicular emissions play a major role in contributing to overall air pollution. Stringent restrictions imposed during the lockdown helped in bringing down the pollution level. Even industrial emissions were lower. However, in Delhi and Ahmedabad this was not the case because under minor influence of external emissions, mild dust storms allowed pollutant particles to be suspended closer to the surface,” said Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR. Toxic gases such as NO2 are formed by burning of coal, oil, and emissions from vehicles that worsen respiratory conditions. “NO2 or other oxides of nitrogen can lead to chemical deposition in the lungs, leading to inflammation of the lung tissue. Prolonged exposure weakens the lungs leading to serious ailments,” said Dr Sanjeev Mehta, pulmonologist (chest specialist), Lilavati Hospital, Bandra.SAFAR also recorded reduction in PM2.5 levels, which showed maximum decline at Ahmedabad at 51%, followed by Mumbai 49%, Pune 39% and Delhi 31%. PM2.5 is breathable particulate matter comprising solid and liquid particles of 2.5 microns in size or smaller.“Unlike NO2, PM2.5 is influenced by other factors including meteorological conditions. All four cities witnessed weather disturbances leading to fluctuating particulate matter concentration during lockdown,” said Beig.Independent researchers said a comparative analysis for air quality is more valid when done for the same period year-on-year.“When we compared month-wise averages, meteorological conditions between two months may be very different from each other which may not establish the reduced impact of external emissions within a city,” said Ronak Sutaria, founder and director, UrbanSciences.Meanwhile, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) also recently published its analysis of Mumbai’s air quality between March 16 and April 15. The analysis revealed that Mumbai had witnessed a 40% reduction in PM2.5, 43% decline in PM10 (larger coarser particles), 77% reduction in NO2, 59% fall in average benzene levels (contributes to volatile organic compounds) and 50% drop in sulphur dioxide (SO2 – colourless gas with pungent odour that causes respiratory diseases). “The absence of non-essential vehicles, combustion activities in industries and commercial construction sites during the period may be attributable to the decline,” the analysis stated.The lowest 24 hourly average for PM10 was 54 microgrammes per cubic metre against the safe limit of 100 µg/m3, PM2.5 was 20 µg/m3 against safe limit of 60 µg/m3, and NO2 levels at 5 µg/m3 against 80 µg/m3 safe limit. “Hourly decline in all pollutants was observed due to restriction on construction activities, less road dust resuspension, and to some extent curb on industrial activities. Absence of emission sources was seen missing at night early morning that would otherwise accumulate before lockdown,” said a senior CPCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-vehicular-pollution-drops-by-three-fourth-during-lockdown-period-safar-analysis/story-lB0HxcSWx0PsAZM1cfk4XK.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Transport answer sheets in essential service vehicles: Ex- Maharashtra education minister||Former state education minister Vinod Tawde suggested on Monday that the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education use vehicles plying for essential services, to transport answer sheets to and from examiners so that secondary school certificate (SSC) examination results are not delayed. Nearly 15 lakh students from Maharashtra have written SSC exams this year.“Some papers which are evaluated are still stuck in teachers’ homes and are not being sent for moderation. If the state board uses transport that is permitted for essential services, such papers can reach moderators which will help speed up the process of evaluation,” said Tawde while speaking to the media.On March 24, the education department had permitted teachers to assess answer sheets at home, but many answer sheets remain in schools. “We are feeling bad that we cannot do much because of the lockdown. But if we get papers [at home], we will complete moderating them on time,” said a teacher from a school in suburban Mumbai.Officials at the Maharashtra State Board did not respond to calls and messages. The board usually declares Class 12 results in end-May and Class 10 results by mid-June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/transport-answer-sheets-in-essential-service-vehicles-says-former-maharashtra-education-minister/story-LyFOs6jAlLZta7yhm2E7BJ.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Back from Rajasthan, students from Maharashtra recount lockdown experiences||After being stuck in hostels and paying-guest accommodations in Kota, Rajasthan, for approximately six weeks of the lockdown, the 1,800 students from Maharashtra are relieved to be home after the state organised buses to bring them back last week.On Friday, more than 18 buses, arranged by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), brought the stranded students back to their homes. The journey was not smooth for everyone. “After being dropped off at Mumbai Central at around 11pm, we were told to ask our parents to pick us up. No one had informed us of this earlier and some of us faced a lot of trouble to reach home,” said 18-year-old Suman Kalra (18).Kalra was among 1,800 students attending various integrated coaching institutes in Kota. She was preparing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental studies. “ We were barely nine out of the 60 in my hostel when the state-arranged transport vehicles reached us. Most students from other states had already returned home. The only respite was that we didn’t have to struggle for food. Our hostel was providing meals every day,” said Aditi Thorat, 18, another NEET aspirant and a resident of Karmala district in Solapur. Some states had arranged to transport students from Kota in the first two weeks of April.For students living as paying guests, living conditions got worse during lockdown. “We usually depend on tiffin services, which were discontinued due to the lockdown. Eventually, we depended on eggs and instant noodles for weeks together. On some days, we couldn’t buy groceries because many of us depend on local buses,” said Kabir Sharma, 19, from Navi Mumbai and a Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) aspirant who had been in Kota for the last two years.Kota is an education hub with coaching institutes catering to engineering and medical aspirants from all over the country. In peak season, close to 1.5 lakh students join coaching institutes in Kota every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/back-from-rajasthan-students-from-maharashtra-recount-lockdown-experiences/story-zUy1yUTN2tNHqL3m1Zme4L.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Drop in deaths before admission to hospital, reveals Mumbai civic body data||The number of people brought dead to hospitals in Mumbai has decreased by 28% in the sample week of April 14 to April 21, 2020, in comparison to the corresponding period last year, and by 40% in the same period of 2018, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revealed. Between April 14 and 21 this year, 73 patients were declared dead before admission, while in 2019, the number was 102 for the same week in 2019. In 2018, 123 patients had were brought dead to the hospital. The number of people dying within 24 hours of admission to hospitals has also seen a decline. Between April 14 and 21 this year, 90 patients died within 24 hours of being admitted to the hospital. This is a marginal drop from the 92 patients and 99 patients who died between the same period in 2019 and 2018 respectively.BMC said it has been tracing senior citizens with co-morbidities who do not show any symptoms of Covid-19 and admitted them to non-coronavirus hospitals for observation, care and treatment. It has attributed the decline in the number of deaths this year to this policy. “For deaths that occur due to health complications and trauma deaths, patients are brought dead to hospitals or die in the hospital after one or two days. The number of brought dead cases have gone down because of a possible drop in trauma deaths and accidental deaths, as well as due to the timely medical care given to the elderly and to those with comorbidities due to BMC’s efforts. Also, there is an increase in awareness among people reporting illnesses and citizens are less stressed out as they are working from home. As there is no traffic due to the lockdown, the time taken to reach the hospital for a health emergency has come down, leading to the decline in the number of deaths,” a senior civic official said. As of May 3, BMC has surveyed 42,752 senior citizens in its door-to-door drives. It has identified 691 senior citizens with low oxygen levels in their blood to start oxygen therapy in civic-run hospitals which are not treating Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile, the city also witnessed a 36% decrease in the number of deaths in March and April owing to co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, and pneumonia, as compared to the same period in the past three years. This year, 595 people died due to comorbidities in March and April, against 937 people who died in 2019, 883 in 2018 and 729 in 2017. This is despite the fact that 75% of the total 343 Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai until May 3 were of patients with comorbidities.Around 50-60% Covid-19 deaths occur within three days from the date of admission to the hospital. These are mostly patients with severe comorbidities, breathing problems, heart-related ailments and age-related factors, the BMC’s Covid-19 war room data revealed. As of May 3, the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai are recorded in the age group of 61-70 years (27%), followed by 51-60 years (23%). Mortality among Covid-19 patients in the age group of 61 to 70 years is at 10%, and in the age group of 51 to 60 years is 5.2%, as compared to the city’s overall mortality rate of 3.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drop-in-deaths-before-admission-to-hospital-reveals-mumbai-civic-body-data/story-5fulODbpdeQMIYfTfXC67H.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula eases lockdown: First day witnesses few shops open, no chaos in markets||No major chaos was witnessed in Panchkula markets a day after the district administration issued directions allowing shops rendering essential services to open on all days, and the remaining on every alternate day.Services have been divided into three categories for ease of regulation. As per the administration, in the ‘A’ category, all shops rendering essential services will be allowed to open on all days as per conditions, between 8am to 6pm. In the ‘B’ category, shops for services including plumbing, electrical works, AC repair, construction material, vehicle repair, hardware and paints, furniture and electrical appliances will remain open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 8am to 6pm.On Monday, only some shops falling under specified categories were opened. Police bikes quick response teams and PCR vehicles patrolled several markets to keep a check on violations.  Only some shops in inner sector markets, falling under these categories, were open with very little footfall. However, more residents were seen visiting shops dealing in essential services.In Sector 11, many people were seen visiting a cycle shop and book and cell phone shops. At several other markets in Sectors 2, 4, 8, 9 and 12, most shops opened were those dealing with only essential items and witnessed average footfall. Meanwhile, many people were also found visiting markets in search of liquor vends, which however, remained closed.Non-essential shops or showrooms in commercial hubs from Sectors 8 to 10 wore a deserted look. Only some supermarkets, hardware stores and bakeries were found open. On Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, shops falling under the ‘C’ category, dealing in gifts, toys, sports goods, bags and suitcases and garments ; dry cleaners, jewelers and opticians will remain open. “Any activity not covered will fall into the ‘B’ category,” the administration’s order states.Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said, “As all shops except those rendering essential services to be open on alternate days, most shops opened on Monday witnessed low footfall and people maintained social distance. On Tuesday, shops dealing in garments, jewellery, toys and gifts that attract more people will be opened. The incident commanders deputed for different areas have been asked to review the situation. We will review markets and working there for a couple of days.” On liquor shops not opening, the DC said they have not received any order from the government in this regard so far.Meanwhile, no fresh Covid-19 case has been reported in the district in last two weeks. The total count stands at 18 with only one active case.Committee formed on running of auto-rickshawsDC Ahuja issued orders stating that auto rickshaws will be allowed to run only after proper verification in the district. He said medical screening of auto drivers has been made mandatory and after preparing routes for them, rationalisation of numbers will be done. “A committee has been formed for this with additional deputy commissioner and secretary RTA as nodal officers and, ACP traffic and general manager, roadways, as members. The civil surgeon has been asked to constitute a committee to conduct medical screening for the drivers,” the DC said.OPD services started in Saket Hospital, other health centres in PanchkulaOPD services have been started at Saket Hospital in Sector 1. Registration of patients in OPD will be done from 8am to 10 am and time for treatment and investigation will be from 8am to 2pm. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said OPD services have also been started in all primary health centres of the district as per the Covid-19 guidelines except the sub health-centre in Kalka. Among these, OPD services in urban health centre, Sector 16, urban dispensary in Sector 19 and community dispensary in Sector 20 will be run by medical mobile units till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-eases-lockdown-first-day-witnesses-few-shops-open-no-chaos-in-markets/story-3EPOPlD0XB81eRX69w47vL.html
05-05-2020||City||Mohali cops launch song to give stay-at-home message amid Covid-19 outbreak||As the administration granted relaxations and the number of active Covid-19 cases kept getting higher in the district, Mohali police took to music to spread the message of stay-at-home.The song, ‘War against Covid-19’, sung by head constable Gurvinder Singh alias Gurvinder Guri and written by his colleague Luvpreet Singh alias Lally Mullnpuriya is being widely shared on various social media platforms.The musical appeal video, that was uploaded three days ago on YouTube, has got more that 2,000 views.“As people these days are hooked to social media, we decided to spread awareness through it,” said Gurvinder, who is posted in the OSI branch of the senior superintendent of police, Mohali office, while Luvpreet is posted in the operations wing.The video begins with Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal’s message.“The song is a tribute and appeal to all to be safe so that we can survive this pandemic. Music is the best way to reach out,” said Gurvinder. Has been part of Gurdas Mann groupA graduate in vocal music from GCM Chandigarh, Gurvinder has performed with legendary Punjabi singer Gurdas Mann for three years after graduation. He was a chorus singer with the Gurdass Mann group.His uncle, LC Lala from Patiala who was associated with Mann for 12 years, had inspired him to sing. Dreams of pursuing singing as a career took a back seat in pursuit to achieve financial stability.He had taken part in number of reality shows. He said that he realised that along with talent, one needs financial stability.“After being persuaded by my father, I joined police force in 2011,” he added.His father, Pal Singh retired as an inspector from Chandigarh Police.Gurvinder has four single tracks in his kitty, including ‘Hanju’, ‘Putt charey vaar’ (dedicated to chote sahibzade) and ‘Meri rakh layin laaj’.“I am pursuing my passion along with career and for every song I seek permission for which my seniors readily oblige,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-cops-launch-song-to-give-stay-at-home-message-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-PLnkOhGC1gHawLW8AOKLZJ.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO union demands ₹33 crore to tide over Covid-19 lockdown in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO)union has demanded ₹33 crore grant-in-aid from the UT administrator for its survival amid uncertainty on when operations in the tourism and hospitality industry will resume. In a letter to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, CITCO progressive union chairman Kashmir Chand said, “Being a commercial organisation, CITCO cannot bear the burden of salaries of employees, unless funded by the Chandigarh administration during the lockdown.”“Therefore, being an important arm of UT administration, we have demanded sanction/grant to pay salaries for six months, amounting to ₹33 crore to CITCO employees, so that we can get through these tough times and survive in the future” he added.Currently, CITCO has around 690 regular/ contractual staff and 653 outsourced staff (through service providers) whose monthly salaries amount to ₹5.5 crore.President of the union, Prem Lal said, “ The Chandigarh administration has directed that the entire staff, including outsourced/contractual, must be paid full wages without any deduction for the lockdown period. This has created another financial hurdle for CITCO. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/citco-union-demands-33-crore-to-tide-over-covid-19-lockdown-in-chandigarh/story-9PTqpZpN97vx2GKmtNPN6H.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||26/11 hero found lying on the footpath; Samaritans and cops reunite him with family||On April 29, Harishchandra Shrivardhankar, who is in his late 60s, was found lying helpless on the footpath near a shop at Saat Rasta by Dean D’Souza, the store’s owner. Wondering how the man would be able to fend for himself during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, D’Souza and his friends took it upon themselves to get Shrivardhankar home. What followed was another heart-warming tale of the spirit of Mumbai with a group of residents, along with the police, reuniting the senior citizen with his family in Kalyan on May 1.However, what makes this tale different, and sad, is that Shrivardhankar is a hero of the 26/11 terror attacks.Shrivardhankar, a then government employee, had braved two bullets on his back and according to an HT report in 2010, was one of the main witnesses who deposed before the special court and identified Ajmal Kasab as one of the gunmen who went on a rampage on 26/11. Shrivardhankar was injured in the firing by Kasab and his accomplice, Abu Ismail, outside Cama and Albless Hospital. He had even got into a scuffle with Ismail and had hit him with his office bag.D’Souza says, “I found him lying in a bad condition near my shop. When I approached him, he couldn’t talk and was just mumbling a few words. Even if we gave him food, he would not eat it.” With just the words “Harishchandra”, “BMC” and “Mahalakshmi” that he mumbled, D’Souza began the mammoth task of finding the family. “After a lot of effort, D’Souza found his [Shrivardhankar’s] brother, who lives in Mahalaxmi. He gave us further details about his son, who stays in Kalyan,” says Timothy Gaikwad, a school friend of D’Souza and who runs an organisation, IMCares, which helps the destitute. D’Souza’s friends found out via news reports that their man was a 26/11 survivor. “A man who was lauded by everyone then was now lying helpless,” says Gaikwad.Gaikwad got in touch with the Mumbai Police, who then contacted Shrivardhankar’s family in Kalyan. The family had lodged a missing complaint at the local station and said that Shrivardhankar had been missing for two months. Mahesh Shinde, public relations officer at the Gamdevi police station, says, “We have immense workload these days, but it was our duty to help this man. It took a lot of co-ordination with different teams.” D’Souza, after he found Shrivardhankar, gave him a hot-water bath, got a barber to cut his hair and got a set of clothes from Shrivardhankar’s brother before he was sent to his family. “The scene was one to be seen. Four or five cars came in and the senior policemen said that let Shrivardhankar decide which car he wants to travel in. They also gave a special pass to his son to travel to Mumbai to take him back,” Gaikwad says. According to the 2010 HT report, Shrivardhankar had developed a speech problem after his near-death encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-11-hero-found-lying-on-the-footpath-samaritans-and-cops-reunite-him-with-family/story-fwhx1MKI1JMgM82A4lgGIM.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chaos in Kharar, Zirakpur as shops open up for business||Markets in Kharar and Zirakpur witnessed chaos as shopkeepers opened businesses after 40 days, on Monday.Most residents moving out of their homes gave a miss to basic safety norms including wearing mask and maintaining social distancing.In Kharar, despite orders being issued allowing only shopkeepers to use their vehicles, other residents took out their vehicles in violation of restrictions, and police failed to act. Three entry points to the market had been sealed but people drove in after arguing with policemen on duty. Shops have been allowed to open group-wise in Kharar to ensure there is no crowding in markets. “We had stopped many vehicles from entering. Then, we started getting calls about stopping certain people. So, we had to let them go,” a police officer said, pleading anonymity.Police and the administration were on their toes after 11 am to ensure no shops were kept open beyond the permissible time. However, in many places, some shopkeepers tried to open up as the police team left after checking, but by 2pm all markets were closed.“We faced issues as most people in vehicles claimed they have a shop or are suppliers. So, we had to allow them all. We are working out to streamline vehicular movement so that it can be minimised,” Kharar sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Jain said.Confusion prevails in Zirakpur, odd-even fails to work In Zirakpur and Dera Bassi, confusion on whether shops would be open till 11am or 1pm prevailed. Most residents stepping out of their homes failed to wear masks. All shops opened up without following the odd-even formula. Police focused on ensuring the closure of shop after permissible time instead of implementing the formula as they received no orders. Police teams and civil administration kept making rounds asking people to close down shops. “The odd -even formula is difficult to implement in Dera Bassi sub-division so everyone took advantage of that and almost all shops were opened,” a garment seller in Zirakpur said. “We are streamlining the odd-even formula based off the number on which shopkeepers pay property tax. So, in a day or two, we will be able to ensure strict compliance,” said Kuldeep Bawa, SDM, Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chaos-in-kharar-zirakpur-as-shops-open-up-for-business/story-5zUHczenLCUZFTBTVYSZBP.html
05-05-2020||City||J&K admn announces night curfew||After extending the lockdown up to May 18, the Jammu & Kashmir administration on Monday declared curfew for 12 hours across the Union Territory.J&K has over 700 Covid-19 cases with most of these from 10 Kashmir districts, besides seven of total eight deaths from the valley.Keeping this in view, UT spokesperson Rohit Kansal announced 12-hour long prohibitions in J&K. “Prohibition (curfew) on movement in all areas between 7pm and 7am. No movement without passes. Medical emergencies exempted,” he tweeted on Monday.Meanwhile, over 2000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in a single day in the UT on Monday. Doctors termed it an achievement stating that the testing would be useful in managing the disease. “Congratulations to our microbiology team that worked so hard! Really appreciate your efforts,” Srinagar Government Medical College principal Saima Rashid tweeted on Monday.Recently, the UT administration announced extension of lockdown restrictions till May 18. The order was issued by J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam according to which there will be ban on all air travel except for medical services or air ambulance; all train movements except for security purposes; interstate, inter-district buses for public transport and private vehicles except for purposes permitted under specific categories. All educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres etc will remain shut.Kashmir, Jammu, Kathua and Samba have been classified as red zones, while Reasi, Udhampur, Ramban and Rajouri are orange zones, and Doda, Kishtwar and Poonch are green zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-announces-night-curfew/story-tZOXBYtScKdVbjEkBdW5fO.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM likely to file papers for legislative council tomorrow; Shiv Sena to re-nominate Neelam Gorhe||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is likely to file the nomination for the legislative council election on Wednesday, party insiders have said. Apart from Thackeray, the Shiv Sena has also decided to re-nominate Neelam Gorhe for the second seat on which the party is contesting the polls. She will be looking to win the council elections for the fourth term. “He [the CM] is primarily occupied in dealing with coronavirus-related work. So depending on his availability, he will file his nomination. But tentatively, he is expected to file the papers on Wednesday,” a senior Shiv Sena functionary, who did not wished to be named, said. The last date to file nomination is May 11 and the election on the nine seats of the legislative council is scheduled for May 21. Thackeray is not a member of any of the state legislature currently, and it is a constitutional requirement for the CM of the state to get elected to one of the two Houses. Thackeray, who would be contesting in his debut election, is the second member of his family to fight any poll. His son Aaditya, who is the environment and tourism minister of Maharashtra, had won the Assembly elections held in October from the Worli constituency. Meanwhile, Sena’s second candidate Gorhe, has been a Member of Legislative Council (MLC) since 2002 and is also the deputy chairperson of the upper house. Gorhe has been the party spokesperson and is a deputy leader in Shiv Sena’s hierarchy. She is considered one of the key women leaders in the Sena. “It was decided to not make any changes and re-nominate Neelam Gorhe. She has been working for the party in the Pune district and in parts Marathwada. So the party has decided to stick with her,” the senior functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-likely-to-file-papers-for-legislative-council-tomorrow-shiv-sena-to-re-nominate-neelam-gorhe/story-TizoRjWuYsRXQWxAw9rmgI.html
05-05-2020||City||64 migrants in Jammu heading to UP on foot sent back||Over 64 migrant labourers hailing from Uttar Pradesh, started walking to their native villages from here on Monday, prompting the local administration to intervene which sent them back to their rented accommodations amid the third phase of the nationwide lockdown.Station house officer of Trikuta Nagar police station, Bishnesh Kumar said, “The migrants left their rented accommodations in Nowabad, Bhagwati Nagar and Canal Road area and started walking to their native villages in UP. We intercepted them a few kilometers away from Trikuta Nagar and sent them to their rented accommodations, he added.The police officer said that the migrants were facing hardships and had no money or food which forced them to walk miles to reach their hometown.Later, additional district magistrate Tahir Firdous Dutt reached the spot and interacted with the labourers. He also requisitioned two SRTC buses in which they were sent back to their place of stay.He said there are around 75,000 migrant labourers in Jammu and the government is making every effort to ensure free delivery of ration to them.Terming the lockdown as the ‘toughest phase of their impoverished lives’, migrant workers in Jammu and Kashmir on May 1 had urged the government to run special trains to send them back to their home districts.Migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, who are largely into construction and allied sectors migrated to the Union territory for a living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/64-migrants-in-jammu-heading-to-up-on-foot-sent-back/story-thqNukv3qZL0pUp7b3Vg4L.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Confusion, crisis: 90% industrial units stay shut in Chandigarh||Even as Chandigarh administration lifted the 41-day curfew, allowing industrial activity to resume, nearly 90% of the units in the city’s twin industrial areas remained closed on Monday.Confusion over whether odd-even formula was applicable to the industry, low demand prospects for the local manufacturing units, inadequate labour and even poor financial status of companies resulted in very few units opening up.“Even though the UT order on lockdown on Sunday didn’t mention the odd-even formula, on Monday police personnel were asking industrial units with odd address number to close down. This created a lot of confusion and many owners decided to keep their factories shut,” said Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh.Also, movement back to Panchkula and Mohali was a big issue for industrialists coming from these cities to Chandigarh. “A common plan of movement is a must for the tricity, so that it does not discourage people from entering Chandigarh,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries. The units that opened on Monday were primarily that of spare part units which are ancillary units to bigger factories outside the city. “With factories opening in other parts of the country, their ancillary units had a reason to open up. But, most other units, like more than 100 furniture manufacturing units here, don’t foresee any demand in near future. And with labour shortage also being an issue, they decided not to open up,” said Ashok Goel, chief executive officer, Vanser, the Furniture Merchants.SCREW MAKERS’ GROUSE Meanwhile, Chandigarh Screw Manufacturers’ Association decided that all screw manufacturing units will be closed till May 17 in view of the risk of spread of coronavirus. “The ration expenditure will be provided to the workers present in the city by the respective entrepreneurs. The delay in decision making regarding fixed electricity charges by the Chandigarh administration for Covid period is also criticised by the members unequivocally,” said BS Saini, general secretary of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/confusion-crisis-90-industrial-units-stay-shut-in-chandigarh/story-b7IG2GaAmXyGekonK9EiqO.html
05-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi: Keep spl vigil in Lucknow, Agra; send officers to help in dists||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed that IAS and senior PCS officers be sent to the districts to help district magistrates in management of quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens set up for migrant labourers returning from different states to Uttar Pradesh.He also directed special vigil in Agra, Lucknow, Meerut, Kanpur Nagar, Moradabad, Saharanpur and Firozabad and said officers should get connected with people to resolve their problems in these districts.Yogi was reviewing the third phase of lockdown and preparations made for migrant labourers returning to the state at a high level meeting here.The state government has deployed about 10,000 buses to take migrant labourers, arriving by train, to their respective districts. In all 50,000 medical and health teams have been set up for screening and health checkup of migrants. Five special trains carrying migrant labourers from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka were set to reach Uttar Pradesh.The chief minister said officers being sent to districts would work under the supervision of divisional commissioners. He said only such officers should be sent to districts who have not been deployed in fight against Covid-19.He said the officers should regularly visit quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens that should be geo-tagged for regular monitoring by the control rooms. He said district magistrates should appoint nodal officers for quarantine centres and community kitchens etc and better performance was needed at every level to defeat coronavirus.Yogi said migrant labourers found medically fit should be sent to 14-day home quarantine. He said a sustenance allowance of Rs 1,000 should be given to the labourers leaving for their homes and added that arrangements should be made for medical treatment of those not found in good health.Yogi said the chief minister’s helpline should be used to connect with village pradhans and corporators and the monitoring committees must ensure that information about arrival of any outsider was given to the administration.Yogi said work in industrial units should be started by following security norms and in accordance with advisory of the union government. He said those working in hotspots should not be attending their offices. He said people should mandatorily use face mask or face cover while moving out.The chief minister said social distancing must be followed while carrying out immunisation work. He said para medical staff carrying out immunisation work should use face masks, gloves and sanitisers.He said all ventilators should be made functional and added that a work-plan should be prepared to mobilise additional resources. He said people should be made aware about the national portability scheme for ration cards to ensure that they get the benefits of the scheme.Yogi said migrant labourers from Maharashtra and Karnataka, residing in UP, have used the ration cards of their respective states to take food grains in UP. He said migrant labourers returning to UP should be linked with ‘one district one product’ scheme, Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana and milk societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-keep-spl-vigil-in-lucknow-agra-send-officers-to-help-in-dists/story-GxRr89ILgOOQ0Yw8TbNNcM.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||With Covid-19 cases on the rise in Mumbai’s Dharavi, migrants from Tamil Nadu try to return||In the first week of April, a septuagenarian suffering from oral cancer in Dharavi – Asia’s biggest slum — returned back to his village in Salem, Tamil Nadu, in an ambulance, which his son had managed to arrange after much struggle. The patient had come to Mumbai in February for his treatment at the Tata Memorial Hospital.Huddled in the ambulance with him were his neighbours — a 17-year-old boy with Down syndrome and his mother. The boy’s mother had earlier tried to get a permit to take him back home in an ambulance, but was not given permission citing it to be a a ‘non-emergency’ request. “My son would rush out of our room [in Dharavi] due to the suffocating conditions. It is too risky as he could be exposed to the virus. My 15-year-old daughter wasn’t even allowed to go near him,” said the boy’s mother.The cancer patient said the boy would get agitated and cry throughout the night as his family did not let him step out. “As it was impossible for the family to keep him cocooned in their small room round the clock, his mother requested us to allow them in the ambulance as our family member,” said the patient.The mother and son live in the neighbouring district of Villupuram, about two-and-half hours from Salem. They had a non-Covid certificate that allowed them to cross the state borders.“My son is better now as there is enough space for him to roam around,” said the boy’s mother.Spread across approximately 210 to 240 hectares, Dharavi is home to a population of around 8.5 lakh people. As per the civic body data, almost 15% of the population comprises of migrants from Tamil Nadu who have settled in the slums of the Dharavi decades ago. However, hundreds of migrants from Tamil Nadu are now desperate to their native state through the porous inter-state borders, as they fear contracting the Covid-19 infection in Dharavi’s overcrowded slums, extending to 70-120 square feet rooms.“We have stopped going out but it’s a challenge to keep my children confined in the room. We cover our hands and feet with plastic before using community toilets. We are living in fear,” said Sundari Chari, 32, who resides with her husband, two children and in-laws in an 110 square feet room.According to the information shared by the Tamil Nadu government, migrants in Dharavi are trying to get inside the state through commercial essential vehicles such as vegetables supplying vans, in the absence of public transport.Authorities in Tamil Nadu are monitoring these movements. High security has been imposed on national highways to monitor the entry of potentially-infected migrants from Dharavi and other parts. The Tamil Nadu government has set up testing facilities and quarantine centres near national highways, and police personnel have been posted in civilian clothes along the highway. Recently, two people from Dharavi who drove over 1,800 kms on two-wheelers to Tirunelveli district, southern Tamil Nadu through Karnataka were caught by Tamil Nadu police officers, Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, district collector, Tirunelveli, told HT.Spending nights on roads and sleeping at empty bus stands and temple premises, the duo took four days to reach their native town. They were so dehydrated, weak and frail that they were not in a position to share their information when apprehended by the police. They were provided with water by the police, and later tested for Covid-19. The two were then sent to a nearby quarantine centre and allowed to go home only after their report came negative. “Slum dwellers from Dharavi are taking drops in vans supplying essential commodities from national highways. Some are coming on two wheelers, and some others even in ambulances with patients,” said Satish. According to Satish, many who have lost their livelihoods want to return because they don’t have to worry about food in their native homes.Kalla Prasad, 41, a native of Avudaiyapuram, said, “We can survive through farming. My brothers are worried and keep calling me back.”The Tamil Nadu government has now initiated talks with the Maharashtra government to find out a possible mode of transport to bring its stranded people back.“It is not only Dharavi, but hundreds are stuck in different districts of Maharashtra after the lockdown. So, our government is communicating with the Maharashtra government to find out ways to bring them to Tamil Nadu. All panchayat heads have been informed to keep an eye on the people entering their villages,” said Satish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-migrants-from-tamil-nadu-in-mumbai-try-to-return/story-htPd1d0OIsRoJEftIJL7zM.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chaos at borders as Chandigarh comes back to life after 41 days||As chaos ruled at Chandigarh’s borders and some people entered the city without screening after the 41-day curfew to prevent Covid-19 transmission was lifted on Monday, the UT administration requested the Punjab and Haryana governments to change their office timings.The administration also decided to change its own office timings with UT administrator VPS Badnore announcing a new 10.30am to 4.30pm schedule from Tuesday after his daily meeting to review the situation.This, Badnore hoped, would reduce the rush of employees travelling to different offices of Punjab, Haryana and the central government at the same time.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida has also written to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana on Monday asking for a timing change to help prevent clash of timings with “each other and Central government offices and help in avoiding congestion on roads”.About 3,298 vehicles with 3,759 persons were screened at the border by Chandigarh Police and 513 vehicles (ferrying 947 persons) were not allowed to enter due to lack of ID cards and curfew passes.Long vehicle queues formed at Chandigarh’s main entry points in the morning as police screening slowed things, but many entered the city unchecked because of the heavy traffic buildup. Restrictions on number of passengers in two- and four-wheelers were also violated with impunity and 107 two-wheelers and 12 four-wheelers were challaned for carrying more people than specified to maintain social distancing.Because of the rush police personnel could not screen everyone with thermal scanners. “Today, the flow of vehicles increased tremendously and people were getting impatient when asked to wait. It put us under pressure at the checkpoints. So, some vehicles drove by without screening,” said a policeman on duty near the Zirakpur-Chandigarh barrier, requesting anonymity.Similar problems were reported at the Panchkula-Chandigarh housing board light point.Even as rules allowed one person to drive a two-wheeler, 107 were penalised for talking along pillion riders. The 12 four-wheelers challaned carried more than the three people allowed.UT’s request to the Mohali administration to issue movement passes for Mohali residents coming to Chandigarh for work has also been approved. People running businesses, shops etc coming from Mohali to Chandigarh will now be issued passes for 10 am to 6 pm by the Mohali administration. Government officials will be allowed to travel between the two cities on the basis of their official ID cards.The UT will also take up the issue with the Panchkula administration on Tuesday.In Panchkula, the police managed to keep a strict vigil at checkpoints, only letting in people with passes issued by the district administration after announcements were made on Friday of very stringent screening processes and sealing of entry points.“We have strict orders not to allow anyone from Chandigarh into Panchkula without a pass. Everyone will go through medical screening. Those without a pass will be sent back,” said a police official on duty at the housing board point. Meanwhile, Panchkula residents coming to the UT had to stay back because of non-issuance of passes by the Panchkula administration.UT officials on Monday also discussed opening up all shops, but decided to stick with the odd-even formula for the time being. “These are dynamic situations which we will constantly review any improvements. For now we will persist with the odd-even formula for opening of shops,” Parida said. Stationery shops and liquor vends that opened today drew large crowds too, though social distancing was given a go-by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chaos-at-borders-as-chandigarh-comes-back-to-life-after-41-days/story-DrSkopwFziJvFxMGHtPxoM.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Uttarakhand natives stranded in Chandigarh made to wait for buses for six hours in scorching heat||Scores of stranded people eager to return home had to wait for nearly six hours in the scorching heat as the buses sent to ferry them by the Uttarakhand government arrived late on Monday.Police officials said the buses were supposed to arrive at 10am according to the schedule shared by the Uttarakhand government, but the buses arrived at 4pm to ferry the natives living in Chandigarh.“People, including children, who had to board buses, arrived as early 8am due to fear of being left out. They were made to sit on roads as no prior arrangement was made by the local administration,” the officials said.“We the migrants will be allowed to board the buses immediately after the medical screening. However, the officers coordinating from Uttarakhand could not be reached despite repeated attempts.” said a senior police official.According to police records, a total of 3,140 people reached at the nine checkpoints earmarked for boarding the buses.A total of 113 buses were sent to pick the people. Since they arrived late, a total of 85 buses departed ferrying nearly 2,666 people.In each bus, 25-27 people were allowed sit with social distancing norms in place, the police official said.“We had to arrange food and other essential items for people who waited in the scorching heat. Health of some also deteriorated as they had not eaten since last night” added the police official. Police said remaining 550 persons will leave the city by midnight.Likewise, Himachal Pradesh government also sent 49 buses to ferry 1,239 persons from different towns, including Mandi, Bilaspur, Kullu and Lahual and Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/uttarakhand-natives-stranded-in-chandigarh-made-to-wait-for-buses-for-six-hours-in-scorching-heat/story-BGYQy2tJF27uCYgS50ex8L.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to use TB machine for early diagnosis of coronavirus||Maharashtra has decided to use tuberculosis (TB) machine for early diagnosis of individuals with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (Sars-CoV-2), which causes Covid-19. Currently, the state conducts a molecular test — cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification tests (CBNAAT) – using the GeneXpert technology to diagnose TB. The CBNAAT detects Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacteria which causes TB. However, the customised test for Covid-19 will detect the E gene (found in RNA of coronaviruses) and N2 gene (specific to SARS-CoV2) in the samples. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved the use of the US-grown technology to detect Covid-19.The machine can test four samples at a time and declare results in 45 minutes. “To run the diagnosis, we need a different type of cartridge. At present, testing for TB involves extraction of DNA from the sample. The new cartridge will extract the RNA from Covid-19 samples,” said Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD).The state government has got 10,000 Covid cartridges from the Centre. The testing will start by the end of this week. All district hospitals which have CBNAAT can apply to ICMR for permission for testing. Sion hospital is planning to apply for the same.As per the ICMR, the CBNAAT should be carried under Biosafety 2 level (BSL-2) conditions and with appropriate biosafety precautions. Also, any laboratory that has been approved to test Sars-CoV-2 will not require further ICMR nod to use TB machines.In Maharashtra, three laboratories have been selected— Intermediate Reference Laboratory based in Nagpur and Pune, and at RCSM government medical college, Kolhapur. The minimum requirement to carry out testing is presence of at least one microbiologist experienced in molecular virology along with technicians. Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala and Jammu also plan to conduct tests using this method.In the absence of a vaccine or drugs to treat Covid-19, faster diagnosis and early medical intervention is essential. “Under the present testing procedure, diagnosis takes almost eight hours. This test can provide faster results, saving more time and lives,” said Dr Ramraje Nagsen, pulmonologist from JJ hospital. “We need to give it a try, even though it is not scientifically proven.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-to-use-tb-machine-for-early-diagnosis-of-coronavirus/story-qB87p3VsKbtHLYkx2x33wL.html
05-05-2020||Lucknow||Labourer dies while walking to Ambedkar Nagar from Ghaziabad||A 26-year-old migrant labourer travelling to his village in Ambedkar Nagar from Ghaziabad was found dead alongside Expressway in Etmadpur area of Agra district on Sunday. The post mortem report confirmed that the deceased died of tuberculosis, police said. “A body was found lying alongside the Expressway and blood marks were also found indicating that he vomited blood before he died. We also found a mobile with him that helped us in contacting his known people,” stated Vimal Kumar, the in-charge of Chalesar police outpost in Etmadpur area of Agra district.“We managed to call back at the last dialed number which belonged to a tea seller in Palwal who confirmed that the deceased had rested in his shop on 1 May. The deceased had stayed in Palwal for a night then boarded a vehicle which left him at Mathura from where he was walking along the expressway,” said Vimal Kumar.“We called his brother Dileep Singh in Delhi who identified the deceased as Sandeep Singh (26). He was working as a labourer in Ghaziabad and was going to his home at Ambedkar Nagar,” informed Kumar.The deceased had told the tea seller in Palwal that he was patient of tuberculosis and had complaint of blood vomiting. Brother of the deceased reached Agra and undertook the cremation in Agra only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/labourer-dies-while-walking-to-ambedkar-nagar-from-ghaziabad/story-UWUZuJ5Fm0yGXPv9voYwWI.html
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur MC chief under scanner for issuing completion certificates sans authority||The Mohali district administration will be probing alleged misuse of power by the Zirakpur executive officer in issuing completion certificates to eight major residential-cum-commercial projects in February this year. The certificates were issued to these projects spread over more than five acres, even as the official, Manvir Singh Gill, did not have the authority under the relevant rules.According to the Punjab government’s 2010 notification, for issuing completion certificates of sixth category building plans (multiplex, group housing, nursing home, hospital, educational institute), the file has to be sent to the director, local bodies, who further forwards it to the secretary, local bodies, after a thorough scrutiny by the chief town planning wing of the department. Finally, it is the minister concerned who approves it. According to sources privy to the development, the Zirakpur MC allegedly did not even carry out physical verification of the projects for issuing fire-safety no-objection certificate or giving permissions for sewerage and water connections and setting up of sewage treatment plant. In fact, even the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Punjab local bodies department to carry out physical checking of all real estate projects before issuing the completion certificate.When contacted for comment, Gill said: “I can’t say anything off the top of my head and will have to cross-check the cases. These days, please talk about Covid-19 only.” Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary, local government, Punjab, said: “I am not aware of the issue, but will definitely look into it.” However, Mohali additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain, who is also the administrator of the Zirakpur MC, said: “We will conduct an inquiry into the matter. If any misuse of power is found, strict action will be taking against the official concerned.”Harish Gupta, president, Builders Association Zirakpur, said: “As per norms, after completing the basic infrastructure and common facilities, we complete the buildings in parts and apply for partial completion certificate to the competent authority, which is the Zirakpur MC. After that, it is the prerogative of the civic body to issue the certificates, and how they issue it is up to them.”Meanwhile, a senior official of the civic body, on the condition of anonymity, said: “We have seen that some builders take completion certificate from the civic body and end up cheating people. During the launch of project, they promise the allottees some returns till they the handing over of possession/completion certificate. However, without completing the project, they are issued certificates in connivance with officials and stop making payments to the allottees, which increases litigations and harassment of the common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/zirakpur-mc-chief-under-scanner-for-issuing-completion-certificates-sans-authority/story-VHz7zxL1qtSWJ1IClKsEgP.html
05-05-2020||City||Mohali police get remand of 4 gangsters held in Panchkula raid||A local court granted five-day remand to four gangsters accused of attempting to murder a 22-year-old milkman in Mohali.Ten days ago, Punjab Police had arrested the accused after an exchange of fire, in which head constable, Rashpreet Singh, was injured, in Haryana’s Panchkula district. The police brought the accused on production warrants.A team of Punjab Police had raided the hideout at in Billa village of Panchkula to arrest accused Harsimran alias Simu of Naraingarh in Ambala, and his aides Dhruv Mohan Garg of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Gurcharan Singh alias Gunna of Parwala village in Raipur Rani, and Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi of Dera Bassi.Accused Simu and Gunna were involved in an attempt-to-murder case that dates back to March 11, when 22-year-old milkman, Kamalpreet Singh of Chachumajra village in Kharar, was shot by three motorcycle-borne men at Mohali’s Phase 9 on March 11, in what was reported to be the fallout of a college rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-police-get-remand-of-4-gangsters-held-in-panchkula-raid/story-H5qRccVQzy2ipr6OM09y5J.html
05-05-2020||Lucknow||Religious activities via loudspeakers restricted in UP: Govt to HC||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday submitted before Allahabad high court that religious activity of any religious group through loudspeaker was restricted across the state in view of the ongoing lockdown imposed to check spread of Covid-19.The submission was made while the court was hearing via videoconference a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by Ghazipur MP Afzal Ansari in which it was alleged that the district administration had banned azaan (call to prayer) in Ghazipur.In this regard, the affidavit filed by additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi clarified that Ghazipur district had been declared a corona hotspot, hence as per the guidelines issued by union ministry of home affairs on March 24, 2020 certain restrictions were imposed. “Since ‘azaan’ is made on a loudspeaker, it has been restricted in Ghazipur,” he stated in the affidavit. Keeping the counter affidavit filed on behalf of the state government on record, a division bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Ajit Kumar directed to hear this matter on May 5 (Tuesday) through videoconferencing. As per additional advocate general (AAG) Manish Goyal, the petitioner’s allegation of violation of fundamental right of religious freedom has been specifically responded by stating that Article 25 of the Constitution, which gives fundamental right to freedom of religion, provides that it is subject to public order, morality and health. In the PIL, the MP had alleged that all of a sudden from April 24 onwards it was found that azaan from mosques was prohibited by local administration and police and that if anyone dared to make azaan, they would be booked under National Security Act. In light of this, the MP requested the court to allow azaan by only one person i. e. ‘muezzin’ (the person appointed at mosques for making call to prayers) from the respective mosques within the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/religious-activities-via-loudspeakers-restricted-in-up-govt-to-hc/story-DEE0qKZcnifExkR6vX8Q3L.html
05-05-2020||City||One dead, 106 more test +ve, Punjab tally 1,255||A 50-year-old Hoshiarpur resident found infected with the coronavirus died while 106 more people, including 85 pilgrims who returned from Maharashtra’s Nanded recently, tested positive in Punjab on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 1,255.The 50-year-old patient, identified as Mahesh Singh, was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Saturday as he was suffering from chest infection and fever.Sangrur saw a single-day spike of 52 cases, with the total count of patients in the district reaching 63. All the 52 had returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded last week. Of these, 48 are from Sangrur district, 3 from Nabha in Patiala district and one is from the neighbouring state of Haryana, officials said.Those from the district are residents of Sangrur town, Bhawanigarh, Sunam, Longowal, Dirba, Hasanpur, Kishangarh, Kanjla, Kheri Khurd, Sandour, Mulowal, Gaga and Kular Khurd.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “All these pilgrims were already isolated in different centres of the district. The treatment of the new patients, including those from Nabha and Haryana, will be started in the district initially.” The patients are aged between six and 66. Earlier, the district had 11 cases of Covid-19 and three patients were discharged after treatment. One patient from the district is undergoing treatment in Patiala.13 fresh cases in LudhianaThirteen fresh cases were reported in Ludhiana, taking the total number of those infected in the district to 123.Of a total of 503 reports the health department received (112 from Dayanand Medical College and 391 from Government Medical College, Patiala), 486 were found negative whereas reports of four persons were sent for repeat test, an official said.12 shifted to isolation ward in FaridkotIn Faridkot, 12 Nanded-returnees were found infected with the disease on Monday. With this, the district’s tally of infected people went up from six to 18, a threefold jump in a single day. Now, there are 16 active Covid-19 cases in the district, while two patients have recovered.“Of those found positive, 10 belong to Sandhwan village, one to Kotkapura and another to Lehri village in Bathinda district. The Nanded-returnees were quarantined when they reached Faridkot last week. The patients have been admitted in the isolation ward at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot,” civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said.13 infected in FerozepurIn Ferozepur, the reports of 13 people, who also returned from Nanded, were found positive on Monday, increasing the district’s tally to 41, including one fatality.Deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said of the 52 reports received on Monday, 39 were found negative. The patients were today shifted to the civil hospital.Congress’ Zira MLA Kulbir Singh Zira, who welcomed the pilgrims, went into 14-day self-quarantine. His test report also came negative.Also, all 29 reports received in Fazilka district were found negative.7 new cases in JalandharIn Jalandhar, 7 Nanded-returned pilgrims tested positive on Monday, with the district reporting a total of 131 cases, including four deaths, so far.The patients are aged between 46 and 57. Three of the patients were admitted to a hospital in Amritsar.The health officials said of the 4,156 samples collected so far in the district, results of 1,165 were awaited.One case each in Bathinda, Mansa A woman resident of Mansa district and a man from neighbouring Bathinda who returned from Takht Huzur Sahib pilgrimage also tested positive for Covid-19.With this, Mansa district now has 13 active cases of infection with four persons having cured. Bathinda now has a total of 36 patients, all of hwom returned from Nanded.Four more cases surface in GurdaspurIn Gurdaspur, four more coronavirus positive cases were detected on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 35, including one death. One of the new positive patients is a 23-year-old social worker who lives in Sant Nagar locality in Gurdaspur town.The district administration declared Sant Nagar and adjoining Bajwa Colony as containment zones and relaxations to the residents of these localities during the curfew were withdrawn. The administration also declared nearby Ram Nagar Bhoon village and Damodar village in Fatehgarh Churian block, where the other new positive patients belonged to, as containment zones.Two fresh cases in Pathankot’s SujanpurIn Pathankot, two persons from Sujanpur town tested positive on Monday. The district now has 27 cases, including one death.Both the patients are drivers. One of them, a 48-yeard-old who is working in the Punjab Roadways, ferried many J&K residents stranded in Punjab. The other, aged 42, is a driver with GREF in Mizoram and came home on March 20.Rajpura woman found positiveIn Patiala, a 63-year-old woman from Covid hotspot Rajpura town was tested positive on Monday. Her samples were taken after her husband and son contracted infection last week.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said further contact tracing was initiated and the woman was shifted to an isolation ward of Government Medical College.Her 65-year-old husband is admitted to private hospital at Mohali, while her 28-year-old son is being treated at Patiala.(With inputs from Patiala, Pathankot, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Jalandhar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-dead-106-more-test-ve-punjab-tally-1-255/story-6zF30mwAKKY8EtDEghN8ZN.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha cuts its development spending by 67% this year||The state government on Monday announced a 67% cut in its spending for developmental works this fiscal, in view of the estimated revenue losses of more than ₹40,000 crore in March and April 2020 owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The state, expecting the cumulative losses to be more than ₹50,000 crore in the current fiscal, has also decided to not take up new development schemes and scrap or defer the schemes that can be put on hold.Among other measures, the government has also decided to stop recruitment for government jobs, meaning that recruitment underway for 35,000 posts is unlikely now. Recruitments in the public health and medical education departments, however, have been excluded from the diktat. Around 1.90 lakh posts (of around 17 lakh sanctioned posts) in the state government are vacant.Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued the government resolution on Monday, announcing the cut in expenditure on development schemes and curbs on recruitments. “Only 33% of the outlay for the schemes will be released in the ongoing financial year. The departments should take a review of the ongoing schemes and take call on their deferment or the cancellation. This will be applicable even to those schemes decided by the state cabinet before March 31, 2020. No new schemes be proposed,” the GR stated.According to officials from the finance department, only 33% of the total outlay for the scheme expenditure of around ₹1.15 lakh crore will be released within the financial year. “Yes, unfortunately this means we are spending ₹70,000 crore less on social and development schemes. The amount is roughly equivalent to the drop we expect in the revenue receipt in the financial year,” the official said.The decision, however, will not be applicable to the Covid-19 pandemic -related expenditure by departments such as public health, medical education, relief and rehabilitation, and food and civil supplies. The estimated expenditure on battling Covid-19 by these departments is more than ₹800 crore, including ₹450 crore by the public health department. The departments have also been directed to not undertake any new construction (of roads, bridges or buildings) or even give them technical approval. The departments with corpus lying unused in banks have been warned to give the deposit back to the government or face inquiry.The state government has seen a revenue losses of over ₹40,000 crore in March and April owing to the lockdown, which has resulted in industrial and commercial activities coming to a complete halt. The state government expects a similar trend of a drop in revenue for the next two-three months. It has already demanded financial assistance of ₹50,000 crore from the Centre and the permission to raise greater amount of loans. Meanwhile, the state government has sustained estimated losses of ₹2,800 crore expected from excise duty and sales tax on liquor in the oast 40 days of the lockdown. “This will affect our annual revenue target of ₹19,225 crore. We expect an unusual surge in liquor consumption for the next few days after liquor shops have opened today, before it stabilises to its average sale,” said Kantilal Umap, excise commissioner. The state government has said that liquor shops will begin to operate in the next couple of days after preparations in terms of logistics and stocks. “Although we have issued an order to keep liquor shops open in all colour-coded zones, except containment zones, district collectors have all rights to decide otherwise. Nagpur and Aurangabad collectors enquired with the government if they could continue to keep liquor shops shut,” said Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary, Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-cuts-its-development-spending-by-67-this-year/story-fiw6SvSKYQHpmvD04gQQMJ.html
05-05-2020||City||Handwara encounter: Army pays tribute to slain soldiers, bodies sent to native places||The Army on Monday paid rich tribute to five security personnel who were martyred in an encounter with militants at Handwara in Kashmir district of Kupwara.A ceremony was held at Corps headquarters in Srinagar and bodies of the soldiers were later sent to their native places. A function was held to pay tribute to Col Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar and Lance Naik Dinesh Singh. An Army spokesperson said that Northern Army Commander Lt Gen YK Joshi, Lt Gen BS Raju Chinar Corps Commander and all ranks paid homage to the soldiers and in a show of solidarity, representatives from other security agencies also joined in to pay their last respects. “Col Ashutosh Sharma and his team were leading a counter-terrorist operation in Chanjimul village of Kupwara district. In a valiant effort to save innocent civilian lives, while putting their own lives in grave danger, they eliminated two terrorists in the operation. In the ensuing firefight, Col Ashutosh Sharma, Maj Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar, Lance Naik Dinesh Singh and sub-inspector Sageer Ahmed Qazi made the supreme sacrifice in service to the Natio,’’ Army said in a statement.“The mortal remains of the martyrs were taken to their native place, where they would be laid to rest with full military honours. In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with the bereaved families and remains committed to their dignity and well being,’’ an Army spokesman said. The last rites of sub-inspector Sageer Ahmad Pathan alias Qazi, was held with state honours at his native village in Karnah of Kupwara on Sunday night. The ceremony was attended by senior police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/handwara-encounter-army-pays-tribute-to-slain-soldiers-bodies-sent-to-native-places/story-LY0UGX6mJ2s7FAEJo5V9wI.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha tally touches 14,541; city’s virus cases at 9,310||Maharashtra on Monday recorded a single-day jump of 1,567 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, taking the state’s tally to 14,541. However, according to the state health department, Maharashtra recorded 771 new infections, but also added 796 cases of the past few days, which had been updated on the website of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state also reported 35 deaths, taking the toll to 583. Of the new cases, Mumbai recorded 510, taking its tally to 9,310, while the toll rose to 361 with 18 deaths on Monday. As per the Central government’s directive, the state has started referring to figures from the ICMR portal and hence the difference has been adjusted, said state health department officials.As Maharashtra from Monday entered the third phase of the lockdown with certain relaxations, even in the red zones, to spur its stalled economy, the administration is faced with the tall order of keeping Covid-19 cases under control, especially in Mumbai, Pune and Thane regions — all hotspots. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has instructed the administration to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown, stating that majority of the districts in the state should be brought into the green zone by the end of May.Monday witnessed scenes of crowding in Maharashtra’s major cities, outside vegetable markets, shops selling essential items and liquor shops, after the state government allowed it. Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, and Pune districts have nearly 90% of the state’s Covid-19 cases.Thackeray, according to senior officials, has taken a serious note of the crowding on the first day of the curbs being relaxed. He has directed the district administration and police department to enforce social-distancing measures. The last time such scenes were witnessed, Thackeray had immediately directed authorities to exclude Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) from the relaxation. A total of 1,76,323 coronavirus tests have been held across the state.“We have given some relaxations to start economic activities. But it doesn’t mean that the lockdown is lifted. The district administration and police should ensure strict implementation of the lockdown in any condition and should ensure that their respective zones become green zones at the earliest,” Thackeray was quoted in a statement by the chief minister’s office. The statement from CMO quoted Thackeray: “The scenes witnessed in some cities are quite grave as citizens are roaming freely after certain curbs were lifted.”In a meeting held via video conference with divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners, medical officers, and police chiefs on Sunday evening, Thackeray said that the easy part of enforcing lockdown is over now. “Imposing a lockdown was easy, but the real test would begin now with relaxations being given,” Thackeray said. He added that he now wants “results” in the coming days.According to the chief minister’s office (CMO), the CM has directed the state administration to convert a large part of the state’s districts into green zones by the end of this month. Maharashtra currently has 14 districts in the red zone, 16 districts in the orange zone, and six districts in the green zone.State health minister Rajesh Tope, who took stock of the situation and preparedness in Pune city, Pune district, Solapur and Satara districts, said that the number of cases in the districts could increase. He directed district authorities to increase the number of beds, institutional quarantine facilities, keeping into account a possible spike in the cases.Thackeray further said that while some industries have been allowed in districts that fall in the orange and green zones, it needed to be ensured that nobody from the red zone comes in these zones and spreads the infection. The district borders will continue to remain closed and the movement of people, who are stuck due to lockdown, would be done by following the norms strictly, he added.A senior Mantralaya bureaucrat said that there would have been a point where restrictions would have to be lifted. “How long can we keep the economy stalled? The coronavirus is a serious battle, but it will die down in a few months. However, it will take more than a year to put the economy back on track. The curbs are not lifted so that people can go out as nothing has happened. The police and civic body will have to enforce measures in a stringent manner; the CM has already told them so,” the officer said not wishing to be named.While the Maharashtra government has allowed establishments dealing with non-essential commodities to function with conditions even in Mumbai, there is still lack of clarity on-ground.In its revised guidelines on Sunday, the state government has allowed stand-alone shops and establishments dealing with non-essential services to open. However, no more than five shops (excluding the establishments dealing with essential goods) in a lane can open at a time. These establishments, will, therefore, be regulated by the local authorities i.e the municipal corporations.A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ward officer from the eastern suburbs of the city said that the civic body will frame policy guidelines on this in a day or two.“The opening of the shops is subject to permissions from the local authority, so as of Monday, establishments dealing with non-essentials goods have not started,” he said. “The opening of shops will depend on the situation on-ground in every ward. There is no clarity as to which shops have to be opened, if suppose there are 50 shops in a lane.”The city has 24 wards in total. Two more ward officers from BMC that HT spoke to, corroborated that there are no guidelines on opening the shops yet. A senior official from BMC also said that a decision is yet to taken by the municipal commissioner, as of Monday evening.A shopkeeper dealing with garments in Matunga’s King’s Circle also said that there is no clarity on how to apply for permission to re-start their shops. “There are close to 30 shops in our lane. Which will be given priority? And how will they define a lane?” he asked. According to the Sunday guidelines, malls, market complexes and markets continue to be shut in the city.Meanwhile, the state government has not allowed private offices to function in the MMR, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Malegaon, although the Centre has allowed offices to resume with 33% workforce even in red zones starting Monday. Even government offices in these five regions can function with a 5% workforce, the state government said.In its new guidelines, the state government has allowed construction activities to resume, however, they will have to ensure that the workforce is available in-situ.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-tally-touches-14-541-city-s-virus-cases-at-9-310/story-kwPiuvYVR4jkL7xUphPJOL.html
05-05-2020||City||Ex-minister Shanta Kumar calls for war to teach Pak lesson||As the country mourns its five bravehearts who were martyred in a firefight with terrorists in Kashmir’s Handwara, senior BJP leader and former union minister Shanta Kumar said Pakistan didn’t understand the language of peace and the rogue nation needed to be taught a tough lesson through war.“Pakistan has crossed all limits. While the world fights Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan is violating the ceasefire and orchestrating terror attacks in India. Our neighbour is not only a fool but has gone insane,” said Shanta.“Now, there shall be no talks. India teaches its neighbour a tough lesson,” he said adding that the country lost 9,000 soldiers in three wars with its neighbour and scores of soldiers and civilians were killed due to terrorist activities.The veteran leader said the nation was once again shaken by the martyrdom of the five bravehearts who sacrificed themselves in Kashmir.“Till when we will continue to pay tributes to our martyrs and make false promises to their families of avenging the deaths,” the former minister asked.“India should not tolerate anymore. Pakistan has tested our patience enough and now let there be a Mahabharat,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-minister-shanta-kumar-calls-for-war-to-teach-pak-lesson/story-b4cstCp1FmOmQ6WwjXsfGL.html
05-05-2020||City||23 fresh cases in Ambala push district tally to 37||The district reported 23 new coronavirus cases after a gap of almost a week, officials said on Monday. This took the district tally to 37.Chief medical officer Dr. Kuldeep Singh said, “Twenty-three people, mostly construction workers have tested Covid-19 positive. Samples of 86 labourers engaged at the construction site of an upcoming residential complex for doctors in Ambala Cantonment Civil Hospital campus were taken for testing on May 2. Also, samples of labourers working at the construction site of the cancer centre at the civil hospital in cantonment have tested negative.”Construction has stopped at the site, which has now been sealed off as a containment zone.As per details, all workers and their families including women and children, earlier living at the site have been quarantined at a nearby school. Now, the district tally has risen to 37 with 11 patients already recovered, two fatalities, while one patient is undergoing treatment at PGIMER, Chandigarh. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma has confirmed that construction-related works were being carried out at the site where they have tested positive.“The construction work has stopped at the site and the area has been declared as a containment zone,” DC said. Earlier home and health minister Anil Vij has also expressed displeasure on the state government’s decision to allow the opening of shops and other non-essential activities amid a rise in the number of cases.“I’m worried as we cannot send police to every shop and ask them to maintain social distancing. Now, the ball is in the court of citizens and they have to follow the rules otherwise such relaxations could prove fatal,” Vij, an MLA from Ambala cantonment said on Monday morning. Partial relaxation in curbs, shops to open between 10am and 5pm in AmbalaIn an order issued on Monday, district magistrate (DM) Ashok Kumar Sharma allowed opening of shops with some curbs in Ambala. The order stated, “Business establishments related to milk and dairy products, vegetables and fruits shops, chemists, grocery shops, dry fodder, confectionery, agriculture implements, including fertilisers and seeds, vita booths, atta chakki, kiryana, meat and poultry, homoeopathic and ayurvedic medicines will be allowed to open from Monday to Saturday as per conditions (between 10am to 5pm),”“All other ‘left-side’ shops in MC markets marked with ‘L’ will open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 am to 5pm and all the ‘right-side’ shops in the same markets market with ‘R’ will open on the remaining days, except Sundays,” the order read.All eateries, restaurants and sweets shops have been allowed to provide home deliveries and take-away services in the same time bracket. Every other activities, including movement of interstate buses, will remain prohibited while barber shops, salons and beauty parlours will remain closed. Also, every activity allowed under these orders will not be permitted in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/23-fresh-cases-in-ambala-push-district-tally-to-37/story-DWlQOCyNhE4wIcGt7eKjOO.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Liquor stores Delhi’s first port of call||Hundreds of people lined up before government-run liquor shops since Monday morning, jostling, pushing and pulling at each other in complete defiance of social distancing norms, as the fight against Covid-19 entered its third phase with the government providing considerable relaxation in lockdown curbs as part of a phase-wise exit plan. At many places, the police had to lathicharge and at some others, shops were shut to prevent a riot-like situation. The Delhi government had allowed opening of standalone liquor shops between 9am and 6.30pm, according to directives issued by the Union home ministry after the national lockdown was extended till May 17. Extraordinary scenes of chaos were witnessed as queues, longer than a kilometre, were seen before liquor stores in Ashram, Govindpuri, Vasant Vihar, Mayur Vihar and many other places. At most places, the buyers not only defied social distancing norms, many were not wearing masks. This prompted the special branch of Delhi Police to suggest that the timings for the sale of liquor be extended to avoid crowding at outlets. The sale of liquor had been banned during the operation of the lockdown till May 3. On Monday, 349 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Delhi, taking the total to 4,898. As the numbers outside stores in east, central and south-east Delhi swelled, the police ordered liquor shops to shut. Undeterred, the crowds were seen racing to other liquor shops in the vicinity to try their luck.At the Lajpat Nagar flyover, near Sriniwaspuri, the queue of buyers caused a traffic jam, prompting police to lathicharge the crowd several times during the day.The situation at the start of the day was under control. When the shutters of a liquor shop in Pitampura’s Varun Niketan opened at 11 am, the crowd cheered. They took photographs, hailed the decision and some even said that the coronavirus would be a thing of the past.Outside all liquor stores, people eagerly waited with shopping bags, backpacks and gurney bags to hoard bottles.“When I was walking to open the shutter, I felt like a celebrity. We have not had a free minute; people have been continuously coming since the morning. Two policemen are stationed around the shop to ensure that people stick to queues,” said Dhruv Kumar, owner of a store in Varun Niketan.The crowd was a mix of Delhi residents, as seen from the SUVs, sedans, motorcycles and cycle rickshaws parked in the vicinity. Some had even walked around four to five kilometres to the nearest shop. On the roads, people inquired one other about crowds outside other shops in the vicinity.“People have suddenly become helpful and are guiding each other about the location of the shops. I usually drink whisky and beer but today (Monday), even if I get vodka, I am going to buy it. The government cannot close shops indefinitely,” said Gopal Dong, a Delhi University student.However, within an hour of the shops opening, lines got longer and the people, more restless. The crowding outside the counters forced the authorities to shut shops and turn customers away. Delhi police officers said that by around 3pm, almost 90% of the shops were shut. They will open on Tuesday.As word spread of shops being shut, those waiting in lines started hoarding, fearing that the liquor stores would not be opened again. A store in Karol Bagh shut by 2pm due to massive crowding, while similar incidents were reported from Shahdara and other parts of east Delhi.The joint commissioner of police (eastern range), Alok Kumar, said, “We did not resort to lathicharge but used mild force to disperse the crowd. Our officers were on the ground and were continuously in touch with the shop owners to remind them that they weren’t following social distancing rules. The few shops that were open today shut on their own. We will follow the government’s order and ensure that people are disciplined in queues.”In the evening, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that shops where social distancing norms are not followed will be shut. He urged residents to follow the norms to ensure that the relaxations continue.“I have heard reports on incidents of chaos and crowding outside certain shops. These shops were not opened for a limited time; they will open again tomorrow and the day after. I am concerned about your health and the health of your families. We want to slowly resume activities, but we will have to seal area if social distancing is not followed, for you and your safety,” Kejriwal said at a press briefing.Mushtaq Ali, a licensed vendor in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri, said that soon after the Delhi government issued the order on Sunday, they were given a set of guidelines by the state excise department on the conditions of running operations again. All those at the counters were asked to mandatorily wear masks and gloves. The shop owners were also asked to ensure social distancing outside the shops.The Centre had directed shopkeepers to ensure a gap of at least two yards between each person.“People are standing in queues, but they are barely maintaining distance. We had marked circles to ensure there is a distance between customers, but because a lot of people are turning up, no one seems to be following that,” Ali said.In south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar, the long queues became a reason for major concern among the residents, who had managed to curtail movement of outsiders to a minimum. The Vasant Vihar Welfare Association took to social media and informed authorities about a crowd of several hundreds outside a shop.The queue at a liquor shop in C-Block market, on Paschimi Marg, also led to traffic jams in the area. In the Basant Lok market, shop owners restricted purchases to two bottles per person. “It was a disappointing move by the government to allow liquor shops to open. The number of cases is still on the rise and you are risking the safety of your citizens like this. Hours before the shops opened, people started lining up here,” said Sumukhi Das, a resident of Vasant Vihar C-Block.In southwest Delhi’s Palam Colony, people were seen carrying crates of beer bottles from the shops and filling the boot of their cars. “Last time, the shops just closed without any warning. Maybe if we were given some time, we would have stocked up. The government should have anticipated this rush and made arrangements accordingly,” said Monty Singh, a resident of Palam Village, who bought five crates of beers and a bottle of rum.Meanwhile, senior Delhi police officers said the police district DCPs are holding meetings with shop owners and have asked them to rope in more volunteers to ensure that such problems do not arise on Tuesday. More shops are expected to open on Tuesday.“The police dispersed the crowd here thrice. I also got hit on my knee. That pain is bearable. I will return tomorrow. We will die if we do not get liquor soon,” a rickshaw puller, who was returning home empty-handed after waiting for four hours in Sriniwaspuri, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/liquor-stores-delhi-s-first-port-of-call/story-tkuJAtP6MDM3LnKvHtaOaM.html
05-05-2020||City||16 vegetable sellers among 26 Sonepat patients; No community spread in Jhajjar||Among the 26 corona carriers detected in Sonepat, 16 are vegetable sellers who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi. Jhajjar and Sonepat districts have witnessed spurt in Covid-19 cases in past one week and emerged as new hotspots. Sonepat has reported 46 cases in the last two days, while Jhajjar has seen 53 infections since last Monday. Not too long ago, both these districts bordering Delhi were being praised for tackling the situation and containing the contagion, but the visits of locals to the national capital exposed them to the infection.Of 53 cases seen in Jhajjar, 34 cases are linked to Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi. After vegetable sellers tested positive in Jhajjar, Sonepat health officials also focused on testing those visiting the mandi.SAMPLES BROUGHT BY MOBILE VANSeven vegetable sellers from Gayaspur village, five from Pubnera, two each from Ram Nagar and Bega villages of district’s Ganaur block have been shifted by the Sonepat health department to the isolation ward of Bhagat Phool Singh medical college in Khanpur Kalan. Sonepat Civil Surgeon BK Rajoura said all these cases were detected after a mobile van visited the villages of Ganaur block and took samples of vegetable sellers, who frequented Azadpur Mandi. “We targeted the vegetable sellers after many such vendors were found infected with Covid-19 in Jhajjar. The administration handed over a list of vegetable sellers to us and we visited them to collect their samples,” the civil surgeon added. The remaining cases include a female officer of Delhi Police, three women and two men from Sonepat and four men from Kundli.WE ARE CONDUCTING RANDOM SAMPLING OF 300 PERSONS DAILY: JHAJJAR CIVIL SURGEONRuling out the possibility of community transmission in Jhajjar, civil surgeon Randeep Singh Punia said the customers of vegetable sellers tested in the district were not found infected.“We have been conducting random sampling of over 300 people per day and none of the customers, who had bought vegetables from these vendors, were found infected. I can assure that there is no community transmission in the district yet,” he added. Health officials also took samples of vegetable sellers in Bhiwani, Dadri and Hisar, but none of them tested positive for the virus there as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/16-vegetable-sellers-among-26-sonepat-patients-no-community-spread-in-jhajjar/story-hpH4q04VN9tPTn6LAlSSJO.html
05-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Ludhiana doctors raise concern over ‘poor quality PPE kits’||Day after a former house surgeon tested positive for coronavirus, a surgeon of Ludhiana civil hospital has highlighted the issue of the poor quality of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits issued to the doctors. In a letter referred to civil surgeon, Dr Milind Verma said the kits are of substandard quality, eyewear and shoe cores are torn, thus, exposing the staff to infection. In the letter, Dr Verma also mentioned an incident wherein a hospital staff had fallen unconscious while she was wearing a PPE kit and collecting samples.Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that soon after receiving the letter, the PPE kits were replaced by the officials concerned.DOCTORS AWAIT INSTALLATION OF ACsThe doctors deployed on coronavirus duty at the civil hospital have also complained that wearing PPE kits amid the rising temperatures takes a toll on their health. “Recently, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal had visited the unit and giveb air conditioners (ACs) to the hospital. It has been over a week, but the devices have not been installed due to which we are forced to work in the extreme heat,” they said.Earlier, authenticity and accuracy of rapid testing kits had come under the scanner after three people, who had tested positive during the rapid test, were found negative for the coronavirus in the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction test.After conducting 350 tests, the district administration had suspended the much-hyped testing process following government directions on April 22.97 ACTIVE CASES IN DISTRICTDC Pradeep Agrawal said that presently, a total of 97 active coronavirus patients (all residents of Ludhiana) are left and their health is improving. “Till date, the district administration has collected a total of 3,253 samples out of which 128 (110 from Ludhiana and 18 from other districts) are positive. Eight patients have been cured and five deaths have been reported so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ludhiana-doctors-raise-concern-over-poor-quality-ppe-kits/story-0kVGwZOWVmSyNMrpPGPu8O.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Air quality remains ‘satisfactory’ as Delhi warms up to economic activity||Pollution levels in Delhi remained in the ‘satisfactory’ zone on Monday even as many government and private offices opened with a third of their staff on the first day of the two-week exit from the lockdown, because of which there was increased activity and traffic presence in the city.Experts said it will take some time to analyse the impact of resumption of activity on the pollution levels. High wind speed and frequent spells of rain will, however, help keep pollution in check for the rest of the week.According to Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin released at 9pm, the average air quality index (AQI) on Monday was 90 ( in the ‘satisfactory’ zone). At 93, the AQI on Sunday was also in the ‘satisfactory’ zone. The last time Delhi experienced ‘satisfactory’ air quality was on April 27 when the index was recorded at 89.“Pollution levels in the city during the lockdown period have mostly fluctuated between ‘moderate’ and ‘satisfactory’ levels, mainly because of no traffic movement or activity, apart from the good weather and frequent rainfall. Since it was just the first day of relaxations coming into effect, any impact on overall pollution levels will only be reflected late night or tomorrow (Tuesday) morning,” a senior CPCB official, who did not wish to be named, said.The official said an increase in the number of vehicles on roads may degrade air quality. But good wind speed expected over the next two days is likely to mitigate the detrimental effects.According to scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD), on Sunday evening the wind speed went up to 58 kmph, the highest for Delhi this summer. The high wind speed and rainfall helped push the air quality from ‘moderate’ to ‘satisfactory’.“The air quality is likely to improve further on Tuesday, with the wind speed expected to go up to 40-50 kmph between Monday night and Tuesday morning. Delhi has had six western disturbances in April, as against the usual three to four, resulting in frequent thunderstorms and rainfall. We are expecting another western disturbance to hit northwestern India between May 10 and May 12 and it will result in rain and gusty winds,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head, IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said.According to experts, since Monday was just the first day of more private vehicles plying on roads and economic activity slowly starting to pick up, the impact of the emissions will take a while to reflect in the pollution levels.“So far we don’t know the quantum of the vehicles plying on the roads. Any significant increase in the traffic will impact NOx levels and there will be some impact on PM 2.5 levels as well. But we will need to analyse data for at least a week to establish a trend,” Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said.Roychowdhury said that so far, the prominent pollutant in the air was PM 10 (mainly generated from dust) because intrusion of dust is higher during summers.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, air quality may improve to ‘good’ level by Tuesday. “Rainfall has resulted in washing out of pollutants and air quality is expected to improve over the next two days,” its bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-quality-remains-satisfactory-as-delhi-warms-up-to-economic-activity/story-dUynzYT8jyXdWcdtL2DMEI.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi set to lose Rs 645 crore in revenue as liquor shops remained shut for 43 days||The national lockdown since March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) led to Delhi government losing around Rs 645 crore in revenue from the sale of alcohol, when calculated on the basis of revised estimates in the 2019-20 state budget, senior government officials said Monday.They adding that the excise department was preparing a full report on the exact revenue loss incurred by the ban on the sale of liquor for over 40 days.In terms of income, alcohol accounts for around 14.1% of the city government’s total revenue projections for 2020-21.For 2020-21, the city-state projected a total revenue of around Rs 6,279 crore through the sale of liquor, compared to the revised estimate of around Rs 5,480 crore for the previous fiscal. In 2018-19, Delhi earned around Rs 5,007 crore through the sale of liquor, according to budget documents.These figures highlight the importance to the state government of liquor sales in the Capital.“The revenue loss during the lockdown has been estimated on the basis of 2019-20 revised budget estimates because the lockdown was already in place when we stepped into fiscal 2020-21. So, the projected revenue for this period made less sense when it came to taking a base figure,” one of the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.With the conditional scaling down of lockdown restrictions in non-containment zones, 150 liquor shops returned to business in Delhi after 43 days. These shops are under the direct control of the government and have L-6 and L-8 licences, which allow them to sell India-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and country liquor.“In case there is a demand for imported liquor in a certain area, the L-6 shops are allowed to maintain limited stock of foreign liquor with permission of the excise department. Other than that, foreign liquor is formally covered under L-10 license category, which can be availed by both government departments or private enterprises. But there is hardly any L-10 license shop in the city which is not located in a market, mall or other public space that comes under the ambit of restrictions.”An excise department officer who asked not to be named said that the city has 864 licensed liquor shops, which includes 389 shops owned by private individuals.A senior government official said, the government collects taxes from both type of shops and the tax component depends on the brand of liquor in question. For any given brand, the tax component is the same in a private shop or a government shop. Private shops have to pay higher license renewal fee, but that doesn’t affect the retail price, tax component and margin for any brand.Of the 475 shops owned by the government, only 150 qualify as “stand-alone” shops (not located in markets or malls) that operate with L-6 and L-8 licences.Apart from these, the revenue from 884 bars and restaurants that serve liquor also contribute significantly to the government exchequer. These continue to remain closed, said third government official, adding: “When it comes to opening 150 shops, they may witness higher than average sales. But these shops can open only between 9am and 6.30pm till May 17. So, it is difficult to estimate the numbers or the revenue gain at this juncture.”Liquor shops in Delhi were last open on March 21. March 22 was a dry day because of the “janta curfew” call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and the shops were shut for the two days owing to an order by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. On March 25, the nationwide lockdown kicked in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-set-to-lose-645-cr-in-revenue-as-liquor-shops-remained-shut-for-43-days/story-d4qun7uC72v5MeNSe9BAnO.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Demand for AC repairs surges, technicians scramble for spare parts||With the Delhi government allowing electricians and other self-employed people to resume operations amid a national lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), there was a surge in the demand for air-conditioner (AC) repairs and maintenance requests on Monday, prompting even some electricians to double up as AC technicians in the Capital.The self-employed technicians in Delhi began responding to customer requests even as representative of some AC manufacturers and sellers said they were not accepting repair and maintenance requests due to the lockdown restrictions.Dinesh Kumar (45), an electrician in Mayur Vihar, said he received four calls on Sunday evening for AC repairs across homes, adding that the uptick in work at his service centre came after a period of one-and-a-half months.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal locked down the national capital to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, which has killed at least 250,000 people across the world, on March 23, days before the central government announced similar restrictions.On Monday morning, Kumar sent a team of workers to carry out the repair and maintenance work.“During the lockdown period, we got a few orders, but it was all minor work, such as fixing tube lights or repairing plug points. Finally, we are now getting big orders,” he said.Those running AC repair shops said they get the bulk of their work orders in March, when temperatures begin to rise, but the Covid-19 lockdown this year didn’t allow any activity. Now that work orders have begun coming in, the technicians are preparing for a surge in requests and concerned about arranging spare parts.Amit Aggarwal (53), a resident of Vasant Kunj, said he had no option during the lockdown but to conduct basic maintenance of AC units in his house on his own. “Most AC manufacturing companies had suspended repair and maintenance services due to the lockdown. We couldn’t call a company expert to do the repair and servicing. Even the local shops were closed,” said Aggarwal.According to technicians, the most common repair work in ACs is to replenish its cooling gas or repair coils, in case of damage, which results in a leakage of the gas. But with most spare parts shops closed, especially in wholesale markets, it is now proving to be a challenge.Despite public demand, many local AC repair and service shops are not allowed to open as they are located in markets. They are taking orders over the phone and sending their staffers to the work site.Nitish Gaba, who runs an AC repair shop in east Delhi, said: “We can’t open the shop right now. We are getting orders to repair ACs, but it is difficult to arrange spare parts. We are also finding it difficult to procure the gas used in ACs, as we usually bought it from the shops providing spare parts.”Mukesh Kashyap (29), an electrician who owns a store in Rohini, said he has to source materials, such as motor parts, which has not been possible as not all shops have reopened.“I got a call from a client to repair and install their AC. The motor was not functional. I had to call up several people for four days before I could get the spare part for repair. This way, even if we get work, I don’t know how much we will be able to do,” said Kashyap.Aamir Khan, who repairs ACs at his shop at Bhogal, said his work took a hit this year as people were still reluctant to allow outsiders in their houses. He said they were also being stopped by some police officials while on the way to work. “People are letting us enter their houses only after making several enquires. Customers are asking for our names, whether we are coming from a containment zone and insisting that we do the work either on the terrace or in the balcony, but not inside the house,” he said, adding that he was facing a financial crunch due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/demand-for-ac-repairs-surges-technicians-scramble-for-spare-parts/story-ZM7z20Xzcs9D8Zw0k0sAiO.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM warns of sealing if social distancing norms not followed||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that his government would be forced to shut shops -- opened under conditional scaling down of the lockdown restrictions applicable till May 17 – in case of violation of social distancing norms. Kejriwal was reacting to the chaos that followed the opening of government-run liquor shops in the city after 40 days of the national lockdown enforced by the centre to curb the spread of Covid-19. Many liquor shops had to be shut and at some places police had to disperse huge crowds gathered before them. An official said a liquor store had to be closed in Mayur Vihar in east Delhi. Similar cases were reported from north and central Delhi after buyers started queueing up in front of the shops since morning.  “I was a little disappointed today. Large crowds assembled in front of some shops. People violated social distancing. Who will suffer due to this? You (people) will suffer. Imagine if someone in that crowd was infected. Then so many people ended up risking not just their lives but also their family members’. Such violations are unacceptable,” said the chief minister.Till Sunday evening, there were 4,549 Covid-19 cases in Delhi; 64 people have died of the disease so far. The Delhi CM said, “Why this rush? Shops will be open tomorrow and the days that follow. But if we come across violations of social distancing anywhere, we will have to seal that area and withdraw the relaxations. We will be left with no option but to take strong measures.” Kejriwal’s warning came even as union health minister Harsh Vardhan asked for the liquor stores to remain closed. “It would not be right and wise to continue with a decision, taken knowingly or unknowingly, as its adverse effects have already become apparent. The Delhi government should review its decision.” The chief minister also wanted store owners to behave responsibly. “For how long will we under be lockdown? It’s been one-and-a-half months already. We must act responsibly. And if there are reports of violations in a particular shop, we will seal that shop. Shopkeepers will have to take responsibility. If there’s report of violation in any area, we will seal that area,” said Kejriwal, emphasizing that Delhi is trying hard to restart business and commerce activities in a limited way within the ambit of the central government’s order.The chief minister said that people should continue wearing masks whenever they go outdoors, maintain social distance and keep washing their hands with soap or use sanitiser at regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-have-to-shut-shops-seal-areas-if-social-distancing-is-not-maintained-warns-kejriwal/story-XBCj5lBORDhKdiyJP95ikM.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||No access to devices, many Delhi EWS students in a fix over online tests||For over a month, Malkeet Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar, has been trying to arrange a device that would help his two kids attend online classes that are being conducted by their schools during the Covid-19 lockdown. Singh’s daughter (7) and son (11) have not attended a single online class as of Monday.Singh, a contractual driver with a private firm, has had no work since Prime Minister Narendra Modi put in place a countrywide lockdown on March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19. His children are enrolled in two private schools in Rajouri Gardens and Paschim Vihar — in Class 2 and Class 6 respectively — under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota. “We don’t have a smartphone at home. I did not even know that a smartphone will become so important for us during the lockdown. I’ve not earned a single penny since March and that’s why could not arrange a phone for my kids. Now my daughter’s school has sent a message stating that they will hold online unit tests from Wednesday. I don’t know what to do? I’m afraid my daughter’s performance will suffer,” he said.Many parents whose children are enrolled in private schools across the city under the EWS quota have found themselves in a tough spot ever since the lockdown came into force. While some, like Singh, don’t have the means to help their children attend online classes, others have fallen back on the help of their neighbours or relatives to arrange such devices.Several private schools in Delhi have announced that they will hold online unit tests, adding to the woes of such parents and students. “It’s even more difficult for parents like us who have never been to a school. We can’t even make our kids study from books. How will she take the tests without attending classes,” Singh said.A Class 8 student enrolled in a private school in South Delhi under the EWS quota said that his unit tests are also slated to start from Thursday. “I use my neighbour’s smartphone to listen to the recorded classes every alternate day. It feels embarrassing to ask for help daily. Now the school is saying they will take the unit test in the form of Multiple Choice Questions. I don’t know how will I manage to take the tests,” said the 15-year-old, whose father, a daily wage labourer, has been jobless due to the lockdown.Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) last week had directed all private schools to provide access to online classes and e-learning material to EWS students enrolled with them. However, several schools said that despite providing access, some of their students are not being able to attend online classes.Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said that some of their EWS students are not being able to attend classes despite them provided with links and invites. “We are calling them constantly and requesting their families to approach us for help. Many parents are not willing to come up. Some students are stuck in their native villages because of the lockdown. It won’t be possible for them to take the tests. We will decide the next step for them soon ,” she said.DoE director Binay Bhushan said that schools will have to take the responsibility and help EWS students by all available means amid the lockdown. “They should come up with ideas to take online unit tests of EWS students, who are facing logistical challenges,” he said.Schools say they have no choice but to re-conduct exams for those who are not able to appear for the tests now. “We will access the attendance in these tests post lockdown and re-conduct it for those who could not appear due to logistical challenges,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini.An NGO Justice for All had last week filed a petition in the Delhi High Court demanding free devices for EWS students amid the lockdown. “The court has asked us to submit a list of such students in Delhi private schools. We will submit it by tomorrow (Tuesday),” said advocate Shikha Bagga. Meanwhile, some private schools are helping their EWS students with logistics. For instance, Springdales School in Pusa Road has provided smartphones to some of their EWS students. “Most of these children and their parents did not know how to download apps and create email ids. Some of our faculty members, who had extra phones at home, have handed them over to students in need. Almost all our students have devices now,” said Jasmeet Chandok, head of the social work department at the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-access-to-devices-many-delhi-ews-students-in-a-fix-over-online-tests/story-BWu990MkAZQjWyo3Gq7bqJ.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Two branches of Apeejay School sealed for hiking fees illegally||The Delhi government on Monday sealed the two branches of Apeejay School in Saket and Sheikh Sarai for charging hiked fees from students in violation of the directions issued by its education department.The Directorate of Education (DoE), on April 18, had issued an order directing all private schools in Delhi not to revise their fee structure without seeking prior approval. The schools were also asked to charge only tuition fee from the students amid the lockdown. The DoE had warned the schools of action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, enforced in the city amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In an order issued on Monday, deputy director education (south) Arvind Kumar said, “It’s been reported that the management of Apeejay School (Saket) and Apeejay School (Sheikh Sarai) are not complying with the directions issued by the education department and they are directions by the way of unauthorised fee hike [sic].”Hindustan Times had, last month, reported that the DoE had issued an order against Apeejay Schools, Saket and Sheikh Sarai, for illegally increasing the fee without taking cognisance of the prevailing situation. The parents’ association in the school had alleged that they hiked the fee by 15-20% in April this year.On Monday, the DoE in its order said that it’s received a recommendation from the ADM (south) office for sealing the buildings of these two schools and lodging an FIR against the management of both the schools. The recommendations were later approved by the office of Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. Following this, the buildings were sealed by the DoE officials on Monday evening. However, no FIR was lodged by the time this report was filed. Saurabh Bhardwaj, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Greater Kailash, also tweeted about the sealing of the two branches of the school. “Two APEEJAY School branches at Sheikh Sarai & Saket were sealed today by Govt of Delhi. Much appreciated action of Sealing by DM, South and Dept of Education...APEEJAY school had been violating all kinds of norms of Healthy Education system. Inspite of audits showing crores of surplus money in accounts, it was illegally arm twisting parents for increased fee [sic],” he tweeted.Denying all charges against them, the principals of both the branches have issued a statement saying, “ We have all requisite approvals from the DoE to charge the fee for the academic year 2019-20. We have certainly not forced or harassed our parents to pay the fee. In fact, we held out a helping hand to those in need, with scholarships. Almost 100% of parents of Apeejay School, Panchsheel Park, have paid the academic year 2019-20 fee, voluntarily and a majority have also paid the present monthly tuition fee.”“Almost all the parents are with us and understand the situation. Only a handful of parents have been complaining, motivated by vested interests. Unfortunately, the current force majeure situation has again prompted them to agitate on the fee issue,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-branches-of-apeejay-school-sealed-for-hiking-fees-illegally/story-HDJcbC86ZxD1EZlTpUPzqM.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||HC tells Delhi govt to ensure Covid-19 test reports don’t take more than 48 hours||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the Delhi government to ensure that reports of test samples should be furnished within 24 to 48 hours and ordered it to regularly update its website to reflect the correct number of tests that are being conducted to detect Covid-19 cases in the city.A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked the Delhi government to mention the number of cases that are positive or negative, along with the number of pending test results.The court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who alleged the state government was not taking expeditious steps to furnish test reports within a reasonable time of 48 hours or even earlier. As a result of the alleged delay, he said contact tracing was getting delayed and the infection was multiplying rapidly.The Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Satyakam informed the court that the state government had passed an order on April 29, stopping sending samples to NIB, Noida, due to the delay of over 15 days forwarding test reports. He said the lab has samples coming in from across the country.He said samples were now being distributed among other government and private labs to ensure reports were received within 24-48 hours from the date of submission.He told the court that as of date, there are 23 accredited labs for Covid-19 testing in Delhi. Of these, 10 are under the public sector and 13 are private. The collective capacity of these labs is 3,000-3,500 tests per day, he said. Satyakam said that as on April 29, as many as 7,794 reports were pending, out of which 5,944 reports were with NIB, Noida. “Till the night of May 3, 3,790 reports are stated to be pending with accredited labs and the reports shall be received by today or maximum, by tomorrow. As on May 2, 9,226 reports were pending, but said figure has considerably reduced to 3,790 as on May 3, which itself reflects the government is cognisant of the delay in receiving reports and has dealt with the said situation without losing time,” he said on Monday.Following this, the court said it was satisfied with the remedial measures undertaken by the Delhi government to expedite receipt of reports and directed it to continue uploading the information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-tells-delhi-govt-to-ensure-test-reports-don-t-take-more-than-48-hours/story-Ra8fcxQLSZn56Xh9YCrfrI.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||20% increase in traffic on Monday, congestion limited to police pickets||Traffic on Delhi’s roads on Monday increased by around 20% over previous days but did not lead to any major congestion, traffic police said. Monday marked the start of the phased two-week-long exit from the lockdown, with many offices and businesses opening with up to a third of their staff, and movement of people and vehicles being allowed between 7 am and 7 pm. Traffic hold-ups were limited to peak hours around pickets where barricades were set up by the police to check documents and identity cards, officials said.By Monday evening, the traffic police helpline received just one call regarding a traffic jam in North Delhi. “A traffic hold-up was caused in the afternoon around 2:30 pm because police personnel were checking documents and passes of commuters near barricades placed on Lawrence Road. The traffic police in the area were informed and they ensured the congestion was eased,” a traffic police officer said. The traffic police also received one complaint about a minor snarl near Uttam Nagar on Najafgarh Road on micro-blogging siteTwitter.Taj Hassan, special commissioner, Delhi Traffic Police, said ”all congestions were limited to peak traffic hours in the morning and they eased out by the afternoon.” Hassan said no deployment of traffic personnel was required on the roads. “An increase of around 20% in vehicle volume was recorded on the roads, and this increase didn’t really make much difference. Since all areas in Delhi are in the ‘red zone’, we didn’t expect any traffic challenges on Monday.” said Hassan. Thus far during the lockdown, according to a second police officer who asked not to be identified, the traffic has been 10-15% of what it usually is. Starting Monday, domestic help, people providing laundry services, and electricians and plumbers were also allowed to work. Hassan said the traffic doesn’t warrant turning on all traffic lights; many are currently in blinker mode. “We are reviewing the situation, and will turn them into active mode if more vehicles ply on the roads.” A deputy commissioner of police, who did not wish to be identified, said that from Tuesday, checking norms will be eased at some junctions to avoid bottlenecks. “At some checkpoints, we were diverting all traffic to one carriageway to save manpower. We were opening just one lane for vehicles to pass through these points. From Tuesday, we’ll change this arrangement and open other lanes in the morning and evening to prevent congestion .” The traffic police will not issue fines to violators physically. “Our speed detection cameras will continue issuing fines to speeding motorists. The average speed of vehicles is expected to decrease once the number of vehicles on the roads goes up,” Hassan said.In the first 35 days of the lockdown, from March 23 to April 26, more than 5.07 lakh motorists were caught speeding by the speed detection cameras across the city. It was not yet known as to how many people were challaned on Monday as the police don’t share daily updates. No reports of any accidents also emerged. till late in the night||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-increase-in-traffic-on-monday-congestion-limited-to-police-pickets/story-Xbt8yxaH9cFQBWjxkViRCL.html
05-05-2020||City||8.5 lakh migrants register, 1st Shramik Express leaves from Jalandhar to Jharkhand today||The first Shramik Express train carrying around 1,200 migrant workers from the state will leave from Jalandhar railway station to Daltonganj in Jharkhand, non-stop, on Tuesday evening. The train number 04602 comprises 24 coaches, with original capacity of 72 each. Nodal officer for the state helpline Sumeet Jarangal said a message on SMS will be circulated to passengers who had registered and only those people who get the message will be brought to the railway station. The message would be sent on a first-come-first-served basis for registration.He added that the number of labourers who had registered to go back to their states had increased by around 2 lakh on Monday to reach 8.5 lakh. Ludhiana, Amritsar, Bathinda and Jalandhar City are four stations from where these trains will continue to run for the next 10-15 days. A source in the railways said Ludhiana was also on track to send a train to Jharkhand on Tuesday itself, but the plan was dropped after the Jharkhand government expressed reservations about receiving two trains in a day. According to the state government, around 7 lakh labourers want to go back to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, followed by over 11,000 to Jharkhand, around 10,000 to West Bengal and other states, including Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said it was the responsibility of the state government to conduct screening tests and issue certificates to passengers before they were allowed to board the train. The state government would pay for the tickets and arrange food packets and water bottle for passengers, according to a railway guideline. In Jalandhar, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said, “Any unauthorised person coming to the railway station will be dealt with strictly for violation of the curfew,” the commissioner said, adding that CRPF would also be deployed to maintain order. Media banned from entering station premises The DRM issued a notice on Monday, prohibiting the entry of media persons to station premises for the coverage of stranded passengers being transported to different states via Shramik trains. His order says, “All nodal officers should arrange required photography and video recording of handling and running of Shramik Special Trains. It will be shared through a regular press brief.”—With inputs from Gagandeep Jassowal in Jalandhar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-5-lakh-migrants-register-1st-shramik-express-leaves-from-jalandhar-to-jharkhand-today/story-kukzttCBfI1B7GcMhsijIO.html
05-05-2020||City||Ashu, Bittu inspect isolation centre at Residential School for Meritorious Students||Amid allegations of mismanagement at isolation centres, Punjab consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Monday took stock of arrangements at the isolation centre set up at Residential School for Meritorious Students near Rose Garden.Ashu inspected the kitchen where food for the people staying at the isolation centre is prepared and expressed his satisfaction over the hygiene maintained over there.Ashu said, “The food being served to the people staying at the centre tastes like home-cooked food. One serving has four chapatis, daal, sabzi and salad. Tea is also being served along with rusk and biscuits three times a day. The best facilities are being provided and a new setup for washing bed sheets and pillow covers is also being established at the centre.”“I have deputed MC councillor Sunny Bhalla to help the district administration if anything is required at the centre,” Ashu said.The leaders also interacted with the staff from the health department and district administration that have been deputed at the centre.BITTU HANDS OVER PPE KITSBittu handed over personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to the staff. He lauded the health department officials for their fight against Covid-19 and said Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab government is committed to the welfare of residents. “There are always sufficient funds to provide the best healthcare to residents. Medical equipment worth ₹1 crore has already been provided to the health department out of my Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme fund. I will also provide more funds if the health department wants to purchase additional equipment,” Bittu said.Ashu said he has in total, donated 250 PPE kits at the isolation centre. “Hundred PPE kits were handed over by MC councillor Mamta Ashu on Saturday and 150 kits were handed over by me on Monday. The health department staff will be provided with the best infrastructure to fight Covid-19,” Ashu said.Besides, Punjab Congress leader Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) vice-chairman Karan Warring also accompanied Ashu and Bittu.Videos, where the residents have alleged that no proper facilities are being provided to them at isolation centres, have earlier gone viral on social media portals.On May 2, MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains had accused the district administration of mismanagement at the centres and delay in the screening of pilgrims who had returned from Nanded. The MLA had alleged that no proper facilities are being provided at the isolation centres and the pilgrims are struggling to even get potable water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ashu-bittu-inspect-isolation-centre-at-residential-school-for-meritorious-students/story-cofjmTBIGvwQxlBAVdIAAN.html
05-05-2020||Mumbai||In first suspected case of Covid-19 among wild animals in Maharashtra, cub’s swabs sent for testing||The Maharashtra forest department has sent the swab samples of a three-month-old female tiger cub from Chandrapur, an orange zone, to the Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) to conduct tests for the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. This is the first suspected case of coronavirus in a wild animal in the state. “The test result is expected on Tuesday. We will only be able to establish if there are any traces of the virus in the cub’s body based on genetic analysis as a preliminary result. The forest department can further send samples to other institutes for definitive results, as such a Covid-19 test for animals have not been done by us before,” said Dr AP Somkuwar, associate dean, NVC, which is also testing around 50 human samples everyday.The test was done as a precautionary measure based on the suggestions by experts, said SV Ramarao, chief conservator of forest, Chandrapur. The officials had rescued the cub without wearing any protective gear and she was also unwell initially.“The cub is healthy and not showing any symptoms such as coughing, nasal discharge, respiratory distress, diarrhoea or fever etc. The swab was collected by veterinary professionals wearing personal protective equipment (PPE),” said Ramarao.“We will be closely monitoring the tiger cub’s case from Maharashtra,” Anup Nayak, member secretary, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), said.After being abandoned by her mother on April 24, the cub was rescued from the paddy fields in Sushi Dabgaon village in Mul taluka, around 60km from Chandrapur city and 35km from the main Chandrapur-Mul road, by wildlife activists and the forest department after villagers reached out to them. The cub is currently being kept at the transit treatment centre in Chandrapur. “Villagers crowded the area making the rescue very difficult. We found the animal in the dry grass. The cub was in shock and was not keeping well the first few days,” said AL Sonkusare, divisional forest officer (territorial), Chandrapur. “However, she is much better now. None of the rescue staff or field officers has displayed any Covid-19 symptoms.”After the first confirmed case of coronavirus in a tiger at a New York zoo was reported on April 5, the NTCA had issued an advisory to all chief wildlife wardens and field directors of tiger reserves on April 6.“We expressly advised the use of PPE and all other safety measures during any rescue or rehabilitation operations involving tigers. States were also asked to send the swab samples of tigers only to three animal institutes approved by the Centre for Covid-19 testing. These include the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal; the National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE) in Hisar, Haryana, and the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh),” said Nayak.Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) said, “Based on the response from NVC, we will be sending samples again to one of the approved testing institutes identified by the Centre to ensure results are accurate.”A number of non-governmental bodies had raised concerns over the rescue operation and said it was carried out without proper PPE gear. Wildlife activist Umeshsingh Zire, who carried out the rescue operation with the forest department, said, “Neither us nor forest officials have any personal protective equipment for such rescues.”Nayak added that this was the second case of a tiger being tested for Covid-19 in India. In April, the samples of a dead 10-year-old male tiger from Pench Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh had been sent for testing.“The tiger had tested negative. So far, no tigers in the wild or forest staff has tested positive anywhere in India,” he said.Meanwhile, once the test results are received for the cub, the department plans on reuniting her with her mother. “The tigress is less than 2km away from the spot where the cub was rescued, and it is pertinent that at this young age that the cub gets the mother’s milk and protection,” said Sonkusare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-first-suspected-case-of-covid-19-among-wild-animals-in-state-cub-s-swabs-sent-for-testing/story-VDNNFpj35YAe9ouB27gpIM.html
05-05-2020||City||5 cops, 2 inmates quarantined as teen held in suicide case tests positive in Ludhiana||An 18-year-old youth, who was arrested for abetting the suicide of his classmate, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Confirming the development, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Sachin Gupta, who is nodal officer for Covid-19, said as many as five policemen, two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and three constables who came in contact with Mukul, have been quarantined. Two inmates who were lodged with him have also been isolated.The 18-year-old, who is a resident of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar of Mundian, was arrested on April 30, weeks after his classmate had committed suicide over reportedly being blocked by him. The teen had been presented before the court on Friday and sent to 14-day judicial remand on Friday. TEEN IS ASYMPTOMATICAccording to ACP (industrial area) Vaibhav Sehgal, the accused, is asymptomatic and his tests were conducted as per protocol. After receiving the report, five cops were shifted to a medical facility on Chandigarh Road and their condition was being monitored.According to civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, prima facie there has been no information about the travel history of the youth. Besides, the court and jail staff was abiding by the guidelines so it was highly unlikely that anyone would have been infected.Dr RS Gill, medical officer of Brostal Jail located on Tajpur Road, said that Mukul was asymptomatic was kept with two other inmates. He said that the inmates Mukul was rushed to the hospital while the other inmates were kept in isolation and their test would be conducted soon. COPS AT RISKIt is the third incident wherein cops have found themselves at risk for contracting the virus while performing their duty. In the first incident, reported on April 5, as many as 17 cops from Focal Point Police station were sent under quarantined after they came in contact with a thief. A judicial officer and two residents were also sent in isolation in this connection. Later, staff of ACP (North) Anil Kohli, who died due to virus was also sent in isolation. A few other cops who were working in close coordination with him had also tested positive along with his wife. While one of the cops has recovered, the others at still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-cops-2-inmates-quarantined-as-teen-held-in-suicide-case-tests-positive-in-ludhiana/story-ouPhve78NE2ncmevpI68oJ.html
05-05-2020||Pune||Don’t play chess online, use physical chessboards: PDCA tells players||The Pune district chess association (PDCA) has cancelled all chess tournaments in the city until June 30 due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, which has forced players to engage in online tournaments.However, PDCA chairman Joseph D’souza believes it is not a healthy practice.D’souza feels there are chances of fraud moves in many tournaments that are conducted online, which may spoil a player’s game.“My advice to players is to take theoretical lessons of chess and solve puzzles in this time. One should avoid playing online chess till late night. The big problem is, players are getting addicted and playing one tournament after the other is not helping the cause,” he added.The PDCA has avoided conducting online chess tournaments during the lockdown period.“Online tournaments can never replace offline tournaments and one must remember participation in online tournaments should be limited. Many people are opting to play bullet and blitz format chess tournaments which will not help them to improve their game and one should only play classical format chess tournaments,” D’souza said.According to D’souza, 4 chess ranking tournaments in May and June have been cancelled in the city that were crucial for the age group of under-12, 14 and 16.The indoor advantageThe advantage chess has over other sports is, athletes are not missing ground practice since it is an indoor game.“Lockdown will not impact the form of any of our players as they are not missing on the practice as most players are taking coaching lessons through various video portals. I conduct daily 3 to 4 online batches, many overseas students also take part in online coaching. This is our biggest advantage over other sports.,” D’souza said.For beginners, online chess training is not beneficial and new players must learn the basics of chess training first, believes D’souza.Financial impactWith most chess academies across the city shut, the coaches and arbiters are having a tough time managing their finances.“The summer season is always important for any sport. Most of the coaches are dependent on summer camps to earn a good amount of money while arbiters depend on the tournament to make money but now everyone will be having a tough year to manage their expenses,” D’souza said.Use chessboards, not computersThe PDCA has advised all players to play chess on boards instead of playing online.“Players should only take coaching lessons online and play the game on a physical chessboard,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/don-t-play-chess-online-use-physical-chessboards-pdca-tells-players/story-PP1cjBZvgH07bGUPFA3XhP.html
05-05-2020||Pune||Pune mayor opposes easing of restrictions; fears infection spike||In a ray of hope for some city areas, the Pune Municipal Corporation eased the lockdown on Monday. However, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol opposed the relaxation, stating that this will cause a spike in city’s Covid-19 positive case tally.The mayor also spoke to Pune’s guardian minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar suggesting that the curbs continue and the time window to keep shops providing non-essential items open, be reconsidered. Pawar, according to Mohol, has assured he will “consider the request positively”.Mohol said, “Pune residents followed the first two lockdown phases sincerely, however, once the lockdown was eased people came out of their homes in large numbers as if there is no threat from the virus, thus violating the social distancing norms.”According to Mohol, the district administrations order has created more confusion among residents. Mohol said that he requested Pawar to keep the time window for shops from 10 am to 2 pm instead of 10 am to 7 pm.“The way people rushed to wine shops on Monday was completely wrong.Who will responsibility if the cases increase? Daily, there are at least 100 positive cases in the city.Mohol said if the shops are open for longer people will be out of their homes for long hours. “Let the number of positive cases in the city come down and then we can relax the restrictions. Pune has limited police force and it is tough to control situation on ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mayor-asks-pune-guardian-minister-ajit-pawar-to-reconsider-shop-timings/story-9mJIMjVbDRqbZNNRbOFJiN.html
05-05-2020||City||5 villages near Samrala sealed after Nanded returnees test +ve||The district administration has sealed five villages near Samrala and Machhiwara that have Covid positive Nanded returnees. The villages include Ghular, Ghugrali, Seh, Tandey and Tosan. As per Samrala station house officer Sukhwinder Singh Cheema, as many as four patients have tested positive from Ghulal village, whereas two cases have come to fore from Ghungrali village and one each from Seh, Tandey and Tosan. “The step has been taken as a preventive measure to curtail the further spread of the disease to other areas. But people here were wise enough and maintained their distance from the Nanded returnees,” the SHO said.A 55-year-old Nanded returnee, residing in one the villages, said that the government had made mistake by not testing them on the day of their arrival. “On April 26 when we arrived, they sent us home without taking our samples and the next day, they picked us up from our homes and lodged us in the hospital. This was a lapse on part of the government,” he said.He further added that their neighbours are now vilifying them and accusing them of spreading the virus even though it is not their fault.The 22-year-old son of another Nanded returnee from Ghular village near Samrala said that their presence of mind saved them. “On returning, my father locked himself in a room so as to distance himself from the family. The next day, the police and heath department officials picked him up from home and took him to hospital, where he tested positive for Covid-19.” he said, adding that had his father not taken extra precautions, the entire family would have been infected. As many as 13 persons from the villages, who were tested negative, have been lodged in a school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-villages-near-samrala-sealed-after-nanded-returnees-test-ve/story-Gtd6YVMQdNATCEaKcY82yO.html
05-05-2020||City||30-year-old assaulted, shot at over old rivalry in Ludhiana||A 30-year-old man was assaulted and shot at by eight people in Bharti Colony of Salem Tabri over an old rivalry, police said on Monday. The victim, identified as Sandeep Kumar of Kasabad village, who runs a tyre puncture shop in Bharti Colony, was hit in the knee and admitted to a hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. Salem Tabri police have booked eight persons, including Naveen Negi, Mandeep Sanhotra, Mandeep Monu, Ajay Pandit, Vishal Kumar, Shashi Kumar and their two unidentified accomplices, for the crime. As per the police, Ajay Pandit is a notorious criminal and has several cases, including attempt to murder, clashes, extortion and arms act registered against him, while Naveen Negi is a murder accused and Shashi Kumar is facing trial in a liquor smuggling case.Salem Tabri station house officer inspector (SHO) Kanwaljit Singh said the incident took place when Shashi Kumar of Bharti Colony was selling illicit liquor at his home amid the coronavirus lockdown. Sandeep had allegedly gone to get liquor at around 10.45am on Sunday. Naveen, Mandeep Monu and Mandeep Sanhotra were also present at the spot and having booze.The trio suddenly opened attack on Sandeep following which Shashi and two others joined them. After beating up Sandeep, the trio left Shashi’s house in their Tata Indica car and minutes later when Sandeep was going back to his house, the group along with their accomplices Ajay Pandit and Vishal Kumar intercepted him and opened fire in the air.“When Sandeep tried to escape, the accused fired a shot again and a bullet hit his knee,” the SHO said. When locals started gathering at the spot, all the accused fled. Later, Sandeep called up his friends who took him to hospital. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of an offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 188 (disobedience of orders duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms act has been registered against the accused and a manhunt has been launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-assaulted-shot-at-over-old-rivalry-in-ludhiana/story-K5iCCi3vXelZJayKEdeBrJ.html
05-05-2020||City||Maha govt erred in screening Nanded pilgrims: Punjab health minister||Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday said the Maharashtra government had erred in conducting proper screening and tests of the pilgrims who were stranded in Nanded, leading to the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in Punjab.He informed that he had also spoken to his counterpart in Maharashtra government, Rajesh Tope, and expressed his displeasure over the development.Sidhu was in the city to chair a meeting with senior district administration officials, including MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Amrik Singh Dhillon, Surinder Dawar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Sanjay Talwar, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, among others.During the meeting, Sidhu sought suggestions over the ongoing efforts being made to check the spread of coronavirus disease.Sidhu told the media that Maharashtra is a Covid-19 hotspot and yet it neglected the testing of Hazur Sahib pilgrims, most of which turned out positive after their return to Punjab.Taking a jibe at the Union government, the health minister claimed that the former was not providing any support to the Punjab government. He said that till date, the Centre had allocated only ₹71 crore to the state for fighting the disease, which was quite less.‘WOULD INCREASE TESTING CAPACITY TO 6,000 A DAYThe state health minister further said that they are working to increase the capacity of the existing government labs and assured that soon, the testing capacity in the state would be increased to 6,000 a day. He also said that testing at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) would start soon and the government is also tying up with private labs such as Dr Lal Path Labs, Tuli Labs Amritsar and other such companies. ‘CENTRE NO PROVIDING US SUPPORT’The state health minister also hit out at the Union government, stating that Punjab was not getting any support from the Centre.He said that till date, the Union government has allocated only Rs 71 crore to Punjab to fight the virus which is very less. “The Union government has even failed to allocate pending GST arrears of Rs 4400 crore to Punjab,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maha-govt-erred-in-screening-nanded-pilgrims-punjab-health-minister/story-n5YUyZrQTVA30Ung3bpqOM.html
05-05-2020||Pune||Travel requests flood collectorate, Pune police as expectant mothers seek family support||With the government bringing in certain relaxations on movement during lockdown 3.0 in non- containment zones and allowing stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students to travel with certain conditions, many pregnant women in Pune are also seeking permission to move to their hometowns or to their parents. The Twitter handle as well as phone lines of the collectorate and the police commisioner’s office have been flooded with requests from expectant mothers who are seeking permission to travel. While many of them want to travel within the city, others wished to travel to as far as Jharkhand or Amravati for their deliveries. Police commissioner K Venkatesham said, “We are flooded with requests for permissions from expectant mothers to travel and we are allowing them to travel within reasonable distance, but not all.”Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “We are scrutinising each and every individual request from pregnant women and only allowing those which are feasible to travel.” Sony Kumari, who is seven-months pregnant and stuck in Pune, had been writing to the police for the past four days to seek permission to travel to her home in Jharkhand. “I am still awaiting my permission,” she said.Anumeha Singh Mahajan will welcome her first child in June this year and was elated when she got her permissions even though she had to wait a long time for it. “My husband is stuck in Bangkok since March end, and I was alone at my husband’s residence in Rahatne. I am nine-months pregnant and I had to travel to my parents two weeks ago, so I took permission from the police for both check-ups as well as for travelling to my parents’ home. Finally, I got permission to shift to my parents’ residence in Hadapsar. I also had to change my hospital for the delivery.”Neha Patil, who is expecting her first child in June, is looking forward to visit her parents in Nashik for the delivery. “There is a lot of excitement in my house, with this being their first grandchild. I was registered for delivery in Nashik, but I was prepared to deliver my child in Pune too, if the permission did not come through. I live with my husband in Chinchwad. It is my first child and I wanted to stay with my parents as there are so many emotions that we go through. In Pune, no one is there to take care of me, and I had applied for intercity travel permission to Nashik. The police responded to my phone call and to my tweets. My husband and I will be travelling by our car. It took time to get permissions, but I was prepared to deliver in Pune, in case, I didn’t get the permission.”‘Online counselling, consultation available for expectant mothers’Dr Sanjay Gupte, past president of Fogsi (federation of obstetrics and gynaecologist societies of India) and ethics committee chairperson of the federation international of gynaecologists and obstetrics (Figo) said that it is quite natural for first-time expectant mothers to feel the need of their parents with them. “There is extreme anxiety among new parents to be, as it is a big task and they are taking a lot of care, but they need the assurance of their elders. I have got calls from at least 25 young couples, who feel that either of their parents should be with them during the delivery and want permissions from the police to allow so,” said Dr Gupte. He suggests getting parents to Pune instead of the expectant mothers travelling. “One of my patients, needed her mother and we requested the police. The police officials ensured her mother came from Latur to Pune in time for the delivery, which went off smoothly,” he added.Most of the young couples are from IT sector and are away from their relatives, hence many are worried about the pregnancy and delivery. “Thus, to ease their minds, we have offered extra days’ stay for the parents till the new mother is confident of handling the baby and feeding, because without the guidance of her mother or relative, young mothers will have to learn everything on their own,” said Dr Gupte. Gupte also offers them online consultation and counselling during their visits in the 30th week. At around 7 months pregnant, the young couple is taught about managing the baby and post delivery precautions. Gupte also employs a breastfeeding consultant, and physiotherapist on call. “We make sure that only pregnant women enter the hospital premises while husbands wait outside. Everyone is screened outside the gate, and sanitised,” added Gupte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/travel-requests-flood-collectorate-pune-police-as-expectant-mothers-seek-family-support-for-deliveries/story-9NwJVhwAIm2AvzLHJzRb7K.html
05-05-2020||Pune||Lockdown 3.0 begins with long queues outside liquor shops in Pune||PUNE: Large crowds gathered outside liquor shops across the city on Monday morning, a day after the Maharashtra government allowed the functioning of standalone liquor shops in coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-affected Mumbai and Pune on Sunday. While both the cities are under the red zone, the government notification said standalone liquor shops and those selling non-essential items would be allowed. Long queues outside liquor shops were seen in areas such as Deccan Gymkhana, Aundh, Bhandarkar road, Wanawdi, Salunke Vihar, NIBM road and Nigdi with residents thronging the shops to buy alcohol. Liquor shops have been shut since the lockdown began more than a month ago in the last week of March.Excise superintendent Santosh Zagade said the government had permitted shops to open. “Even on normal days and Sundays, the liquor shops are crowded. It was natural that there were long queues outside liquor shops as they had opened after a very long time ,” he said.Long queues were seen at two of the four wine shops in Aundh near Bremen chowk and Parihar chowk. The police were called in just after the shutters opened and within half an hour one shop closed it shutters while the other was managing the crowds. At one of the shops, the owner had put up a bamboo barrier for queuing up buyers, and had put four bouncers on duty to maintain social distancing. “I set up the barriers in the morning to maintain social distancing. Everyone has been patient and co-operative and there has been no fuss or pushing to get in front. People are buying enough to last for two to three days,” said Raju Bagiya, the shop owner at Aundh.At Deccan Gymkhana, a wine shop had to close shutters when the crowds became unmanageable. Mahendra Ghule, the shop owner said, “We had to shut down as the crowds did not observe social distancing.”Amol Ghule, who has a shop at Bavdhan decided to shut his shop 4 pm, when he saw the crowd growing big. “We got the orders at 2 pm to open our shop, but by the time we could reach the shop, there was already a big queue. We had to take a decision to shut down to avoid any problems,” he said.In Salunke Vihar, around 300 persons, including women, were seen outside a prominent liquor shop since early morning .However at around 10.30 am, they were dispersed by a group of stick-wielding volunteers who said that social distancing had been completely ignored by the throng of eager shoppers.Madhumita Khanna, who had queued since morning said police presence should have been ensured at the liquor shops to ensure that social distancing was maintained.Wine shops at Nigdi chowk opened in the afternoon at around 3 pm and there too, people were waiting in long queues. “It does not matter how long I have to wait as I am getting to buy drinks after a long time. The government has taken a good decision as people will at least sit at home now,” said Yogesh Bhagat, a resident of Nigdi. There was not much of rush at liquor shops in the Katraj area. Liquor shops and other shops were also closed on Aundh-Khadki road although medical shops were open. (with inputs from Prachi Bari and Jigar Hindocha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-3-0-begins-with-long-queues-outside-liquor-shops-in-pune/story-XffmnjI52XQyuaQkr5MEqO.html
05-05-2020||Delhi||Specific entry gates, dedicated check-in rows: Delhi airport gears up to restart operations||Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport will have select entry gates for passengers, depending on the airlines they are travelling with, to go into the terminal building, once lockdown restrictions are lifted and flight operations resume in the capital.The process will streamline the passenger flow into the terminal and make it easier for the authorities concerned to monitor and ensure social distancing in order to minimize the risk of the possible spread of Covid-19, the airport operator said on Sunday. Officials added that it is likely that the airport will restart its functioning only from terminal 3 (T3), while terminal 2 (T2) and 1D will continue to remain closed.Domestic flights have been suspended in India from March 25 onwards, the day when a nationwide lockdownwas put in place by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of Covid-19. Three days prior to this, on March 22, international flight operations to and from India were also suspended.However, with flight operations expected to resume soon, the airport operator — Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) — on Sunday released its plan on how social distancing norms will be applied to ensure safe travel for all passengers. As per the new plan, while passengers of Vistara and IndiGo will use entry gates 1 and 2 to enter the terminal, Air Asia and Air India passengers will enter from gate number 3 and 4. SpiceJet, GoAir and all other passengers travelling domestic will use gate number 5 to enter the terminal. For International passengers, gate numbers 6, 7 and 8 have been alloted, the plan said.Similarly, passengers will also have dedicated check-in rows depending upon their airlines. Passengers of Vistara will use check-in row A, IndiGo passengers will use B and C rows, Air Asia passengers will use D row and those flying with Air India will use E and F check-in rows. SpiceJet passengers will use row G and those travelling with GoAir or any other domestic airline will use check-in row H. For those travelling internationally, the check-in rows will be J, K, L and M, the plan said.“From the current ‘all gates all airlines’ system we will move to the system where gates will be allocated depending upon the airlines. This has been done to distribute passenger evenly in the forecourt area outside the terminal and avoid crowding. Check in rows have also been assigned airline wise to ensure aligned passenger movement with social distancing even as they enter the terminal,” said an official, who wished not to be named.Apart from this, the plan mentioned that the DIAL has put in place queue managers with social distance markings. To avoid crowding in the security hold area, just before the security checks, seating arrangements with social distancing norms have been put in place.Even arrangements for trolley and tray disinfection have been made. Self dispensing sanitizers have been installed for passenger to use after their security and immigration checks.According to the plan, the airport operator will also keep all food, beverage and retail shops open to avoid overcrowding at one place and will also encourage contact less digital payments. It also said that ultraviolet disinfection tunnels to scan all incoming baggage has been set up and that similar rules will be followed for departure baggage handling as well.Social distance marking have also been placed around baggage belts for waiting passengers and additional seating arrangements have also been made for passengers in waiting areas, the plan sai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/specific-entry-gates-dedicated-check-in-rows-delhi-airport-gears-up-to-restart-operations/story-mkX92EISLza6625REL3sJK.html
05-05-2020||City||No food, no ration: Labourers block road, pelt police with stones, vandalise vehicles||Despite lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak, around 250 migrant labourers, residing in Sherpur, Dhandari, Focal Point and nearby areas, gathered on the National Highway near Dhandari on Sunday evening and blocked the road for at least 20 minutes.The labourers also shouted slogans against the Punjab government and the police.Tension gripped the area after the labourers turned violent and started pelting police personnel and vehicles with stones and damaged at least 10 vehicles.The labourers alleged they were not getting ration or cooked food and other necessary items and wanted the government to arrange transportation to send them back to their native places.A heavy police force reached the spot and tried to pacify the protesters, but the labourers allegedly did not listen to the appeal and continued to protest and create ruckus.Ultimately, the police said they used mild force to disperse the protesters. However, the police allegedly opened fire in the air to control the mob. After this, labourers fled and disappeared in streets.A PCR motorcyclist suffered minor injuries and some police and private vehicles were also vandalised in the melee.Assistant commissioner of police (south) Jashandeep Singh said labourers gathered on the Ludhiana-Delhi highway and complained of not getting ration or cooked food. They said they also wanted to go back to their native places, he said.The ACP added after the police personnel were pelted with stones and some vehicles were damaged by the protesters, the police used mild force to disperse them. The ACP denied allegations of opening fire in the air.He added the police have also apprehended some of the protesters and an FIR would be registered against them.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “According to preliminary investigation, some people had instigated labourers for the protest and to create violence. The police are trying to identify these elements.”He added the police have been conducting a flag march in the area and senior police officers and the SDM were holding meetings with the labourers to resolve their issues and to make them aware the seriousness of the situation due to coronavirus. The police have also increased distribution of ration in the area, he addedThe police chief said, “Police are also doing videography of the area using drone cameras. Anybody found trying to disrupt peace in the city will be dealt with an iron hand. The police have also told the labourers that the trains will start soon after the approval of the central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-food-no-ration-labourers-block-road-pelt-police-with-stones-vandalise-vehicles/story-i7c65WIp24UjZmIHGhEYiJ.html
