06-05-2020||Mumbai||Is BMC ready to handle a surge in Covid-19 cases?||With 10,714 cases, 412 deaths, 2,083 containment zones, and 41 days of lockdown, authorities have a mixed take on how bad the Covid-19 crisis can get for Mumbai. One thing they are certain about, however, a need to prepare the city’s health infrastructure to handle the worst-case scenario – 75,000 cases projected by May end.“The way to deal with this situation is to be prepared. We should not be taken by surprise at a later date and caught scrambling for resources. Mumbai is better off over-estimating the extent of the spread of Covid-19. To be prepared, we need hospital and quarantine beds to match our projected figures. We need more doctors and nurses to attend to patients being treated at hospitals, and personal protective equipment (PPE) for our frontline staff,” said a senior civic official.As the number of positive cases begins to rise, surveillance through fever clinics will help identify positive patients at a local level. “Fever clinics target the right group of people who are more susceptible to catching the virus; those who live in containment zones or hotspots. The clinics cater to random people from within this group who come forward because they show symptoms, or are unidentified contacts of positive patients,” said the official. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has so far conducted 255 fever clinics through which 11,591 people have been screen and 238 positive cases have been identified.As the number of cases rises rapidly, BMC is tasked with identifying more beds for symptomatic patients, those with co-morbidities, and serious cases. They also need to find isolation units for asymptomatic patients who do not need constant medical care.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had earlier told Hindustan Times, “We have decided to move asymptomatic patients to Covid care centres so that the hospital beds they utilise can be made available for patients who need urgent and constant medical attention.”As approximately 60% of the total cases are asymptomatic, the city needs to ramp up the number of beds at Covid care centres as well at hospitals0. At present, there are 7,500 hospital beds ready and another 5,000 have been identified at private hospitals. They are being equipped with oxygen points. In addition, 750 intensive care unit (ICU) beds are available.BMC is also preparing Mumbai’s large open spaces, playgrounds, and sports complexes to convert them to temporary quarantine centres (CCCs). Mahalaxmi Racecourse is set to house 200 isolation beds in its parking lot; Mahim Nature Park will have 600 beds; Richardson and Cruddas factory near JJ Hospital will have 200 beds, and Bandra-Kurla Complex’s exhibition grounds will house 500 beds. Bhabha Atomic Research Centre’s (BARC) DAE Convention Centre at Chembur and Nehru Science Centre, Andheri Sports Complex, along with 350 municipal schools will also be used for CCCs. The National Sports Club of India (NCSI) dome at Worli and BKC grounds are set to get oxygen points for the beds there.BMC has identified 25,000 isolation beds at hotels, hostels, marriage halls, and sports complexes. Also, another 35,000 bed-spaces have been identified in 350 municipal schools, and 20,000 beds can be available in ‘jumbo facilities’ such as gymkhanas.Risk contacts of Covid-positive patients, who were earlier being moved to CCCs are now being asked to quarantine themselves at home, unless they live in small houses shared by more family members, or have community toilets.The civic body is looking to hire over 1,000 doctors, nurses, and supporting medical staff on a contractual basis for three months. It also plans to hire post-graduate students from private medical colleges to monitor patients at CCC centres, which do not need specialised doctors.However, experts believe the preparations may not be adequate considering the speed at which the pandemic is spreading. Further, the city’s residents need to understand their role in countering the outbreak.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant said, “We are talking about 10,000 cases, but there are going to be many more. The key is for people to not be afraid of the coronavirus, or community quarantine centres, and come forward to report their symptoms. Lockdown is the key to containing the virus, but we will have to bank on herd immunity to be able to deal with this situation. There needs to be more awareness among people about personal hygiene, community hygiene, and social distancing. Even today, people are violating lockdown rules. I may test negative today, but I may become positive a week later. How many times will the government conduct Covid tests on me in such a scenario?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-bmc-ready-to-handle-a-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-dQeYscYJxzoUc1GYyx5zUK.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||6 arrested, 30 booked for holding meeting in containment zone in Chandigarh||Police booked at least 30 persons on Wednesday evening for allegedly gathering inside a neighbourhood park to hold a meeting in Chandigarh’s Sector 30, a Covid-19 hotspot and a containment zone. Police said that before the meeting was held, an announcement was made from the loudspeaker of a gurdwara nearby, asking people to move their vehicles parked inside the park, to create space for the gathering. “After a tip off, a police team wearing PPE kits entered the zone and arrested six persons—Sushil Kumar, Partap Singh, Surinder Singh, Hakam Singh, Harsh and Surjit Singh— from the spot. When we entered the meeting was underway,” according to a police statement. Other at the meeting fled the spot. The arrested persons told police they had held a meeting because they were feeling trapped by barricades installed at the boundaries as well as within their sector. They said they wanted to go back to work and earn their livelihood. On a complaint given by Sat Pal, the executive magistrate of the containment zone, the accused were booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Industrial Area police station.The six persons arrested were later released on bail, while attempts are being made to ascertain the identities of the remaining accused, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-arrested-30-booked-for-holding-meeting-in-containment-zone-in-chandigarh/story-hkjKMhXGyeFTjhy03bZ1tI.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Credit points for doctors working with Covid patients||To attract more doctors to participate in the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) has decided to award credit points to those engaged in the frontline work, to help them renew their medical licence.Every five years, doctors need to renew their licences to practice. As per the norms, they need to earn 30 credit points by attending conferences and seminars. Those who fail to score the 30 points are not eligible to renew their licence and cannot practice medicine.“Registered medical practitioners are at the forefront of the war against the coronavirus and not only are they facing the daunting task of handling patients, they are also fighting to keep their own worries and emotional stress at bay. They are selfless, hardworking and diligent individuals who save lives on a daily basis,” reads the MMC circular issued on April 29.To encourage doctors to actively participate in the struggle against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, the MMC will grant two credit points per day up to a maximum of 10, to doctors. They have divided the doctors into three categories — those serving in government hospitals or institutions; doctors working in private hospitals for treatment of Covid patients, and medical practitioners participating in fever, community, mobile clinics primarily for the diagnosis of patients.“By serving the nation during the time of the pandemic, doctors can gain the points which will help them to renew their medical licences. This is a form of a reward for the Covid frontliners. We have already extended the certificate renewal time for doctors by three months,” said Dr Shivkumar Utture, president of MMC.The medical council said it has taken this decision to encourage doctors to come forward for the treatment of Covid patients. Doctors with specialisation in forensic science, psychiatry, community medicine, orthopaedics among others, may not be directly involved in the treatment of Covid patients but can help in screening patients and providing basic care to asymptomatic patients at Covid care centres. Doctors can claim their Covid certificate from deans, district collectors, corporation health officers, or civil surgeons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/credit-points-for-doctors-working-with-covid-patients/story-P3Nc6fWpf7SfEulWsvt6vI.html
06-05-2020||City||12,743 apply for inter-state movement passes in Panchkula||With the Panchkula administration making it mandatory to register for inter-state movement (arrival and departure), around 2,443 persons have applied on the government website to come to the district from other states, while over 10,300 have sought permission to move out from here.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said as per the figures, four persons of Andhra Pradesh, 14 of Assam, 3,517 of Bihar, 24 of Chhattisgarh, two of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 112 people of Delhi, 135 of Rajasthan, 60 of Punjab, three of Goa, 16 of Gujarat, 230 of Madhya Pradesh, 16 of Maharashtra, 71 of Himachal Pradesh, 169 of Uttarakhand, 106 of Jammu and Kashmir, 264 of Jharkhand and 5,297 of Uttar Pradesh are among those who have sought permission to move out of Panchkula. Similarly, 893 persons from Uttar Pradesh and 968 from Bihar have applied to come to Panchkula. “The registration can be done on the Jan Sahayak Helpme application. If anyone does not have access to the application or website, and is presently in Haryana, they can call on the helpline number 1950 or on Hartron’s call centre number 1100. This will not be applicable for those who are residing outside Haryana,” said the DC.Ahuja said the applications were being scrutinised by a committee and permission will be granted as per emergency or medical reasons, or Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-743-apply-for-inter-state-movement-passes-in-panchkula/story-VgyTj6AN83gRBOYYfuHwiM.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: A poet’s heart gets a pacemaker||The Walled City of Old Delhi was home to great poet Ghalib. More than a century after his death, the historic quarter continues to nurture a few men (and, in one instance at least, a woman) so passionate about poetry that they might as well believe that poems are enough to cure any ailment.One such sophisticate is poet Ameer Dehlvi—tall, handsome and very frail. He is 90, and one is naturally inclined to worry for him in the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Indeed, it has proved to be particularly fatal to the elderly. One thing to fear in particular: getting some other illness that might necessitate to leave the sanctuary of home for a visit to the hospital, and risking one’s safety over the expedition.This is exactly what happened to Mr Dehlvi.“Late last month Ameer abba suffered a complete heart block, a disturbance in the rhythm of the heart,” explained his nephew Suhail Qureshi, an oncologist, in a phone text. He explains that the poet had to be transported to the Holy Family hospital for emergency surgery. A permanent pacemaker was inserted into his chest. “That hospital is 13 kilometres from home but the roads were empty because of the lockdown, and we were able to reach in 20 minutes.”The surgery lasted for one hour. All went well during Mr Dehlvi’s three-day stay in the hospital, except that his loud chatty voice would often startle the fellow patients. Nevertheless, the poet is so charming and affectionate that to nobody’s surprise he won many hearts — no pun intended here. He would cheer up everybody in the ICU and ended up becoming friends with other patients as well as with members of the nursing staff.Now Mr Dehlvi is back to the isolation of his Chawri Bazar house. An old-fashioned dwelling with a courtyard in the middle, it harbours four generations of Mr Dehlvi’s family, numbering to more than 30 people. He is the second eldest among six brothers. His wife lies buried in distant Kashmir.In the BC (Before Corona) era, Mr Dehlvi would spend his days in the family-run hotel near Jama Masjid, where he could be seen intently gazing upon the crowd from the hotel balcony. He would also listen to songs on his old radio, or read poetry, if not write a ghazal or two himself.The prolonged lockdown might have made him yearn for the street life, but the heightened frailty after a major health scare makes him more inclined to rest at home. He still reads Urdu newspapers, and often talks to friends on phone. Many a times, nephew Suhail says, “Ameer abba” can be heard reciting verses from the Qur’an while in bed (a Hafiz, he can read the entire book from memory). “This being the month of Ramzan, Ameer abba prays for everyone’s well-being and often thanks God for giving him a fresh lease of life,” says Suhail.One thing Mr Dehlvi is particularly disconcerted about is that he hasn’t been able to get his beard trimmed. A nephew did try to shape it with a trimmer but the poet is used to the able hands of local barber Shakeel. And there is no knowing of when the barbers will be allowed to work again.One evening, the gracious poet agrees to a brief interview on WhatsApp video with this reporter. He is sitting in his bedroom, dressed in white. Soon after resuming the major updates of his new life with a pacemaker, Mr Dehlvi breaks into the impromptu recitation of a shayari he wrote recently. His face is suddenly animated with intense feelings, and glows with hints of good health. Watching and hearing him gives a sense of beauty and relief and privilege.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-poet-s-heart-gets-a-pacemaker/story-ZAj4nvAiiYL3SKLCXQw20O.html
06-05-2020||City||Civic bodies in MMR stay entry ban order after drawing flak||With Mumbai having more than two-third of the state’s Covid-19 cases and more than 2,000 containment zones, other districts and municipal corporations are cautious of allowing entry to those coming from Mumbai. Two municipal corporations and two municipal councils in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Tuesday passed orders sealing the boundaries of their cities and towns for those working in Mumbai. After harsh reactions from employees working in the essential and emergency services, the orders have been stayed for the time being. “We discussed this issue after the state cabinet meeting today, and it has been decided to stay the order. We are trying to make alternative arrangements for the staff staying in other municipal corporations,” said Aslam Shaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city.The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) stayed the order on Wednesday, citing lengthy process to prepare a list of those who work in Mumbai.“Making a list of people travelling regularly for work and making provision for accommodation will take time, so we have decided to stay the order,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council have also stayed the decision to stop entry for those travelling to Mumbai for essential services. According to officials from the health department, 70% of the 42 cases in Badlapur have contracted the virus at their workplace in Mumbai. “The cases in Solapur, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have been found to be linked to those who have travelled to Mumbai or Pune. The district authorities do not approve applications for inter-state travel from Mumbai,” said an official from Mantralaya. Many villages have barred entry to those coming from Mumbai. “In one of the villages in our district, a girl and her family, who had come from Mumbai, were not allowed to attend the funeral of her relative,” said an official from the collector’s office. Although the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has not issued any order to bar entry, it has made a list of 1,100 residents who travel to Mumbai for work every day and submitted it to BMC this week, requesting it to make arrangements for their accommodation in Mumbai.TMC said it is looking at options to curb the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/civic-bodies-in-mmr-stay-entry-ban-order-after-drawing-flak/story-1qjnST80Ih4xNoOXhD7rGL.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Evacuation ops for stranded Indians delayed by a day||The government’s plan to operate special Air India (AI) and Air India Express (AIE) flights to evacuate thousands of Indians stranded overseas has been delayed by a day owing to due procedures. The flights were to commence operations from Thursday, but they will now start from Friday. The aviation ministry had on Tuesday announced that AI would be operating 64 special flights between May 7 and May 13 to fly back Indians stranded in 12 countries. However, the process has been delayed by a day after certain countries made it mandatory for the operating crew to have health certificates showing that they have not contracted Covid-19. “Air India has adhered to the guidelines issued on Tuesday which makes it mandatory for the cockpit/cabin crew to undergo Covid-19 test as required by the destination countries,” said a senior Air India official. “We wouldn’t like to make any comment on this as all details regarding this are being disseminated by appropriate authorities in the Ministries concerned,” said the airline spokesperson.According to the revised schedule, sources said, Air India’s first flight AI 380, a dreamliner B787, will take off for Singapore at 11.15pm from Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGI) on Thursday. The same flight will depart from Singapore at 6am (IST) on Friday and will land in Delhi at around 11.35am. The first flight from Mumbai will take off from the city as AI 131 for London at 6.30am on Friday and will return to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) the next day at around 1.30am. Another aircraft, an Airbus A320Neo, will take off as AI 921 on Friday for Riyadh at 9am from CSMIA and will land back in Kozhikode with stranded Indians as flight AI 922 at 8.30pm. This A320Neo from Kozhikode will then depart for Mumbai as AI 1574 on the same day and is expected to return to CSMIA at 11pm. The airline will also send its B777LR aircraft to San Francisco as AI 173 at 3.30am From IGI on Friday. This aircraft will be returning as AI 174 on Saturday and land at Mumbai’s CSMIA at around 6am. Flights taking off on Saturday also include; A320 aircraft as AI 1372 from Chennai to Kuala Lumpur at 8.30am and return from Kuala Lumpur as AI 1373 to Trichy at around 5.30pm. Same aircraft will be operating as AI 1556 from Trichy at 6.30pm to land Chennai at around 7.30pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/evacuation-ops-for-stranded-indians-delayed-by-a-day/story-AYkIZklmOgGnA4I0LOPXFJ.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||769 Covid-19 cases: Mumbai sees highest single-day jump||The city crossed the 10,000 mark for Covid-19 cases, with 769 cases – highest single-day count – bringing its total to 10,714. The toll crossed the 400 mark, with 25 deaths pushing the number to 412, according to the state health department data.On April 25, Mumbai had 5,049 positive cases with 191 deaths, which increased to 7,812 cases and 295 deaths on May 1 to crossing the 10,000 mark on Wednesday. The areas that have the highest number of cases include Worli, Prabhadevi, Dharavi, Byculla, Mazagaon, Malabar Hill, Dadar and Mahim. Of them, Worli and Prabhadevi that fall under the G-South Ward of Mumbai are inching towards 1,000 cases, followed by Dharavi (G-North ward), which has more than 650 cases. At least 12,000 citizens have been screened at more than 250 fever clinics, of which 250 have tested positive.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that it expects around 75,000 cases by the end of the month. By this projection, the daily average number of cases in the city would be 2,000. However, the current daily average for the past 10 days is 450 cases. While the BMC said the cases are not going up drastically, the curve is not showing any downward movement either.The civic body also said the daily testing capacity in the city will increase to 10,000 in the coming two weeks, from the current 6,000 tests. In Mumbai, 1 lakh tests have been conducted so far, with the daily figure at 4,000.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “The doubling rate of Mumbai (rate at which the positive cases double) is still the same at 10 days. We had projected 75,000 cases by the end of this month, but it does not necessarily mean that we will have that many cases. We have readied beds for 60,000 patients. One cannot say whether the current number is the peak or whether the decline has started. The cases are definitely rising, but the rise is steady. The curve is not showing any downward trend, which means we have to be ready to handle the number of cases that we have projected.”As a precaution, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Tuesday ordered closure of non-essential and liquor shops. In a circular, Pardeshi pointed out: “It has been observed that number of positive cases in the city of Mumbai has been rising and the downward trend is yet to set in and gathering of crowds in large numbers without following social distancing will be detrimental to the control of spread of virus and the advantages of the lock-down will be lost...”According to BMC officials, they have been conducting tests to 50 per cent of their capacity (4,000 of the capacity of 6,000) daily. “The capacity always has to be more than the total requirement. We have around 12 labs in the city now, and the number will increase to 15 labs, to increase the testing capacity to 10,000… In a way, cases and tests are related, but not directly. Earlier, we had to conduct many tests, but now with change in our strategy and the guidelines, we have to conduct optimal number of tests.”According to the data of Medical Education and Drugs Department of Maharashtra, Mumbai has a recovery rate of 16% – 1,686 of the total 9,945 cases have recovered, as of Tuesday.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, a public health consultant, said, “Increasing testing capacity is needed, but we need to have community quarantining for suspected citizens. Mere increasing tests will not help us detect more cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/769-covid-19-cases-mumbai-sees-highest-single-day-jump/story-IQIJbkUNXTiE2sMpPRXhBK.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Analysis by TIFR shows dip in infection rate since April 11||An analysis by Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) shows Covid-19’s rate of infection has decreased from April 11 onwards. TIFR’s findings indicate one Covid-positive individual in Mumbai is likely to have infected two people.Based on a susceptible-exposed-infected-recovery (SEIR) statistical model, TIFR’s analysis found that from April 11 till date, the R0 (R nought) measure for Covid-19 was at 2.2. R0, also known as the reproduction number, is a measure of how many people may be infected by one patient. On April 29, HT had reported that between March 31 and April 14, Covid-19’s reproduction number in Mumbai was around R3.4. Professor Sourendu Gupta of TIFR said the numbers suggest the lockdown has been effective in Mumbai, which recorded its highest single-day spike on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases in Mumbai is now 10,714. TIFR’s analysis shows that the doubling time of fatality and infection rates has decreased in the range of seven to nine days. Between March 31 and April 14, the doubling time for infection and fatality rates were estimated to be from 5.3 to 5.7 days.“For a city like Mumbai with a huge population, 10,000 is not a large number if one just thinks of it as an infection. But one has to think about the circumstances around it in terms of how many have died or need medical help,” said Gupta. “Unless, the infection rates are brought down further, the healthcare infrastructure will be overwhelmed,” he added.Dr Abhay Chowdhary, former director of Haffkine Institute of Research and Training, Parel, who was not involved in TIFR’s analysis, said, “Testing has definitely increased, but the doubling rate of infection shows that the curve is still slowly moving upwards.”Stating that contract tracing should continue in Mumbai and testing should be made more broadly available, Gautam Menon, professor of biology and physics at Ashoka University, who was not involved with the study, said the lockdown has served to stem the rapid increase in the numbers of infections in Mumbai. “However, as long as the numbers of new cases continue to increase, the epidemic will restart unless steps to cut the chain of transmission continue after the lockdown,” said Menon, also adjunct faculty at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. “To control the epidemic citizens should voluntarily accept the need for physical distancing, wearing masks, and workplaces adopting staggered working hours wherever possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/analysis-by-tifr-shows-dip-in-infection-rate-since-april-11/story-3vZPfCZsEsFDbBOZfEeQVI.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||50K migrant labourers on ‘waiting list’, many caught trying to leave city||The Mumbai Police, which expects 1.5 lakh applications for travel pass from migrant labourers, till Wednesday processed documents of around 50,000 migrants who are now on a “waiting list” to return to their hometowns. More than 10,000 labourers have been sent back till now. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and spokesperson for the Mumbai Police, confirmed the development and said, “Migrants will have to be a bit more patient as the government is trying their best to send them back home as soon as possible. It’s a lengthy process.” Despite the assurances, labourers are getting desperate and are trying to leave Mumbai without following the government’s laid down procedure. Between Monday and Wednesday, Sakinaka police registered five cases wherein 222 labourers from Uttar Pradesh were caught hiding inside trucks and tempos to go to their hometowns. “The drivers and owners of these vehicles have been booked while labourers were sent to shelters,” said Kishor Sawant, senior inspector of Sakinaka police station. Nishith Mishra, additional commissioner of police, south region, said, “The police are awaiting response from nodal officers of the respective states. The possible delay could be because the receiving states are giving priority to those states which have more labourers from their state. We will wait for our turn to send the labourers.” Additional commissioner of police, central region, Veeresh Prabhu said, “We have got approval from Bihar, but are awaiting approval from other states. We have a total of 40,000 migrant labourers in our region.” 47 labourers head home to take up farmingA total of 47 migrants from Gujarat and Rajasthan, who were working in garment units in Dharavi, were sent back to their hometowns in two sanitised buses from Dharavi on Wednesday. “Instead of being jobless and having no source of income in Mumbai, the migrants said they will take up farming in their villages,” said Vilas Gangawane, senior inspector, Shahunagar police station. Duo arrested for stealing liquor The Mumbai Police’s crime branch unit 10 on Wednesday arrested two men for breaking into a wine shop in Powai on April 19 and stealing liquor bottles and cash worth ₹8.60 lakh. The duo allegedly sold the stolen liquor at a steep price in the market. The incident came to light on May 4 when wine shops were allowed to reopen and an employee from the shop lodged a complaint. The accused are Afsar Shaikh, 21, and Shakeel Chaudhary, 19. In a related development, an employee from the same shop was booked for not maintaining social distancing norms at the shop with nearly hundred people gathering outside it. The crowd was dispersed and the shop was shut soon after. 47 FIRs on Tuesday for lockdown violationThe Mumbai Police lodged 47 FIRs on Tuesday for lockdown violations. Of the cases, 32 were for gathering in one place, nine for not wearing masks, five for unnecessary use of vehicle and one against a shop for operating illegally. Out of the 47 FIRs, 22 were in west region followed by 19 in central region, the worst-affected areas in the city. Man held for selling tobacco productsThe city crime branch on Wednesday arrested a 37-year-old businessman and seized 31 gunny bags of gutkha and tobacco products worth ₹12.37 lakh from his godown in south Mumbai. The arrested accused, Shakeel Nabi Alam Khan, 37, was illegally selling the tobacco products. Following a tip-off, a police team along with officials from the Food and Drugs Administration conducted a raid the go-down, said police inspector Ninad Sawant of the unit 4. The accused is being probed to find out where he bought the tobacco products from amid the lockdown.State Police nears 500-mark for Covid-19 cases, 233 from MumbaiTill Wednesday, the Maharashtra Police recorded 495 cases of Covid-19 among its ranks. This includes 233 cases from the Mumbai Police. Of the 495 cases, 445 are police constables while the rest are officers. About 35 of the personnel have recovered while 456 are undergoing treatment. 26 police personnel from JJ Marg police station, including 12 officers, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Around 60 others from the police station have been quarantined.100 Covid warriors attacked in state AS many as 27 health professionals, 72 policemen and one home guard have been assaulted by people while they were discharging their duties of screening and treating patients and implementing lockdown norms to prevent further spread of Covid-19. (Inputs from Suraj Ojha, Vijay Kumar Yadav, Faisal Tandel, Manish K Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50k-migrant-labourers-on-waiting-list-many-caught-trying-to-leave-city/story-goqBgqR4Ls0aKHsgmFGYmL.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Group of 10 college students in Dharavi provide ration to needy||With many areas in Dharavi sealed due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases every day, managing two square meals has become an arduous task for residents. To ensure nobody goes hungry, a group of 10 college students from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, a neighbourhood in the slum, are providing ration to the inhabitants.There were 665 Covid-positive cases in Dharavi till Tuesday. ‘Dharavi Boys’ has been helping families with food since last month. They initially pooled money from their own pockets to support some residents. Over the last few days, they were able to support over 100 people from the donations they received. “More than the disease, people here are worried about having to go to bed without food. Most of them are daily wage earners who haven’t gone to work for long and have no money to buy food. We thought of doing something for the people in our locality and hence decided to pool some resources,” said 24-year-old Vikas Jaiswar, who has recently passed his Bachelors in Engineering (BE) from a Navi Mumbai college. As the funds pooled in were not enough to feed families in the slums which house nearly 10 lakh people, the group decided to crowdsource money online. “We have created a Twitter handle and a donation link on ketto (a fundraising site) hoping to get some funds,” said Stanley Anto, a social worker who helped the students set up a social media page. With cases increasing daily, the boys are also facing several difficulties in their work. “A couple from our locality who was providing similar help got infected and is in a hospital. We are scared to go out but we take adequate precautions and use masks, sanitisers and gloves,” Jaiswar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/group-of-10-college-students-in-dharavi-provide-ration-to-needy/story-40Iy9wFKgkoIqt7IAIPEDP.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Undertrial in Arthur Road prison tests positive for Covid-19; first case in state jails||Maharashtra reported its first Covid-19 case in a prison on Wednesday as an undertrial lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail tested positive for the disease. This comes a day after the Bombay high court (HC) asked the state government if there was any Covid-19 infection in Arthur Road jail while hearing a plea filed by Hemant Bhatt, an accused in ₹13,500-crore fraud at the Punjab National Bank, who sought interim bail in view of the pandemic.The 47-year-old inmate tested positive for the virus after he suffered a paralytic attack on May 2, following fever since April 30, and was admitted to JJ Hospital. The undertrial was in the jail since April 2019 and was facing charges under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act. Deepak Pandey, inspector general of the prison, confirmed the development. According to JJ Hospital records, the patient was admitted at 1.55pm on May 2. A swab test was taken and his results came positive on May 5, said police sources.“A team of officials from JJ Hospital visited Arthur Road jail and took swabs of 150 people including inmates and jail staff. The reports are expected on Thursday,” said Pandey.The development was a surprise to the jail authorities as no new prisoners were admitted into the prison since the first week of April to avoid overcrowding in the prison. Arthur Road prison, which has a capacity to house 800 prisoners, currently has about 2,700 prisoners.The jail authorities have started the containment process, said a police officer. “The incident comes as a surprise to many as lockdown rules were being strictly followed by the staff who stay within the premises. The possibility of the disease entering the prison through BMC cleaning staff, sanitisation workers, or essential services workers cannot be ruled out,” added the officer.Meanwhile, two jail staff, who were staying at a guest house near Byculla jail, tested positive on Tuesday. The jail staff had taken an inmate to JJ Hospital. “The two jail staff have tested positive and have been quarantined. Once a staff member goes out of the jail premises, we do not let them in without a medical certificate. We are taking all safety measures,” said Pandey.(With input from Kanchan Chaudhari)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/undertrial-in-arthur-road-prison-tests-positive-for-covid-19-first-case-in-state-jails/story-mhvUT4OraqCSh1iLLP6oyH.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Migrants’ issue in cabinet meet: 10,000 ST buses to ply migrants||As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise, the Maharashtra government is preparing to send a large number of migrant workers from Mumbai back to their hometowns in states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the coming days. Special trains will be arranged to send them back to their respective states. The Uttar Pradesh government, which was not keen to take back its people earlier, has now agreed to the same, officials said.However, two states – Karnataka and West Bengal – have refused to take back migrants as of now.The issue was discussed in a state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday during which ministers expressed concerns over the large number of migrant workers staying in Mumbai. They claimed this was hampering the state’s efforts to curb the coronavirus outbreak.“When Mumbai is experiencing a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, migrant workers are making long queues in every part of the city to get health certificates necessary to go back to their hometowns. This has made our job to control the cases really difficult,” said a senior minister, on condition of anonymity.“We are in touch with all the states and they have agreed to take back their workers except Karnataka and West Bengal. Now, Uttar Pradesh has also agreed to take them back. They have also agreed to group certificates for the migrant workers which will speed up the entire process. Now, trains will be arranged from Mumbai and Pune to send these workers soon,” said a senior official.Over 50,000 migrant workers have been sent to their respective states from Maharashtra till Wednesday. Some, 25 trains have left for their destinations from various parts of the state so far.The Central government has decided to run 100 special trains to ferry migrant workers to their native places. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar announced plans to ply 10,000 state transport buses to various districts to transport labourers stranded across the state. He said that the buses will ply at 50% capacity to maintain social distancing. “The government will bear the charges of the fare for which the relief and rehabilitation department has earmarked ₹20 crore,” Wadettiwar said.(Inputs from Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-issue-in-cabinet-meet-10-000-st-buses-to-ply-migrants/story-jXujimPYUou0TLfjJOyrSP.html
06-05-2020||City||Shramik trains from Ludhiana: All hands on deck, six hours of overnight planning||After the first Shramik Special train left Ludhiana for Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, at 10.15pm on Tuesday, the government machinery had just six hours to ensure arrangements for the next train scheduled to leave for Bareilly at 8am the following day.From arranging transportation, food, medical screening and boarding, the various departments spent a sleepless night to ensure the migrants successfully boarded the train on Wednesday.Over 1,200 persons, including 900 police personnel, 150 railway employees and others from the district administration, municipal corporation, health department and roadways, were on job to put in concerted efforts.Catching just a few hours of shut-eye, police personnel from different stations were deployed at 28 pick-up points at 3am to help migrants board the buses while ensuring social distancing. Apart from this, police force, along with around 100 Anti-Riot Police personnel, were deployed near the railway station to maintain law and order.Employees of the MC, roadways and health department were tasked with conducting medical screening and transporting the passengers from pick-up points to ISBT to railway station starting 5am. They also checked the identity cards of the passengers and provided them tickets.Railways’ employees , including 82 ticket checking staff and over 100 railway police personnel, manned the entry gates of the station and train coaches, while also checking the passengers’ tickets and medical certificates before helping them board the trains.“We never think how long we have to work or how many hours we will get to rest. We work as per the orders from our seniors,” a railway employee said, wishing anonymity.Meanwhile, the administration arranged over 2,000 packets of food, each including rice, three chapattis, dal and vegetables, which were distributed among the migrants on the trains.Assistant commissioner of police Gurdev Singh said the police and the administration had been on their toes since March 22. “From managing movement of migrants to maintaining the law and order in the city and serving langar among the needy to providing essential supplies at the doorsteps, the police force has been giving it their all,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-trains-from-ludhiana-all-hands-on-deck-six-hours-of-overnight-planning/story-lswngPaRmVDv6LmtKPtepM.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||City slums prove to be biggest challenge in tackling Covid-19 battle||As Mumbai crosses the 10,000 coronavirus cases mark on Wednesday, it is clear that stemming the spread of the pandemic in the city’s slums and congested areas is turning to be one of biggest challenges for the state and city administration.Local representatives and ground-level NGO workers point out that the plight of the slum dwellers is worsening due to lapses in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) handling to contain the virus. They have called for a more differentiated approach in every ward or slum cluster facing the outbreak, pointing out that the conditions of the people living in these areas are vastly different from not just middle-class colonies but also each other.An analysis of the total deaths in the city by the BMC so far also shows that 60% of deaths have been reported from slums.Besides, Dharavi, the largest slum in the country, slum clusters in Govandi, Bandra East, Kurla West, Malad, Borivli and major slum clusters in Mulund are a cause of worry for the city administration.Arun Kumar, CEO of Apnalaya, a non-government organisation that works in M east ward including areas of Govandi, Cheetah Camp, Deonar said, “There is an urgent need to recognise that different pockets or wards of the city are differently equipped to handle the challenges thrown up by the pandemic. Any ward with over 55% of its population working as casual workers living in barely 15x10 sq ft houses would face challenges concerning ‘social’ distancing and lockdown.’’Giving an example he added, “In Shivaji Nagar, a slum cluster of over 4.37 lakh population, about 35% of households don’t have ration cards. What sense would relief measures like free ration distribution make to people who can’t access it? This is an area where over 11% of people struggle with food security during normal times. How would they be navigating these days when they can’t go out to work and earn?” The M east ward, for instance, is among the largest wards in the city and nearly 77% of its population lives in slums. But the area is serviced by only two hospitals that are already overburdened by Covid-19 cases. Currently, this ward has recorded 460 cases and 51 deaths so far.Dharavi, the 240-hectare slum sprawl, which has around 8.50 lakh citizens and a population density of 66,0000 per sq km, has reported 665 cases and 20 deaths so far. Experts believe this may just be the tip of the ice-berg given that social distancing is impossible here.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G north ward (Dharavi-Dadar), said, “One of the major challenges in Dharavi is the density of the population. There are 19, 000 stranded workers who are being provided food by the BMC and they have to step out to collect food parcels. Another major problem is common toilets in the majority of the slum pockets. The common toilets are sanitised once or twice a day but the toilets are used by the people regularly. The only solution we are looking at here is isolating a maximum number of people and increasing our isolation capacities.”Akhtar Qureshi, local corporator from Govandi, said, “There are not enough measures being taken by the BMC for containing the virus in slums of Govandi. Daily, I have been coming across cases of patients running from pillar to post for treatment or to even get a bed in a hospital. The slums of Govandi area are going through a major health crisis. These issues will not be solved just by sanitising the area or implementing stricter lockdown measures.”Considering that home quarantine is barely a viable option for people living in slums, the BMC has hired rooms from local lodge owners and turned sports complexes and schools into Covid-19 care facilities to increase their capacity. A civic official confirmed that M east ward has more than 1200 quarantine beds where nearly 400 people have been shifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-slums-prove-to-be-biggest-challenge-in-tackling-covid-19-battle/story-dhsK5oOts1wBuoGe4UsvJL.html
06-05-2020||City||22 including five who misbehaved with nurses sent to temporary jail||The Ghaziabad police Wednesday produced 17 foreign nationals and five others before the Ghaziabad court, which remanded them in judicial custody. The police said all 22 persons, including five accused of molesting nurses of MMG Hospital, are now lodged at a temporary jail at Adyatmik Inter College in Dasna.The temporary jails had come up on the directions of the state government and were meant for people who are foreign nationals, linked to Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat , and for those suspected to be involved in attacking police or health care workers, officials of the UP prisons department has said.“The Ghaziabad police has lodged 24 cases under the Epidemic Act and arrested 94 persons and seven cases were lodged under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and 54 were arrested. Of them, 17 were in quarantine and seven were from Nepal while 10 others were from Indonesia. They have been booked under relevant sections,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP).“Another set of five persons are those who were in quarantine and were caught misbehaving with women health workers. All 22 persons were produced before a court and are now being transferred to the temporary jail,” the SSP said.“We have deployed personnel from the provincial armed constabulary as well as the civil police. The temporary jail premises has been fully cordoned off,” Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural), said.According to police, the seven Nepal nationals were booked from Tila Morh and Muradnagar police station areas while the 10 Indonesian nationals were booked from Sahibabad police station. The police said they had attended religious congregations and were living in hiding in Ghaziabad.The five other persons, who are residents of Ghaziabad, were booked for molestation and other charges at the Kotwali police station.The UP cabinet Wednesday also brought in the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Disease Control Ordinance, 2020, which spells stricter punishment for persons involved in intentionally spreading the disease, hiding infected or suspected persons and attacking those in the front-line of the Covid-19 fight.“The provisions in the Ordinance are cognisable and non-bailable. If there is violation of treatment by anyone like in quarantine centre etc, there is provision of punishment rangign from imprisonment of one year to three years. If anyone attacks health care workers, staff members, police and others involved in Covid-19 duties, there is provision of imprisonment of up to five years. In case of a grievous attack, the punishment is up to seven years,” Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (health), Uttar Pradesh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-including-five-who-misbehaved-with-nurses-sent-to-temporary-jail/story-t84C74PXbuiX1aQFbMaRBI.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Experts hint at community transmission, BMC denies claim||With the city witnessing a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases every day, the question that is repeatedly being asked is: Has the community transmission begun in Mumbai? While experts say there is a possibility of the community transmission, civic officials have outrightly denied the same. Majority of the city’s Covid-19 cases have come from certain areas - Worli-Prabhadevi, Dharavi, Govandi, Kurla and Byculla. While the count in Worli-Prabhadevi could be reaching 1,000, Dharavi has crossed 700 cases. Dr Shashikant Ahankari, a community health specialist, said that there is a thin line between local and community spread of coronavirus. “The community spread of the virus has already started, but don’t know why the authorities are denying it. In the last 15 days, several people have tested positive for the virus without any travel or any contact history. “ BMC has estimated 75,000 coronavirus cases, which indicates the community spread,” said Ahankari. “If there is no community spread in Mumbai then authorities should tell why Covid-19 cases [with no travel or contact history] are increasing daily, specifically in Dharavi?”, he said.A document detailing a three-pronged surveillance strategy, to screen people for possible Covid-19 symptoms, drafted by the BMC on May 4, 2020, also states that the community spread is limited since only 238 out of 11,591 who were tested in fever clinics were found positive.However, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said, “There is no community spread of disease in our city. Our rate of detection of cases through fever clinics is very less, which is a good sign for the city.”Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department BMC said surveillance regarding the community spread is being conducted by the experts from the ICMR. “To declare community spread of disease is not under our jurisdiction. As of now, we have not any such information about the community spread of disease in the city.”There are four main stages of the disease outbreak. Stage one is usually when cases are imported and are not of local origin. Stage two is when there is a local transmission, which means a section of people testing positive has come in contact with a positive patient having a travel history. Stage three is community transmission and stage four is an epidemic when there are several clusters of the infection.Anticipating the future outbreak of the coronavirus, BMC is ramping up healthcare infrastructure.Elaborating strategy further, the document states that the BMC has divided Covid-19 patients under the symptomatic and asymptomatic category. All symptomatic patients will be sent to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The civic body has arranged 7,500 beds. 5,000 more beds are identified from different private hospitals. As of now more the than 25,000 isolation beds already in place at hotels, lodges, marriage halls and sports complexes. In a view to upgrade bed capacity, the civic body has identified more than 350 municipal schools to create additional capacity of 35,000 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/experts-hint-at-community-transmission-bmc-denies-claim/story-lJcD0n4eZLzyV6vXkVvXHI.html
06-05-2020||Noida||Noida: Edu dept seeks report on online classes from colleges, only then dispense salaries||Taking serious notes of negative feedback received from students about online classes, the regional higher education office (RHEO) has asked colleges to furnish details of online classes held so far. The RHEO has also warned colleges that staff salaries will be withheld, if they don’t conduct online classes more frequently. In a recent feedback taken from students, around 40% students complained of technical problems hampering online classes, while 10% said online classes are being held only to fulfil the quorum.The higher education officer (Meerut region) RK Gupta said till Wednesday, the department has received 2,693 online feedbacks from the students of 68 government and aided colleges, operating in Meerut division. “While Ghaziabad students have given the maximum feedback (63%), their Meerut counterparts have given lowest feedback (1.08%). Among other districts of the region, Baghpat responded 17.52%, Bulandshahr 6.74% and Saharanpur 4.66%. The feedback from Hapur and Gautam Budh Nagar districts have been recorded at 2.75% and 1.5%, respectively,” he said.Gupta further said as per the feedback, while 50% students have raised technical problems due to which they have not been able take online classes properly, another 10% have complained of no or poor internet connectivity in their residential areas. “The remaining 40% have either poor audio problems or they are not comfortable with existing format of online classes. We have asked the colleges to rectify all these problems. The principals of different colleges have been asked to provide the complete details of online classes and the teachers taking them. The regional education department will release salaries for only those colleges that provide us the complete report,” he said.He further said that around 12% of the students, who had sent their feedback, feel that since the video lessons of every subject is available on different online sites; the online classes are of no use for them.However, some students feel that online classes are a better way for completing their remaining syllabus as regular classes have been hampered due to the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Gajinder Singh, one of the students, said he has been attending the classes regularly. “Assignments and these classes are keeping us busy. Question and answer sessions are also very effective,” he said.When contacted, Rajinder Singh, who teaches in Mihir Bhoj PG College at Dadri said all teachers of his college are regularly holding online classes.Echoing similar views, Meenakshi Lohani, a teacher in Kumari Mayawati Government Girls’ PG college at Badalpur, said, “In all 10 postgraduate subjects, we are holding online classes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-edu-dept-seeks-report-on-online-classes-from-colleges-only-then-dispense-salaries/story-BAXRojYl48y19mxmXPqEyK.html
06-05-2020||City||Non-essential shops in Thane to remain shut||The Thane civic commissioner has revoked the order to relax some of the lockdown norms outside containment zones. It had allowed five non-essential shops to remain open on one road. This led to crowding in most areas, violating social distancing norms. On Wednesday, Thane Municipal Corporation issued directives to keep only essential shops open.Non-essential shops have been shut since March 20. The shops were allowed to open on May 4 after the norms were relaxed by civic commissioner.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “We observed that none of the social distancing norms were followed as there were crowds in most shops. There was also law and order situation in some areas. The infection will increase if people do not follow social distancing norms, so the commissioner has revoked the relaxation. Only essential shops will remain open in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/non-essential-shops-in-thane-to-remain-shut/story-IoOOpBErMkgYGdP49TMYPI.html
06-05-2020||City||Lockdown 3.0: RRTS and Delhi-Meerut Expressway given nod to start construction work, 40 RRTS trains to be manufactured under ‘Make in India’ by Bombardier||The Ghaziabad district administration has given permission of starting construction work for the major infrastructure projects Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) and Delhi-Meerut Expressway. The permissions follows guidelines from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) that allowed for construction activities that followed social distancing norms and had labourers on site (called in-situ construction activities) from May 4 when phase-3 of the lockdown began.Secretary of the Ghaziabad development authority, S K Rai, confirmed that the permissions for the two projects was given.Officials related to the projects said that they have started with limited construction activity and will scale up work in coming few weeks.“At present, we have started work at our casting yard at Vasundhara. We have also prepared our standard operating protocols (SOPs) for work,” said Sudhir Sharma, chief public relations officer of the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) that is in charge of the RRTS.People with NCRTC said that about 1,000 workers are on-site at present.The NCRTC has already started work for a 17-km priority stretch of the project that connects Delhi, Ghaziabad and Meerut over a stretch of 82km.Bombardier to build trainsIn another major development, the NCRTC officials said that they have also finalised bids for procurement of rolling stock of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor under the Make in India initiative of the central government.The rolling stock will be 30 trains of six coaches each for the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor and another set of 10 trains having three coaches each for metro-like train services in Meerut. Officials said that the supply cost will be about ₹1560 crore (excluding taxes) and the first train will be supplied in 2022. “The train sets will be manufactured by Bombardier Transportation India Private Limited at their Savli plant in Gujarat. The winning bid offered to manufacture 100% of the rolling stock using 83% local content,” Sharma added.Under the conditions of the bid, at least 75% was to be mandatorily manufactured in India and purchase preference would also be given to manufacturers using more than 50% local content (local technology etc).NCRTC officials said that the rolling stock will be the first of its kind in the country with a design speed of 180kmph. The trains will be designed with high-acceleration and high-deceleration component that trains need to undergo given the maximum operational speed of 160kmph and stations at every 5-10kms.The trains will also have automatic plug-in type doors reducing air-friction and noise.“Keeping the commuter convenience in mind, the 3.2-meter wide RRTS trains will have 2x2 transverse seating arrangements like ones in Shatabdi Express trains and also have comfortable standing space. There will be enough space for luggage, CCTV cameras, and other modern amenities,” said an officer from NCRTC.Delhi-Meerut ExpresswayNational Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials said that they have started work on the Delhi Meerut Expressway project at Vijay Nagar under phase 2 (UP-Gate to Dasna) and phase 4 stretch from Dasna to Meerut.“Although we have started construction, 75% of our workers had left for their home towns amid the coronavirus crisis. We are trying to rope in local workers to increase workforce availability to 40%. At present, we estimate that only 15-20% work efficiency with limited workers and timing restrictions from 7am to 7pm,” said RP Singh, project director of NHAI.According to officials, the entire project was to get complete by this month but likely to be delayed by about six months due to the lockdown and the upcoming monsoon season.“We require about 100 clear working days to finish the pending project work. But this can be achieved when we work with optimum workers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-3-0-rrts-and-delhi-meerut-expressway-given-nod-to-start-construction-work-40-rrts-trains-to-be-manufactured-under-make-in-india-by-bombardier/story-7H68mRHVJZzCpAaQdNUSEO.html
06-05-2020||City||11 persons arrested for stone pelting, manhandling cops in Jarcha||Eleven persons from two groups were arrested Wednesday for allegedly pelting stones at each other and manhandling police personnel in Kalonda village in Jarcha on Tuesday night. The police team had visited the area after getting a call about a clash between two groups over their children playing cricket.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the Jarcha police received information about a clash between two groups of people. “The children of two families were playing cricket and they had gotten into a fight on the ground on Tuesday evening. Later, the family members of these children also got involved in the fight and started pelting bricks and stones at each other,” he said.A police team reached the spot to maintain law and order and advised people to return to their homes. However, the two groups refused to follow the orders and continued pelting stones in which a 20-year-old man, Muskan, sustained injuries to his head. He was rushed to a private hospital for medical treatment, police said.“The two groups also manhandled police personnel and refused to follow the orders despite repeated warnings,” said Anil Kumar, station house officer, Jarcha police station. Following this, police registered a case against 18 persons of the two groups under Section 147 (rioting), Section 504 (intentional insult), Section 336 (act to endanger human life), Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.“The police arrested 11 persons – Rajjan, Arif, Lukmaan, Ashraf, Nazim, Muqeem, Haqeeqat, Mustaqeem, Zafru, Sharafat and Fida – on Wednesday. These suspects were produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search to arrest the absconding persons,” the SHO said.The police have increased patrolling in the area to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-persons-arrested-for-stone-pelting-manhandling-cops-in-jarcha/story-DFp3DB5IpVAFU3tqku20vN.html
06-05-2020||City||20-year-old Covid-19 patient who recently gave birth molested by ward boys||A 20-year-old woman who is undergoing treatment for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida was allegedly molested by two ward boys who claimed to be doctors. The woman, who recently gave birth, was admitted to the hospital along with her newborn.The woman said on Wednesday afternoon, a man wearing a protection kit approached her and asked her for her urine and milk samples for testing. The man was accompanied by another one and both claimed to be doctors.The first man then took her to collect the samples. “I am lactating and have been breastfeeding my baby. They were wearing masks and so I couldn’t make out their faces and whether they were doctors or hospital staff. One of them gave me bottles for the milk and urine samples and then molested me,” the woman said.The Knowledge Park police station has filed an FIR into the incident based on a complaint given by Sharda hospital. The suspects have booked under Section 354 (assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have registered a case against two persons who worked as ward boys at Sharda hospital for molesting a Covid-19 patient. They are attached to an outsourcing company that was contracted by the hospital,” Rajesh Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, said.Health officials will also be conducting Covid-19 test on the two suspects as they had come in close contact with a Covid-19 positive patient.The woman said she immediately called her husband who is currently under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias hostel in Greater Noida. “My wife informed me that two men touched her inappropriately. I am in quarantine while both my wife and child are in the isolation ward. I am helpless as I cannot go to her. She is very worried and we are shocked that such an incident could happen with a Covid-19 patient, given the round-the-clock monitoring,” he husband of the woman said.When HT contacted Sharda hospital authorities, they said the ward boys were immediately sacked. “We have spoken to the woman. We have handed over the persons to the police from the Knowledge Park police station. We have given notice to the outsourcing company that had employed the ward boy. They have been removed with immediate effect. The nurses have spoken to the woman and comforted her,” the Sharda hospital spokesperson said.“We have sent our officers to collect the evidence and to take the statement of the husband as well. We can’t enter the isolation ward where the woman is kept and so we are trying to speak to her as well. Appropriate action will be taken against the persons responsible,” DCP Rajesh Kumar said.The district magistrate has also ordered an inquiry into the matter. “I have ordered an inquiry in the matter and have asked officials to find out the details. If anybody is found guilty of doing such a disgraceful act, then strict action will be taken against that person,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.The 20-year-old woman gave birth to a girl at a Noida hospital on April 25 and doctors had taken her sample, as per protocol, for Covid-19 testing. On May 3, the woman tested positive for the infection and she was admitted to the Sharda hospital. Her husband and brother-in-law were shifted to the quarantine centre.According to doctors, if a Covid-19 woman gives birth but avoids breastfeeding, then chances of the child getting the infection is almost nil. In this case, the woman was breastfeeding which increases the chances of the infant contracting the virus.There are six Covid-19 pregnant women undergoing treatment at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and all of them have given birth in the last one week. Three deliveries are normal while three were Caesarean sections. One baby was negative for Covid-19 infection, while another tested positive. The reports of the remaining four are awaited.Meanwhile, the mother of another Covid-19 positive four-day-old baby allegedly hid the details of four of her other children from the contact tracing team. Officials said the four children were with their relatives. The children and the relatives were put in quarantine on Wednesday. The husband of the woman is also positive for the infection.No new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Wednesday and the total number of such cases remained 192 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-covid-19-patient-who-recently-gave-birth-molested-by-ward-boys/story-RqyiezeVDmKtT3GDMSZFSN.html
06-05-2020||City||Industrial and commercial zones of trans-Hindon least noisy during the lockdown period||The commercial and industrial zones in trans-Hindon areas of Ghaziabad had it easy on their ears during the ongoing lockdown. Data compiled by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) found that there was significant decrease in noise -- anywhere between 2.3 decibels and 29 decibels (day time data) --- in the four zones of residential, commercial, silent and industrial during the month of April as compared to the month of February.The nationwide lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) came into effect on March 25 and has now been extended until May 17.The UPPCB carried out a noise pollution analysis of the pre-lockdown months of February and March (last week under lockdown) and also for the month of April. According to officials, the standard of noise (day time) for residential is 55 decibels, commercial is 65, silent is 50 and industrial zone in 75 decibels.For the month of March, there was a marginal decrease in average noise pollution levels which ranged between .38 decibels and a maximum of 6.8 decibels in the four zones as compared to February.The maximum reduction was in April, which was a complete lockdown period. The figures reveal that the reduction in noise pollution was the most in industrial areas followed by commercial ones.Residential areas, with a sampling taken from Vasundhara Sector 16, Indirapuram, Rajendra Nagar and Kaushambi, witnessed only marginal decline of an average of 5.6 decibels in day time figures in April when compared to February.Of the four sampling points, the major reduction of 6.7, 6.4, 5.7 and 3.6 decibels took place at Rajendra Nagar, Vasundhara, Indirapuram and Kaushambi, respectively.“The residential areas are already on the lower side in terms of noise pollution and so there has been a small reduction in noise pollution levels during the lockdown period as local vehicles also stopped plying. In places like Kaushambi, the noise pollution reduction is just 3.6 decibels because the locality is near the Anand Vihar ISBT and the Delhi border and there is some movement of vehicles on the Delhi Ring Road,” Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB, Ghaziabad, said.Overall, the average reduction in the month of April as compared to the month of February was 5.6, 11.25, 4.4 and 26.5 for residential, commercial, silent and industrial zones, respectively.While the noise level decrease was only marginal in residential areas, residents of Kaushambi, Vaishali and Vasundhara got a major relief as the noise pollution from nearby industrial areas was very low.In areas of Indirpauram, the major reduction in noise leve was due to stringent curbs on movement of traffic on NH-9 and CISF Road.The noise level reduction in industrial areas was the most with an average reduction of 26.5 decibels in the month of April as compared to February. The sampling was taken by UPPCB from four industrial areas of Sahibabad, Anand Industrial area, Rajendra Nagar Industrial Area and Loni Road Industrial area.The maximum reduction of 29 decibels was observed at Anand Industrial Area near Mohan Nagar in the month of April as compared to the month of February when the industrial units were fully operational. Likewise, the least reduction of 24.4 decibels was witnessed from Sahibabad Site 4 Industrial Area.“The major reduction in noise is in industrial areas as they were mostly closed during the lockdown period and only a few units engaged in essential items delivery were operational. The closure also led to a high reduction in movement of heavy vehicles through the narrow roads which are found in industrial areas. Further, since many units were closed, the dependency on diesel generator sets was also minimal. So, the industrial areas witnessed major reduction in noise pollution,” Sharma explained.Apart from the industrial segments, the commercial zones like the ones of Vaishali Metro station, Mohan Nagar crossing, Kaushambi bus stand and Sahibabad vegetable market also saw reduced noise -- between 4 decibels and 20.8 decibels in April -- as compared to February.The average reduction in all four sampling points of commercial zones was 11.25 decibels in April as compared to February.The maximum reduction of 20.8 decibels was at Mohan Nagar intersection while Vaishali Metro station saw a decline of 14.10 decibels in April. The Sahibabad vegetable market witnessed the least reduction --of only 4 decibels -- as the market continued its operations even during the lockdown period and catered to supply of essential items like fruits and vegetables.As per the guidelines of the home ministry and the directions by the UP government, all major commercial centres, markets, market complexes and malls, multiplexes and cinema halls have remained shut and will continue to be so till May 17.Environmentalists say the reduced noise and pollution levels will benefit birds as well as humans.“Nowadays, residents can hear chirping of birds throughout the day and even common birds like sparrows, kingfishers and peacocks can be seen on trees around houses. Even, residents feel better in a peaceful environment and this in turn results in better creativity and concentration. We must try to maintain such an environment at all times,” Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad based environmentalist and lawyer, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industrial-and-commercial-zones-of-trans-hindon-least-noisy-during-the-lockdown-period/story-lksLuhSOPIv0C8LrCEkg0K.html
06-05-2020||Gurugram||Khandsa Mandi closed, vegetable prices burn a hole in pocket||Vegetable prices has started to witness a spike after supply started drying up following the closure of Khandsa Mandi, the city’s biggest vegetable market, till May 8.Around 6,000 quintals (60,000 kilos) of vegetables from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and nearby Mewat used to arrive at Khandsa Mandi daily, from where thousands of local vendors procured their stocks to further sell to residents across the city.The market was shut on May 5 (Tuesday) for sanitisation after nine vegetable vendors there tested positive for Covid-19.Ashok Yadav, a vegetable vendor in sector 50, said that he usually has 32 varieties of vegetables to sell to his customers. On Wednesday, he had only four.“I source all my vegetables from Khandsa Mandi. Now that the market is hut, I have been left in a lurch. I only had stock of four vegetables and that’s all I was able to offer to my customers today (Wednesday). An acquaintance of mine distributes vegetables in Faridabad and I am trying to place an order with him so that I have something to sell for the next two days. Else, I will have to close my store temporarily,” said Yadav.Vishal Singh, a roadside vegetable vendor at Sadar Bazar, said that after a lot of attempts he was able to procure vegetables from a vegetable market on New Railway Road at reasonable rates.“After travelling across the city for two hours, I managed to find a vegetable market on New Railway Road where vegetables were being sold at at an affordable rate. I had visited three stores before that and each of them were selling vegetables at nearly double the rate than that at Khandsa Mandi. Due to the extra travelling and higher prices of vegetables, I had to increase my price by around 60% to recover the extra costs,” said Singh.Singh said that he sold brinjals and bottle gourd at Rs 80 per kilogram and Rs 65 respectively, against Rs 50 and Rs 45 last week.The shortage in vegetables has also affected its quality, with residents complaining that the stock being sold now was inferior.“My roadside vendor informed me about the closure of Khandsa Mandi. They either managed to procure really inferior quality of vegetables from somewhere else or were selling the leftover stock at a slightly higher price. I usually buy enough vegetables to last me five-six days but after sifting through the stock, I just bought enough to last me for two days this time. The quality of vegetables was very bad,” said Upasana Gujral, a resident of DLF Phase 4.Gujral said on Wednesday she purchased okra at Rs 65 per kilogram, as compared to Rs 40 per kilo two days ago.Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) officials admitted that there was an issue with regards to distribution of vegetables due to the closing of the market but said there has been no change in regards to the supply in vegetables to the warehouses.Vinay Yadav, secretary of HSAMB said that the Khandsa Mandi will reopen on early Saturday morning and the situation will normalise after that.“Overall there has been no impact on the supply of vegetables from other states and from within Haryana as they are directly stocked in warehouses. It is the distribution at local stores and road-side vendors which has been affected due to the closing of Khandsa Mandi. At the big retail shops and online-vegetable delivery platforms, which directly get their supply from the warehouses, there has been no change in supply or prices,” said Yadav.He said that HSAMB officials conducted random checks for inflation in vegetable prices but did not find any instances of violation so far.“Our first batch of officials did random checks at big retail stores and also checked online-delivery platforms and found no change in regards to prices. A report from another team, which is checking local vendors and stores, is awaited. Either way, the market will reopen on Saturday morning after which the supply of vegetables across the city will resume as usual,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khandsa-mandi-closed-vegetable-prices-burn-a-hole-in-pocket/story-LBn4DxlUgMxX34OTAIxDwK.html
06-05-2020||City||Rs 500 fine for violating Covid-19 norms in markets||Gurugram: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will impose a fine of Rs 500 on shopkeepers and customers in the markets who are found violating the safety guidelines issued to contain the Covid-19 spread, said officials on Wednesday.On May 3, a day before standalone shops, shops in residential areas and HSVP markets, parlours and salons were permitted to reopen their establishments, the MCG had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for shopkeepers and residents to follow. As per the SOP, all shopkeepers and visitors have to wear masks, residents have to maintain a distance of six feet while standing in queues, guards have to be positioned at entry points of air-conditioned shops with thermal scanners and hand sanitizers, while also limiting the total number of customers inside a shop to less than five, among others. On Wednesday, the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) issued an order to all municipal corporations in Haryana, including the MCG, that they can now impose a penalty of Rs 500 for any violation of the SOP under Section 381 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994. The order further stated that action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which invites a penalty of Rs 200, imprisonment of up to one month or both, can also be levied for a violation of the SOP.“Markets and shops are places which witness high footfall. Hence, the provisions under the SOP are essential to limit and contain the spread of coronavirus. Violations in this regard will be taken seriously and penalties will be levied immediately,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer (PRO), MCG.On May 3, the district administration’s order had said that shops can be opened between 7am and 7 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-500-fine-for-violating-covid-19-norms-in-markets/story-FYe7uvk0w517KtOb1r6YsI.html
06-05-2020||City||Long queues seen outside liquor shops in Gurugram||leena.dhankhar@htlive.comGurugramLong queues were seen outside liquor shops across the district, which reopened on Wednesday morning after a gap of about 50 days. Many people had arrived at the vends well ahead of their opening time of 7am. However, unlike the chaotic situation in other NCR cities that opened their liquor shops on Monday, the rush in Gurugram remained under control and social distancing norms were maintained at all places, the police said.The Haryana government on March 26 had decided to temporarily shut down all the liquor vends across the state as part of its preventive measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 outbreak. On Wednesday, serpentine queues outside liquor stores were seen in areas such as Golf Course Road, Sohna Road, MG Road, Sector 18, and Sector 40. In Sector 40, more than 400 people were seen waiting for the shop to open.Swati Kishore, who had lined up at Sector 40 liquor shop at 6am to buy liquor, said she did not expect such a huge police presence outside the liquor shops. “I had to wait for almost two hours before I bought my stock. But everything was so well managed and buyers were given ample time to pick their stock,” she said.Another buyer, Preeti Tehlan, said that she and her friends had reached the shop at Sector 18 around 6am and had packed their breakfast which they had standing in the queue. “The shopkeeper provided water and tea for the people who were waiting since early morning. I will remember this experience, as we had never imagined standing in a queue for more than two hours just to buy liquor,” she said.Learning from the experience of neighbouring cities of Delhi and Noida, more than 3,000 police personnel and home guards were deployed at the 218 liquor vends (including two wholesale shops) across the district. According to police officials, more than 40 personnel were deployed at the Sector 40 shop where the maximum number of people visited to buy liquor. The police also distributed 2,000 face masks to people who were seen using a piece of cloth to cover their faces.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that they had formed teams on Tuesday night which included excise officials also and they had demarcated lines and circles outside the shops to ensure social distancing. “Barricades were set up 100 metres before the liquor vends to control the crowd and strict directions were given to the shopkeepers to ensure people are wearing face masks and using sanitisers before entering the shops,” he said.Announcing a series of relaxations in the district during the third phase of the lockdown, the Gurugram administration has allowed the liquor shops to open in the non-containment zones from 7am to 7pm.Meanwhile, the government has imposed a variable Covid cess on all types of liquor to support areas and institutions, which have been adversely hit by the pandemic. A Covid cess of Rs 50 will be levied on a bottle greater than 375 ML of Imported Foreign Liquor (IFL), Rs 5 for strong beer, Rs 2 for other beer and Rs 5 per quarter in case of country liquor, and Rs 20 per quarter for Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). Many people alleged that they were overcharged and same brand was sold at different prices at different shops. Aruna Singh, deputy excise and taxation officer (East), said, “The Haryana government’s excise policy has fixed the minimum selling price (MSP) of liquor, but there is no cap on maximum price. As a result, liquor prices vary from outlet to outlet. “The concept of not standardising retail price gives a free hand to the vend to sell at their will,” Singh said.H C Dahiya, deputy excise and taxation officer (West), said they had deployed teams and ensured that one official of excise department was deployed at each liquor vend. “After the situation went out of control in Delhi, we had planned to mark circles for people to stand outside the shops. Also, we had given strict instructions to the shopkeepers that if anyone found entertaining violators, their licences will be cancelled,” Dahiya said.The excise officials had to take a call on capping the number of bottles per person, after some people were seen buying in bulk. In many areas, people were seen buying more than 100 bottles at a time, including beer cases, the officials said.Singh said as per the tentative sales figures, IMFL and beer bottles worth Rs 1 crore were sold, while Imported Foreign Liquor was sold for nearly Rs 10 lakh from New Gurugram areas like Sohna Road, Golf Course Road and Golf Course Extension Road.According to the police, some people even visited wholesale shops thinking that they would get some discounts, but they were asked to buy only 36 bottles per person.At most of the shops, the owners had put up steel and the bamboo barrier to maintain queues and had hired security personnel to ensure social distancing.Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said, “More than 25 police personnel were deployed at each liquor shop and 10 more outside the road to control traffic congestion and wrong parking. The situation was well controlled and no one was found violating the guidelines of lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/long-queues-seen-outside-liquor-shops-in-gurugram/story-ZiYEEZvaloMhmEBgCFpjYK.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||12.5 lakh litres liquor sold in Maharashtra on Wednesday||Approximately 12.5 lakh litres of alcoholic drinks worth around Rs 43.75 crore were sold on Wednesday across the state even as liquor sale was prohibited in major cities like Mumbai and Nagpur.The figure was low as the state sees a sale of approximately 24 lakh litres daily in normal times. On Tuesday, the figure stood at 16.10 lakh litres with the liquor worth Rs 62.55 crore being sold.According to excise officials, the fall is due to various reasons like non-availability in various cities like Mumbai and Nagpur along with restricted timings and also the problem in the supply chain. “Many people are not ready to line up and are waiting for the situation to ease. Also in rural areas, the wine shops do not have adequate stock,” said the official who refused to come on record.There was also despondency among both the liquor merchants as well as tipplers over the decision of Mumbai municipal commissioner Pravin Pardeshi over the decision to stop the sale of liquor from Wednesday. “People need to change their attitude towards drinking. After sitting at home for days, people will get some diversion,” said Nishid Gala, a resident of Parel.Meanwhile, the Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat (ABGP) wants the liquor shops to be shut down. “Liquor is not an essential commodity and is, in fact, harmful. If the Government really wants to earn revenue there are other means too,” said Sriram Pathak, managing committee member, ABGP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-5-lakh-litres-liquor-sold-in-maharashtra-on-wednesday/story-hQd6ZItsyNyt0S2XBkWupM.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Active cases breach 100 mark in Chandigarh||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh went beyond the 100 mark for the first time in Chandigarh, with nine people testing positive for the infection on Wednesday. It took the total tally of confirmed cases to 124, of whom 21 have recovered while one has died, bringing the active cases to 102.Among the fresh cases, eight are from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, including four women of one family, and one from Sector 56.The four women are aged 18, 24, 35 and 41. Also, two men and two women from two other families have got infected. With this, the number of cases in the congested colony has rose to 66, which accounts for 53% of the total cases and 64% of the active cases in Chandigarh.Infected man escapes to UP on bikeMeanwhile, a 34-year-old man from Sector 56, who was tested positive at the Mohali civil hospital on Tuesday evening, escaped from the city on his bike and travelled 800km to reach his village in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.A senior UT health official said that the patient was sent home and told to self isolate till the tests results were out. However, the man travelled to his native village, Purenewali, in Partapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), instead.An official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “It is surprising that the patient was permitted to go home and quarantine himself. The doctors at the Mohali civil hospital should not have allowed the patient to go home in the first place. They also failed to inform the health and quarantine authorities in Chandigarh.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “It is our protocol that whenever we collect a sample, we ask the patient to quarantine themselves at home. In case the report comes positive, the patients are shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.”Only serious cases in PGIMERThe increasing number of cases has prompted the authorities to admit patients with only serious complications to the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), while new asymptomatic and mild cases will be admitted to the Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Sector 46.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said the decision has been taken keeping in view requests made by the PGIMER that maximum number of persons admitted in the hospital do not require specialised medical treatment and just need to be isolated.“Guidelines from the central government state that mild and asymptomatic cases should be taken care of in Covid-19 care centres and thus this is the first step in that direction. The infrastructure available in the Sector 46 hospital is fine for 60 patients and they have their own force of healthcare workers, which will be supplemented by the resident doctor from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32,” he said.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said after this decision, the institute can utilise its energy on the management of serious patients and it has already utilised 50% of the capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/active-cases-breach-100-mark-in-chandigarh/story-dAO4gROLHQS0D0ZEUl26jJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Woman, minor injured in mob clash at Vasai over travel forms, 32 booked||A mob of over 30 villagers armed with iron rods pelted stones and bricks at the Nalasopara bungalow of a wholesale vegetable vendor over the filling of travel forms for migrants on late Tuesday night. Two persons— a woman and a six-year-old boy — sustained head injuries.The Vasai Gaon police has registered cases against 32 including 15 to 20 unidentified persons from Kalam village in Nalasopara (West). No arrest has been made said a police officer.Brijesh Chauhan, 30, a resident of Nirmal village in Nalasopara (West) has been helping vegetable vendors from Nalasopara to fill the online travel form to be eligible to get to their native towns in Uttar Pradesh. On Monday night, a group of men from Kalam village met Chauhan at his bungalow to help them fill the forms of some migrants wanting to travel to districts within the State.Chauhan asked them to come back on Tuesday as he had already filled around 450 forms on Monday. The men got angry, abused him and left. Chauhan filed a non-cognisable offence with the Vasaigaon police the same night.On Tuesday night, when Chauhan was yet to return home, he got a call from his wife Reema informing that a mob had gathered outside their house. They pelted stones and bricks at the bungalow and destroyed window panes and using iron rods also destroyed the furniture inside the bungalow, said Chauhan in his complaint.Chauhan stated that his family comprising of parents, two brothers, their wives and minor children, along with his wife and two children were present in the house. His wife Reema and six-year-old nephew Jatin sustained injuries on their heads as stones and bricks were hurled into the house and are undergoing treatment at a hospital.Meanwhile, the police have registered cases under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation), 141, 143, 149 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 427 (mischief causing damage), 188 (disobedience to order), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and also under Section of the Maharashtra Police Act, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-minor-injured-in-mob-clash-at-vasai-over-travel-forms-32-booked/story-P5Mx3gwzenBxVhdnnEpEcO.html
06-05-2020||City||Rising cases force KDMC to ensure containment zones are sealed||The 56 containment zones in Kalyan and Dombivli will be completely sealed and no resident will be allowed to be out. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation is going to ensure all residents follow rules.“As the number of cases is increasing, the civic body has tightened restrictions on the containment zones. Only medical stores and emergency services will be allowed to operate,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner of KDMC. Shops selling essentials will be allowed to operate between 7am and 2pm for home delivery. Over-the-counter sale is not allowed in these zones.On Wednesday, KDMC recorded nine new cases of Covid-19, taking the total tally to 233. So far, 74 patients have been discharged.Among the new cases are four police constables working in Mumbai, a nurse from a private hospital from Mumbai, a pharmacist from a private hospital in Mumbai and one worker from APMC market in Vashi.KDMC has also appealed residents to install Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-cases-force-kdmc-to-ensure-containment-zones-are-sealed/story-cSEza1iahEW48910tWqUgK.html
06-05-2020||City||Day One: 58% liquor vends in P’kula dist open for business||A day after Haryana government gave a nod to open liquor vends, only 36 of 62 liquor stores across Panchkula district, including Pinjore, Kalka, Barwala and Raipur Rani, opened for business. However, in Panchkula city, only five of 22 vends opened on Tuesday. However, unlike the scenario that played out in Delhi and other cities, Panchkula witnessed no jostling or long queues for alcohol on the first day. The number of people queued up outside the stores was also not more than 25 at a time.Stores that opened to business included those in Sector 5 (near Bella Vista hotel), Majri chowk, Sectors 20, 28 and 21. People in queues outside the vends had worn masks and were found complying with social distancing norms.Braving the scorching heat, they stood patiently within the painted circles, in two to three queues with five persons each. While many were seen taking home boxes of beer, others bought whiskey and scotch. While some complained about not getting their favourite brands, but they made do with whatever was available.Policemen and homeguard volunteers were also deputed outside stores to keep a check.However, the posh liquor stores and showrooms, mostly in Sector 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 16, and the Industrial Area were found closed. Many liquor vends that did not open on Wednesday due to stock and takeover issues, will most likely open from Thursday onward, an official said.All liquor shops in Haryana were closed from March 27 amid the lockdown. To those who had been waiting for 40 days, hiked prices of their tipple did not matter. Even though vends overcharged them by ₹20 to ₹70, people could be seen stocking up as much as possible.Sector-12 resident Aakash Manocha who had come to Sector 20 to stock up, said, “I couldn’t find any stores in the vicinity open, but a friend told me about this store. It has been a month without booze. They charged me ₹50 more for my brand, but I am okay with it.”Sumit, a Sector-4 resident, had come to Sector 21 to buy his tipple. “My cousin and I were relieved to see such a small queue and no chaos. Though we were overcharged ₹20 for each bottle of beer, frankly it didn’t matter. We made do without it for 40 days.”As per a district excise department official, in Panchkula, liquor vends are distributed over 34 zones. Of these, 31 zones were auctioned under the excise policy for the year 2020-2021. Every zone has two vends each, making for 68 vends in the district, with only 62 open for business as yet.“In March, before the liquor stores closed, the district excise department had earned a revenue of more ₹7 crore,” said an official. In the financial year 2019–20, Haryana had earned ₹152 crores, which comes to about ₹12.7 crore per month, he said.Panchkula’s deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC), Pardeep Yadav, said that some shops did not open as new vendors were still in the process of takeover and sales. They will probably open from Thursday onward. We have instructed all liquor vend contractors to ensure their employees follow Covid-19 guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-one-58-liquor-vends-in-p-kula-dist-open-for-business/story-1MaMJGiaDjp6lEyo8JkoLP.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||After lockdown, high-priced eatables hit Ramzan fervour||The holy month of Ramzan this year is not only facing troubles following the nationwide lockdown but the hands of the residents of Prayagraj are also tied up due to high costs of dates and other eatables consumed in the festive season. The higher prices of these commodities have made them out of reach of the poor and marginalised sections of the society who have little means of livelihood these days. Majority of daily wage earners in Muslim localities are out of work and their families are depending on help provided by social organisations and individuals. Although the vegetables are abundantly available at reasonable prices, fruits have gone costly and are out of reach of many. The lockdown has not only deprived the people of the usual lively evenings and nights of Ramzans, but many eatables are also missing from the ‘iftari’ (eatables consumed at the time of breaking fast), complained All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen leader Iftekhar Ahmad.The costs of all varieties of dates (khajur) have increased by around Rs 10 to Rs 30 per kilogram depending on their availability in the market. A local khajur trader Azeem said not only the supply of dates is lesser but people are also buying them in less quantity in comparison to last Ramzan. Prices of other fruits such as orange, grapes etc have also increased. However, watermelons are locally available in reasonable rates, he added.A grocer Habib claimed that besides decreased supply, the cost of all commodities has gone higher due to lockdown.AIMIM leader Afsar Mehmood said rates of sugar, besan, chips, papad, edible oils etc have gone higher by Rs 10 to Rs 30 at local stores depending on their availability. Even bottle of Rooh-afza (a sweet drink) is being sold at a higher price, Mehmood further informed.He demanded that the administration should ensure regular supply of eatables used during Ramzans and provide work opportunities to the poor and daily wage earners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/after-lockdown-high-priced-eatables-hit-ramzan-fervour/story-yFKMs2xsemXymaHCWeGC6L.html
06-05-2020||Patna||IGIMS nurse among 7 positive; cases up at 542 in Bihar||A nursing staff at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) was among two cases of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) reported from Patna Wednesday after a brief eight-day lull, taking the total number of cases to 542 across the state so far.One case from Agamkuan and another from Raja Bazar locality, where the IGIMS is located, were among seven cases reported during the day. A case each was reported from Purnia, Madhubani, Sheohar, Bhagalpur and Kaimur.The source of infection in both the cases from Patna was unknown, said health officials.The 28-year-old IGIMS nursing officer, who is pregnant, complained of abdomen pain, when she was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday morning. In keeping with hospital norms, before any investigation of in-patients, her swab sample was taken for Covid-19 test and she tested positive for the virus by evening, said hospital sources. The woman resides at the nursing hostel on the IGIMS campus.Already, four paramedics and sanitation workers from the IGIMS have tested positive for the virus so far, said hospital sources.A 21-year-old jeweller from Agamkuan had also tested positive for the virus. The young man had been suffering from influenza-like symptoms for the last 10 days, said health officials. He had been shuttling from one hospital to another, after visiting the Patna Medical College Hospital, before he finally landed at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital on Tuesday where he tested positive for Covid-19, the officials added.With Patna in red zone, and most business establishments closed, health officials were clueless where the jeweller had contracted the infection from. He did not have any travel history either.The state government had sought clarification from the Centre for classifying Gaya under the red zone, said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar in a tweet. He, however, did not mention the reason for it.Gaya has only six cases whereas Munger has 102, followed by Buxar (56), Rohtas (52) and Patna (46), which are in the red zone. The state government has classified the remaining 33 districts under orange zone.Meanwhile, the government said it was stepping up testing capacity in the state. “We now have seven research laboratories to conduct RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction, a confirmatory test for Covid-19). We are going to begin CB NAT test at the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital, the IGIMS and the Tuberculosis Demonstration & Training Centre, Agamkuan,” said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.He said the government would also have testing facility through Truenat machines.“We will get 15 Truenat machines through the tuberculosis division of the government of India. We will install them at medical colleges where RT PCR testing facility is not available. Besides, we will also deploy them at districts having high concentration of cases,” added Singh.Forty six patients had recovered Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 188 across the state so far, with 35% case recovery rate, said Singh.The good sign for Bihar was that its case doubling rate had now decreased from four days to nine days. The number of Covid-19 cases had gone up from 143 to 277 between April 22 and 26. It has now taken nine days for cases to double from 277 on April 26 to 536 on May 5, as per data shared by Sanjay Kumar through a tweet.The 542 Covid-19 cases were spread across 32 of Bihar’s 38 districts, with Munger topping at 102. It was followed by Buxar (56), Rohtas (52), Patna (46), Nalanda (36), Siwan (32), Kaimur (31), Madhubani (24), Gopalganj, Bhojpur (18 each), Aurangabad, Begusarai (13 each), Bhagalpur (12), West Champaran, Katihar (11 each), East Champaran (9), Saran (8), Gaya, Sitamarhi (6 each), Darbhanga, Arwal (5 each), Lakhisarai, Nawada, Jehanabad, (4 each), Banka, Vaishali (3 each), Madhepura, Araria, Purnea, Sheohar (2 each), Sheikhpura, Samastipur (1 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/igims-nurse-among-7-positive-cases-up-at-542-in-bihar/story-wSPVbJ30NxHPKThmxfVBaK.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Over 1 lakh ‘ambassadors of hope’ take part in online campaign in Punjab||The online video campaign ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ to engage students during the lockdown saw participation of 1.06 lakh schoolchildren from across Punjab over eight days, state education minister Vijay Inder Singla said on Wednesday. Claiming that never before an online competition saw such a huge participation — wherein children made and shared videos of various activities — he said the government is in touch with the Guinness World Records for official recognition, he said.Maximum entries were received from Ludhiana district (16,084), followed by Amritsar (13,862), Sangrur (10,741), Patiala (10,614) and Gurdaspur (7,030), the minister said while talking to media in Chandigarh. Apart from these entries, the campaign also engaged around 2.5 crore people on social media platforms in eight days. He said the primary objective of this campaign was to engage students in a constructive activity in the “atmosphere of abject negativity”. “It is heartening to see the response we have got from the children. Most of the entries are deep rooted in Punjabi ethos and culture,” said Singla. “While we will select few winners on merit in next 20 days, for me everyone is a winner.”The minister said three winners from all 22 districts will be given prizes, which include laptops and tablets. Apart from this, 50 consolation prizes will also be given, he said.‘Can’t say when schools will reopen’Even as summer vacation in Punjab schools is set to officially get over on May 10, Singla said that he “can’t clearly give an answer” as to when schools would reopen for classroom teaching. Punjab had in April advanced summer holidays both in private and government schools to cope up with study losses due to the lockdown. “No one knows when normalcy will return. However, online classes can’t replace classroom teaching,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-1-lakh-ambassadors-of-hope-take-part-in-online-campaign-in-punjab/story-twk92xdVwd4Z5I1tl7lObK.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||18K arrested for lockdown violations in Maharashtra: Home minister Deshmukh||Home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said 95,678 lockdown-related offences were registered in the state and at least 18,722 people were arrested in these cases. The home minister also said that 184 incidents of attacks on police were registered and 663 people were arrested in the cases since the lockdown was imposed on March 22. “Contribution of every citizen is expected in the fight against coronavirus. If there are a few relaxations given in the lockdown it does not mean the lockdown has ended. On the contrary, it is our responsibility to follow social distancing measures during this time. Therefore I appeal to all to follow rules,” Deshmukh said in a statement.The minister reiterated that stricter action will be taken against those involved in attacks on policemen and health workers, who are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus. The minister added that 42 police officers and 414 police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment. Covid-19 has also claimed the lives of four police personnel, including three from Mumbai.Fines worth over Rs 3.51 crore were imposed in various cases during this period, while the police received 84,945 calls on the helpline number during the lockdown, the minister added.Deshmukh said that the police traced and isolated 642 persons, who were stamped for home quarantine. At present, 2,11,638 have been quarantined, he added. Besides that,1,279 have been booked for flouting lockdown norms by travelling in vehicles, and 53,071 vehicles were seized, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/18k-arrested-for-lockdown-violations-in-maharashtra-home-minister-deshmukh/story-9GxaZmgoCUoEJKVw3RfMGM.html
06-05-2020||City||Timings changed: Mohali shops can open from 7am to 3 pm||Mohali’s district magistrate Girish Dayalan, as per revised guidelines of the state government, has given certain relaxations in addition to those already in place. Amendments made vide this order shall supersede previous orders to that extent. Shops can remain open from 7 am to 3 pm instead of 9 am to 1 pm. All other restrictions placed vide orders of May 4 shall continue. Liquor shops may be allowed to open as per state government policy subject to the fact that they shall adhere to time restrictions placed on other shops i.e., 7 am to 3 pm. Furthermore, no liquor shops can be opened in containment areas/ zones.No person will be allowed to move unnecessarily for non essential work and movement of persons shall be allowed only from 7 am till 7 pm, and from workplace on production of an identity card issued by the employer.Movement of people from 7 am to 3 pm to shops/ commercial establishments will be allowed but vehicles must be avoided. People can visit banks from 9 am till 1 pm for public dealing. Four wheelers will be allowed with a maximum of two passengers besides the driver and only for permitted activities. Two-wheelers are allowed to move without pillion riders. Any violations of the above said will invite criminal proceedings under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/timings-changed-mohali-shops-can-open-from-7am-to-3-pm/story-nrdEpGB1kgpAfDEJ3SfpgJ.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||26 personnel from 1 police station test coronavirus positive||At least 26 personnel of a police station here, including 12 officers, have tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Wednesday.These police personnel, 12 of them officers, are attached to the J J Marg Police Station in South Mumbai, and currently undergoing treatment, he said.A process is on to quarantine other police personnel who had come in contact with their infected colleagues, the official said.With so many cases, the J J Marg Police Station may be the most coronavirus-affected police station in the metropolis, he said.So far, 233 police personnel, including officers, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, the official said.Three police personnel have succumbed to the infection so far, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-personnel-from-1-police-station-test-coronavirus-positive/story-CREujG7ZhbXgivKSRii8dP.html
06-05-2020||Patna||24 trains with over 28,000 migrants, students leave for Bihar||Over 15,000 migrants and students returned to state on Wednesday by 13 trains from five states while another 28,500 would be reaching from seven states in 24 trains on Thursday. With the increasing number of stranded natives returning to Bihar, the state has geared up to face the added challenges in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic.According to state disaster management department, 24 trains — one each from Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, and Kerala, eight from Gujarat, five each from Maharashtra and Telangana and three from Rajasthan — would be reaching 17 railway stations on Thursday while 13 trains from five states — Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Telangana reached different parts on Wednesday.“We have entered a challenging phase, with more people returning to their home towns. The real test starts now,” said a senior state government official pleading anonymity.The government on Tuesday had claimed that migrant workers, who returned to Bihar from other states during the lockdown, accounted for only 65 cases of coronavirus, as the total number of cases rose to 541 across 32 of the 38 districts, with four deaths in the state so far. However, the state government claimed full preparedness. “The state is fully prepared to look after them. As of now 3,066 camps are ready and 18,066 migrant labourers are living in those camps,” said Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, disaster management department.However, experts do not seem to be happy with the preparedness. “The initial hiccups in bringing the stranded back shows their preparedness. The preparation is only up to a level, especially since the reports about the quarantine centres are coming out. The districts need to scale up their bar to cope up with this situation,” said D M Diwakar of A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies.A government official admitted that if close to 5-6 lakh people return, putting them in quarantine centres, feeding them everyday would be a Herculean task.Officials are also worried because many new infections have been reported during the second phase of the lockdown especially of those migrant workers, who managed to reach Bihar and unknowingly took the Covid to new areas as they were largely asymptomatic. This despite the fact that doubling rate of Covid 19 cases which was 7 days between April 15 and April 22 and came down to four days in the period between April 23 and 26, has now increased to 9 days in the period between April 26 and May 5, as per an information shared by principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar on his Twitter.STRAP CONUNDRUM: State claims it is prepared to take care of the returnees; experts feel otherwise||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/24-trains-with-over-28-000-migrants-students-leave-for-bihar/story-Zk1imS3UyJHVbYuGh23EWK.html
06-05-2020||Patna||Bihar mulls thrust on food processing units to deal with migrants’ problem||The food processing industries will soon be classified under the priority sector of the state industrial investment promotion policy. This was stated Wednesday by officials privy to the matter.The industries department is currently working on draft amendment to the policy so that the investors in the food processing sector could avail interest subsidy on project cost, electricity duty waiver and the state help in land procurement for the processing units.Although Bihar is among top producers of vegetables, fruits and crops, it has failed to invite huge investments in food processing industry, as it is currently under non-priority priority sector.Agriculture minister Prem Kumar said, “The draft amendment to include agro-based food processing industries under priority sector of the policy is being sent for the cabinet approval.”“This is one among the various schemes being mooted by the department to create job opportunities in the state during the lockdown phase,” said Kumar, after interacting with the top functionaries of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industries (PHDCCI), New Delhi, through video conferencing on Wednesday.In the meeting, which was attended by secretary of the agriculture department, the minister said that the state government has decided to offer up to 90% subsidy on project cost for setting up fruit and vegetable processing units, costing up to ₹10 lakh. “The department will encourage people or their group to set up smaller units across the state so that migrant labourers, who returned home during the lockdown, could be engaged,” said the minister.The department has for now allocated ₹12 crore for doling out subsidy to the entrepreneurs. “Fund is no constraint for development of horticulture based processing units. Additional money would be allotted from other heads for development of an integrated network of fruit and vegetable processing units. This will help a large quantity of farm produce which is being destroyed due to lockdown,” said Prem Kumar .Meanwhile, department officials said that the state government had stepped up efforts to form a state-level federation of farmers’ producer organisation (FPOs) to market the processed products at national and international-level with support from Nabard and other organisations.ONLINE TRAININGIn another objective to use the lockdown phase for productive use, the department has also formulated a plan to impart on-line training to individuals on farm technology and food processing methodology.“We have identified 23 types of training, which include mushroom cultivation, processing of vegetable and fruits, etc., for a group of 30 individuals. A sum of ₹12 crore would be spent on imparting training and providing certificates under the skill development mission,” said the minister.He said that the state would be able to woo investments in the food processing sectors once the industrial promotion policy is amended. “The state government has already proposed offering 50% subsidy on mega projects being executed by the FPOs, while individual investments would get 30% subsidy,” said Kumar.Senior vice-president of PHDCCI Sanjay Agrawal, agriculture committee chairman NK Agrawal, vice-president Pradeep Multani, general secretary Saurabh Sanya, principal director Yogesh Srivastava, director of Shivshakti Modern Flour Mills, Raxaul, Birendra Kumar and Neeraj Chaube of Ratnagiri Seeds and Farms Pvt Ltd attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-mulls-thrust-on-food-processing-units-to-deal-with-migrants-problem/story-Hh0KPEOwT4sqy4HnTobk9I.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||UP cabinet approves Epidemic Control Ordinance||The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the draft of Uttar Pradesh Public Health and Epidemic Control Ordinance 2020, providing for imprisonment and penalty to those attacking or misbehaving with doctors, paramedical staff, sanitation workers, policemen and other Covid-19 warriors.The ordinance will be promulgated following assent of governor Anandiben Patel.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the meeting of the state cabinet that also approved draft bill to replace the ordinance. The bill will be tabled in the state legislature for its approval in the next session, after approval from the departmental minister.An official spokesman said the ordinance provided for imprisonment of six months to seven years and a penalty up to Rs 5 lakh to those attacking or misbehaving with or spitting on the corona warriors. It also provided for imprisonment of 2 to 5 years and penalty of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh to those instigating a group of people against corona warriors. It provided for setting up a three-member district epidemic control authority in every district. The district magistrate would be chairman of the authority that would coordinate with various departments.It also has a provision for imprisonment of 1 to 3 years and penalty of Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh to those running away from quarantine. For misbehaviour with corona warriors the ordinance provides for imprisonment of one to three years and penalty of Rs 50,000 to 1 lakh. Breaking lockdown, spreading coronavirus, hiding infection or wilful travel by patients in public transport would invite 1 to 3 year imprisonment and a penalty of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh.RECOVERY RULES 2020The state cabinet approved Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Rules 2020 under provisions of Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damage to Public and Private Property Ordinance 2020. The Rules provide for recovery of damage to public and private property during strikes and riots and setting up of a tribunal for recovery of damages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cabinet-approves-epidemic-control-ordinance/story-8ygdql4TSCnm5mWcpcNgyN.html
06-05-2020||Patna||Nitish bats for skill profiling of migrants for suitable job creation||Aware of the potentials of the migrants who are returning to state after the extension of lockdown, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked officials to carry out the skill survey of the migrants in order to effectively use their services. Thousands of migrant labourers have been rendered jobless due to lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.Over 2 lakh migrants have so far returned to state after lockdown were announced.“We need to track their skill effectively so that after the end of quarantine period, we can use their services as per the guidelines,” said Kumar at a meeting with chief secretary and other senior officials on Wednesday. “They will contribute in a big way to state’s economy,” said Kumar.Kumar said that for more and more job creation apart from MNREGA, there should be efforts in multiple directions with less emphasis on use of machines. “MNREGA can create mandays and there is a need to monitor it in a better way,” he said.Chief secretary Deepak Kumar informed the chief minister that soon the skill survey of migrants will be done through an app.CM also instructed the officials to be sensitive to the feedbacks being received from different quarters. “Every complaint should be looked into, grievances should be addresses and every effort should be made to ensure that people can avail benefits of government’s schemes,” he said.Kumar also advised officials to ensure better screening and health tests of migrants at district levels.Experts have also opined that there was a growing need to work with a definite plan to convert reverse migration into an opportunity to drive state’s growth post lockdown. “All the migrants who are returning to the state in distress have some skill sets, which they used to contribute to the growth of other states. Apart from health profiling, this is a welcome move. The government should also do skill profiling of the migrants to work out a long-term strategy for their absorption within Bihar and use them as engines of growth,” said former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies DM DiwakarShaibal Gupta of Asian Development Research Institute said that the government would need to increase the coverage of assured employment under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme (MNREGA)“It will have to be doubled in the present context. Besides, there is growing need for disbursal of small loans and increase absorption in agriculture, fishery, construction, small-scale industries and allied activities. From food processing to farm mechanization, there is a lot of scope,” said Shaibal Gupta of Asian Development Research InstituteTata Institute of Social Sciences, Patna centre director Pushpendra said that sustaining the reverse migration for a month at quarantine centres was quite possible for the government with its resources. “After that most of the labourers will get engaged in paddy sowing. The challenges will increase after that period and the government will have to keep its plan ready,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/nitish-bats-for-skill-profiling-of-migrants-for-suitable-job-creation/story-lYIGH3AytQUhwOp0V8b2KN.html
06-05-2020||City||2 deaths, 144 fresh cases take Punjab Covid count to 1,634||Two deaths linked to Covid-19 were reported in Punjab as the state recorded 144 cases, including 114 Nanded pilgrims, on Wednesday. A 30-year-old patient from Jalandhar died at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Wednesday, while a 39-year-old man who died at Patiala’s Mata Kaushlaya Hospital on Tuesday was tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. The Jalandhar patient was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension and had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 30. Patiala patient had comorbid conditions such as hypotension, cardiac ailment and was on epilepsy medication, civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said. The total count of Covid-19 patients in the state has now gone up to 1,634.Tarn Taran’s tally of 57 cases, all of them Hazur Sahib pilgrims, was the biggest from any district in the state on Wednesday. Among the fresh cases are 21 women and 6 children. With this, the total number of the cases in the district has gone up to 144 and 143 of them have Nanded link, while one patient had recently returned from Rajasthan.Thirty-six cases were recorded in Amritsar and all of them have Hazur Sahib link. All the 17 cases recorded in Moga on Wednesday have Nanded link, taking the district count to 55. Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said, “All the positive patients were already quarantined in different centres of the district. Now, we have admitted them to the isolation ward of the local civil hospital.”Two migrant workers were among 15 positive cases in Mansa on Wednesday. Four of the patients have Hazur Sahib link.Five fresh cases, including a 19-year-old girl, were detected in Patiala, while four cases were reported in Ferozepur district. Four Covid-19 cases were recorded in Gurdaspur.One case each was reported in Jalandhar, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur on Wednesday.In Jalandhar, a 56-year-old supervisor of a prominent private hospital tested positive. The hospital staff have been home quarantined, health officials said. In SBS Nagar, 27-year-old youth of Balachaur sub-division tested positive and he was a contact of a truck driver who had tested positive recently. In Hoshiarpur district, a youth tested positive and he was a close contact of a Nanded pilgrim.An eight-year-old girl child was tested positive in Bathinda on Wednesday. An official spokesperson said the patient’s parents are farmworkers and they were among those evacuated from Rajasthan recently.In Muktsar, a 30-year-old migrant worker was tested positive. After a gap of two days, Mohali recorded a fresh case on Wednesday, taking the district’s count to 96. The 57-year-old patient is a resident of Golden Sand Society in Zirakpur and had underwent a surgery. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patient has been sent to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “We have sealed a part of the society, where he was residing. We are now tracing his contacts,” he said.(With inputs from Amritsar, Mohali and Bathinda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-deaths-144-fresh-cases-take-punjab-covid-count-to-1-634/story-OFHmaXwrl7q0oeQn84gSaN.html
06-05-2020||City||Leg in cast, Bihar Anganwadi worker still on toes||PATNA: Vimla Devi, an anganwadi worker (AWW) who turned a widow at 31 years of age, some 15 years back, is an example for others.With her left leg in cast, after she fell and dislocated her bone, she hobbled to around 180 households, as part of the door-to-door survey initiated by the Bihar government last month to check for respiratory distress and influenza-like illness, which are associated with symptoms of coronavirus. The massive survey, which was earlier confined to only four districts, has now been extended to cover all 38 districts of the state.Draped in white sari, with red border, holding documents on a clipboard, she preferred taking a stick as a crutch to the helping hand extended by an auxiliary nursing midwife who accompanied her during the house-to-house survey.“I realised if I take leave, people in my area (the slum area adjacent to Patna Electricity Supply Undertaking quarters near New Secretariat area) will suffer. Given the adverse circumstances because of the coronavirus pandemic, I decided not to leave my people when they needed me the most,” said Vimla. “People in my area trust me. They will not allow any AWW other than me to administer polio drop or any other vaccination to their young children. It is a question of trust. I knew if any other AWW was drafted in my place to survey the area, many people may have been left out of the survey,” she added.Vimla stays in a one-room shanty near Lalit Bhawan on Bailey Road in Patna because she cannot afford a pucca house. Having lost her husband Vijay Kumar Singh early, she has three children — a 23-year-old daughter and two sons, aged 22 and 18, who are pursuing their studies. All she gets from the government is a monthly stipend of Rs 5,650 a month to ensure that the government’s social welfare programme reach the last man in queue.“Had my father not supported me, I wouldn’t have been able to survive with my children, leave aside educating them. Today, my daughter takes some private tuition of young children to keep the hearth of our house burning,” said Vimla.“Vimla was adamant to work, despite our willingness to grant her leave,” said Patna district programme officer Bharti Priyamvada, who is with the integrated child development services, an arm of the social welfare department.“She is a very active, dedicated and responsible worker who has never shied away from any responsibility entrusted upon her. She is not scared of any adversity too. In fact, I had granted her leave, but she did not avail of it,” said Renu Kumari, who is the child development project officer, Patna Sadar 1. Vimla’s zeal and dedication to work has won her accolades.Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi was the first to acknowledge Vimla’s unflinching contribution through a tweet in which he shared the AWW’s photograph. Bihar’s principal secretary health, Sanjay Kumar, retweeted it from his personal Twitter handle, saluting her indomitable spirit. The likes on social media haven’t stopped pouring in ever since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leg-in-cast-bihar-anganwadi-worker-still-on-toes/story-rHc3S2g1osylS2x0QdCgEP.html
06-05-2020||City||KDMC to impose ₹2000 fine for spitting, ₹500 for not wearing mask||In a strict warning against those spitting in public places and those not wearing a mask, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to levy fines for these. It has said that those who fail to pay fine will be booked under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC).The civic body will impose a fine of ₹2000 for spitting in public places and ₹500 for not wearing a mask or covering the face with a cloth. “This is to ensure the virus does not spread. Spitting is completely prohibited and if anyone is found doing it will have to pay the fine or face legal procedure,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.“Wearing a mask is mandatory for all people as well as civic employees on duty,” added Pophale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-to-impose-2000-fine-for-spitting-500-for-not-wearing-mask/story-82eLkYF3agJA026ZTCbaBL.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||62 ‘high risk’ Bapu Dham residents under institutional quarantine in Chandigarh||The UT administration has put as many as 62 ‘high risk’ persons from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, one of the city’s six containment zones, under institutional quarantine at a facility set up at the community centre in Sector 47.Unlike a home quarantine, an institutional quarantine is notified inside a government school, an indoor stadium, community centre or a building with toilet facilities.The move came after coronavirus cases in the city grew by 78% in the past two weeks, all from the six notified containment zones.On April 24, there were 28 cases in the city, which increased to 124 by Wednesday. Correspondingly, in less than two weeks, over 1,800 people have been put under home quarantine. More than 75% of the total cases in the city are from the six containment zones – Bapu Dham Colony, Labour Colony in Sector 30, Kachhi Colony in Dhanas, part of Sector 38, parts of Sector 52 and part of Shastri Nagar, Manimajra.Bapu Dham Colony with 66 cases of the total 124 accounts for more than 50% city’s cases. Labour Colony has 20 cases. All these areas have been sealed by the administration. An estimated around 80,000 people are in these zones.“Bringing them to institutional quarantine will help in constant medical supervision, and ensuring social distancing,” said a senior UT official, who didn’t want to be named.CHALLENGE OF SOCIAL DISTANCING UT’s move also comes in view of the latest guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs stressing on ensuring social distancing in highly congested areas.As per MHA order, high risk cases, which includes families with positive cases or people living in close proximity to those who have tested positive can be put under institutional quarantine. Notably, Bapu Dham Colony, the epicentre of coronavirus cases in the city, is home to 60,000 people residing in 2,500 multi-storey houses, with an average family of five sharing a room in a 25-yard house with shared toilets, thereby making social distancing practically impossible to be achieved here. When contacted, UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, said, “We cannot put the entire 60,000 people in Bapu Dham Colony under institutional quarantine, but we have started selectively and sent high risk cases to the quarantine centre in Sector 47.”INSIDE THE QUARANTINEAt the Sector 47 community centre, the quarantined persons have been given mattresses to sleep on the floor, are given food twice a day, and those from the same family have been kept in single rooms. However, some of the quarantined persons, talking to Hindustan Times, complained about poor sanitation, inadequate facilities and food at the centre. “We have apprised the officials of the poor quality of food, dirty toilets, and used masks dumped in the building,” said a quarantined person, who didn’t want to be named.The UT official, who responded to the complaints, said, “All the persons are being monitored by a team of doctors daily, which wasn’t possible in their houses. We have arranged for tea and milk, in addition to three-time meals. We are also cleaning and sanitising the centre daily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/62-high-risk-bapu-dham-residents-under-institutional-quarantine-in-chandigarh/story-5Oys3gmHZLBe1zmSQWtw1O.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Confusion prevails over reopening non-essential industrial pockets||Days after the Delhi government decided to allow industrial areas and construction sites to resume work, confusion still prevailed in several industrial pockets over the opening of units dealing in non-essential goods. While only 30%-35% factory units opened on Wednesday, construction work started at some of the major government project sites, officials said.Delhi industries minister Satyendar Jain, however, clarified that all types of industries that have access control mechanisms can reopen. Jain was addressing representatives of around 80 industrial associations at a video conference on Wednesday afternoon.An access control mechanism regulates the entry and exit of workers/employees in an industrial area/compound. The entry/exit points are required to be manned with records of employees entering the premises. This also includes thermal screening at the entry itself. Following the union home ministry’s order on allowing relaxations amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the Delhi government had, on Sunday, decided to allow industrial estates and townships to open, given that they ensure access control mechanism at entry/exit points and practice social distancing at work. Construction activities are allowed only where workers are available on site.However, till Wednesday afternoon only two districts—north and south-west—had issued standard operating guidelines while officials in other districts said they would be issuing similar orders within 24 hours.The guidelines included ensuring access control mechanisms, thermal screening, all workers downloading the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones, frequent washing of hands, and the provision of food on-site. The guidelines also stated that workers will not be allowed to share food/utensils and asked employers to arrange transport for workers coming from afar.Industry owners in some major hubs, including Udyog Nagar, Peeragadhi and Mundka, said they would keep their units shut till the time they received clear orders on the reopening of industries dealing in non-essential goods.“The union government’s order clearly states that only certain industries dealing in essentials are permitted to reopen. The industrial area was shut even today (Wednesday). We will open only once we get clear guidelines, as we don’t want to get into trouble later,” Ashok Gupta, president, Udyog Nagar Industrial Association, said. The units here mainly manufacture footwear and engineering goods. Delhi has 28 notified industrial areas; at least 23 such areas are notified under the umbrella of redevelopment and do not necessarily have access control mechanisms. According to Brijesh Goyal, convenor, Aam Aadmi Party’s trade and industry wing, around 6 lakh labourers of the estimated 10 lakh employed in industrial areas across the city are present in the city while the remaining left for their home towns soon after the lockdown was announced.Goyal, who had organised the meeting with Jain, said that there were complaints from some factory owners that a few local authorities had not issued clear guidelines on the provision of essential and non-essential services. Besides, he added that there were also complaints about the district authorities adding several points to the guidelines that are not mentioned in the MHA order.“The minister has clearly said that all kinds of industries in all areas with access control can reopen, irrespective of being essential or non-essential. He has asked all district authorities to issue clear guidelines so that industries can start work. Besides, he also said that the government will get measures not stated in the MHA order removed from the district magistrates’ orders,” Goyal said.Concerning downloading the Aarogya Setu app, he said that 80% of the workers do not have android phones. Also, in industrial areas like Libaspur-Samaypur Badli, which are notified under redevelopment, installing gates with access control mechanisms is a major concern before they can open the units.“We do not have any entry-exit gate. We have set a meeting with the local MLA and the area sub-divisional magistrate to allow us to reopen units dealing in iron and other materials required to install gates. It will take us at least 15 days before we can start work,” Alok Kansil, vice-president, Libaspur Industrial Welfare Association, said.Industry owners also said that there is little demand for non-essential goods and urged the government to reopen a few markets with limited staff so that there are takers for the goods that are being manufactured.At construction sites The public works department (PWD) on Wednesday started construction work at three major infrastructure project sites— a 1.2 km-long tunnel between Mathura Road and the Ring Road, Barapullah Phase-3 elevated corridor and the Seelampur and Shastri Park flyovers.According to estimates by construction agencies, around 450 workers are available at the tunnel construction site near Bhairon Marg, nearly 100 are available at the Shastri Park and Seelampur flyover sites in north-east Delhi, approximately 200 are at Barapullah Phase-3 project site near Sarai Kale Khan and Yamuna Basin near Mayur Vihar-1 while around 150 workers are available at the construction site of Benito-Juarez Road underpass in south Delhi.Construction agencies also said that 300 labourers are staying at the Netaji Nagar Redevelopment Project construction site, around 400 labourers each are present at the construction sites of a Central Reserve Police Force building and a National Investigation Agency building in Satbari area, Chattarpur. Besides, around 3,500 labourers are staying at different Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) construction sites across the city.“Presently, the DMRC has about 3,500 workers across five or six different sites in the city including actual work sites as well as casting yards for Phase-4 projects. All contractors have been instructed to get the Aarogya Setu app installed on the phones of all on-site personnel, including workers and engineers. All workers are being sensitised about precautionary guidelines during the tool workshops. Displays with the necessary information regarding social distancing are being installed at the sites. Masks, sanitiser and thermal scanners are being made available at the sites as well,” Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said.“All guidelines are being followed in letter and spirit. The construction work has begun after thoroughly disinfecting work sites and equipment. We are taking all measures to check the spread of the virus and ensure social distancing. Foot-operated hand wash dispensers and washbasins along with sanitiser have been made available at the project sites where construction has begun,” PWD engineer-in-chief PK Vats said.The National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC)-India Limited is helming around 15 projects in Delhi which include ITPO-Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, IIT Delhi, East Kidwai Nagar, Vanijya Bhawan, etc.“Today, work at almost all the sites is taking place with the available workforce. Some of these major projects include East Kidwai Nagar, Nauroji Nagar WTC, Vanijya Bhawan, IIT Delhi, WHO works, NIA Maidangarhi, NIDM works, etc. As far as safety precautions at worksites are concerned, we are providing masks and sanitiser to all labourers and ensuring social distancing. The NBCC also makes it sure that all contractors download the Aarogya Setu app, as also the workers who have smartphones,” PK Gupta, chairman and managing director of NBCC, said.Meanwhile, PWD officials said that downloading the Aarogya Setu app is not compulsory for construction workers. Those who have smartphones can download the app but those without it can continue working.“Many of the construction workers do not have smartphones. We are already facing a workforce scarcity at construction sites so we cannot make it compulsory for only those labourers who download the app to work,” a PWD official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/confusion-prevails-over-reopening-non-essential-industrial-pockets/story-fH94zcVbq6slLd0vjTWJtN.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Woman raped on pretext of ration, monetary aid||A 35-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a neighbour on the pretext of free ration and financial aid of ₹1,000 from a local legislator on Monday afternoon. The incident is alleged to have taken place in a west Delhi neighbourhood, following which the police filed a case and arrested the man on Wednesday. According to the police, the woman and the neighbour were acquainted for more than 10 years.The crime was reported to the police on Tuesday evening by the woman’s husband, a coconut seller, who alleged she was sexually assaulted by their neighbour on the pretext of offering help during the lockdown.“The man said that the accused is a neighbour and is known to the family for the past 14 years. He said when he was away at work, the man, who works at a ration shop, promised his wife ration and monetary help from a legislator through his contacts. When the woman agreed, the man took her to a west Delhi neighbourhood and forced himself upon her, according to her husband,” a senior police officer said on the condition of anonymity. The man said that the suspect had threatened his wife not reveal the sexual assault, the police said.“As soon as we got the complaint, the woman was the taken for a medical examination, following which a case of rape was registered at the Palam police station against the man,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest), Devender Arya, said they have booked the man for rape and arrested him. “The crime is being probed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-ration-monetary-aid/story-fRWGp4CuUc2pRfYZs2TDII.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Case spike: 1,848 home quarantined in Chandigarh in 2 weeks||With Chandigarh witnessing a spurt in coronavirus cases, over 1,800 residents have been put under home quarantine in less than two weeks.According to the contact tracing team of the municipal corporation, since April 24, as many as 93 positive cases have been reported in Chandigarh. The spurt started when the first positive case – a 30-year-old OT attendant from Government Medical College and Hospital — was reported from Bapu Dham Colony.Since then, 1,848 persons have been put under home quarantine, a majority in Bapu Dham Colony, from where over 50 persons have tested positive, followed by Sectors 30 and 38.Sharing details, an MC official, requesting anonymity, said, “On April 24, OT attendant’s 242 contacts were quarantined and 18 came out to be positive, then 80 contacts of another man (whose source of infection is the first case) were quarantined, of which 12 tested positive. Then on April 28, a youth was tested positive, whose 208 contacts were quarantined and one tested positive.”On April 27, 43 contacts of a sector 30 resident were quarantined, of which one was tested positive. The next day, on April 28, 21 contacts of a female from sector 30 were quarantined; of which 4 were tested positive.In Sector 15, 64 contacts of one corona positive person were quarantined, of which none tested positive. On May 5, a Dhanas woman was tested positive and her 199 contacts were quarantined, while the report of how many got infected is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/case-spike-1-848-home-quarantined-in-chandigarh-in-2-weeks/story-leNpuU7061owI9dxeLVjfO.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Two nabbed for selling fake travel forms to migrants||Delhi Police have arrested two people who allegedly duped migrants by selling them fake forms that they said will help facilitate their travel to their home states during the lockdown.Police officers on Wednesday made it clear that the government has not yet formulated any guidelines with regards to sending stranded migrant workers back to their hometowns and anyone claiming otherwise was not to be believed.The interrogation of the arretsed suspects so far has led the police to some WhatsApp groups on which fake forms were being circulated with the intention of duping poor migrant workers desperate to return to their homes.On Tuesday, a 38-year-old owner of a photocopying shop in outer Delhi’s Punjabi Colony near Narela was arrested for allegedly duping migrant workers by selling them fake forms, which he claimed would help them travel during the lockdown.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said that the shopkeeper, identified as Rajeev, was selling photocopies of the fake form to migrants living in Punjabi Colony at R20 each.“Rajeev was misleading them by asking them to deposit the filled forms at the police station. However, no such forms were issued by the Delhi police,” said DCP Sharma, adding that 25 copies of the fake form were seized from the shop. Rajeev admitted to having sold 20 such forms before his arrest.The shopkeeper was interrogated to know the source of the forms. He showed the police a WhatsApp group of which he was a member. Investigators said that they have approached the network service provider and sought details of the person who posted the fake form on the group.A similar arrest was made on May 1 in east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar. The local police had received information that fake forms were being sold at a photocopying shop in Ajit Nagar area. The shop was raided and its owner, Mujahir Alam, was arrested. Alam told the police that he was only photocopying the form provided to him by some unknown migrant workers. In that case, as well, the police found that the fake form was being circulated on social media and various WhatsApp groups.“We hear migrants living in shelter homes often talking about such forms and the offers they get from outsiders that their travel back home can be arranged if they paid money. But we regularly warn them that such people are fraudsters and tell them that the government is preparing a list of people who want to return to their home states,” said Sujit, a member of Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses (SPYM), an NGO which manages several shelter homes in the city.In many of the recent meetings with a senior police officer, the Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava have asked them to keep a vigil on such fraudsters and rumour mongers, apart from updating migrants about the steps, the government is taking for their migration to home states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-nabbed-for-selling-fake-travel-forms-to-migrants/story-doSMIATZ9Uw0t9b3FNADKI.html
06-05-2020||Gurugram||Shops selling essential items to open on all days, others for two days a week in Gurugram||Shops and commercial establishments in the district, barring those which sell essential items, will be allowed to open twice a week and has categorized these entities in four groups, as per the latest directions. The Gurugram administration said that to prevent crowding in markets it has issued a roster for commercial establishments and shops with staggered timings and days for opening and closing these on a weekly basis. However, multi-brand malls and market complexes will remain closed, the order said, adding no commercial activity would be allowed inside the containment zones.“All the shop owners and commercial establishments should follow the Covid SOP very strictly and ensure there is no overcrowding. Social distancing norms, masks and sanitizers must be used by everyone to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease,” Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said. As per the order, shops selling essential commodities, such as ration and vegetables, are in category A and will be allowed to remain open on all days between 9am to 5pm. Shops in categories B,C and D can remain open between 9am to 3pm and only twice a week.Shopkeepers and visitors have also been asked to wear masks and gloves, no more than five people may gather outside a shop; marriage functions may not have more than 50 persons; 20 persons allowed at funerals and related rituals while maintaining social distancing, the order states. The shops under Category A include flour mills, milk and dairy shops, fruit and vegetable shops, grocery and shops selling meat and poultry. Shops selling agricultural equipment, courier service providers, poultry and animal feed, veterinary services are also included in Category A.The shops in Category B include those providing plumbing services, repair of fans, coolers, ACs, cycles and inverters, mobile phones, computers and laptops, home and kitchen appliances and miscellaneous electrical items. These will be opened on Monday and Thursday from 9am to 3pm. The shops include in C category can remain open on Tuesday and Friday between 9am and 3pm. These include gift shops, toy shops, shops bags and suitcases, opticians, garment stores and those selling utensils and crockery.Shops in Category D can remain open on Wednesday and Saturday from 9am to 3pm. These include those selling construction material, hardware and paint, furniture, plywood, timber, glass, dry cleaners and jewellers.“The establishments, not included in any of the above categories, will be included in Category D at the discretion of the sub-divisional officer of the respective area,” said the order.It was further stated that all hospitality service providers, barring those being used by government employees, healthcare workers, police and which stranded tourists occupy, will remain closed. All restaurants, café, dhabas and eateries will remain closed but packed food, dry fruit and home delivery will be allowed.All cinema halls shopping malls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools, recreation parks, theatres, auditoriums and assembly halls will also remain closed. All religious places will remain closed no religious functions will be held. The order directed that barring emergency travel for health-related reasons, air travel shall remain suspended. All schools, colleges, coaching institutes shall also remain closed but online learning will continue.The order also directs municipal authorities and shopkeepers to ensure that social distancing and other heath safety measures prescribed in the standard operating procedure for Covid-19 pandemic are implemented strictly. All establishments have been directed to make coloured stripes at a distance of six feet, as recommended by the World Health Organisation, and there is adequate space so that there is no crowding inside the shops too. The police and other authorities have also been asked to ensure they check that such markings are outside al establishments and monitor movement of traffic in these markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/shops-selling-essential-items-to-open-on-all-days-others-for-two-days-a-week-in-gurugram/story-pSgKW3l2ITsAbOP8VTg2FJ.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Plea in HC over ‘inadequate steps’ to control Covid-19||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea which has contended that the government was not taking adequate steps to control Covid-19 and that the DDA flats Narela that have been converted into quarantine centers lacked facilities.A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad issued notice on the plea by one Nirmal Gorana, who alleged that not enough efforts are being made to ensure the availability of doctors, providing adequate hygiene in the flats, sufficient number of sanitation workers for carrying out sanitization.The plea also contended that there is an immediate need for disinfection of toilets and rooms, improving the quality of food, repairing two elevators in one of the blocks that are out of service and make provision of linen, soap, sanitisers and other essential items. Appearing for the Delhi government, its additional standing counsel, Sameer Vashisht, denied the allegations said that as per the instructions received from the District Magistrate (North), Delhi, all facilities were available at the 14 DDA towers that have been converted for housing patients diagnosed Covid-19 positive and those who have turned Covide-19 negative after treatment.Following brief submissions, the court asked the Delhi government to file its reply within three days and posted the matter for further hearing on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-hc-over-inadequate-steps-to-control-covid-19/story-5SUmMmV1XXMg0mEkqBCaAJ.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Safdarjung reopens OPDs for new patients||Safdarjung hospital reopened its out-patient clinics for new patients on Wednesday, a day after Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain raised concerns about the four central government hospitals in the city—All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Safdarjung hospital, RML hospital and Lady Hardinge hospital—not treating enough patients.“We have resumed our OPD services from Wednesday. We do not expect too much footfall as lockdown measures are still in place, but the guards have been asked to ensure that patients maintain social distancing in all areas of the hospital,” a spokesperson from Safdarjung hospital said. The hospital had been running the clinics for patients who were already registered at the hospital.“Earlier, only those who were under the care of our doctors were being seen in the out-patient departments (OPDs) since social distancing norms had been put in place. Right now, the registration timings have been cut by one hour to ensure that social distancing is maintained in the hospital,” a doctor from the hospital said.This comes a day after Jain had raised the issue with union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan during a meeting on strategies to control vector-borne diseases on Tuesday.“I request that the central government dedicate one of its hospitals in Delhi for the treatment of Covid-19 patients and the others for non-Covid treatment. There have been cases of patients being refused routine treatment as all hospitals treat Covid-19 patients. Also, the 4,000-bed AllMS has dedicated the trauma centre and the cancer centre in Jhajjar for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, yet all other services at the main hospital are still halted. I urge you to restart the other facilities for non-Covid patients,” Jain said in the meeting.Dr Harsh Vardhan had responded that all the hospitals were treating patients and if any case of patients being refused treatment came to light, the central and state governments should discuss the matter with each other.The AIIMS said that a decision on when to restart the OPDs and routine surgeries has not been made yet, but consultation is being provided to already registered patients over the phone.“There are around 300 Covid-19 patients admitted to the trauma centre and AIIMS Jhajjar. Apart from that, there are about 1,100 to 1,200 other patients admitted to the main campus that has about 2,400 beds. These are patients who come to our emergency department and are usually in need of admission and surgeries. Some patients were admitted before the lockdown,” a senior doctor from the hospital said.Another doctor added, “AIIMS Jhajjar is also drawing staff from the main AIIMS campus and it is a big facility, so all services cannot be resumed immediately. Also to ensure that social distancing is followed, fewer than usual the number of patients are being admitted,” another doctor from the hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/safdarjung-reopens-opds-for-new-patients/story-9eVkKbKsAn75krrka6BVQK.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai case: HC dismisses Zaidi’s plea for 60-day parole||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday dismissed the plea of Himachal Pradesh’s senior IPS officer Zahur Haider Zaidi seeking 60 days bail in the 2017 Kotkhai custodial killing case. He had moved the high court on Apri 28 in this regard. The detailed order is awaited.His plea on the same issue was also dismissed by a trial court on May 1.He had cited that he was suffering from hypertension and had not been keeping well. Claiming that he was susceptible to Covid-19, he had pleaded that he be granted bail.Zaidi, an IGP-rank officer, is an accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case. He had been granted bail by the Supreme Court in April 2019. However, the trial court had cancelled the bail after prosecution witness and SP-rank officer Soumya Sambasivan’s statement that she had been pressured by the accused in an attempt to influence the trial.The custodial killing case is an offshoot of the alleged rape and murder of a 16-year-old school girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district. Six men had been initially arrested by the Himachal police in the case and one of them was later found dead at the Kotkhai police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-case-hc-dismisses-zaidi-s-plea-for-60-day-parole/story-rOFhtt18HIUT3N9i66FTrK.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||24-year-old man from Panipat is Haryana’s 7th fatality||Haryana reported one death due to Covid-19 and 46 new cases on Wednesday, which took the state’s tally to 594. A 24-year-old labourer from Panipat’s Deenanath colony had returned from Delhi and died mysteriously on Monday. His samples tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. His death took the state’s toll to seven. Haryana has so far recorded two deaths each in Faridabad and Ambala and one each in Karnal, Rohtak and Panipat. Panipat deputy commissioner Hema Sharma said he died a few hours after returning from Delhi. He was cremated by health officials. As per locals, he had become uncontrollable and also bit a woman before he died. All people living in his locality have been quarantined. The district has, meanwhile, reported four more cases, including a 34-year-old man and his six-year-old son from Kalkha village. The man worked in a private factory in Fatehabad. 20 CASES IN GURUGRAMGurugram saw a spurt in Covid cases as it registered 20 new infections, highest in a day. Senior doctors said 17 of them were vegetable vendors or their contacts, while two were health workers of private centres and a youth, who had recently visited Delhi. 5 NANDED RETURNEES TEST POSITIVE IN KARNALKarnal administration sealed the Pakhana village and declared it a containment zone after five members of a family, who had returned from Nanded on April 30, tested positive. The infected persons include a man (44), his wife (43), daughter (21), mother (68) and mother-in-law (67). Four Naraingarh residents, who also came back from Nanded, were found infected in Ambala. Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “They were quarantined at a dharamshala on April 29. We had taken their samples on April 30, but they tested negative. We again tested them after their co-passengers were found infected.” 6 CASES DETECTED IN JHAJJAR, 3 IN SONEPATIn Jhajjar, six more vegetable sellers were found infected, taking the district tally to 70. Three cases were detected in Sonepat and one in Jind. The Sonepat cases include a staff nurse with Delhi government, another woman and a man from Kundli. A youth from Jind, who had returned from Delhi, also tested positive for the virus. In Fatehabad’s Bhattu area, a 23-year-old woman tested positive for the infection, though her case was not added to the health bulletin. She had been pursuing CA from Delhi and had come back on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/24-year-old-man-from-panipat-is-haryana-s-7th-fatality/story-j5PDon9baoV39cHimFkEKM.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||9 booked as 5,500 liquor boxes go missing from Sonepat godown||Five police personnel and four liquor traders were booked under the Excise and Taxation Act after 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing from a godown in Sonepat’s Kharkhauda.Around 1,400 boxes of illicit liquor were also recovered from the same godown, police said on Wednesday.The accused liquor traders have been identified as Bhupinder, his brother Jitender, Satish Kumar and Saneep of Sonepat district.Besides registering a case against five cops for their alleged role in the matter, the police have also suspended two former Kharkhauda station house officers (SHOs) — Arun Kumar and Jasvir Singh.Sonepat superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Randhawa said that last year, the chief minister’s flying squad had recovered a huge quantity of liquor from a godown belonging to Bhupinder in Kharkhauda.“Instead of storing the seized liquor at some other place, the cops then incharge kept it at Bhupinder’s godown. During the lockdown period, some cops along with the traders sold the said seized liquor. We are probing the role of former and current Kharkhauda SHOs, other police officials and excise officials in this scam,” the SP said, adding that a special investigation team has been formed to investigate the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/9-booked-as-5-500-liquor-boxes-go-missing-from-sonepat-godown/story-N4cbQS05aHPtl3cFbUO7lN.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||34 students stranded in Bengaluru to reach Haryana by May 10||In a huge relief, the state government has allowed the movement of two private buses to bring back 34 students of Haryana who were stranded in Rashtriya Military School, Bengaluru.A total of 72 students from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana were stranded in the military school since the lockdown was imposed to contain the novel coronavirus.Vinod Sangwan, a parent from Kharman village of Jhajjar, said that the authorities were not allowing them to bring their children home.“We approached many officials and leaders, but to no avail. After that, we requested Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda to help us and he provided the movement pass to two buses. The entire transportation cost will be paid by the parents and the children will be back by May 10”, he said.“In each bus, two parents will accompany two drivers and conductors,” he added.Hooda said, “Both the buses were properly sanitised and all the persons who have gone to bring the students underwent a medical check-up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/34-students-stranded-in-bengaluru-to-reach-haryana-by-may-10/story-1okAm1b15Va6Tkv2F7PJ2N.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Tipplers resist desperation, maintain order outside liquor shops in Haryana||Serpentine queues of impatient tipplers eager to grab their favourite liquor bottles were missing in major parts of Haryana even as the liquor vends were opened on Wednesday after about 40 days due to the ongoing lockdown. According to reports, people arrived outside liquor shops, but no unruly scenes were witnessed. Police were deployed at all liquor vends to ensure people maintain the social distance. In Karnal and its adjoining districts, there was no huge rush at liquor shops. The liquor sellers said hike in prices did not have much impact on the sale as most of the customers bought limited liquor and did not resort to hoarding.Wearing masks was mandatory for customers and salesmen, while liquor vend owners were told to provide hand sanitisers at the sale counter.No protest or long queues were seen in Bhiwani, Dadri, Rohtak and Sonepat districts as well. However, liquor vends remained shut in Jhajjar. Raj Karan, a liquor shop owner in Bhiwani, said about 40 people had visited his shop till 2pm. “Most of the vends remained closed in the absence of sufficient stock,” he added. In Hisar region too, long queues in front of the alcohol vends in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Hisar districts were missing. An alcohol seller, Rahul Kumar, said people started arriving at his vend after 1pm.(With inputs from Rohtak, Hisar, Karnal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tipplers-resist-desperation-maintain-order-outside-liquor-shops-in-haryana/story-vHTh7fYtdQ2yAHbKUoK8hN.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stop exodus of migrant labourers: Bajwa to Punjab CM||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Wednesday urged Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to take all possible steps to stop the exodus of migrant labourers to protect the economy of the state.Warning of a labour crisis, Bajwa, in a letter to the chief minister, said, “The state government must do everything to encourage migrant labourers to stay back, otherwise the state would be staring at a self-made economic crisis. This would add to the woes of industries reeling under the damage of Covid-19.”He said he had received pleas from various industries in this regard.Bajwa’s statement comes at a time when the Congress has asked all its state units to bear the cost of rail travel of migrant workers to their homes. In Punjab, 10 lakh workers, including 5.4 lakh from the industrial hub of Ludhiana, have registered to go back home.PHDCCI MENTOR’SAPPEALPHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) state mentor and former chairman RS Sachdeva also said the state government should stop the migrant workers from going back home. “They (government) have been trying to give support to industry to resume operations, but this will not work if workers leave. Workers’ exodus will not just hit factories planning to resume operations, but also the ones that are already operating,” he said in a statement.CHANDUMAJRA EXPRESSES CONCERNShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra also expressed his concern over the issue. He said the exodus of migrant labourers from Punjab would be a major setback for the industry and agricultural sector in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stop-exodus-of-migrant-labourers-bajwa-to-punjab-cm/story-s6cd5dZ7ekivapstFhfxOP.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three held for killing Delhi cop, his friend||Two days after a 45-year-old Delhi Police constable and his 35-year-old friend were shot dead by unidentified assailants near Line Par area in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh, the police arrested three accused on Wednesday.They have been identified as Ranbir Singh of Bahadurgarh, Pawan of Sonepat and Tejpal from Delhi, who had been staying in a rented accommodation in Bahadurgarh.Bahadurgarh DSP Rahul Dev said, “Prime accused Ranbir alias Fauji confessed that he killed Manoj and his friend Ramesh Kumar with the help of his two accomplices. He said the motive behind the murder was an old enmity over an extra-marital affair. The accused were taken in one-day police remand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-for-killing-delhi-cop-his-friend/story-7VDBgdP2hEKJZN3qqH9NpO.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||HC allows Haryana to hold PG counselling||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Wednesday allowed counselling for admissions to postgraduate medical courses in Haryana.On May 1, the HC bench of justice RK Jain and justice Jaswant Singh had stayed the counselling on plea of Dr Vikram Pal and others, who had approached the HC challenging the notification of April 15 on procedure for admission to MD/MS courses. They had argued that the reservation had gone up to 87%, whereas it can’t go beyond 50% in any case.During the hearing on Wednesday, the government apprised the court of the changes made in the admission criterion, after which it was allowed to proceed with the admissions. The government had stated that vertical reservation would be given in categories such as scheduled caste (20%), backward classes-A (20%) and backward classes-B (11%) and 25% institutional preference seats would be provided horizontally within each category. It had also made some changes in other categories, where the petitioners had raised objections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-allows-haryana-to-hold-pg-counselling/story-HlygLcyiagqOChX9ZKrnWN.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three women killed in Batala mishap||Three women residents of Naushera Majha Singh village were killed after a speeding truck overloaded with gravel, overturned on them near their village on the Batala-Gurdaspur national highway on Wednesday evening. Victims Paramjeet Kaur, 40, Satwant Kaur, 44, and Rajwant Kaur, 42, were returning from the local gurdwara, when the mishap happened. It took local residents over two hours to extricate the bodies of the women from under the gravel. Police have registered a case and the bodies have been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-women-killed-in-batala-mishap/story-wyfVduhK6pg4PxpBymoRkO.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Central food material for April not distributed in Punjab: Harsimrat||Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Wednesday alleged that the central food relief material for April has not been distributed to the people in Punjab.In a statement, Harsimrat said there were reports from across the state that even though the central relief, including wheat and pulses, for May had also reached the state, the previous ration had not been delivered to them.“Negligible amount of ration has been distributed. This despite the fact that one lakh tonnes of wheat and 6,000 tonnes of pulses have been received from the Centre by the state for 1.4 crore people, which is half the population of Punjab,” she said.Alleging political bias in the distribution of the relief material, Harsimrat said the Congress leaders were putting pressure on the district authorities to distribute the relief to their supporters first instead of distributing it on merit. She asked the state government to start distribution of the food material without any further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/central-food-material-for-april-not-distributed-in-punjab-harsimrat/story-Kb74XmsWsk4UP4DCTVZScO.html
06-05-2020||City||Migrants in Mohali being forced to shell out ₹50-100 for online registration||Desperate to go home, the migrant labourers stuck in Mohali district are being forced to shell out ₹50 to ₹100 to get registered online by the shopkeepers.Already 24,000 people willing to travel to their native states have registered from Mohali. But even after paying for registration, the migrants are running from pillar to post as no one is guiding them about the procedure and where they can get screened.The migrants in Zirakpur keep going back and forth between police stations and civic bodies offices only to return back dejected. The contractors with whom these labourers were working have already left. “I paid ₹50 to get online registration done at a shop though some of us even paid ₹100 depending on the place from where we got the registration done. I have received the message regarding registration but do not know what to do next,” said Binu Pandey, a construction labourer who stays in Singhpura.As per the procedure, the migrants have to register online, after which they will get a message on their registered mobile number. The message has to be shown at the screening centre from where their medical report will be uploaded. After this, another message will be received giving them the date and time to board the train or bus.He was among 150 migrants who had collected at the tehsil office in order to get help but were rejected.The district administration had asked all the migrants willing to go home to register online but many of them are illiterate and have been taking help from different documentation centres, where they end up paying but without anyone guiding them further.“Contractor has deserted us and no one is helping us. We have heard trains and buses have started, but where to board these busses from no one is telling us. We approached the police but they said to go to the tehsil office. Here, too, no one is giving any information,” said Ram Prashad of Nagla village.“I had gone to the screening centre in Zirakpur, but was asked to get registration done first,” complained Seema Devi of Singhpura.“I have received information regarding shopkeepers charging for online registration. We are getting it checked and will work a way out so that the migrants do not get harassed,” said Kuldeep Bawa, SDM Dera Bassi.In Kharar, too, the shopkeepers were charging ₹50 for online registration but after intervention of the authorities it was agreed that no one will charge more than ₹10. The Kharar SDM has also shared the list of nodal officers who will help the migrants willing to go to their native places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-in-mohali-being-forced-to-shell-out-50-100-for-online-registration/story-7itw89zvKnbQbSU4AUAU2N.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Man smuggling liquor on two-wheeler in Jalandhar dies in mishap||Exposing the nexus of liquor smuggling in city amid curfew, two men attempting to transport two boxes of liquors on two-wheeler met with an accident near Curo Mall in Jalandhar on Wednesday.One of them, Raj Kumar, 40, died on the spot after he collided with a truck coming from the other side. Pillion rider Varun Kumar, 25, is injured and undergoing treatment at civil hospital.Both are said to be residents of Bhargo camp locality and have been booked under charges rash driving and putting lives at risk by smuggling liquor during curfew without any permission.Division number 7 SHO Naveen Pal Singh said that they were riding an Activa, which crashed into a truck after coming on main road, when truck driver Jaspal Singh was crossing the Chowk.We have booked both the men under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, and Section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act. No action has been taken against the truck driver, who had a valid curfew pass,” the SHO said.The injured youth will be arrested and probe is on to know from where they got the liquor. Action will be initiated against their supplier as per law, the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/man-smuggling-liquor-on-two-wheeler-in-jalandhar-dies-in-mishap/story-Q2xNf2xlv2ScC7jk4H5MkI.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev University starts webinar series on mgmt innovations||The University Business School (UBS) of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, has initiated a webinar series on management innovation. Going along with this theme, the UBS organised its first series on Tuesday titled ‘Webinar 1.0’ on the topic ‘Career opportunities in the post-Covid-19 era with special focus on start-ups’. The aim is to envisage how innovation and digitisation will be the new mantra for a prospective business as the Indian economy and industry will come to terms with a new reality defined by uncertainty in the post-Covid-19 scenario.Over 250 participants including students, faculty, GNDU alumni, and professionals from across country registered for the online interaction.Director of the series, Dr Jasveen Kaur, who is also the chairperson and head of the department, set pace for the webinar by highlighting the necessity of innovative platforms for academic learning and skill enhancement. She introduced a plethora of subject matter experts across fields of entrepreneurship to the participants.The keynote speakers included Cheema Boilers Ltd MD Harjinder Singh Cheema, STPI- Mohali centre head Ajay P Shrivastava, PUMPKART CEO KS Bhatia, and start-ups mentor and trainer Ashish Khare. They outlined the current state of many sectors due to the pandemic and its impact on career opportunities in the post-Covid-19 world.They opined that the post-Covid-19 era will be an opportunistic time for start-ups because of the likely shift in production from China to our country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-s-guru-nanak-dev-university-starts-webinar-series-on-mgmt-innovations/story-XlEbTsOIzRsIH3aKKFnucL.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Central support meagre, says Punjab health minister||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said the central government has provided a meagre support of Rs 71 crore to the state to fight against Covid-19.“Despite the little support from New Delhi, Punjab is fighting the pandemic with full might and is able to contain it,” said Sidhu, who reviewed the facilities at various hospitals and Covid-19 isolation facilities here. Talking to the media, he said despite requests by him and finance minister Manpreet Badal, the Centre has not released adequate funds to Punjab. Over the sudden surge in the cases of Covid -19 in Punjab in the recent past, Sidhu, “Initially, the cases were under control, but with the return of Punjab natives from other parts ofthe country, the cases saw a sudden spike. But our people have the right to return back and we cannot turn our face away from them.”Later in Gurdaspur, Sidhu claimed that best arrangements have been made for the Hazoor Sahib returnees in the state and effective treatment is being provided to those pilgrims who have been found coronavirus positive.Sidhu said that sampling of the all Nanded returnees will be completed by Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/central-support-meagre-says-punjab-health-minister/story-OLiq6vlH0RPB73A0OlomNL.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Data entry error behindcontradictory test reports: Punjab medical education minister||Medical education minister OP Soni on Wednesday said that data entry errors were behind the two instances of contradictory test results of Covid-19 patients by the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here within a week.“Those reports were not wrong. There was some mix-up due to a data entry error. I have asked the medical college to ensure that such incidents don’t happen in the future,” Soni said after reviewing the functioning of the lab here.Last week, a 29-year old Huzur Sahib pilgrim from Baghapurana in Moga, his three family members and a Dubai-returned NRI had received contradictory reports of their tests within three days.On May 5, the Faridkot lab first declared reports of 10 Moga residents, including three Huzur Sahib returnees, ‘negative’ in the morning and then within next few hours declared them positive.Meanwhile, Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), informed Soni that the Faridkot lab conducted around 5,000 tests since it started working on April 13 and among them 300 persons were tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/data-entry-error-behindcontradictory-test-reports-punjab-medical-education-minister/story-S9qQBJmClNwaZprYybllUK.html
06-05-2020||City||Mohali man booked for celebrating daughter’s birthday in Yamunanagar amid lockdown||A 40-year-old Mohali man and his relatives were booked for organising a birthday party in Yamunanagar amid lockdown after a woman tested positive for Covid-19 here.The complainant, CIA-2 in-charge Mehruf Ali, said, “The accused, Vikramjit Singh of Sector 65, Mohali, came to Yamunanagar’s Sarojini Colony with his family, at his parents’ place, on April 27 to celebrate his daughter’s birthday. This birthday was attended by his family and a few local relatives. Vikramjit violated the rules of the lockdown by organising this gathering without permission. His negligence led to a positive case aming one of his relatives who attended the birthday.”A case was registered under Sections 188, 268, 269 and 270 of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act against Vikramjit and his relatives.Yamunanagar health department had on Tuesday said that the 33-year-old woman of Sarojini Colony had tested positive after which 20 samples of her contacts were taken. There are five active cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-man-booked-for-celebrating-daughter-s-birthday-in-yamunanagar-amid-lockdown/story-7si8sAF1V18vA8mbJTQ5pO.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in chemical godown in Bhiwandi||A major fire broke out in a chemical godown in Rahnal village in Bhiwandi on Wednesday. Four fire tenders from Bhiwandi, Kalyan and Thane took more than three hours to douse the blaze.No one was injured in the incident. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.The godown caught fire around 2pm and the blaze was doused completely by 5.30pm, said the fire officials.“There were drums filled with chemicals which easily spread the fire. There were minor blasts also. Thick black smoke covered the sky in the area, making it difficult to breathe,” said a fire officer of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC).A fortnight ago, a fire broke out in a thread storage godown in the same village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-in-chemical-godown-in-bhiwandi/story-tLbtd7ppiMbk3Qae76ZVNJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Bhagwanpuria brought back to Patiala, isolated at Rajindra hospital||A day after gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria tested positive for covid-19, he was brought back to Patiala on Wednesday and is now admitted at the prison ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College. Batala Police had taken Bhagwanpuria on a production warrant on April 30 for questioning in connection with the murder of a former Akali sarpanch of Dhilwan village in Gurdaspur district. His samples were taken on May 2. Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “He has been kept under elaborate security at the prison ward of the hospital. The area has been cordoned off and only medical staff is being allowed inside.”Another police official added that samples of Bhagwanpuria had been taken again on Tuesday evening in Batala, as the first report had been conducted at a private lab. The fresh samples have been sent to the government lab in Amritsar. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said samples had also been taken of 22 high-risk contacts of the gangster, including some security staff at Patiala Central Jail. Jail superintendent Karanjit Singh Sandhu said these contacts had been quarantined and had been shifted to separate cells. Bhagwanpuria had been shifted to a separate cell on April 21, when a mobile phone was recovered on him. Prior to this, he had been putting up with at least 20 other inmates in one of the barracks. In Batala, those police officials who had quarantined him during remand have been asked to home quarantine for 14 days. Bhagwanpuria’s mother Harjit Kaur claimed that her son had tested negative in the second test and accused the police of hatching a conspiracy to eliminate her son. Gurdaspur civil surgeon Dr Kisan Chand said they had not received the second sample report yet. —With inputs from Vishal Sally in Batala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gangster-bhagwanpuria-brought-back-to-patiala-isolated-at-rajindra-hospital/story-ky0QWkuPgjKflj423aKSDJ.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Man accused of assaulting homeguard over wearing face mask granted anticipatory bail||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to a Kolhapur man who was booked for allegedly instigating and assaulting a homeguard personnel after a heated argument ensued between them over being asked to wear a face mask. The single-judge bench of Justice Bharati Dangre while hearing the plea of Shekhar Sanadi, through video conferencing was informed by advocate Hrishikesh Mundargi that Sanadi was booked under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (punishment for assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 for placing his hand on the shoulder of the home guard.In light of the above Mundargi said that no offence was made out from the FIR filed by the police, hence Sanadi should be granted pre-arrest bail. However, public prosecutor Deepak Thakare opposed the plea.After hearing submissions, Justice Dangre observed, “On perusal of the FIR, prima facie what emerges is a verbal altercation between the complainant and the applicant while the latter was discharging his duty. No ingredients of Sections 323 and 353 of the IPC are made out of the complaint/FIR.While disposing of the application the bench restrained Sandi from making any inducement, threat, or attempt to persuade a person acquainted with the case from disclosing the facts to the court and not to tamper with the evidence. The court further said that in case of arrest shall be released on bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs 50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-accused-of-assaulting-homeguard-over-wearing-face-mask-granted-anticipatory-bail/story-jTmM42RhQ3LcCzABkqM2uL.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, dial to get your favourite booze brand in Punjab||The Punjab excise and taxation department has decided to open liquor vends from Thursday for four hours (9am-1pm). It has also asked vend owners to facilitate home delivery of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), not more than two litres per order, between 1 pm to 6 pm, till the time curfew is in place.According to department guidelines issued on Wednesday, vend owners can book orders over phone and depute two employees for home delivery. Punjab Made Liquor (PML), or desi, would not be delivered home.As there is no provision for home delivery in the Punjab Excise Act, the state cabinet will approve the excise department’s order on Thursday. “We have completed all modalities for starting home delivery of liquor. We hope for a green signal from the cabinet also,” said additional excise and taxation commissioner Navdeep K Bhinder.“We will know a lot of things only after we take certain decisions, and then make needed rectifications,” Bhinder added.In the excise policy for 2020-21 that the state cabinet had approved in January this year, it was decided to start online sale (home delivery) of liquor as a pilot project in Mohali.All 5,800 liquor vends, except those in seven containment zones, are expected to open. Jalandhar and Patiala districts have two containment zones, with one each in Nawanshahr, Pathankot and Mohali.DCs and deputy excise and taxation commissioners will take decisions in their areas as the situation evolves. VEND OWNERS RELUCTANT,SEEK COMPENSATION With Thursday, the first day of opening this fiscal, vend owners are claiming a straight loss of 10% (Rs 620 crore of annual revenue target of Rs 6,200 crore based on the fixed quota system), saying that vends have already been shut for 36 days. Varinder Sharma, a liquor trader from Ludhiana said, “I, and many other traders, are not willing to open vends.” Anil Mahajan, who has stakes in liquor business in the Doaba region, said they were not in a position to open vends.Vend owners are also claiming compensation for loss of nine days of last fiscal, with the lockdown coming into force from March 23. The department has said that it would conduct stock verification first and any decision on losses would be taken later.— With inputs from Sachin Sharma in Bathinda||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-dial-to-get-your-favourite-booze-brand-in-punjab/story-ijFuNnnHv3qrMQ2ZdzzzCN.html
06-05-2020||City||Thane records 46 new Covid cases, two deaths||The number of Covid positive patients in the city has almost touched 500.Two people died and 46 new cases were reported on Wednesday -- the highest one-day spike in Thane so far ---- taking the total number of cases in the city to 496.The slum and congested areas of Wagale Estate and Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar saw the largest increase with 13 and 12 cases respectively. Mumbra, which had fewer cases for the past few days, recorded a spike of eight cases on Wednesday.RT Kendre, officer on special duty for Covid 19, said, “A 49-year old man admitted to Horizon Hospital died on May 5. He had diabetes and was admitted on May 1 after he tested positive on April 28. In another case, a 46-year-old man from Rupadevipada in Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar area died of the infection at Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa on May 5. He was diabetic and admitted to the hospital on May 2. The total deaths in the city are 21. The city recorded 46 cases on Wednesday and the total number of cases is now 496.”The number of cases in Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar has crossed 100 with 106 people testing positive so far.Volunteers to monitor slum dwellersThe Thane civic commissioner has appointed young volunteers as Covid-19 warriors to ensure people in slum areas stay indoors.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Many people in slums and congested areas are seen roaming outside. The ward-level committee of young volunteers has been formed in Wagale Estate and Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward, which have the maximum number of Covid cases.”The volunteers will keep watch on people roaming outside, youngsters playing, people meeting outside and crowd at market places. “The volunteers will also educate the people on social distancing and request them to go home,” Malvi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-46-new-covid-cases-two-deaths/story-Obch7GeOrWLZC8bXE0hjZJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, get books delivered at doorstep in Chandigarh amid lockdown||On witnessing heavy rush outside bookstores after lockdown relaxations, the Chandigarh administration has now decided to permit owners to deliver books at the doorsteps. The decision came a day after the UT administration removed the odd-even policy for opening of bookstores in Chandigarh.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had on Tuesday approved opening of stationary shops on all days in the city. However after observing heavy rush at the shops, the decision to deliver books at home was taken.A spokesperson of the UT administration said, “The decision of delivering books at home was taken to prevent overcrowding at the stores.” “Meanwhile, the administration has also cautioned parents to ensure precautionary measures such as sanitising books before giving them to kids while availing home delivery services,” he added.Chandigarh Parents Association (CPA) president Nitin Goyal said it was a welcome step while mentioning that the education department had failed to clarify the confusion over the NCERT books.Recently, there had been allegations by parents claiming that the city schools are forcing students to buy books from private publishers, which were available only with a few book sellers.Goyal said, “The high court, Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) and the district education officer (DEO) have passed orders making NCERT books compulsory, but the private schools continue to prescribe books of private publishers. 40 complaints are pending in the DEO office and the administration is felicitating defiance of its own orders. The parents are now in a dilemma because of the confusion created by the education department.”Meanwhile, education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta also approved the proposal to distribute books to around 80,000 government school students from Classes 1 to 8 from the school premises itself.UT director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The distribution will start from Saturday. DEO has been authorised to carry out the distribution. The parents will be called to schools to collect the bundle of books class-wise while maintaining proper social distancing. The respective school principal and skeletal staff will carry out the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-get-books-delivered-at-doorstep-in-chandigarh-amid-lockdown/story-5pnrsxAyjTQgoUwKQsiHoI.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Matheran locals want vehicular restrictions lifted, HC asks MOEF to respond||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) to respond to a petition which sought relaxation of vehicular restrictions in the ecologically sensitive zone of Matheran to ensure essential commodities reach the hill station.Matheran, which covers an area of 214.73 square kilometres, with an ecologically sensitive zone (ESZ) ranging between 0-200 metres around it, houses a population of 4,393 according to the 2011 census. In 2003, when Matheran was notified as an ecologically sensitive zone, motorised transport was prohibited in the hill station, and transport has since relied on porters, hand carts, and horse-drawn carts.The petition filed by Suresh Lad, a former NCP MLA, and local businessman Ajay Sawant, states that since the lockdown, porters were not available and residents were being forced to pay more for essential commodities.A single bench of justice SC Gupte, while hearing the petition through video conferencing on Tuesday, was informed that no vehicular movement, except for ambulances, fire tenders and tractor-drawn vehicles to collect solid waste were allowed in Matheran. The petitioner further stated that apart from the residents, there were around 25,000 tribals and farmers who lived in the vicinity of Matheran.In light of these submissions and the fact that heavy vehicles like trucks were allowed at the time of a crisis in 2005, the court directed the collector of Raigad district and the MoEF to relax the ESZ norms to allow small tempos to enter the town with essential commodities. Lawyers for the state and Centre said that they would have to take instructions from their relevant officers for the same. The court directed them to respond in a week and posted the matter for hearing after May 11.Umesh Dubal, owner of Gujarat Bhavan hotel at Matheran, said, “As owners of horse-drawn carts had withdrawn their services due to the lockdown, porters were charging a premium as they had to pull goods uphill. This was causing the prices of essential goods to increase. Hence, there was an urgent need to allow small vehicles to enter the town with some restrictions.”Faizan Mahapule who runs the Shabbir Biryaniwala outlet said that due to the lockdown, many tribal villagers who used to come to Matheran to work had stopped coming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/matheran-locals-want-vehicular-restrictions-lifted-hc-asks-moef-to-respond/story-3VQNDfYK2Ldxen1xuWegjO.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Pune set to witness rise in temperature up to 42 degrees Celsius on May 7-8: IMD||The city is likely to witness 42 degrees Celsius maximum temperature on May 7 and 8, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The city on Wednesday recorded a maximum temperature of 40 degrees Celsius and the highest maximum temperature of 44.9 degrees Celsius was reported at Akola (Vidarbha).The city will witness partly cloudy skies generally towards the afternoon throughout the week until May 10. The minimum temperatures will be at 24 degrees Celsius on May 7 and 8. On May 9 and 10, the maximum temperature is forecast to drop by one degrees Celsius.According to IMD, a western disturbance as a trough is likely to cause a cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Bangladesh and east Vidarbha. There is also a possibility of trough/wind discontinuity from east Bihar to south interior Tamil Nadu over east Vidarbha that is causing low-pressure areas over south Andaman Sea and adjoining the southeast Bay of Bengal. However, the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to mid-tropospheric levels persists over the same region.“Day temperatures were appreciably above normal in some parts of Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra, north interior Karnataka, and above normal in some parts of Arunachal Pradesh, Konkan and Goa, Marathwada, Vidarbha, Telangana, Rayalaseema, Tamil Nadu, south interior Karnataka,” said an official from IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-set-to-witness-rise-in-temperature-up-to-42-degrees-celsius-on-may-7-8-imd/story-Y6r4E9LwCEopTnjctnb29J.html
06-05-2020||City||Liquor vends to reopen in Ludhiana from May 7||With Punjab government ordering opening of liquor vends in the state from Thursday, Ludhiana liquor vend owners have marked circles outside their shops to maintain social distancing. According to the orders of the state government, only five customers will be allowed outside the shops at a time. There is also a provision to deliver liquor at the doorsteps of the residents, with maximum of two litres liquor per customer.The vends will remain open from 9am to 3pm, while home delivery will be entertained between 3pm and 6pm Curfew pass has been made mandatory for the staff of vends delivering alcohol at doorsteps, while delivery of liquor has been prohibited in containment zones.Taking lessons from other states, the district police have pulled up socks to deal with any chaos-like situation outside liquor vends. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the police were prepared to tackle any such situation and were committed to execute the government’s orders. Meanwhile, the move has received mixed response from the public. Kulwant Singh of Sarabha Nagar said as the government had suffered huge monetary losses during the lockdown, it was forced to open liquor vends, which generated huge revenue. He cautioned that relaxation should be provided but the government should exercise maximum caution.Rajiv Sharma, a resident of Dugri, said the city was in the red zone, so the decision of opening liquor vends could backfire. The government should have waited for some more days before announcing the move, he added.HOME DELIVERY OF LIQUOR: CIVIL LINES RESIDENT LOSES ₹34,000 TO FRAUDSTERS Mukesh Kumar of Civil Lines on Wednesday lost ₹34,000 to fraudsters when he ordered a carton of scotch using a number advertised on Facebook offering home delivery of liquor at doorsteps. The trickster demanded ₹14,000 for the carton and asked him to make online payment using UPI. They demanded ₹4,000 in advance. Mukesh said after sometime the accused called him again and asked him to transfer another ₹10,000 claiming that the delivery boy was near his house.He said the accused made him make payments twice more, claiming that they had not received the amount and it had been credited to his account. He said by the time he realised he had been duped, the accused had already made him transfer ₹34,000. He has made a complaint to assistant commissioner of police (ACP, West) Sameer Verma stating that the Facebook page and numbers of the fraudsters are still active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/liquor-vends-to-reopen-in-ludhiana-on-may-7/story-ooCmipTOmxwje4kbSGl7WL.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 lockdown hits college affiliation work at Panjab University||With work hit at Panjab University, Chandigarh, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the process of granting affiliation to various colleges is in limbo this year.Panjab University (PU) has more than 190 affiliated colleges and over 100 colleges are granted temporary affiliation every year. Usually, the inspection committees of the university make visits to these colleges in April and May, following which reports are submitted to the PU syndicate.Even though the varsity had prepared for the inspections at different colleges, not a single visit has been possible ever since the lockdown started. PU’s former vice-chancellor ( V-C) Arun Kumar Grover said, “At this moment, the university authorities cannot afford to take any step that is not in the best interest of the students. They have an option to continue with the affiliations they had granted last year because a lot of students’ time has already been wasted due to the lockdown.”One of the syndicate members, professor Navdeep Goyal, said, “I think the university should extend the affiliations for one more year after it reopens,” adding, “Even if the temporary affiliations are continued, the impact of the lockdown is going to be more on the plans of the colleges to open new courses. “He further said that once the university reopens, the authorities can create a template that can be filled in by colleges before opening a new course. “Based on the information provided by colleges through the template, the PU syndicate can take a final decision,” he added.PU senator Inderpal Singh Sidhu, who is an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, said, “Since the lockdown has disrupted the inspection process, it is advisable that colleges having affiliation in previous session are allowed to proceed further for new admissions in the upcoming session.”“The colleges which want to run new courses may apply online and send details to the university, following which they may be accorded provisional affiliation subject to the validation of documents submitted to the university,” he said.Dean college development council (DCDC), PU, Sanjay Kaushik, said, “We had made all the preparations for granting affiliations to colleges before the lockdown began. Now, once the university reopens, we will take a call with the due permission of the competitive authority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-lockdown-hits-college-affiliation-work-at-panjab-university/story-ptZxcVmbbTelG5UVCb5nxJ.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||CR transports 1 lakh masks from Mumbai to Telangana||The Central Railway has recently transported one lakh N95 masks, 10 thousand eye protection goggles, 2,000 face shields and 75 pairs of protective footwear from the city to healthcare workers in Telangana. The personal protective equipment (PPE) were transported from the city to Telangana swiftly after the zonal railways introduced digital payment option for booking of parcels. “Digital payment has made the process of transferring parcels across states faster, smoother and saves any delays. A person can make digital payment and drop the parcel at the railway stations. The parcels would then be directly loaded in the train and moved to the destination.” said a senior Central Railway official. Earlier, the payments had to be physically made at parcel booking counters in order to facilitate the movements of parcels in parcel trains.The Central railway is scheduled to operate 323 parcel trains carrying essential commodities across states due to the increase in Covid-19 cases in the country. In all, 224 parcel trains carrying 2,000 tonnes of essential commodities have already been operated to Kolkata, Guwahati, Secunderabad, Chennai and Jharkhand.Citizens are also transporting essential commodities including medicines through parcel trains. The Central Railway transported urgent medical supplies to heart and cancer patients in Gorakhpur and Chiplun from the city. The medicines were picked from the house of relatives in Thane and Vikhroli and transported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-transports-1-lakh-masks-from-mumbai-to-telangana/story-pqs6EsiWKWeAVesOGhvNIL.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Is Arthur Road prison affected by Covid-19: Bombay HC asks state||The Bombay high court on Tuesday sought to know from the state government if there was any Covid-19 infection in Arthur Road jail in the city.Justice Bharati Dangre directed public prosecutor Deepak Thakare to “make a statement about the situation with regards to Covid-19 prevailing in Arthur Road jail.”The directive came on a plea filed by Hemant Bhatt, an accused in Rs 13,500 crore fraud at the Punjab National Bank, seeking interim bail in view of the coronavirus pandemic.It was pointed out on his behalf that “the applicant is 66-year-old and a chronic heart patient who has undergone by-pass surgery and diagnosed with coronary artery disease and is also suffering from hypertension.”He had sought interim bail in view of the Supreme Court’s directives to states and Union territories to decongest prisons in view of coronavirus.Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) counsel Hiten Venegaonkar opposed the plea stating that pursuant to the directives of the apex court, the high power committee constituted by the state government is empowered only to deal with prisoners who are charged with an offence punishable with not more than 7 years imprisonment and Bhatt’s case was not covered under the apex court directives.Justice Dangre, however, noted that apprehension was expressed by the inmate because of his peculiar health condition and the health crisis being faced by the world, and directed the public prosecutor to make the statement on May 8, when the plea will come up for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/is-arthur-road-prison-affected-by-covid-19-bombay-hc-asks-state/story-9ocThraZ6jdsps6bbR8H5N.html
06-05-2020||City||With 34 fresh infections J&K tally mounts to 775||Thirty-four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 775, officials said.Of the total new cases, 32 were reported from Kashmir division’s Srinagar, Shopian, Anantnag, Kupwara, Ganderbal and Kulgam districts where the tally has risen to 710. Two fresh cases are from Jammu district.Also, two more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in Kashmir division.Out of 775 positive cases—269 in Kashmir and 53 in Jammu division– have recovered in Jammu and Kashmir so far. Kashmir has 434 active cases and 11 are in Jammu.Till date, 82,367 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance—14,664 in home quarantine, 190 in hospital quarantine and 7,625 in home surveillance. Besides, 59,435 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.The government bulletin said 33,502 samples have tested as negative.Providing district-wise breakup, the Bulletin said out of 29 positive cases in Jammu, 26 have recovered while three are positive; out of 21 positive cases in Udhampur, 19 have recovered, one active positive and one died; four positive cases in Rajouri of which three have recovered and only one is active; Samba district has seven cases of which four have recovered. Kishtwar has only one positive case which has recovered while Kathua, Ramban and Reasi districts have one active case each.Classes in educational institutions to remain suspended till May 30 The higher education department on Wednesday issued an order stating that classes at all educational institutions in Jammu and Kashmir will remain suspended till May 30.The government order issued on directions of Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu reads that offices of vice-chancellors including head of departments and principals of government degree colleges of higher education department and principals of polytechnic colleges and ITI’s of technical education department across the UT will start functioning from May 6 with minimum 30% staff on rotation basis. “Besides, principals of respective institutions will draw duty roster of teaching staff to start pending work of evaluation/assessment, virtual class-work, lab work, curriculum development, scholarships and other activities,” the order reads. Similarly, duty roster of non-teaching staff on rotation basis will also be drawn to start routine official work as assigned by the controlling officer of the institution. Research Scholars are permitted to start their activities in the lab while strictly observing the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-34-fresh-infections-j-k-tally-mounts-to-775/story-ciSQRMz6oVeuysbtDRPU4I.html
06-05-2020||City||NIPER registrar issues gag order after news report on coronavirus research||The officiating registrar of the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali, has for the first time issued a gag order on all faculty, staff members, officers, banning them from speaking to the media.The orders were issued after a news report titled ‘Mohali’s NIPER focusing on cutting-edge Covid-19 research’ was published that talked about NIPER’s maiden research into identifying drugs to treat coronavirus.The faculty members are now alleging that such bans do not work and instead lead to staff speaking off the record.In the order, registrar Jitender Kumar Chandel stated, “It is reiterated that the administrative and research documents/correspondence, proposals, etc, are held by the respective employees/departments in fiduciary capacity and strictly ‘need to know basis’ and are not required to be divulged/shared/disclosed to any unauthorised person/publication orally, visually or by written communication. The employees are strictly advised not to interact with media persons unless authorised by the competent authority. Any laxity with regards to the directions will be seriously viewed and will invite action as per rules.”Even after repeated calls and messages, registrar Chandel did not respond to questions.A senior faculty member on the condition of anonymity said the gag orders clearly reflected insecurity among the management of NIPER. These undemocratic means were being used to curb criticism against the Institute, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/niper-registrar-issues-gag-order-after-news-report-on-coronavirus-research/story-L6NAm1cCTJskJ9bASWzt1J.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Pune IT firms prepare to start operations with 33% employees in lockdown 3.0||Information Technology (IT) firms in Hinjewadi and other parts of the city have commenced preparation to partially open their facilities in keeping with the permission granted by the Maharashtra government. IT companies located in Pimpri-Chinchwad police jurisdiction, which includes the Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park at Hinjewadi has been allowed to call in 33 per cent of their staff as per orders issued by Sandeep Bishnoi, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner on May 3, a day before lockdown 3.0 came into effect.Pune is one of the major IT hubs in the country with the IT Park at Hinjewadi alone, employing nearly two lakh people who reside mostly in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic areas. Annual software exports from the IT industry in Pune amounts to around $5 billion (Rs 10,000 crore), according to the Hinjewadi Industries Association.Vinayak Dhakane, deputy commissioner of police, zone-2, under whose jurisdiction the Hinjewadi IT park functions, said, “As employees are not allowed to commute to work by private vehicles, the bigger companies are now approaching us and making bus arrangements for the required number of employees who can come to work.”“By now, also their system of work-from-home has also developed,” he added.“One set of passes reached us in the morning and one at 6pm on Wednesday evening (total 263). The pass requires specific names of people travelling in a bus along with the route. The passes are being issued (by police) through HIA. If they had allowed for private vehicles for IT employees, that would been a more convenient option,” said Colonel (retired) Charanjeet Bhogal of the Hinjewadi Industries Association (HIA).Meanwhile, the Forum for IT Employees (FITE), a union for IT workers in Maharashtra, expressed the view that the employees should be called only after the lockdown is over or when Pune district, which is currently a red zone, comes to green or orange zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/it-firms-prepare-to-start-operations-with-33-employees-in-lockdown-3-0/story-8gT3ei9UaD9Rs5Y2NLKIsL.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Two constables test positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai||Two police constables have tested positive for COVID-19 in the eastern suburb of Kurla here, police said on Wednesday.The swab reports of two constables, attached to the Kurla police station, came out positive on Tuesday and the duo has been quarantined, an official said.Both policemen were in their 40s and one of them lives in Airoli, while the other resides at the police colony in Nehru Nagar, he said.Expressing concern about the rise in coronavirus cases in the police department, a constable, on condition of anonymity, said, “We are worried about our families. Who knows how many people had come in contact with the infected policemen? Several personnel above the age of 50 are still working.”  Meanwhile, senior inspector Dattatray Shinde of Kurla police station said, “It is true that policemen above 50 years are still working, but we have relieved those above 55 from duty.” The BMC will decide whether to screen other staffers at Kurla police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-constables-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mumbai/story-sGc6pV7Dm70nF4W5D8HZMK.html
06-05-2020||City||Train to take 1,188 stranded migrants from Mohali to UP||The first train to take stranded migrants from Mohali to Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh (UP) will start from the Mohali railway station at 10am on Thursday with 1,188 passengers. Disclosing this, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “The train, comprising a total of 22 bogies with 54 passengers in each, has been started as per the consent of the UP government and will not stop anywhere in-between. The passengers will be provided free packaged food during the journey. All expenses will be borne by the government.”Dayalan said the train will run for 20 days. “More trains can be added as per the requirement. The schedule will be intimated to the passengers via SMS,” he said.Dayalan said those wanting to go back to their home states can apply on covidhelp.punjab.gov.in. The registered passengers are informed by SMS to report at one of the eight collection centres in the district for screening. This SMS also serves as the ticket for the passenger. Then they will board the buses to the railway station, said Dayalan while appealing to the passengers not to go the railway station directly because the boarding would be strictly as per the messages they receive. “These messages should not be forwarded or shared with others as these will be verified at the collection centres,” said Dayalan reiterating that there is no need to panic and that all those who have applied on the portal will be sent home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/train-to-take-1-188-stranded-migrants-from-mohali-to-up/story-TF55tGwIXvpEihT6ymGrFO.html
06-05-2020||City||6 Nayagaon residents booked for disrupting demolition of illegal wall||Six residents of Vikas Nagar in Nayagaon were booked for assaulting government staff who had gone to demolish an illegal wall. The case was registered against JS Kandial of Vikas Nagar and five others, including women, on the complaint of Jagjit Singh Sahi, the executive officer (EO) of Nayagaon municipal council.In his complaint the EO said that Mangal Singh had approached the police with a complaint that Kandial and others had constructed a wall on the road from Adarsh Nagar to Guggamadi. The road had been in use for nearly two decades, but Kandial had closed the road by constructing a wall, which posed great inconvenience to residents.The EO in his complaint said that when a nagar council team went to the spot to clear the road, Kandial and the other accused attacked Mangal and disrupted the team from demolishing the wall.On the EO’s statement, police have registered a case under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 431 (mischief by injury to public road, bridge, river or channel), 447 (punishment for criminal trespass) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant ) of IPC in Nayagaon police station.It may be mentioned that a few residents of the area had also taken to social media against the demolition of the wall, saying it was constructed to prevent unwarranted entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-nayagaon-residents-booked-for-disrupting-demolition-of-illegal-wall/story-Z6IKI4ir1I7hLn50tca3hJ.html
06-05-2020||City||New cases in Himachal: Ex-CM raises concern claiming negligence on admn’s behalf||Expressing concern over three new Covid-19 cases in the state, former chief minister and senior Congress leader Virbhadra Singh on Wednesday said there was negligence on the behalf of the administration.In a statement issued here Wednesday, he said it was a matter of concern that two more people were found positive in Mandi during the third phase of lockdown. “People have been obeying the guidelines, but infected persons coming from outside have increased the chances of an outbreak in the state,” he stressed.He said the people coming to Himachal from other states were not being screened properly and the possibility of rise in Covid-19 cases in the state could not be ruled out.“There is a need of concrete action plans to fight coronavirus pandemic as it seems the infection is here to stay for a long time,” Singh said.State government should ensure availability of testing kits, ventilators and safety equipment in all district hospitals and provide more budget for health services so that such an epidemic can be detected immediately through testing in all district hospitals, he added.Singh said that due to the lockdown, thousands of workers and labourers had left for their homes and that would have a negative impact on the state’s economy. “Labourers are very important for agriculture and horticulture sectors and their absence is going to create a serious problem. Had the state government made proper arrangements of food and shelter for these people on time, their exodus could have been avoided,” he remarked, adding that the state government should start working soon on suggestions given by him.He said added that the county might face its worst recession as the economy had been dealt a big blow. “If the government fails to take necessary steps to boost economy and employment, the future would be quite scary,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-cases-in-himachal-ex-cm-raises-concern-claiming-negligence-on-admn-s-behalf/story-uJbBxFfjCxF6QvbCaaffiP.html
06-05-2020||City||Punjab industries dept assessing loss to micro industry during Covid lockdown||With the industry reeling under losses, the Punjab department of industries and commerce has initiated an exercise to gather feedback from the micro-industry on the loss of livelihood of small and self-employed micro enterprises due to the nationwide lockdown. The exercise is being undertaken through district industries centres (DICs) and an online form has to be submitted by the industrial units or associations. The industry is being asked to submit various details, including the sector of industry and the loss suffered. Officials said the data was being collected for helping the government in framing policies. According to industrialists here, there are around 80,000 micro units providing employment to around 8 lakh workers in the city. The industry has been claiming losses of around Rs 2,600 crore in terms of payment of bank loans, loss of profit and salaries/wages and advances given to labourers.National president of the All Industries and Trade Forum Badish Jindal said, “The micro industry in the city has already suffered a loss of around Rs 2,600 crore. They have submitted details with the DIC.”Jindal added, “The industry has paid around Rs 600 crore as bank interest, Rs 500 crore as salaries/wages and suffered losses up to Rs 400 crore. Further, Rs 1,100 crore is estimated as the loss of labour due to the lockdown. Therefore, there is the need that the state and the Union government announce an immediate relief package for the industry.”Chamber of the Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) president Upkar Singh Ahuja said their team was working to compile the data pertaining to the losses and it will be submitted with the DIC on Thursday. Deputy director, department of industries and commerce, Vishav Bandhu, said, “The government has decided to assess the loss and DICs across the state are compiling the data, which would be used by the government in framing policies. The data would be compiled in a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-industries-dept-assessing-loss-to-micro-industry-during-covid-lockdown/story-DFdVp7zVxMRFyVtW2x7ySO.html
06-05-2020||City||281 people stranded in Mohali sent to Uttarakhand, J&K, Leh||On the third day of the drive to send back stranded people, a total of 281 people, including students, were sent back from Nayagaon and Kharar to Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Leh in 11 buses. Girish Dayalan, deputy commissioner of Mohali, said stranded people were thoroughly screened as part of the medical procedure before heading back to their home states. Dayalan said the social distancing norms were strictly observed at the time of carrying out the screening process and boarding of the buses.A total of 175 students from Leh were sent back in seven buses from Nayagaon, while from Kharar, a total of 106 people hailing from Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir were sent back via four buses. On the first day, 464 people stranded in Mohali, Dera Bassi and Kharar began their journeys towards their hometown, Lakhanpur in Jammu and Kashmir, in 18 buses.On the second day of the drive, 411 people from Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir were sent back in 14 buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/281-people-stranded-in-mohali-sent-to-uttarakhand-j-k-leh/story-dfNNwdvT7jz0L4C5g5YZbP.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||No coercive steps against permit bars for not renewing license till May 12: HC||In a relief for permit bar license holders, the Bombay high court on Tuesday temporarily restrained the Maharashtra excise department from taking any coercive steps against them for failing to make payment of license fees and get their licenses renewed by April 30.Justice RI Chagla passed the order on Tuesday on a petition filed by the Hotel and Restaurant Association Western India, which sought a direction to the state excise commissioner not to increase license fee for the year 2020-21. The body representing hotels and restaurants in Western India has also challenged the validity of a circular issued by excise department on April 13 requiring all FL-III license holders to make payment of license fees by April 30.Counsel for the petitioner body also urged the court to pass urgent order extending the April 30 deadline for renewal of licenses and payment of license fees till such time as the FL-III license holders are freely allowed to run their businesses, without restrictions imposed on account of Covid-19 pandemic, for at least fifteen days.Justice Chagla, however, adjourned the petition, as the state government’s lawyer could not log-in on the video conferencing facility.The court then posted the petition on May 12 for further hearing and till then restrained the state authorities from taking coercive action against the petitioners for failure to comply with the deadline of April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-coercive-steps-against-permit-bars-for-not-renewing-license-till-may-12-hc/story-jH0iaQPRvW26tNkinMNnNK.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh cabinet approves hike in petrol, diesel and liquor prices||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Wednesday approved proposals making petrol, diesel and liquor costlier, through which the government hopes to earn an additional Rs 4,429 crore in 2020-2021.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over the cabinet meeting held via video conferencing.Briefing media persons, minister for finance and medical education Suresh Khanna said the state government’s revenue has declined considerably due to the fight against Covid-19 and it was able to earn only Rs 2012.66 crore against a target of Rs 13,590.97 crore for April 2020.Khanna, who heads a committee constituted to mobilise additional resources, said prices of petrol will go up by Rs 2 per litre while diesel will be costlier by Re 1 per litre.He said the state government would get an additional Rs 2,079 crore by the decision to increase VAT on petrol and diesel. An additional Rs 2,350 crore would be earned by the increase in prices of liquor, Khanna said.He said the increase in prices will be effective from Wednesday/Thursday midnight. He said prices of petrol would go up from Rs 71.91 per litre to Rs 73.91 per litre while diesel prices will go up from Rs 62.86 per litre to Rs 63.86 per litre.Khanna said the cabinet also approved a proposal to make liquor costlier by Rs 5 per bottle in case of country made liquor to Rs 400 per bottle (of more than 500 ml) in the case of imported brands of foreign liquor. He said the closure of liquor shops led to a flourishing trade of illicit liquor with 80,020 litres of illicit liquor seized during the lockdown period. He said three persons died in Modinagar, in Ghaziabad, after consuming sanitiser while three deaths were reported following consumption of illicit liquor in Kanpur.Khanna said under the Indian Made Foreign Liquor’s (IMFL) cheaper brands in economy and medium categories prices will go up by Rs 10 for 180 ml bottle, Rs 20 for 180 ml to 500 ml bottle and Rs 30 for more than 500 ml bottle.For brands of regular and premium categories an additional Rs 20 will be charged on 180 ml bottle, Rs 30 on 180 ml to 500 ml bottle and Rs 50 on more than 500 ml bottle.For imported liquor Rs 100 extra will be charged on 180 ml bottle while Rs 200 additional amount will be charged on 180 ml to 500 ml bottle. An additional Rs 400 will be charged on more than 500 ml of imported liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-approves-hike-in-petrol-diesel-and-liquor-prices/story-YEUuqxYyKn1g8cPXyFEfML.html
06-05-2020||City||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally now 45||Three more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra and Chamba districts on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 45, officials said.One of the patient is a 43-year-old man from Jamanabad panchayat near Kangra town and has a travel history to Dubai. “He had returned to Delhi on March 21 where he stayed for over a month and then came to Himachal on April 27 with four others in a car,” Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.The man was under home quarantine since April 28 and developed Influenza-like Illness symptoms. A health team collected his sample on Tuesday which came out positive.Prajapati said earlier his sample had tested negative for Covid-19 in Delhi. “The patient has been admitted to a treatment facility at Panchyati Raj Training Institute (PRTI), Baijnath.Twenty-four of the patient’s primary contacts, including his four co-passengers have been traced and put under quarantine. They will be tested for Covid-19 on Thursday.Meanwhile, authorities have sealed the Jamanabad panchayat and no activities will be allowed in the area till further orders. The fresh case from Kangra was reported on the day when the district was set to be declared a green zone. The last case in the district was reported 21 days ago.Two other positive cases have been reported from Kihar area of Salooni sub-division in Chamba district. Both had a travel history to Baddi area of Solan. They returned to Chamba on April 30. Authorities have started their contact mapping. The patients are being shifted to a treatment facility and the area they belong to is being sealed.Himachal Pradesh has reported five fresh cases in the last three days, including a casualty. A 21-year-old youth from Sarkaghat of Mandi district had died of Covid-19 at IGMC, Shimla on Tuesday. The number of active cases is five.Earlier, a youth from Jogindernagar of Mandi district had tested positive on Monday. The positive cases from Mandi and Kangra had returned home from Delhi on or after April 27, when the state government opened the borders to facilitate return of residents stuck in other states.Till date, a total of 16,936 people were under surveillance in the state, of which 10,024 are under home or institutional quarantine. As many as 8,491 people have been tested for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-now-43/story-yLvTlrikji4UpudL3rkMQK.html
06-05-2020||City||Himachal govt announces ₹50L ex-gratia for HRTC drivers, conductors bringing stranded residents home||The state government has decided to pay ₹50 lakh ex-gratia to next of kin of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) drivers and conductors engaged in bringing back stranded people from different parts of the country.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has appreciated their work in ferrying a large number of students stuck in Rajasthan, Delhi, Chandigarh Tricity area and other parts of the country due to lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.The CM said the state government was concerned about the safety and welfare of its employee engaged in fighting Covid-19 and was providing them all necessary safety equipment such as masks, gloves etc.He said the government had decided to provide ₹50 lakh ex-gratia to HRTC employees’ next of kin in case of death of any drivers, conductors and other staffers engaged in bringing back the stranded residents.The CM also thanked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for extending help in the return of 22 students studying in various institutes in Varanasi, who are expected to reach Himachal by Thursday.Meanwhile, a state government spokesperson said that six persons – Surender Kumar, Ajay Kumar, Sanjeev, Subhash, Anoop and Kamal Kumar – of Chamba district arrived at Himachal Bhawan, Chandigarh, after ten days of walking and hitchhiking from Nagpur, Maharashtra. He said they were provided boarding and lodging facilities and that the CM had spoken to them and assured them of all possible help for their further journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-announces-50l-ex-gratia-for-hrtc-drivers-conductors-bringing-stranded-residents-home/story-oKRn1WxSukvx4ZiSpRK5qN.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Stranded labourers in Pune restless, desperate to travel back home||Stranded migrant workers living in labour camps across Pune expect a long battle for a chance to travel back home, but restlessness and desperation has kicked in.Despite government agencies and NGOs providing them with adequate food and shelter, the labourers don’t want to stay in Pune any longer due to the fear of the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection. Ashok Das who is staying at a labour camp in Katraj said that he and his friends are from West Bengal and want to travel back home to their village. “We are stuck in Pune due to the lockdown. Besides food packets, we are not getting any proper facilities in the labour camp, each passing day has become difficult for us, so we want to go back home now,” Das said. One of the primary hurdles, the migrant labourers face, is getting a medical certificate from an authorised health professional. According to Vaishali Patkar, president of the Aundh Vikas Mandal which is working in the interest of migrant labourers in the city, the number of people wanting to avail the certificate is huge. “There are technical issues which the labourers are facing while filling up the form online, while some of them do not have Aadhar card and are not able to register. For others, there is a lot of confusion over the orders issued by various government agencies, which needs to be clarified,” Patkar said. Another activist, Keshav Mandhare from Katraj believes that the conditions inside the labour camps are not good. “Though they are getting regular food, but all of them are worried about their future stay in Pune. Now most of them have applied to go back to their states, they want the government to arrange a train for them and also provide safety. We are trying our best to help them out, but their patience is now spiralling,” Mandhare said. Credai Pune Metro has been helping migrant workers in all possible ways and providing food, but since the labourers do not have work, they have become restless, according to Suhas Merchant, president of Credai Pune Metro. “Since there is no work on the construction site, naturally these workers want to go back home. How long can builders sustain in this crisis situation? There is a need of proper coordination between different governing bodies like municipal corporations, police department, district administration and others, as everyone issues different orders. So we are not able to start the construction work,” Merchant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/stranded-labourers-in-pune-restless-desperate-to-travel-back-home/story-oosR7qGVDrexzLa2o4nxqI.html
06-05-2020||City||Life in the times of lockdown: Ludhiana hospital consultant helping people beat anxiety with online yoga classes||“During the ongoing curfew, I noticed a surge in cardiac and hypertension patients at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and even the hospital staff complained of high level of stress and anxiety, prompting me to start yoga sessions online,” says Dr Sanjeev Singh Rawat, senior yoga consultant, DMCH, Ludhiana. Dr Rawat, who has been conducting online yoga classes through DMCH’s official website since April, says he has so far taken three sessions of 30 to 40 minutes each comprising 39 asanas.“In my next class that will possibly go live within a week, I will largely focus on the lifestyle changes that one needs to adopt for leading a stress free and calm life,” he informs.The senior consultant says yoga asanas activate neurons that alleviate stress and also relax body muscles that tighten because of stress.He says while yoga nidra (also known as shavasana) helps in cases with cardiac disease, stress and hypertension by relaxing body tissues, asanas such as katichakraasana, udarakarshanasana, surya namaskar, vajrasana, mandukaasana and pawanmuktaasana help in enhancing overall strength and flexibility and are also effective in healing pulmonary diseases.“Pranayama that are practised after yoga nidra and other asanas are also important aspects of yoga. Pranayama like nadi shodhana helps in removing blockages in all 72,000 nerves in the body,” he adds.Dr Rawat suggests ‘dhai ghadi’, 35 minutes before and after sunrise, as the perfect time for performing yoga as nostrils are most active during these times allowing breathing exercises effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/started-online-yoga-class-to-help-people-beat-anxiety-stress-during-lockdown-ludhiana-hospital-consultant/story-sArJwTLXlNLPiS8ewZqG9I.html
06-05-2020||City||Zirakpur man tests positive, takes Mohali dist’s Covid count to 96||After a gap of two days, one more person has tested positive for Covid-19 in Mohali, taking the count of total cases to 96. The 57-year-old, a resident of Golden Sand society in Zirakpur, underwent a surgery at Paras Hospital in Panchkula. During surgery, his blood samples were taken by the hospital and he tested positive.Mohali’s civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, on Tuesday, that the patient has been sent to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. “We have sealed a part of the society, where he lives and are now tracing his contacts,” he said.As of now, the total positive cases in the district are 96, of which 43 have recovered and 51 are still battling the virus.Updating the status of quarantined people, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Up till now, a total of 2,605 people have successfully undergone the quarantine period, while 971 are still in quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-man-tests-positive-takes-mohali-dist-s-covid-count-to-96/story-3XHcXG5NPUQDUfsTDY9rTK.html
06-05-2020||City||Ludhiana village sarpanch, husband, four others booked for beating up labourer||A Congress sarpanch, her husband and their four relatives were booked for allegedly beating up a labourer after denying ration to his wife for not voting for her during the panchayat elections.The incident took place on May 1, but the Sahnewal police registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused on Tuesday night, four days after the incident.The accused have been identified as sarpanch Rupinder Kaur of Majara village, her husband Balvir Singh, nephews Kamaljot Singh, Jasdeep Singh, Hardev Singh and brother Darbara Singh.The victim, Jasvir Singh, 42, of Majara village, alleged the police were being pressured by the sarpanch against lodging a case, but acted after he remained persistent.Jasvir said, “Packets of ration reached the sarpanch’s house on May 1 for distribution among the needy. When my wife Sunita Rani went to her house for ration, the sarpanch and her husband started abusing her saying that she had not voted for her and turned her away.”“In the evening, I went to the house of sarpanch and objected to her behaviour. But she and her relatives slapped me and pushed me out of their house. After some time, when I was going to repair a motor in the village, they came there and kidnapped me. They took me to her house and thrashed me,” he added.“I was rushed to the hospital by my wife and mother,” he said.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balvir Singh, who is investigating the case, refuted the allegation of discouraging the victim to lodge an FIR. He said they were only waiting for the medical report of the victim. A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. The accused will be arrested soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-village-sarpanch-husband-four-others-booked-for-beating-up-labourer/story-FIoQSGyHaqgHwikMbra0xM.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University organises webinar on international pharmaceutical sciences||The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), Panjab University, organised an international webinar on pharmaceutical sciences on Wednesday.More than 100 participants from all over the world, including faculty from Panjab University and other institutions, Phd scholars and pharmacy students attended the webinar.Professor D Samba Reddy from the department of neuroscience and experimental therapeutics, college of medicine, Texas A&M University, USA, held a talk and interactive session on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .He spoke on the science-based facts of Covid-19, its targets, prevention, new vaccines and anti-viral medicines, and common tips of surviving the outbreak.PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar urged participants to take up drug discovery and drug development for Covid-19 and other such deadly diseases as the thrust areas of research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-organises-webinar-on-international-pharmaceutical-sciences/story-sWm1cuweFWrgChVshkkvYM.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Man who obstructed paramedics ordered to contribute ₹10K to CM Relief Fund||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday granted bail to a city resident booked for obstructing paramedics from conducting a survey in regards to the Covid-19 outbreak, on a condition that the accused contribute ₹10,000 towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight the coronavirus.“The applicant had behaved in an irresponsible manner and particularly at a time when every citizen of this country is expected to cooperate with those rendering useful services to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” said justice Bharati Dangre while imposing the cost on Zafar Jamal Khan.When a team of paramedics visited Khan’s society to collect data in light of the pandemic, he prevented them from doing their job and also persuaded other residents not to share any information with the team.Because of the obstruction, some heated arguments took place between him and the team, and an offence was registered, charging Khan under sections 353, 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code and section 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for preventing a public servant from discharging his duty, disobedience, and negligent behavior likely to spread infection.Justice Dangre said that the offense was not punishable under section 353 (assault) and Khan deserved to be given bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-who-obstructed-paramedics-ordered-to-contribute-10k-to-cm-relief-fund/story-NQySH7nXEjALZuWsJ7unEN.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||AICTE starts online scrutiny of documents for fast approval of new engineering institutes||The ongoing lockdown has not only held up the exams and admissions process to professional courses but also delayed the process of approval of new institutes. Keeping the current situation in mind, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has come up with a new method to continue the approval process for new colleges without delay.In a statement released on Wednesday, the council has clarified that requirement of documents remains same to previous few years. “We have devised online scrutiny of documents and virtual institute inspections in order to proceed with approval of new colleges. This process can’t be further delayed so we had to come up with a viable solution,” said Anil Sahasrabuddhe, chairman, AICTE. He added that the online scrutiny will be at par with any physical scrutiny that institutes have been put through in the past.In the last two years, growing vacancy in both engineering and pharmacy institutes pushed the council to implement a ban on new technical and pharmacy institutes across the country. However, this ban was relaxed in districts with no government-funded institute as well as those institutes who have been applying for approval since before the ban was implemented.“Institutes are free to apply for approval but we will scrutinising every detail before any decision comes through. This year we have received maximum applications for new management colleges,” added Sahasrabuddhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aicte-starts-online-scrutiny-of-documents-for-fast-approval-of-new-engineering-institutes/story-pAdnTH1tJBS5EqmlJ8FnfK.html
06-05-2020||City||Covid-19 lockdown: PSPCL Ludhiana to reopen offices to public on May 7||Over a month after suspending public dealing at its centres in the view of the coronavirus outbreak , the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), central zone, will reopen its sub-divisional offices for the public on Thursday.Offices will remain open from 9am to 5pm, but the cash counters will close at 2pm.In the central zone that covers Ludhiana East, Ludhiana West, Khanna, and suburban circle, the corporation officials have already started marking spots at adequate distance to ensure social distancing when people visit the offices.There are 76 sub-divisional offices, in the 19 divisions of the central zone, which were closed to the public on March 22. DPS Grewal, engineer-in-chief, PSPCL, said they will also soon restart meter reading operations that were halted due to the lockdown. Meter reading staff visiting containment zones will be provided PPE (personal protective equipment) kits, he said. “Throughout the lockdown, we have ensured uninterrupted power supply to all types of consumers. Now, we will gradually revive all our operations. All staff members have been given sanitisers and gloves by the department,” Grewal added.REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE WORK OF FEEDERS STARTS To ensure no power disruption during peak summer and paddy season, the corporation has started repair and maintenance of feeders and transmission lines.Grewal said superintending and executive engineers had been directed to carry out maintenance of 11 kV feeders, including transformers and low tension lines, to minimise outages.“Eight hour power supply will be given to all agricultural consumers during paddy season from the date decided by the state government,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-lockdown-pspcl-ludhiana-to-reopen-offices-to-public-on-may-7/story-XbHVUPEsL7yftG6Ayh0FbJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Mohali bar body seeks relaxation of criteria for financial help to lawyers amid lockdown||With not even a single advocate qualified to get financial assistance from the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH), the district bar association (DBA) of Mohali wants relaxation of the criteria to help ‘needy lawyers’ who have lost out on income amid the prevailing curfew.The BCPH, the apex body of lawyers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, with nearly one lakh members, has already granted financial assistance of ₹5,000 each to about 1,800 advocates. The bar body had received 3,400 applications for financial help. The Covid-19 relief fund for advocates has been set up on the lines of Delhi and Goa bar council.A 26-year-old advocate living in Phase 1, Mohali, said he had just started his career. “However, courts are closed so I have not been able to earn. But I am expected to pay my rent and meet other expenses. I need assistance to tide over this tough time,” said the young lawyer, unwilling to be named.“I have been getting about 10 to 12 calls from lawyers seeking help. With courts not working, it is become difficult for them, so I decided to take up the issue,” said Manpreet Singh Chahal, president of Mohali DBA. Chahal said he had written to the bar council and is urging other bar associations to step forward and help lawyers.“The conditions imposed for availing help must be relaxed so that a larger number of lawyers can be helped,” said Chahal, who is also seeking to increasing the amount.Courts have been closed for more than 40 days now and some advocates who were living hand to mouth have been rendered without income. Of 600 DBA members, 25 applications for help were filed by advocates who could meet the criteria.For an advocate to qualify for financial help, he should be active and have a regular legal practice at the bar. The advocate must be unable to earn due to the lockdown. He/she should not be receiving any monthly payment from another advocate with whom he/she is practising as a junior. No one in his/her family must be getting a monthly salary from any government or statuary body or organisation, and neither should any member of his/her family be getting a pension. He/she should not own a car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-bar-body-seeks-relaxation-of-criteria-for-financial-help-to-lawyers-amid-lockdown/story-5cJUFlnP0fMOcuzrMOTI5O.html
06-05-2020||City||Art 370 revocation:‘Increased attacks on forces, intense shellling a sign that Pak is desperate’||Amid a spurt in terror attacks and intense shelling by Pakistani Army along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, army officials say these are desperate attempts by an exasperated Pakistan post the abrogation of Article 370. A senior officer of the Northern Command, requesting anonymity, said every time Pakistan indulges in mischief, it is given a stinging punch in the face. “They had no locus-standi in the past but after nullification of J&K’s special status, Pakistan Army has been indulging in desperate attacks on security forces and intense shelling on the borders,” he said. In a recent report, the Intelligence Bureau had stated that there were 16 operational launch pads across the LoC that are ready to push 450 terrorists into J&K. However, there was a lull for over six months after the August 5 move. The senior official attributed it to Pakistan’s internal problems. “They were under pressure from FATF and then Imran Khan’s government got into a confrontation with General Bajwa. Our mountain passes were also closed due to snow. The lull can be attributed to multiple factors,” he said. “We lost eight security personnel in two incidents but they cannot sum up and define the entire scenario. We are constantly maintaining pressure on militants and retaliating strongly to shelling and firing by Pakistan Army along the LoC,” he said. Major General (retired) GS Jamwal said, “Pakistan is fast losing what they call their jugular vein—Kashmir—after the abrogation of Article 370. Therefore, they are now resorting to all sorts of desperate measures.” “They want to keep the Kashmir issue alive and they know how to grab attention of the international community, including Islamic countries, by staging terror attacks and flaring up borders with India and then blaming us,” he said. He also anticipated more terror attacks in future. “We should continue to maintain pressure on terrorists and ensure that we don’t lose our men but inflict maximum damage on them,” he said. Pak army resorts to firing along LoC in Poonch Pakistan Army on Wednesday resorted to firing on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in two sectors of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, drawing retaliation from Indian soldiers, a defence spokesperson said. “Around 3:40pm, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along LoC in Shahpur sector,” the spokesperson said. Cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received, officials said. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/art-370-revocation-increased-attacks-on-forces-intense-shellling-a-sign-that-pak-is-desperate/story-I6vCF1UgPeomZcWuItvnwJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Himachal CM urges Centre to open CSD canteens in areas sans facility||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday urged the central government to open CSD canteen or their extension counters in the areas covered under the facility in the state.In a letter to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, the CM said the issue of establishing CSD canteens in the state has been a long-pending demand of serving soldiers and ex- servicemen as many areas are devoid of basic amenities for which the latter have to travel long distances to avail canteen facilities.He said the state government felt the demand was genuine and strongly recommended the case.Thakur added that the state government would provide necessary infrastructure and gap funding if needed in this regard.DHARAMPUR BJP DONATES ₹31.02L IN COVID-19 RELIEF FUNDThe BJP block executive of Dharampur assembly segment has contributed ₹31.02 lakh towards the Chief Minister’s Covid-19 Response Fund.Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur presented the cheque to the chief minister on Wednesday.Apart from this, HP State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation (MILKFED) chairman Nihal Chand presented the chief minister a cheque of ₹18.70 lakh towards the relief fund on behalf of the various milk cooperatives.Of the total amount, Dhagwar (Kangra) milk processing plant contributed ₹98,600; Chakkar Mandi plant ₹5.91 lakh, Dutt Nagar (Rampur) milk plant ₹8.23 lakh, while milk processing plant of Nalagarh and Nahan collectively contributed ₹1.2 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-urges-centre-to-open-csd-canteens-in-areas-sans-facility/story-YKTsW55ZNsHKtzY2rJbQCN.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Three brothers attacked in Chembur, one killed||A man was killed after he and his two brothers were attacked by a group of 11 at Chembur on Tuesday morning.According to RCF police, the incident occurred at New Bharat Nagar at Vashi Naka in Chembur. Prashant Panvalkar, 27, and his brothers Shankar, 25, and Pralhad, 22, indulged in a brawl with the accused four days ago.“One of the accused had teased Prashant’s to-be wife that resulted into the brawl,” said Shrikant Desai, assistant commissioner of police, Trombay division.In a bid to take revenge, around eleven persons armed with rods, sickle and iron bats attacked the brothers outside their residence at 6.30am on Tuesday. The brothers were rushed to Sion Hospital where Prashant was declared dead before admission. The two others were out of danger, police said. “We have arrested seven accused in this regard and are looking out for others,” said Desai. The accused have been charged under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections for murder, attempt to murder, assault, riot amongst others.In another assault case in Ghatkopar (East), a 30-year-old man, Akash Shetty, was attacked with a knife by three persons over a brawl that took place over parking of vehicles in densely populated slums at Ramabai Nagar on Monday night. The trio had indulged in an argument with Shetty’s cousin, Prashant Gaikwad, for which Shetty had gone to solve the dispute. He was instead attacked by the accused who have been arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-brothers-attacked-in-chembur-one-killed/story-j9RnseQrCokUSLojgTUfWN.html
06-05-2020||Pune||300 migrants queue for hours outside Pune hospital for medical certificates||At least 300 stranded migrant workers from various parts of the country gathered in front of the Aundh Kutir hospital in Pune as early as 3am to avail a medical certificate to travel back home. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run hospital has been authorised to issue health certificates to labourers after checking them for any Covid-19 symptoms. The large crowd in front of the Aundh hospital also consisted of women and children. Laltidevi, a woman from Chappra in Bihar said she came to Pune for a court hearing after her husband died, but has been stuck in the city for over 2 months. “I had come for 10 days for a court hearing after my husband died while working at a site in Pune. They had called me to collect the insurance money, now it’s been two months since I’ve been stuck here,” she said. There are several others along with Laltidevi who belong to Chappra in Bihar. Most of them, walked 12 kilometers from Sutarwadi, Pashan area to Aundh. “We started early at 6am to beat the queue,” said Nasseruddin Khan, clutching his copy of the Aadhar card and the travel form close to him.“Can we get some food? We haven’t had anything to eat since last night. There was no ration and we are all hungry,” he said, pointing to his fellow labourers.According to Khan, the workers who walked with him were either working at construction sites or were involved in odd jobs like painting and denting in the Balewadi, Baner area. Khan was working on painting interiors and was half way into his contract when the lockdown was announced. He did not get his full payment and now has to return home without the money. “I have a family back in Chappra and they must be worried about me. Hence, I came here as early as 7am to beat this queue. The faster, I get my medical certificate, the sooner I can go home,” Khan said. Not everyone in the queue was from Bihar, Vijaya Khidki, a resident of Buldhana, was visiting her son who works at a grocery store in the city. “I want to go back to my hometown, I had come for a short visit and now I am stuck here. Both my son and I, are leaving Pune at the earliest,” she said.The husband of a pregnant woman in the crowd asked NV Swami, senior pharmacy officer, incharge of the coordination for issuance of the medical certificate whether he will be allowed to travel to Sangli with his 9-month pregnant wife.Swami asks him to stay in Pune and takes another set of questions posed by labourers. “We will first take the temperature and check for any Covid-19 symptoms, only when they are clear will they be issued a medical certificate. We will keep a copy of the certificate and a copy of their Aadhaar card with the mobile number. We started this two days ago, there weren’t so many people at first. The influx of workers has increased three-fold today and I was informed by the security that people have been waiting since 3am outside the gate,” Swami said. The hospital opens at 8.30am and is open until 1pm every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/migrant-labourers-queue-for-hours-outside-aundh-hospital-to-get-their-medical-certificates/story-w65GSZcnaeKSuTZKwTiD0N.html
06-05-2020||City||Former MLA Rohit Thakur discusses farmers’ issues with Himachal CM||Former Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator and chief parliamentary secretary (agriculture) on Wednesday met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to discuss various problems being faced by farmers in the state.He also submitted a letter demanding solutions for ground-level problems of farmers and horticulturists.Stating that agricultural and horticultural activities had taken a hit due to the coronavirus outbreak, he demanded the supply of packaging materials for fruits and apples through HP Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC), HP State Co-operative Marketing and Consumers Federation (HIMFED) and private vendors. He said that production of packaging materials, which has been been stalled since March, should be started in industrial areas like Baddi, Kala Amb and Nalagarh by taking precautionary measures to ensure safety of the workers.He also urged the state government to make arrangements for labourers, 90% of whom have come to the state’s apple growing belt from Nepal, besides demanding to set up a high-level monitoring committee under the CM’s chairmanship to redress farmers’ issues.The state government should fix minimum support price in order to provide relief to the farmers, while support prices should also be increased as cost of production of apples have gone up, he said.The former Congress MLA asked the CM to waive off loans of small and marginal farmers and revise budget 2020-21 to prioritise health and agricultural sector as the situation has changed since the budget was approved.In addition to it, Thakur suggested opening of controlled atmosphere stores and fruit processing units so that farmers could store their produce safely and sell it at reasonable rates. He also demanded compensation for the loss suffered by farmers and horticulturists due to hailstorm.Thakur has also called for strengthening of public distribution system in the state, besides provision of free ration for poor and needy persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-mla-rohit-thakur-discusses-farmers-issues-with-himachal-cm/story-4UmZxSXyaRvZAx6jj9DoMI.html
06-05-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt converts Kolkata Medical College into Covid-19 hospital||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that Kolkata Medical College would be converted into a full- fledged Covid hospital in the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases.The hospital will be operational from Thursday, (May 7,2020).“Keeping in view the increasing need of ramping up specialised Covid treatment in the State, we have decided to notify Medical College, Kolkata as a full-fledged tertiary level Covid Hospital, which will start functioning from 7th May 2020 onwards,” the West Bengal CM tweeted.“The facility at Medical College, Kolkata will start with 500 beds (for both Covid and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) which would be scaled up as per need, in phases. This will be the 68th dedicated Covid hospital of West Bengal,” she said in another tweet.West Bengal has so far reported 1,344 positive cases, said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today. The total positive cases include 364 cured or discharged persons and 140 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-govt-converts-kolkata-medical-college-into-covid-19-hospital/story-C3hR45J9EqoqHCiT9iY5GI.html
06-05-2020||City||Rain lashes parts of HP, more likely till May 12||Heavy rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms lashed Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur Shimla, Solan and Mandi districts on Wednesday. State’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said due to a fresh western disturbance, rainfall along with hailstorm and thunderstorms are very likely to occur in higher and middle hills of the state on May 7. “Weather will be dry throughout the state on May 8 after which rain will continue in higher and middle hills till May 12.However, weather will be dry in the lower hills,” he said.Meanwhile, minimum temperatures were one to two degrees below normal and maximum temperatures were three to four degrees below normal.Shimla witnessed light to moderate rainfall and the minimum temperature was 11.5°C.The minimum temperature in Kufri was 8.9°C, Manali 6.4°C, Dalhousie 12.0°C and Dharamshala 12.8°C. Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan recorded 12.0°C, 21.0°C, 20.6°C and 19.4°C respectively.With 2.3°C, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was coldest in the state while Una was the hottest at 36.2°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-lashes-parts-of-hp-more-likely-till-may-12/story-6V6x0cCLBt5cFIDLL3eb3I.html
06-05-2020||Ranchi||Nepal sends monetary aid to its citizens living in Ranchi amid corona lockdown||Food material, worth Rs 1.20 lakh sent by the Nepal government and cash was distributed among Nepali citizens who are currently stranded in Ranchi due to the coronavirus lockdown.“I had spoken to Nepal government day before yesterday. They sent the money in my account yesterday. I shopped for all the food material, called up these people and gave it to them, and also giving them Rs 500-1000 in cash,” said Suman Bhandari, one of the Nepali citizen working here.Most of the Nepali diaspora work in Ranchi as watchmen or in hotels, and were facing problems since the imposition of lockdown.Meanwhile, the Nepal government on Wednesday decided to extend the lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak in the country until May 18.All Nepal’s borders have also been sealed in the wake of the lockdown extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/nepal-sends-monetary-aid-to-its-citizens-living-in-ranchi-amid-corona-lockdown/story-4UkU11ZpwqwwJTbFn94b9J.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||39-year-old succumbs to Covid-19 in Patiala; tests positive post-death||A day after a 39-year-old patient died at Patiala’s Mata Kaushlaya Hospital, he was found to be positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the department was attributing the death to Covid-19. “The patient had co-morbid conditions such as hypotension and cardiac ailments. He was also taking epilepsy medication,” Dr Malhotra said.The patient, a resident of Patiala’s Aman Nagar, was taken to government Mata Kaushlaya Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Dr Malhotra said, “After analysing his medical conditions, his body was shifted to a mortuary at government medical college and his samples were taken as per standard operating procedures. “Four of his high-risk contacts have been traced and quarantined. Their samples have been collected,” he said.Patiala has 94 positive cases, and two Covid-19 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/39-year-old-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-patiala-tests-positive-post-death/story-3nNxi0w3nq1DXIMsqFuZ5J.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Lockdown puts warkaris’ annual procession in limbo||The Covid-19 pandemic has cast an uncertainty over this year’s Ashadhi palkhi procession of the warkaris, their annual pilgrimage.At least 15 lakh people from the state participate in the annual procession from Alandi and Dehu to Pandharpur, making it the largest pilgrimage in Maharashtra. However, with the extension of the lockdown and a ban on all kinds of religious gathering, the warkaris who are set to begin the procession on June 12 have sought clarity from government.Organisers of the Sant Dynaneshwar Maharaj palkhi said they want the state government to clarify how the wari should proceed this year, given that at least 15 lakh people gather at Pandharpur.Rambhau Chopdar, trustee, Sant Dynaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi samiti, said that the procession is scheduled to begin in less than a month. The wari will begin with the departure for Muktai’s palkhi from Alandi on May 27, while two other palkhis of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram will depart from Alandi and Dehu on June 13 and June 12 respectively. However due to lockdown, the preparations are stalled, delaying the procession.“We have dindis (small groups of warkaris) coming in from across Maharashtra and everyone is keen on beginning the procession as per schedule, but there is no clarity whether they will be allowed to do so. The government must find solutions to keep the centuries-old tradition uninterrupted,” said Chopdar.He added that there are not many days left for preparations as people are confined to their homes, given the nationwide lockdown. “The Muktai’s palkhi is scheduled to leave from Alandi in 22 days and the Sant Dynaneshwar’s palkhi is scheduled to leave in 38 days. However, there has been no response from the government regarding Maharashtra’s largest pilgrimage. We appeal to the Government to suggest the way forward. We are aware that this year the wari may not be such a big event due to the Covid-19 pandemic but we need an answer from the authorities to take the next step,” said Chopdar.About the pilgrimageWari is the annual pilgrimage from Alandi to Pune to Pandharpur which takes place in the Hindu month of Aashadh around June- July. Lakhs of devotees walk the 250 km route. The Warkaris sing Abhanga along the route carrying silver Padukas in their allotted Dindis.ScheduleMuktai’s palkhi from Alandi: May 27Sant Tukaram palkhi from Dehu: June 12Sant Dnyaneshwar palkhi from Alandi: June 13||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lockdown-puts-warkaris-annual-procession-in-limbo/story-MGmLz0C9sQdWonBuAoC3WL.html
06-05-2020||Pune||11-year-old is Pune district’s youngest Covid-19 casualty, 4 deaths reported on Tuesday||The city reported four deaths on Tuesday, including that of an 11-year-old boy who is now the youngest casualty. A total of 65 fresh cases were registered, taking the count to 1,943.He was admitted at Sassoon General Hospital. Out of the four deaths, three were reported from Sassoon hospital and one from Bharati hospital. The boy who was being looked after by his aunt had developmental delayed convulsions, short stature and was symptomatic since April 30.According to a statement released by Sassoon hospital, The boy stayed at home for one night with altered sensorium and convulsions. He was admitted to the hospital at 9:20 am on May 3 and died the next day at 9:30 pm. The cause of his death has been mentioned as disseminated intravascular coagulopathy, septic shock with MODS pancreatitis, acute kidney injury, myocarditis, encephalopathy, ARDS with developmental delay along with Covid-19 infection. He also reportedly suffered from obstructive uropathy with Urosepsis.The second death from the hospital is of a 31-year-old male residing at Yerawada who was symptomatic since April 29 and was admitted to the hospital on May 1 and was declared dead on Monday at 7:15 pm. The cause of death includes acute respiratory failure with Acute Kidney Injury, diabetes, myocarditis and ARDS with bilateral pneumonitis. The third death from the hospital is that of a 63-year-old from Bhavani peth who was symptomatic from April 18 and was admitted to the hospital on April 24. He was declared dead on May 4 at 10:15 pm and was also suffering from bilateral pneumonia, myocarditis with Covid-19 infection and hypertension.The forth death was reported at Bharati Hospital. A 66-year -old man, who resides in Padmavati, also suffered from hypertension and bilateral pneumonia. The patient was in the hospital since April 30 and was declared dead on Tuesday at 5:30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/11-year-old-is-pune-district-s-youngest-covid-19-casualty-4-deaths-reported-on-tuesday/story-TV55B3g8MY6xHANOD6DSCK.html
06-05-2020||Gurugram||7 more Covid-19 cases in Haryana, state tally reaches 555||Seven more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Haryana, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 555 on Wednesday, the state Health Department said. Among the new cases, Gurugram has reported three cases, one each from Faridabad and Jhajjar and Panipat two.According to the state Health Department, six people have lost their lives due to the virus.At present, there are 289 active cases while 260 people have been cured in the state. Among the total positive cases in the state, Gurugram has so far reported the highest number of cases at 87, Sonepat 78, Faridabad 77, Jhajjar 65 and Panipat 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/7-more-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-state-tally-reaches-555/story-oIIrbP3KRCip4SzrZiDuKO.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Milk bank at Pune’s Sassoon hospital a saviour for newborns||The human milk bank at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune turned out to be a life saver for a boy who was born to a Covid-19 positive mother.The child was born on April 16 to a 25-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19, according to a statement issued by the District Information Office, Pune.After learning about the infection just before the delivery of the child, the family members as well as the doctors were struggling to ensure that the new born child is not affected. The child tested negative for the virus, however, it could not be allowed to go near the Covid-19 positive mother. The mother had come from the Khadki Bazar, said officials.Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of paediatric department at BJ Government Medical College attached with the Sassoon, said “Multiple babies benefit from the milk bank. We follow due process before accepting the milk. Consent form is filled out. There are very strict criteria’s; if the woman fits it, only then milk is accepted. The milk then undergoes various tests and procedures.” The feeding is happening through the hospital staff - nurses and doctors - with the consent of the mother and the family members, according to the District Information Office.The mother herself could not be reached for a comment as she is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Another official from the hospital said that the bank which began operations in 2013 gets milk from patients from two other hospitals besides Sassoon. The bank collects excess milk from lactating mothers and stores it for babies who cannot have access to their mother’s milk which could happen for various reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/milk-bank-at-pune-s-sassoon-hospital-a-saviour-for-newborns/story-YAMfeiyYVMG7t24LmgOo3I.html
06-05-2020||City||Pune-Bhopal train for migrant workers on the anvil: District collector||Pune – The first ‘special passenger train’ carrying stranded migrant workers will run in the next couple of days from Pune to Bhopal. “The special train from Pune will run soon, but it won’t start from Pune railway station as there would be a huge crowd there and the area comes under the red zone. So we are looking for alternate options of railway stations like Daund, Uruli and Loni where currently survey of the station is going on by our officials,” Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said. He said the process of registering workers for this train was going on. Once the journey date is finalised, they will be taken to the railway station, at least two to three hours in advance for a final check and would be provided with meals and water bottles. “It is yet to be decided as to who will bear their ticket cost,” he said.Pune divisional railway manager (DRM) Renu Sharma said the railways is ready to run the special train on any given day and time. “Once we get the consent and list of passengers from the Pune district administration the special train will run from Pune railway division with all the safety and precautionary measures,” she said.A senior official from the Pune district administration said that thousands of applications have been received from migrant workers who want to travel towards North India. Accordingly, the first train has been planned to Bhopal. Around 1,200 passengers will travel in this train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-bhopal-train-for-migrant-workers-on-the-anvil-district-collector/story-hPMt08TqxRYkLU2ZzxLrlK.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Constable dies of Covid-19, first case in Delhi Police||A Delhi Police constable, posted at Bharat Nagar police station in northwest district, died of coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Tuesday evening.The test result from a private lab confirmed on Wednesday afternoon that the 31-year-old had Covid-19.This is the first case of a Delhi Police personal succumbing to Covid-19. “The result from a private lab has returned positive. We are still awaiting the result from RML Hospital,” said a senior police officer who didn’t want to be identified.Constable Amit Kumar belonged to Sonepat in Haryana where his wife and three-year-old son live. Kumar himself lived with a friend on the fifth floor of a rented home in Gandhi Nagar, a neighbourhood close to Bharat Nagar where he worked.“Kumar was into crime data liaisoning. It didn’t require him to frequently visit the police station or interact with most other colleagues,” said the officer.In the early hours of Monday, Kumar woke up from his sleep and complained of breathing problems. One of his colleagues said that he was provided warm water and when his condition did not improve, he was taken to Dr BR Ambedkar Hospital.“There, he was neither admitted, nor tested for Covid-19,” alleged a colleague. A response from the hospital is awaited. He was then taken to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital where he was given some medicines and referred for Covid-19 testing. He underwent testing in Ashok Vihar before returning home. “Later he again complained of discomfort and was taken to RML Hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said a statement issued by the police. His colleague said that he had begun vomiting on returning home and that had prompted the Bharat Nagar station house officer (SHO) to recommend that he be taken to RML Hospital.His autopsy is yet to be carried out even as the police are tracing his contacts to get them tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/constable-dies-of-covid-19-first-case-in-delhi-police/story-5HwoyQExVIUICzagbKDKcO.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Less than 10% of migrant workers in shelter homes want to return home: Govt official||Less than 10% of migrant workers—around 680 of around 7,100—who have taken shelter in the 240-odd centres operated by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), want to head back to their home states at the earliest, a senior government official said Tuesday, citing a report submitted by the Board to the chief secretary’s office.The report, however, does not include the final application status of around 10,000 more migrant workers who have taken shelter in centres operated by the revenue district administrations across the city, which range from school buildings and community halls to sports complexes. A separate report on that is awaited later this week, the senior government official said.The official further said that the data also does not include results of an online application process that has been launched focussing on stranded individuals (migrant workers, students, pilgrims and tourists) who have not taken shelter in any of the DUSIB or district adminstration-run centres and are still believed to be scattered across the city. Their numbers are unknown, at least on paper. In all the centres where migrants have taken shelter, both under the jurisdiction of the DUSIB and the district administration, application forms were distributed between April 30 and May 2, following the central government’s directions to allow states to arrange for interstate movement of stranded migrant workers, students, pilgrims and tourists through buses and trains.On Tuesday, HT spoke to 10 of the applicants from the DUSIB list. Six of them said that they were in Delhi temporarily for construction work and their job was done but they could not return home because of the lockdown. The remaining four said that they had no permanent job in the city and wanted to head back home because they were unsure of their source of livelihood in the days to come.The forms will be further scrutinised by the government. On Sunday, the Union home ministry told the states that the transport scheme was not meant for workers who intend to visit home, but for those in distress because they had been caught unawares by the lockdown, emphasising the word “stranded” mentioned in the directives issued on April 29.“The facility is for those who had come to work temporarily and had to return to their home states immediately after, but could not do so because of the lockdown… It is not for those who have been (already) staying in the state and working for six months or one year,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.At least in the DUSIB centres, the majority of migrant workers have started to have second thoughts now, especially after job opportunities opened up a bit this week. The scaling down of the lockdown measures has paved the way for some business and commercial activities to resume in the Capital despite all its 11 revenue districts categorised as red zones“A phased revival of the industrial and construction sectors matters the most,” Animesh Das, labour activist and member of Delhi government’s minimum wages board, said.Das further said: “A large number of workers is scared of what would happen if they went back home and could not return to the city for a long time. There are no jobs in the towns and villages either. Also, if they returned later, what is the guarantee that there would be jobs for them in the city? There is extreme confusion that is adding to their anxieties.”Bipin Rai, a member of the DUSIB, said: “We will ensure all necessary checks for applicants who want to leave for their home states. For those who stay back, we will continue to ensure food and shelter.”“The highest number of applicants (from the DUSIB centres) are from Uttar Pradesh (around 40%), followed by Bihar (around 35%). Applicants from other states include West Bengal, Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand,” Rai said.Sisodia further emphasised on “confidence-building measures” taken by the government.The Delhi government on Sunday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the movement of stranded migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and students in adherence to the central government’s orders. The SOP directed government officials and the police to join hands to compile a database of the numbers of those stranded, so they could be sent back to their home states, and “encourage” them to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/less-than-10-of-migrant-workers-in-shelter-homes-want-to-return-home-govt-official/story-Z4zAyZUwV6b01tBmNkkHSN.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Confusion prevails over cremation of 21-year-old Covid-19 patient in Shimla||Confusion prevailed over the cremation of the 21-year-old Covid-19 patient who succumbed to the disease at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla on Tuesday. The patient was the second Covid-19 fatality in the state.The victim’s body could only be cremated at midnight as the district administration and municipal corporation authorities passed the buck over making necessary arrangements. Municipal corporation officials refused to cremate the body on ground of it not being part of the protocol. However, they did sanitise the hospital and the route between the hospital and the cremation ground. Municipal corporation commissioner Pankaj Rai said, “It was not our duty to cremate the body as it is not unclaimed. It was registered at the hospital. The instructions in this regard are clear in the central government’s advisory. The corporation staff sanitised the cremation ground again in the morning.” Since the victim’s relatives had been quarantined, the body lay unclaimed in the hospital. Finally, it was the hospital authorities that made arrangements for the disposal of the body. Senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said, “I had informed the authorities concerned as soon as the patient died. It was the hospital, which had to make arrangements to cremate the body in the end.” “The hospital staff and I accompanied the body to cremation ground,” Raj said. The body was kept in the mortuary before it was cremated. “I cannot afford to risk the lives of my staff, patients, and others visiting the hospital,” Raj said. The body was transported to crematorium in Kanlog at mid-night. The hospital staff wore PPE kits. Sub-divisional magistrate (urban) Neeraj Chandla also reached the cremation ground. She and the priest performed the last rites and remained at the cremation ground till midnight. Notably, the priest who performed the last rites did not wear the PPE kit. The victim had also been suffering from a kidney ailment. He had travelled from New Delhi to Mandi’s Sarkaghat. The patient was first taken to Lal Bhadur Shastri Medical College in Mandi district. However, after his condition deteriorated, he was referred to IGMC, Shimla.He reached the hospital at around 3.30am on Tuesday and passed away around 5.50pm. The patient had tested positive for the coronavirus disease both at IGMC and Lal Bhadur Shastri Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-reports-second-covid-19-fatality-as-21-year-old-patient-succumbs-in-shimla/story-8IHfOqU7t66kyQO32zRAMJ.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Admin of Bois Locker Room chat group, where schoolboys planned rapes, arrested||The administrator of Bois Locker Room, a controversial Instagram group where schoolboys discussed raping their classmates, has been arrested by the cyber crime cell of the Delhi Police.This is the second arrest by the police which took suo motu cognisance of the happenings in the group after screenshots were shared on social media and registered a case. A 15-year-old boy was earlier apprehended after questioning.Investigators said the group had 22 members in all, and two of them were adults studying in colleges. At least 20 of them are studying in at least four prominent schools in Delhi-NCR, they further said.On Tuesday, 10 members were questioned over phone.The devices of the identified members of the group have been seized and sent for forensic analysis.The cyber crime unit has asked for information about the alleged group and its members from Facebook-owned social networking platform Instagram. Their reply is awaited, an official said.The role of other members is being ascertained, said investigators.The content on the group included a remark by one member who suggested collecting a group of boys to gang rape a classmate, and several photos of schoolgirls that were accompanied with texts objectifying them. There were also copies of photos posted by girls on Instagram that were then appended with lewd and violent remarks.The conversations were exposed after one of the boys in the group took screenshots and passed it on to someone else, said the officer, before it was posted on social media by one of the girls who was targeted.The police have invoked sections of the Information Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code dealing with the distribution of pornographic content and making objectionable remarks about women.On Monday, authorities of one of the schools – where the whistleblower student studied - filed a complaint with the Delhi Police. “Once the screenshots emerged in the public domain, the group was deleted and another one created. Some girls were added in the new group to mislead police,” said an investigator.The original group was created in early April, the investigator quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/admin-of-instagram-group-bois-locker-room-arrested-devices-seized/story-9tQDaF32QglX2tnyGPP6wI.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||30-year-old Covid-19 patient succumbs at PGIMER, Jalandhar reports fifth fatality||A city-based Covid-19 patient succumbed to the disease at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh on Tuesday.The 30-year-old patient, who is a resident of Qazi Mohalla, became the fifth Covid-19 fatality from the district, which has so far reported 137 cases.The victim had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on April 30 at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. He had been referred to PGIMER by a private hospital in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, eight of his contacts, including three women, aged between five and 63 years, from Qazzi Mohalla and Rasta Mohalla, also tested positive for the virus in Jalandhar.The Doaba region of Punjab, which comprises four districts, has reported 327 Covid-19 cases so far. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar has reported cases 85, Hoshiarpur 88 and Kapurthala 17 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/30-year-old-covid-19-patient-succumbs-at-pgimer-jalandhar-reports-fifth-fatality/story-eJ9G2CjhOFbpfmFpTChrPM.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Fire at Tikri-Kalan PVC market put out after 36 fire tenders rushed to spot||A major fire broke out at the Tikri-Kalan PVC market on the Delhi-Haryana border in the early hours of Wednesday, the fire department said.The call about the blaze was received at 2.50 am and 36 fire-tenders were rushed to the spot, a fire department official said.No casualties were reported, he said, adding that scrap material, which was kept in the open, caught fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-at-tikri-kalan-pvc-market-put-out-after-36-fire-tenders-rushed-to-spot/story-YUeJH9iWnKPoY6UrEAEydN.html
06-05-2020||Ranchi||Ten people test positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, total number of cases 125||Ten people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 125, according to a bulletin issued by the government.Two persons from Dumka tested positive, while the rest are from Ranchi which has been declared a red zone, health officials said.Of the total positive cases, 89 are active and 33 people have recovered and been discharged, the bulletin said.Of the 91 cases in Ranchi, 71 are active, it said.Two persons have died of the infection in the state so far, while one died due to comorbid conditions, it said.No new cases were reported in the past two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/ten-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-total-number-of-cases-125/story-04tjREucYGeErPmQwYyrnO.html
06-05-2020||Patna||Bihar Minister requests Piyush Goyal to revoke order shifting railway institute||Bihar Minister Sanjay Kumar Jha has requested Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to revoke the order of shifting the Jamalpur-based Indian Railway Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE) out of Munger.In a series of tweets, Minister for Water Resources Department in Bihar, Jha said, “Bihar takes strong exception to @RailMinIndia’s April 24 order to shift prestigious Jamalpur-based Indian Railway Institute of Mechanical & Electrical Engineering out of Munger. Sri CM Nitish Kumar has asked Sri Piyush Goyal to intervene on this regressive move.”Tagging the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), Jha further tweeted, “CM Nitish Kumar has written a letter on May 1 to Railway Minister PiyushGoyal requesting him to immediately rescind this decision. IRIMEE represents rich legacy of Railways and Bihar. Its great historical linkage with Bihar needs to be strengthened and not severed.” #जमालपुर स्थित इंडियन रेलवे के इस सबसे पुराने केन्द्रीय संस्थान से न सिर्फ बिहार के लोगों का बल्कि भारतीय रेल के हजारों लोगों व् अधिकारीयों का भावनात्मक जुड़ाव रहा है. @NitishKumar जी के 1 मई को लिखे पत्र के आलोक में रेलमंत्री @PiyushGoyal जी से तत्काल हस्तक्षेप का अनुरोध है।The National General Secretary, JD(U) further stated, “This oldest central training institute has been an iconic institution, and a pride of Bihar. Estblished in 1888, IRIMEE Jamalpur has been most coveted center for training to Indian Railway’s top brains since 1927. How can a legacy of 93 years be wiped off so brazenly?”“In 2015, Bihar urged Centre to upgrade IRIMEE into a University. It was informed that instead National Academy of Railway, Vadodara was being upgraded as 1st national university and IRIMEE shall operate under this new univ. Now, this move to shift it is unacceptable @PiyushGoyal,” he tweeted.“The rather intriguing move of shifting is shocking. IRIMEE Jamalpur is integral to rich legacy of Bihar and CM Nitish Kumar takes great pride in this. We earnestly request Sri Piyush Goyal to intervene and ensure rescinding of this outrageous order,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-minister-requests-piyush-goyal-to-revoke-order-shifting-railway-institute/story-4wE91DmgWA48bct9zJcKYK.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi constable dies after falling sick; samples sent for Covid-19 test||A 31-year-old Delhi Police constable died after he fell sick on Tuesday evening and his samples have been sent for Covid-19 test, police said on Wednesday.The reports of the samples are awaited, they said. The constable, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, was posted at a police station in northwest Delhi, police said.He fell sick on Tuesday and was examined at the Deep Chand Bandhi Hospital where he was given medicines, they said, He was also tested for Coivd-19 and his reports are awaited, police said. On Tuesday evening, when he reported that he was feeling uncomfortable, he was immediately taken to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he was declared brought dead, a senior police official said. Police personnel who came in contact with the constable have been home quarantined, he said, adding that post mortem is yet to be conducted.He is survived by wife and 3-year-old son, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-constable-dies-after-falling-sick-samples-sent-for-covid-19-test/story-5CWJn6yeZ1t3GbE8ldGT6H.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Deluge of criticism forces PU to withdraw retrenchment orders within hours||Hours after passing orders, which indicated retrenchment of contractual and guest faculty after the academic session ends on May 8, Punjab University withdrew the orders amid a barrage of criticism.The order, which is now withdrawn, stated, “The service of those employees, which includes guest faculty, temporary, contract teachers and daily wages, contractual non-teaching staff, whose term is expiring up to the end of academic session (May 8, 2020) shall be re-engaged as per requirement as and when the normal functioning of the university resumes.”The order was issued in a meeting chaired by vice-chancellor professor Raj Kumar.The order was criticised as soon as the university issued it. Before the order was withdrawn, Panjab University senator Subhash Sharma told Hindustan Times that the university should reconsider this move.‘INHUMANE MOVE’He said, “This step is inhumane and insensitive and I strongly condemn it. There are clear instructions from the government not to retrench any employee. The university should reconsider this move.”Usually, employees continue their service once the academic session ends and in many cases those hired on contract or temporarily are re-engaged after a one-day break at the end of the academic session. However, questions were raised as the university said the employees will be re-engaged once the university resumes functioning.CRITICISM FROM ALL CORNERSIt is learnt that college development council (DCDC) dean professor Sanjay Kaushik, who was also a member of the committee, had opposed the move.Kaushik, reportedly, wrote a letter to dean university instructions (DUI) professor RK Singla criticising the move. The issue was also raised in the online group of PU senators.Panjab University senator professor Rajat Sandhir said, “Raising questions on the appointment of temporary and guest faculty in the present scenario when people are already facing multiple anxieties is not right. The university has finally taken the right step by withdrawing it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deluge-of-criticism-forces-pu-to-withdraw-retrenchment-orders-within-hours/story-8yeWLxTMQ5cIDbbCrXKBeM.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||In corona times, Punjab to start online sale, home delivery of liquor from tomorrow||PATIALA: The Punjab excise department will start the online order and home delivery of liquor across the state from Thursday .The decision coincides with the opening of liquor vends in the state from 9am to 1pm on Thursday. The sale at the vends will be allowed only during the stipulated hours.The cabinet, chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, will put its stamp on the excise department’s order at its meeting on Thursday morning.“We have completed all modalities related to starting the home delivery of liquor. We are hopeful that the department will get the green signal from state cabinet to go ahead with it,” said Navdeep Bhinder, Punjab’s additional excuse and taxation commissioner. HOME DELIVERY ONLY DURING CURFEW A senior official said the decision was taken after seeing long queues and chaos outside liquor vends in others states and neighbouring Chandigarh. “The department has come up with a better idea of home delivery,” he said. “The approval from the cabinet is a mere formality. All prerequisites related to this move have already been completed as the state excise department has already directed deputy commissioners, excise officials and liquor vendors to go ahead with the plan,” an official said.Meanwhile, Bhinder said the home delivery services will be provided only till the enforcement of curfew in the state.“The home delivery of liquor will also help to follow mandatory social distancing norms. Though there is no provision of home delivery in the Punjab Excise Act, but the decision has been taken temporarily in the wake of the situation arising due to Covid-19,” Bhinder said.VENDORS NOT TO SELL MORE THAN 2LITRE/ORDERThe liquor vendors have been directed not to sell more than two litres of liquor per order.“The stringent directions have been issued to vendors across the state regarding home delivery. They have to maintain the order book on a daily basis, while only two persons will be allowed to deliver liquor to customers per liquor vend,” Bhinder said.The state is expected to earn a revenue of Rs 6,200 crore in the 2020-21 financial year. However, the sale of liquor is largely affected due to the countrywide lockdown, denting revenue figures of the excise department.In the excise policy for the financial year 2020-21, this is for the first time that the department will experiment with the online sale and delivery of liquor despite criticism from opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-corona-times-punjab-to-start-online-sale-home-delivery-of-liquor-from-tomorrow/story-JLqiibMI63XlmJotAaJTBM.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Agra couple ties the knot while maintaining social distancing||Yogesh Singh and Reema, both residents of the Taj city, entered wedlock on Monday in a quiet and simple ceremony, following social distancing, in the presence of family members. There was no music, no guests and the priest who solemnized the marriage wore a mask.Yogesh said, “The marriage was fixed about six months back, but due to lockdown we were in a dilemma. I requested my father and family members not to postpone it. I said we could hold it in a simple way while following the lockdown norms.”“Both families agreed to this and on Monday, the marriage was conducted in the presence of my father Mohan Singh, bride’s father Dinesh Chand and other family members and priest.”“We both tied the knot while maintaining social distancing norms and wearing mask,” Yogesh said. Bride Reema said, “Our marriage will become an example for others, because marriages can also be organised in a simple and you don’t need to splurge. We wore masks and even exchanged garlands while maintaining distance.”The priest also sat at a distance to perform the rituals. He blessed the newly married couple and appreciated the move of both the families. Yogesh Dubey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-couple-ties-the-knot-while-maintaining-social-distancing/story-cuehe9YTTv3Fi7bAnEmcAK.html
06-05-2020||Latest||Will evaluate if ‘The Hundred’ approaches us for investment: KKR CEO Mysore||Kolkata Knight Riders CEO Venky Mysore did not entirely rule out the possibility of the popular IPL franchise “evaluating” investment opportunities in England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB)’s ambitious franchise league ‘The Hundred’, which had to be shelved this year due to COVID-19 pandemic. British newspaper ‘The Telegraph’ on Tuesday quoted Mysore saying that they would surely be keen to “explore” investment opportunities in The Hundred.However the KKR CEO was categorical that at this moment it’s nothing more than speculations. “I know this story is going around. All I said was ‘if we are approached to consider investing in ‘The Hundred’, we will evaluate it’,” Mysore told PTI, reacting to the report in the English daily.Owned by Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, the two-time IPL champions had in 2015 acquired Caribbean Premier League side Trinidad & Tobago Red Steel, who are now known as Trinbago Knight Riders, a winner of successive CPL titles in 2017 and 2018. They also had acquired a third team, the Cape Town franchise in Cricket South Africa’s Global T20 league which however did not see the light of the day and was cancelled in 2017.“We are the biggest brand in IPL and perhaps the only global brand in cricket. So we can understand why leagues around the world would be interested in getting Knight Riders on board,” Mysore said. A brainchild of the ECB, The Hundred will be 100-balls-per-side format and will be played by eight franchises rather than the established 18 first-class counties.It was slated for a July start but only to be pushed till 2021 with ECB grappling in financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.According to ECB chief executive Tom Harrison, they are slated to incur a loss of over GBP 300 million, if the upcoming season is wiped out due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/will-evaluate-if-the-hundred-approaches-us-for-investment-kkr-ceo-mysore/story-GHUTyjtIF5E9xw2yAOFKfI.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad University to hold UG exams from July 1, PG exams from July 16||In view of University Grants Commission (UGC)’s suggestive guidelines, Allahabad University (AU) has decided to conduct year ending exam of undergraduate courses from July 1 and that of postgraduate courses from July 16.Besides, the central varsity has also decided that admission process for the next academic session (2020-21) would restart from May 10, informed varsity officials.It has also been decided that viva voce examination of those PhD candidates who have submitted their thesis would be conducted through online mode, they addedIn a meeting of the examination committee that was held on the campus on Monday evening, it was decided that the exams for UG courses that were interrupted because of the nationwide lockdown from March 24, will now be held from July 1. The examination committee has also decided that the exam would be held every day in three shifts and that too on all the seven days of the week including Sundays. Earlier, AU used to conduct exams in two shifts, morning and post-noon only.Likewise, for postgraduate courses (semester system), the exams would be conducted from July 16 and the same would be held in two shifts. Earlier, the PG exams were held in just one shift per day and that too on just five days a week.Following the suggestive guidelines issued by UGC on the concept of social distancing, varsity authorities have decided that there would be sufficient distance between two examinees. For following the same, more exam centres would be made. All examinees have also to wear masks compulsorily.It has been decided that all teachers and non-teaching staff would be given duties for exams and no one, barring some emergency cases, would be excused.AU authorities would also be sanitising all exam centres, as suggested by UGC. It has been decided that the question paper format would remain the same as half of the exams had already been conducted before the lockdown started.In another decision, it has been decided that viva voce exam of PhD and MPhil could be held in online mode. However, it has not been made mandatory. In another development, the admission committee at AU also held its meeting. The committee decided to restart the admission process for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses offered by AU and its constituent colleges.“It has been decided that for various UG and PG courses, aspirants can start submitting their applications through online mode from May 10”, said AU PRO Shailendra Mishra.The last date of filling up of the applications has not been decided by the admission committee. The entrance exam will be held in August and the results would be announced in the same month. The admission process for UG and PG courses for academic session 2020- 21 had started on March 25 through online mode. However, it was stopped after first two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-university-to-hold-ug-exams-from-july-1-pg-exams-from-july-16/story-3eUwOHVx5WCfyrhqSce8EN.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||As cops test positive, 50% of UP-112 staff to work from home||Spurt in number of Covid-19 positive cases in police force has forced authorities to work out an alternative plan to ensure that the working of the UP-112, the police emergency response centre, remains unaffected during the pandemic period.The authorities of UP-112 plan to get more call takers to work from home after 49 police personnel, including UP-112 police response vehicle (PRV) staff tested positive in Kanpur, Varanasi, Agra, Moradabad, Bijnor and Firozabad, police officials said.“As many as 48 percent of call takers that means 328 out of total 675 call takers would start working for home for next week and eventually we aim to get nearly 50 per cent of the staff to take calls from home,” a senior police official said. “The process of procuring laptops for them is already underway,” he said. “Nearly 120 call takers equipped with laptops and other peripheral accessories have already begun working from home and we plan to procure 200 more laptops so that more could start work from home,” the official said. “Besides allowing work from home, the remaining call takers coming to UP-112 headquarters in Lucknow have been divided into six groups and would operate from six different halls to ensure proper social distancing and sanitisation,” the official said. UP-112 receives more than 1.2 million calls per day, with 60 per cent of the calls coming from rural areas. It has an average 13.5 minutes response time, the official said. He said the emergency services such as fire, police, ambulance, elderly help, health and women helpline are integrated through a single number ‘112’ for public safety and security across the state on a 24x7 basis which reduces the response time and can respond to multiple communications channels, including wireline, mobile, e-mail and social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/as-cops-test-positive-50-of-up-112-staff-to-work-from-home/story-bWzqKifAWnnR6RKC5r7F5H.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab procures 100 lakh metric tonne wheat amid pandemic||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said that Punjab had procured 100 lakh metric tonne of wheat in a record 20 days.“We have completed procurement of more than 100 lakh metric tonnes of wheat,” he said in a tweet.“An additional 35 lakh metric tonne of wheat is expected to be procured in the coming days. I congratulate farmers, arthiyas and all government departments for making this possible,” he added. I am pleased to share the news that we have completed procurement of more than 100 Lakh MT of wheat. Additional 35 Lakh MT is expected to be procured in the coming days. I congratulate farmers, Arthiyas and all Govt Departments for making this possible. Thank you all! pic.twitter.com/FqHojpEpDsPunjab, which contributes 30-35 per cent wheat to the national kitty, is expecting to harvest around 185 lakh tonnes and the market arrival is likely to be about 135 lakh tonnes, amounting Rs 26,000 crore, officials said.The minimum support price (MSP) of wheat is Rs 1,925.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-procures-100-lakh-metric-tonne-wheat-amid-pandemic/story-Mq0D2T2IVuX9DIulprrp5H.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||With restricted evaluation, UP Board results unlikely soon||With the state government allowing evaluation of UP Board’s class 10 and class 12 answer sheets at evaluation centres located in green zones only, results are now expected in July, say teachers and former board officials alike.Although serving UP Board officials are not willing to comment, they also feel results before July seem very unlikely amid the ongoing situation owing to Covid-19 pandemic.“The evaluation started in mere 63 centres in the 20 districts that are in green zone from Tuesday. There is uncertainty as to when evaluation in the remaining 212 centres in the districts that are in red and orange zones will start,” shared a senior UP Board official.UP Board secretary Neena Srivastava confirmed that evaluation process started in the evaluation centres located in districts which are in green zone but expressed her inability to comment on either when the evaluation could start in remaining districts or when the results would be declared.However, board officials claim that it was unlikely that situation will normalise even when the third phase of the lockdown ends on May 17 and this meant that even after May 17 the evaluation was not expected to start in many districts. Moreover, with the state government making it clear that proper social distancing norms is to be followed at evaluation centres, the board also faces problem in deputing all 1.46 lakh teachers that it had initially deputed for the evaluation of more than 3.10 crore answer sheets. “This also means that the process would require 15 to 20 days. So if the evaluation continues till first week of June even then the results would get declared only by first or second week of July as a major part of the result finalisation work is undertaken in Delhi where too coronavirus has impacted routine functioning,” said another senior board official.Teacher MLC (Allahabad-Jhansi division) Suresh Kumar Tripathi said prevailing situation and past experience point to the fact that the UP Board results could now be expected only in July.Agrees former UP Board secretary and former director (secondary education) Basudev Yadav. He said evaluation of answer sheets in all districts before end of the lockdown was impossible as ensuring strict social distancing was a tough ask. He also pointed out that even teachers who are to undertake the evaluation in orange and red zones too were not ready to be part of the process owing to safety concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/with-restricted-evaluation-up-board-results-unlikely-soon/story-5DwJyWz3SiDjUQDJ7B0ATN.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha govt seeks clarity from Railways on train fares for migrants||The Maharashtra government has sought clarity from the Railways over whether it is bearing 85 per cent of the transport cost of migrant workers heading home amid the lockdown, state Home Minister said on Wednesday.These workers do not have jobs and the Railways should not charge train fare from them, Deshmukh said in a video message.The BJP on Monday said the Railways has subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for special trains being run to transport migrant workers and the state governments have to pay the remaining 15 per cent.“On behalf of the Maharashtra government, I am seeking clarity from the Indian Railways whether it is really bearing 85 per cent cost of the train ticket. No official order has been received from the railways so far,” Deshmukh said.Everybody knows that these migrant labourers have no jobs since last 40 days and they are desperate to return home, he pointed out.“The railways should do away with charging the ticket cost from the migrant labourers, he said.So far, nearly 36,000 migrant labourers have left from Maharashtra for their native places, an official earlier said.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said her party’s state units will bear the cost of rail travel of needy migrant labourers stranded at their workplaces due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and seeking to return home.She also accused the central government and the Railways of completely ignoring the demands made by the Congress for ensuring the safe and free travel of migrant workers and labourers to their homes.Rebutting the Congress’ criticism, the BJP said on Monday that the Railways has subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for special trains being run for migrant workers and the state governments have to pay the remaining 15 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-seeks-clarity-from-railways-on-train-fares-for-migrants/story-8odaSkb9ocb17FpEsmIvWL.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Chargesheet filed against foreign jamaatis, AU prof||Shahganj police have filed the chargesheet against 18 persons including seven foreign ‘jamaatis’ and a professor of Allahabad University (AU), who was also named in the FIR lodged against them under Epidemic Act and other relevant sections of IPC.Seven Indonesian jamaatis had come to India on tourist visa and attended religious programmes at Markaz in Nizamuddin, according to the chargesheet filed on Monday. They later arrived to Prayagraj and were staying at Abdullah Masjid near Prayagraj railway station with two persons of West Bengal and Kerala and some local Tablighi Jamaat members. It is alleged that a senior faculty member of political science department of AU and caretaker of the mosque helped them stay at Abdullah Mosque but did not inform police. The AU professor himself visited Markaz but did not inform the AU authorities or the administration. After receiving information about them, Prayagraj police had quarantined all Tablighi Jamaat members along with the professor and later lodged FIR against them. They were arrested and sent to jail after their quarantine period was over and recovery of one Indonesian national who had tested corona positive.Investigating officer sub inspector Manoj Kumar said the charge sheet under epidemic act, violation of section 144 and violation of visa rules and foreign act was filed on Monday.Earlier, Kareli police had also chargesheeted 12 persons including nine nationals of Thailand. They were staying in Hera mosque on tourist visa. In both cases, 30 persons had been sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chargesheet-filed-against-foreign-jamaatis-au-prof/story-Y2lO4PMtdFrruBfo8KR8TP.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||24 cases in two days: Veggies come at a premium as Meerut mandi closed for 3 days||Two dozen Covid 19 cases inside the vegetable mandi in the past two days have thrown a scare among traders as well as buyers. The scared vegetable traders decided to not open their shops inside the mandi at least for three days from Tuesday, which compelled authorities to shift the mandi to some suitable alternate places so that the supply chain could be maintained.On the other hand, people began hoarding vegetables in their houses, anticipating a hike in prices due to the prevailing uncertainty over supply.Poonam Sharma, a housewife, said, “I have stored onion, potato and green vegetables at least for over a week because prices will go up following closure of the mandi.” Her apprehension was not unfounded. She lives in Ganga Nagar locality where more than a dozen vendors took rounds to sell vegetables. But on Tuesday, a day after 24 people tested positive, barely two vendors hawked vegetables priced at least 25 to 30 per cent higher than the previous day. A vegetable vendor said, “Passes issued to vendors and other traders were cancelled and only a few vendors somehow managed to procure vegetables.”Secretary of Naveen Mandi Narendra Singh said that scared traders refused to open their shops on Tuesday and authorities were now searching for some suitable location where the mandi could function at least for three days while intensive sanitisation was launched on the mandi premises.Singh said that passes issued to traders and vendors had been cancelled and new passes would be issued after shifting the mandi to new locations. He said, “The idea is to operate vegetable and fruit mandi from two to three locations so that the crowd may be controlled easily”. City magistrate Satyendra Kumar Singh candidly admitted that it was a mammoth task to maintain supply of vegetables and fruits under the prevailing situation. He said, “Vegetables being an essential commodity, we are doing everything possible to resolve the problem”. Ashok Sonkar, president of Naveen Mandi Vegetable Traders’ Association, is under home quarantine after a person working next to his shop tested positive. Sonkar, who has been in this trade for over two decades, said, “ We never witnessed such a situation. Traders are scared and farmers are destroying their vegetable crop in fields instead of coming to the mandi. Everyone, including the state government, would suffer huge losses. “He demanded intensive sanitisation inside the mandi and a plan in consultation with traders to maintain supply of vegetables in the district.Sarfaraj Ansari, secretary of Naveen Mandi Vegetable Traders Association, said that the mandi had over 150 wholesale traders and approximate 3,500 to 4,000 vendors sold vegetables in every nook and corner of the city. The district had consumption of one truckload of potato, onion and tomato each, as well as approximately 4,000 quintals of green vegetables, he said. To note, health officials did a pool test in the mandi and 24 people, including traders and vendors, tested corona positive in the past two days. This created fear among people who buy vegetables and fruits from vendors at their doorstep. “I take vegetables and fruits from the vendor in a bucket and use them only after washing them properly. This is the least I can do to protect my family from being exposed to infection because vegetables pass through many hands before reaching us,” said a home maker Mithilesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/24-cases-in-two-days-veggies-come-at-a-premium-as-meerut-mandi-closed-for-3-days/story-Bx7Uklzdnaiu8KhVADqk9M.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||UP completes landmark: 1 lakh-plus corona tests||Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday achieved a landmark by testing over one lakh samples in laboratories since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic.Addressing a press conference, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said government and private laboratories in the state have tested a total of 1,01,630 samples.On Monday 3,521 samples were tested in the 20 government run laboratories, while 3,355 samples were dispatched to the laboratories for test, he said.He said pool test of 1,440 samples was conducted. Out of the 300 pools of the samples, 34 pools tested positive. The new machines for testing samples have arrived, he said and added that the health department has also increased beds in the isolation and quarantine wards of hospitals.He said emergency services commenced in 660 private hospitals across the state. Emergency services have already started in government hospitals and medical colleges.The health department has deployed medical teams for health checkup and screening of migrants arriving in Uttar Pradesh from various states. The teams have also been deputed to screen the migrants during their home quarantine. The health department is also running a helpline for consultation and advice.He said the tally of Covid positive people reached 2,859 on Tuesday. Corona positive cases have been reported in 65 districts while 5 districts have come out of the carona tag. He said till Tuesday, 944 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-completes-landmark-1-lakh-plus-corona-tests/story-bBdVBiiiWJ0Sp4V7xIP2sM.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Politics over relief: Yogi flays oppn, says people will give them befitting reply||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday targeted the opposition parties for ‘indulging in politics’ over relief measures and said the people would give them a befitting reply.“A lot of people are indulging in politics during the fight against coronavirus. It’s sad that efforts are being made to weaken the fight against Covid-19 for political gains. For the first time, a large relief fund titled Prime Minister’s Poor Welfare Package, involving a sum of Rs 1.7 lakh crore, has been announced for the poor, labourers and women. Those who used to siphon off welfare funds are upset because the money is reaching the bank accounts of the people now,” said Yogi while speaking to a news agency.Although he did not name any leader or party, his reference to the row over migrants rail fare was obvious. The Samajwadi Party and Congress have targeted the BJP government for charging fare to bring migrant labourers back to their homes. The Congress has already offered to foot the rail fare. The BSP has asked the government to make its stand clear and said it was ready to pay part of rail fare.Yogi said politics at this point of time was against established political norms and hoped the people would cooperate with the government. Listing out the relief measures, Yogi said: “In UP alone, a sum of Rs 2000 has reached the bank accounts of 2.34 crore farmers, with the first instalment of Rs 1,000 reaching the bank accounts in April 2020 and the second in May 2020. A sum of Rs 1,630 crore has been transferred twice in April and May 2020 in the bank accounts of 3.26 crore women Jandhan bank account holders.”Yogi said free LPG refill has been given to 1.47 crore families, while free food grains have been distributed to 18 crore poor people twice. He said sustenance allowance of Rs 1,000 has been given to 30 lakh labourers and vendors etc. The chief minister said wages of 88 lakh MNREGA workers have been paid on increased rates, while 14 lakh MNREGA workers have been given jobs. He said advance pension for two months has been given to 88 lakh beneficiaries of old age, widow and disabled pension schemes etc. Yogi said 10,000 buses have been deployed to transport migrants to their homes and added that 6.5 lakh migrants have reached the state up to now. These migrants include 50,000 brought to the state in the past three days, he said.Yogi said 50,000 beds have been made available in Covid-19 hospitals for free treatment of patients. In addition 1 lakh beds have been made available in government and private hospitals for emergency health services, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/politics-over-relief-yogi-flays-oppn-says-people-will-give-them-befitting-reply/story-Hc9lVDiYobPKZVS3Uby1YK.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||17 Hazur Sahib pilgrims test positive for Covid-19 in Moga||Seventeen Hazur Sahib pilgrims have tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease in Moga, taking the district count to 55. Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said all 17 patients had returned from Nanded last week. “The patients were already quarantined in different centres of the district. Now, we have admitted them to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Moga.”On Tuesday, 10 persons, including seven contacts of Nanded pilgrims, had tested positive for Covid-19. So far, 40 Huzur Sahib pilgrims have been found positive for Covid-19 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-hazur-sahib-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-moga/story-cwLjEJK8l7Re27A5AeHJiK.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 patient in Chandigarh escapes to UP on bike||UT health authorities were left scrambling on Tuesday after a Covid-19 patient escaped on his bike and travelled 800km to reach his village in Uttar Pradesh.The 34-year-old man, who is a resident of Sector 56, was tested for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday and his tests came out positive on Tuesday evening.A senior UT health official said that the patient was sent home and told to self isolate till the tests results were out. However, the man travelled to his native village, Purenewali, in Partapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), instead.The UT health department’s contact tracing report reveals that the health authorities learnt of the breech when they went to the patient’s house after his report came out positive.Officials later learnt that the patient had gone to UP on a bike with a relative, who is also a resident of Sector-52.“The patient’s report has been shared with Dr Abhishek, who is posted at the Community health center in Sangipur, and with the state- surveillance unit(SSU) in UP for follow up and necessary action. Station house officer (SHO) Amanjot Singh has been apprised of the situation,” the report says.NEGLIGENCE ALLEGEDAn official, on condition of anonymity, said, “It is surprising that the patient was permitted to go home and quarantine himself.”“The doctors at the Mohali civil hospital should not have allowed the patient to go home in the first place. They also failed to inform the health and quarantine authorities in Chandigarh,” said the senior health official.“The patient committed a criminal act by violating the lockdowns imposed in Chandigarh, Punjab , Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, jeopardising the lives of many people along the way,” the UT official said, adding that the patient in question had probably anticipated a positive test result.PROTOCOL FOLLOWED, SAYS CIVIL SURGEONMohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “It is our protocol that whenever we collect a sample, we ask the patient to quarantine themselves at home. In case the report comes positive the patients are shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-patient-in-chandigarh-escapes-to-up-on-bike/story-l7F7wTLYaDIpZfhyJKjkAI.html
06-05-2020||Jaipur||Another Covid-19 death in Rajasthan takes state toll to 90||The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan increased to 90 with one more fatality reported on Wednesday, while 35 people tested positive for the disease, taking the number of cases to 3,193 in the state, an official said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state has 1,567 active cases now, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.The death was reported from Swai Madhopur. The death toll due to the virus in the state has climbed to 90, he said. Jaipur alone has reported 50 deaths.As many as 35 new cases, including 22 in Jaipur, seven in Pali, two each in Dungarpur and Ajmer, one each in Chittorgarh and Alwar, have been reported, the health department official said.The state now has 3,193 confirmed cases of Covid-19, out of which 1,131 have been discharged from hospitals, Singh said.Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 1,069 infections, followed by 762 in Jodhpur.The Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/another-covid-19-death-in-rajasthan-takes-state-toll-to-90/story-Zgve5cralUD3RGzUOUiskN.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Shutter up, metre chaloo: Delhi’s mixed reaction to Special Corona Fee on liquor sale||The Delhi government, on Monday, announced a tax of 70% on sale of liquor in the Capital. Dubbed the Special Corona Fee, this tax will be levied on the MRP (maximum retail price) of liquor bottles. The official order read: “The fee would apply at “70% of the maximum retail price of all categories of liquor sold through written licences for consumption off the premises.”This decision came in the wake of long queues and the unruly manner in which people thronged liquor shops across Delhi. A government authorised wine shop owner in Nehru Place, on condition of anonymity, gives a low-down on the implementation of the tax: “The tax will be imposed on the new stock. The existing stock is being sold at the same rate. Mere paas abhi tak tax lag ke nahi aaya, toh main tax pe doonga bhi nahi (I haven’t received stock at the new prices yet, so I am not selling it at the new price). Read: ‘Special corona fee’: Delhi govt to charge 70% tax on liquor from todayPeople were seen flouting social distancing norms, and at many places, police had to be deployed. Vishal Basra, a software engineer residing in Pashchim Vihar, says, “I did not feel safe going out because there were just too many people. All we can do now is meet up with friends less often because honestly, who would give ₹150 for a pint of beer? We will have to cut down the frequency of meeting and hanging out.”From a revenue point of view, this move will help the government recover and make money which can be used in handling the coronavirus crisis. While some have lauded the move, others have raised suspicions on its accountability. Rima Ghoshal, an executive producer living in Vasant Kunj, says, “We are still the privileged ones to be able to enjoy a recreational drink or two. But for those who have lost their jobs, paying this extra amount would make them think twice. This will also give boost to the black market as someone might decide to sell it at 50% extra, which is still less than 70%. The other point is, where is this money going? I want accountability for my tax money.”Citing a gap in the demand and supply of luxury items like alcohol, stand-up comedian Arpan Khosla, a resident of Dwarka, says, “It is a desperate decision to open liquor shops. It [the chaos] was bound to happen when you make something available after a long time. Secondly, I also feel that this tax should be used judiciously because the government needs money. But this should not continue for long.”This could also mean the last ‘cheers’ for some, at least for the time being. Prateek Ailawadi from Janakpuri, says, “I won’t be buying any new liquor as I don’t see a point in spending 70% more on the cost. It will curb the buying habits of many, as already, people aren’t earning much and there have been pay cuts across sectors. I don’t see any benefits are given to middle class families.”Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/shutter-up-metre-chaloo-delhi-s-mixed-reaction-to-special-corona-fee-on-liquor-sale/story-y7zjK3aETbWopNhUImmHoK.html
06-05-2020||Jaipur||35 more Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, state count reaches 3,193||Thirty-five more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the tally of coronavirus cases in the state to 3,193 on Wednesday, the state Health Department said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAmong the 35 new cases, Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases at 22, followed by Pali at 7, the state Health Department added.While Dungarpur and Ajmer have reported 2 coronavirus cases each, Alwar and Chittorgarh have 1 case each.Moreover, one person has succumbed to the infection on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the state to 90.At present, there are 1,567 active coronavirus cases in the state and 3497 samples are under process.While 1,536 patients have recovered from the disease, 1,131 have been discharged from various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/35-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-count-reaches-3-193/story-r1fr7NZeigRIIiq9YTsAJK.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Council poll to mark Uddhav Thackeray’s debut as legislator||The upcoming biennial election to Maharashtra Legislative Council will provide an opportunity to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to mark his debut as a legislator, and it will also be interesting to see if there there will be a contest for nine seats which are up for grabs.Efforts are on to ensure nominees for the nine vacancies are elected unopposed, a Congress leader said.But, if the situation of a contest arises, all the 288 MLAs, who form the electoral college for the Council polls, will have to come to Mumbai to cast their vote.If the lockdown is extended beyond May 17, it could be difficult for MLAs to travel to Mumbai.“All the parties will have to take a decision on avoiding a contest and efforts are on in that direction,” a Congress leader said, adding that state party unit president Balasaheb Thorat met NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday.Later, leaders of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA- comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress), including Chief Minister Thackeray, held a meeting to discuss the strategy for the Council polls.Thorat told PTI late Tuesday night that the MVA allies have decided to contest the polls together and field six candidates, two from each alliance party.The opposition BJP is also firm on contesting four seats, and it is upto the government to ensure nominees get elected unopposed, a source in the saffron party said.“If the MVA contests six seats, there will be an election. The BJP will field four candidates. There is no doubt about it,” the source said.Elections to the nine Council seats which fell vacant on April 24 were postponed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, but last week the Election Commission (EC) set May 21 as the poll date.This was after Governor B S Koshyari acted on a letter of the chief minister and urged the EC to hold the elections to allow Thackeray, who is at present not a member of either of the House of the Legislature, to fulfil the constitutional obligation of getting elected as a legislator.Thackeray took oath as chief minister on November 28 last year and per constitutional norms, he has to become member of the legislature within six months to continue in the post.The Shiv Sena has decided to field Thackeray and Council Deputy Chairperson Neelam Gorhe in the polls. The NCP is likely to retain Hemant Takle for another term, but has not declared its candidates so far.The Congress has also not announced its nominees, but senior party leader Naseem Khan, who lost the last year’s Assembly polls, is among the front-runners.Senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse said he has conveyed to his party that he is interested in being a member of the Legislative Council. “I am interested in state politics and I want to be a member of the Legislative Council,” he told PTI.Khadse said the BJP can win four seats as it has 105 members in the Assembly, and 11 members of smaller parties and Independents are also supporting the BJP.“These members have given in writing that they will be with the BJP on the floor of the House,” he said.The quota for a winning candidate is 29 votes.If the MVA contests six seats, it will need 174 votes while the BJP will need 116 votes.During the MVA government’s trust vote in the state Assembly last year, the ruling alliance had got 169 votes.The MLCs whose terms ended on April 24 are - Neelam Gorhe (Shiv Sena), Chandrakant Raghuvanshi and Haribhau Rathod (Congress), Kiran Pawaskar, Hemant Takle, Anand Thakur (NCP), Smita Wagh, Prithviraj Deshmukh and Arun Adsad (BJP). In the 288-member state Assembly, party-wise position is as follows: BJP-105, Shiv Sena-56, NCP-54, Congress-44, Bahujan Vikas Aghadi-three, Samajwadi Party, Prahar Janshakti Party and AIMIM-two each, Peasants and Workers Party, Swabhimani Paksh, Krantikari Shetkari Paksh, Rashtriya Samaj Paksh, Jansurajya Shakti Party, CPM, MNS-one each and Independents-13.The notification for the Council polls on issued on May 4. The last day of filing nominations is May 11. The scrutiny of papers will be done on May 12 and nominations can be withdrawn till May 14.The polls are scheduled for May 21 and results will be announced the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-council-poll-to-mark-uddhav-thackeray-s-debut-as-legislator/story-2j8UX2VrW1V29BHIxObqgK.html
06-05-2020||Bangalore||Industry leaders ask Karnataka govt to identify list of 100 firms for attracting to state||Amid reports about companies being reportedly interested in moving their manufacturing bases out of China, industry leaders on Tuesday asked the Karnataka government to identify a target list of 100 firms to reach out to for attracting them to the state. “Given the interest shown by some companies in moving their manufacturing bases out of China, the industry leaders recommended that the state government identify a target list of 100 firms to reach out to for attracting to the State, and work out a strategy to bring them to Karnataka,” a release by the state industries department said.The industry leaders assured cooperation from the private sector in reaching out to and facilitating interactions with CEOs of these companies, it said.With an objective of attracting industrial investments in Karnataka, given the changes in global economy due to Covid-19 pandemic, a high-level meeting with leading industry leaders of the state was held under the Chairmanship of Minister of Large and Medium Scale Industries, Jagadish Shettar.Nandan Nilekani, Non-Executive Chairman, Infosys, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson of Biocon, and Kris Gopalakrishnan, co-Founder and former CEO of Infosys participated in the video conference.During the meeting, Shettar recounted the steps taken by the government for reopening the industries at short notice post Covid-induced lockdown and spelt out the intent of further improving the investment climate to attract industries to Karnataka, the release said.It said the industry leaders appreciated the government’s initiatives in controlling the spread of the pandemic in the state and recommended that it showcase its efficient handling of the situation to attract investors to Karnataka.To boost the industry sentiment in the state, industry leaders suggested improving the Single Window Clearance System for approvals, easing land acquisition regulations and leveraging the knowledge base of Bengaluru to promote technology-based manufacturing.Shettar informed the industry leaders that government was in the process of notifying a new Industrial policy for the state and also that a special relief package for MSMEs is under discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/industry-leaders-ask-karnataka-govt-to-identify-target-list-of-100-firms/story-lICnPxzWjVnvUkCaqWRwjK.html
06-05-2020||Noida||Covid-19: Section 144 imposed in Ghaziabad till May 31||Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) will continue to be imposed in Ghaziabad district till May 31, according to District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey.According to a directive issued by the District Magistrate’s office, the period for which Section 144 has been imposed can be altered in the coming days keeping into mind the prevailing Covid-19 situation.“Section 144 CrPC to remain imposed in Ghaziabad district till May 31, 2020. This period can be reduced or cancelled as per the situation,” a letter by the DM, roughly translated to English from Hindi, read.The rest of the restrictions will stay in place as per the earlier orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-section-144-imposed-in-ghaziabad-till-may-31/story-OPGJxLf7jWl8JiHK4mCXnO.html
06-05-2020||Bangalore||Coronavirus lockdown: Liquor worth Rs 197 crore sold in Karnataka on second day||The second day of liquor sales in Karnataka on Tuesday after easing of lockdown curbs saw a nearly five-fold jump in earnings, with Rs 197 crore worth spirits being sold. According to top Excise Department officials, 4.21 lakh cases of Indian-made liquor, comprising 36.37 lakh litres, worth Rs 182 crore and 7.02 lakh litres of beer in 0.90 lakh cases worth Rs 15 crore was sold on Tuesday. On Monday, when sales resumed in the state, Rs 45 crore worth liquor was sold. “We had never expected such a record sale. It’s unprecedented,” an Excise official who did not wish to be named told PTI. Liquor sales had resumed in Karnataka on Monday after a 41 day gap following the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/liquor-worth-rs-197-crore-sold-in-karnataka-on-second-day/story-1OnGre4nTP3AEqrUjsHETI.html
06-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka stops additional DA for state staff, pensioners||The Karnataka government on Tuesday decided not to pay the additional instalments of dearness allowances with effect from January 1, 2020 to government employees and pensioners in view of the crisis arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic.Taking a cue from the Centre’s orders freezing the dearness allowance and dearness relief to central government employees and pensioners respectively at the existing rates sanctioned with effect from July 1, 2019, the Karnataka government today ordered not to pay the additional DA instalments.“The additional instalments of Dearness Allowance with effect from January 1, 2020 payable to State Government employees and pensioners including employees and pensioners on UGC/ICAR/AICTE/NJPC scales of pay shall not be paid,” the government order issued by the Finance Department read.The additional instalments of Dearness Allowance due from July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021 shall also not to be released until further orders, the government order said.However, Dearness Allowance will continued to be paid at the existing rates, the government maintained.The state government noted that as and when the decision to release the future instalment of Dearness Allowance due from July 15, 2021 is taken by the Government of India, the applicable rates of Dearness Allowance effective from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021 will be restored prospectively and will be subsumed in the cumulative revised rate effective from July 1, 2021.It also clarified that the employees and pensioners are not entitled to the arrears of dearness allowance for the period from January 1,2020 till June 30,2021.These orders will apply to the full time government employees, employees of zilla panchayats as well as full time employees of aided educational institutions and universities who are on regular time scales of pay.These orders will also apply to the employees covered under the Karnataka Daily Wage Employees Welfare Act, 2012 and also employees of Boards, Corporations, Local Bodies;employees of the government and autonomous industries under the control of state government whose dearness allowance order is being regulated with reference to the orders issued by the state government from time to time, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-stops-additional-da-for-state-staff-pensioners/story-HRmfboEOI6f2UAF8o2obVK.html
06-05-2020||Education||Amid lockdown, students in Patna opt for virtual internship||As the Covid -19 outbreak has taken a toll on education sector, the virtual internship has become a new reality.Several students of Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P), who had bagged summer internships in metro cities and foreign countries are now settling down with work-from-home kind of internship after the recruiters have modified their agreements due to the global lockdown.Training and placement officer of IIT-P Kripa Shankar said, “No doubt the lockdown has affected the summer internship this year adversely. But all has not been lost completely. Thanks to the virtual management, the hi-tech companies are keeping the doors of internship and job offers running.”Two IIT-P students have got internship offer in London and France-based organisations. Few others have got internships at Google office in Bengaluru and Hyderabad. However, several students were trying at Japan-based institutes but the process stopped midway.Shweta Kumari, a first-year student of Patna Women’s College, said, “My summer internship is scheduled in June. I have applied for work-from-home internship as it carries weightage in the yearly assessment. I am waiting for the confirmation letter from recruiter.”Meanwhile, the Development Management Institute (DMI) is also in talks with several companies for online internship.DMI dean Niraj Kumar said that the institute was planning to switch for a digital-mode internship.Kumar said the virtual internship is not same as practical experience of office training but considering the exceptional situation, it is judicious to utilise time.Two students of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) have been selected by Indian National Science Academy (INSA) for summer research fellowship scheduled in June-July.Aashish Prakash and Awanish Pathak, both pursuing masters in science, have bagged internships at the CSIR-Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, West Bengal and Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Science,Uttarakhand respectively.CUSB’s public relation officer Muddasir Alam said, “Fate of their fellowship is tied with lockdown. In case the situation doesn’t go back to normal, students will continue with remote internship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/amid-lockdown-students-in-patna-opt-for-virtual-internship/story-jXWlTDv83Zh4xskn4dWYHM.html
06-05-2020||Education||Bihar board 10th result soon, evaluation of matric answersheets resumes from today||Bihar board 10th result update: Considering the fate of lakhs of students hanging in balance due to pending results, Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has resumed the evaluation of remaining matric answer-sheets from today. On Monday, chairman of BSEB Anand Kishor, said, “We are trying to find out possible ways for carrying out evaluation work. Since we have just 25 % of answersheets unchecked, less number of evaluators would be required for assessment. A week will be enough to settle the remaining work.”Earlier, the board had planned to declare matriculation result on March 30 but could not meet the target due to contractual teachers’ strike and Covid-19 outbreak. Officials said that the board was just few steps behind completing the result process. Nearly 75 percent copy evaluation and marks feeding were done simultaneously till mid-March, said an official. Before lockdown, more than 20,000 teachers were deployed for assessment of matriculation answersheets across 100 evaluation centres in the state.BSEB declared the intermediate examination result on March 24 this year.More than 15 lakh students appeared in matriculation exam held across 1368 exam centres, which was conducted between February 17 and February 24. Last year, matric results were declared on April 6 with overall pass percentage 80.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-board-resumes-evaluation-of-matric-answersheets-from-today-only-25-copies-left/story-OXSDikYslojRRAPs2FI96N.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Cases registered against 9 liquor shops in Pune for not following Covid-19 guidelines||Pune Police have registered cases against nine liquor shops for not following the Covid-19 guidelines.“Pune Police have registered case against nine liquor shops across the city in connection with not following the Covid-19 guidelines including not maintaining social distancing, sanitization, and others. Total nine cases have been registered,” said DCP Crime, Pune.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray-led state government had earlier decided to allow standalone shops including liquor shops to open in green, orange and red zone areas, but not in containment zones.As per the guidelines, only five non-essential shops can be opened in each lane. However, there is no restriction on the number of shops selling essential items opening.The government has issued a list of guidelines informing what will be allowed or not allowed in different zones of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cases-registered-against-9-liquor-shops-in-pune-for-not-following-covid-19-guidelines/story-t8oIcVXXJ6ycOZp51R1MUJ.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: From Rajouri to the Millennium City, a woman who is living her dream||She can see the moon while lying on her bed. She often WhatsApps photos of it to friends, commenting good-naturedly, “See, what I’m viewing from my bed!”. This is a privilege that she acquired by the sheer force of her belief that “we have just one life and we have to take steps to make it happy, even if we are scared in the beginning.”Deepa Ojha is speaking this evening on WhatsApp from the isolation of her 11th floor apartment, in a gated residential complex in Gurugram’s Sector 66 — a wide vista of apartment towers entwined with green expanses of trimmed lawns. The lady lives in a four-bedroom house with mother, Sia, “who ran away from home to marry my father back in the 1960s”, and dog Snoopy, whom “I rescued from the Golf Course Extension Road in December, while driving home from office.”Drawing apart the curtains of her bedroom’s glass wall, overlooking the balcony, she gushes, “See, the Aravallis (mountain range).” A bluish outline of hills looming behind a series of towers is faintly discernible through the phone screen that connects Ms Ojha to this reporter.“It just doesn’t feel like living in a city... so much space and openness.”The private world Ms Ojha has fashioned for herself makes her particularly content because “I’m single at 51 and make my own decisions about life and its routines.” Which includes going to the gym, learning Zumba dance, and attending yoga classes. Though these days her fitness rhythm is reduced by the lockdown to walking “10,000 steps daily” within her apartment—including taking the dog twice a day in the apartment society’s “pet park”.This paradise is new for Ms Ojha. A senior executive in textile industry for more than three decades, she spent all her years in Rajouri Garden—her roots were so entrenched in the west Delhi neighbourhood that she even bought a flat there in 2003. That world was left for good in the winter of 2018 following her move to this rented apartment in Gurugram. “The shift was my gift to myself on turning 50.”Delhi is full of people who consider the Millennium City rather unkindly, viewing it as a soulless place crammed with malls and offices. If, however, they happened to listen to Ms Ojha gushing about the sustenance she draws from her new address, they might as well imagine she has settled down in the spiritual retreat of a pilgrim town like Haridwar or Rishikesh.The lady explains that she left Delhi after deciding to “give three hours to myself daily.”Make no mistake. She was materially contended even as a Rajouri Garden dweller and very happy being a workaholic, but “I had no time for myself.” She would leave home at 7.30am for her office and return at 10.30pm—that was her daily routine for 30 years.“I wanted to add quality to my life. I knew I could do it. I didn’t have to take anybody’s permission. Normally people have this desire to start their own household after they get married.... I’m single but I too have the desire to create the home I want.”Seeing through this decision wasn’t without obstacles though: her elderly mother, with whom she lived, who was unwilling to leave the familiarly of the Delhi neighbourhood., which is also home to her other daughter. In a heart-to-heart chat with her mother, Ms Ojha told her that “I will certainly not be living in Rajouri after you are gone... so why should I wait. This is the only life I have.”The lady ascribes this unusually frank talk to the upbringing her loving parents gave her — “with full freedom to follow my heart’s desires.”Eventually, the mother agreed to the move, noting, “Maybe I should experience the place you will live in after I’m gone.” The elderly woman doesn’t regret the move even if she misses the bird sounds of Rajouri Garden.As far as she’s concerned, Ms Ojha doesn’t miss her former home in Delhi at all. “I feel freer here. People are not intrusive or judgmental, and we all think alike.”By now the living room is flooded with the light of the setting sun. Ms Ojha returns to the balcony outside her bedroom, muttering, “It’s all about taking a stand... my life truly began after 50.” Not long after the phone chat, she WhatsApps a picture of the moon as seen from her bedroom. The scene looks like the stuff dreams are made of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-from-rajouri-to-the-millennium-city-a-woman-who-is-living-her-dream/story-W3ywONmMWsj1LAOEPwnjFN.html
06-05-2020||Kolkata||5 more troopers attached to central team found Covid-19 positive: BSF||A day after a BSF driver who escorted a central team tested positive for Covid-19, five other troopers attached to the South Bengal frontier were found infected with the disease, the paramilitary force said.Out of these five positive cases, three were engaged in escort duties of the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), officials said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Five more personnel were found to be positive. Their reports came late in the evening. They have been admitted to M R Bangur hospital,” a senior BSF official of South Bengal Frontier said.The contact-tracing exercise has started and some have been sent on quarantine, the official said. According to senior officials of BSF South Bengal Frontier, the troops have been on high alert and efforts are on to ensure that the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and other guidelines are strictly followed by the troopers of the border-guarding force. “After the driver of one of the escort cars was found positive, we sent him at an isolation facility and more than 51 personnel with whom he came in contact have been sent on quarantine. “We have also tested more than 25 people so far, including other drivers of the escort team. None of them found to be positive. But still, all of them have been kept on quarantine as a precautionary measure. The process of testing is on ,” a senior BSF officer said.The senior officer said the BSF was on high alert since the beginning of the pandemic. And after the first case in the South Bengal frontier was reported on Monday night, senior officers have been asked to ensure that the troops follow the SOP and other precautionary measures.The officer said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has been informed about the BSF constable’s infection. A Central team to look into the Covid situation in Kolkata and adjoining areas was staying at the BSF guest house in South Kolkata and all its logistics such as vehicles, escort personnel, security personnel were provided by the paramilitary force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/5-more-troopers-attached-to-central-team-found-covid-19-positive-bsf/story-3jtm2bzPXGQUgAUackaSMN.html
06-05-2020||Kolkata||In letter to Mamata, BJP’s Vijayvargiya alleges ‘glaring discrepancies’ in Bengal Covid-19 bulletin||Amid allegations that the West Bengal government was not revealing the true Covid-19 picture, BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday, claiming that “glaring discrepancies” exist in the Health Department’s bulletin. The BJP leader indicated that the state government was still making attempts to hide the real picture despite criticism from all quarters. Vijayvargiya’s letter to Banerjee came a day after the IMCT wrote to Chief Secretary Rijiva Sinha that the state had the highest mortality rate in the country at 12.8 per cent and the “extremely high mortality rate is a clear indication of low testing, weak surveillance and tracking”. The government is coming out with a much detailed bulletin since Monday, but the data it is providing to people still have a lot of discrepancies, Vijayvargiya said. “There are several unanswered questions on how the State Government is handling the Covid pandemic,” the BJP’s Bengal minder wrote to Banerjee. “But I hope, in the interim, you will take note of the above observations and ensure these discrepancies are addressed at the earliest.” “The government of West Bengal can’t give an impression of being callous when dealing with a sensitive issue involving lives of crores of people,” the BJP leader said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The Covid-19 bulletin of Monday has “some glaring discrepancies,” Vijayvargiya said, expressing hope that the administration would be more transparent in order to reassure the people that “they are committed to do whatever it takes to protect the citizens”. Claiming that there was no mention of the number of people who were “deprived” of Covid-19 tests and were “clandestinely buried/cremated as per Covid-19 protocols”, the BJP leader said figures of the total number of Covid deaths was still missing. “Instead, two separate columns mentioning patients who died due to Covid and patients who died due to comorbidities were given. ICMR/WHO-ICD guidelines require Covid to be mentioned as a reason for all patients, who were Covid positive and died,” the letter read. Eleven people died due to Covid-19 in West Bengal in the last 24 hours, taking to 61 the total number of people to have succumbed to the disease, the state government had said on Monday. Later, in an absolutely changed format of the health bulletin, it said there were 72 coronavirus deaths due to comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/in-letter-to-mamata-bjp-s-vijayvargiya-alleges-glaring-discrepancies-in-bengal-covid-19-bulletin/story-9SDOqpfMjEsKnzCkRURQgP.html
06-05-2020||City||Man held for raping 7-yr-old girl in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police have arrested a person for allegedly raping a seven-year- old girl in his locality under Sadar police station of Kurukshetra city. The accused have been identified Raj Kumar of Kurukshetra. According to Kurukshetra superintendent of police Astha Modi, the mother of the victim had filed a police complaint on Monday, accusing the man of raping her daughter four days ago. The victim told her mother that the accused, who is the father of her friend, had raped her at his house. The SP said that on the mother’s complaint, police booked the accused under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act and on Tuesday and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-raping-7-yr-old-girl-in-kurukshetra/story-veC2EKtAC5skmjnglGCWRL.html
06-05-2020||City||RTA team collects Rs 6.69 lakh from challans in 24 hours||A regional transport authority (RTA) team from Yamunanagar challaned several overloaded vehicles in the area on Tuesday and collected Rs 6.69 lakhs as fines in 24 hours. Sharing details, ADC-cum-RTA secretary Pratima Chaudhary said, “We have ordered RTA staff to check such vehicles on the road. Due to such vehicles, many roads in the area have broken prematurely and the safety of people is also affected. We’ve told the teams to keep a check on other areas where they stop for rest like dhabas.”Locals have complained several times on the broken roads due to mining vehicles that ply majorly in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rta-team-collects-rs-6-69-lakh-from-challans-in-24-hours/story-h9dsn5DGIdUKBSQZ6jRsNM.html
06-05-2020||City||Karnal Covid patient’s family alleges harassment by neighbours||Family members of a Covid-19 patient have alleged harassment by their neighbours in Ram Nagar locality of Karnal city.As per the information, a migrant labourer in the locality had tested positive for the virus on Monday following which the samples of four of his family members were also taken. Though their tests came out negative, they were advised to be in home quarantine. The family alleged that some neighbours were pressuring them to leave the locality, stating that they would spread the virus.A woman member of the family made a distress call to the police following which a police team was dispatched to the locality. The team made an announcement in the locality urging people not to harass anybody as anyone could catch the infection for no fault of theirs. However, some people in the locality alleged that the family members of the coronavirus patient were not following the quarantine norms and were coming out from their house repeatedly.Talking to Hindustan Times, Karnal superintended of police Surender Singh Bhoria said that such incidents are condemnable and will not be tolerated. He said that the Karnal deputy superintendent of police has been deputed to monitor the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-covid-patient-s-family-alleges-harassment-by-neighbours/story-JJvBUVCo4BveZBt1RVZjII.html
06-05-2020||City||4 traders booked after seized liquor bottles go missing from Sonepat godown||Four liquor traders were booked under excise and taxation Act after a huge quantity of liquor stock, which had been seized in 2018, went missing from the godown during the lockdown phase in Sonepat’s Kharkhauda. The accused were identified as liquor traders Bhupinder, his brother Jitender and two others of Sonepat district. Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said that the chief minister’s flying squad had recovered huge quantity of liquor from a godown belonging to the accused in Kharkhauda last year. However, after recovering the liquor, police stored it in their godown after deployed police outside.“Police had recovered nearly 6,500 boxes of bottles from seven trucks in 2018 and stored it in the Kharkhauda godown, from, where the bottles had gone missing. We are probing the role of the former and current Kharkhauda station house officers, other police officials and excise officials in this scam. The traders were booked after the liquor stored in their godown went missing,” Randhawa added.Sonepat SP further said that they have formed an SIT to investigate the case.“ It is too early to say, who were involved in this scam and how much bottles went missing,”he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-traders-booked-after-seized-liquor-bottles-go-missing-from-sonepat-godown/story-LwY0GOEKVpzJbNvHSfJodJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana allows registration of properties from 10am to 4pm||Keeping in view the difficulty being faced by public, the Haryana government has decided to allow registration of instruments pertaining to transfer of property under Section 17 and 18 of the Registration Act, 1908, in all tehsils and sub-tehsils (except in the containment zones) between 10 am to 4 pm on all working days.An official spokesperson said that it has been decided to limit the number of deeds to be registered in tehsils and sub-tehsils to 45 per working day with a gap of eight minutes each to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding. The executants of the instrument will visit the tehsils only after seeking prior online appointments. He said that other work relating to delivery of copies of revenue records, registration deeds, entries, attestation of mutations, affidavits and issuance of various types of certificates, such as scheduled caste certificates, backward class and OBC certificates, residence and domicile certificates, income certificates can be carried out during office hours on all working days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-allows-registration-of-properties-from-10am-to-4pm/story-DIKcVKz4EGdcnso6KlyKKI.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pay Covid cess for booze as Haryana opens its liquor vends today||A cash-strapped Haryana government on Tuesday levied Covid cess on all types of liquor sold in the state. Approving the imposition of cess, the Cabinet also approved changes in the 2020-21 excise policy, necessitated due to Covid-19 outbreak.The steps have been taken to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the liquor revenue.Excise officials said the Covid cess will be Rs. 5 per quart in case of country liquor, Rs. 20 per quart in case of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), Rs. 5 in case of strong beer, Rs 2 in case of mild beer and Rs. 50 per pack (greater than 375 ML) in case of Imported Foreign Liquor (IFL).It was decided that the excise policy for 2020-21 shall come into force with effect from May 6 and remain effective till May 19, 2021.Principal secretary (excise and taxation) Anurag Rastogi said the government is expecting to earn Rs 350-400 crore annually from the Covid cess.“Before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, we had allotted 84% of the vends through e-bidding. The remaining 187 vend will be put under hammer on Thursday,’’ he said.The validity period of the IMFL, country liquor and other licenses shall be upto May 19, 2021. All the licensees shall operate their licenses at the same license fee at which these were allotted before the outbreak of Covid-19. A Group of Ministers (GoM) headed by excise and taxation minister, Dushyant Chautala has been constituted for redressal of grievances of the stakeholders.AMENDMENT IN HARYANA VATThe cabinet also approved an amendment in the Haryana Value Added Tax Act (HVAT), 2003, to enable the government to extend the time limits prescribed under the Act for assessments. This has been done to ensure that assessments for 2016-17 or other proceedings that could not be finalised or initiated due to lockdown could be completed. The amendment shall be carried out by promulgation of an ordinance. As per the amendment, the state government, by notification, will be enabled to extend the time limits specified in, or prescribed or notified in the HVAT Act in respect of actions which could not be completed or complied with due to force majeure (unforeseen events preventing an action). The proposed amendment also empowers the government to give retrospective effect to the notification for extending the time limit.lowed to queue up 10 minutes before the closure time and transaction through e-payment will be encouraged. No Anumat Kaksh will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pay-covid-cess-for-booze-as-liquor-vends-open-today/story-zOjXyUAmla5YNUtP8BihxJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Over 70 cured tablighis complete 14-day surveillance period too, likely to return home soon||Over 70 of the total 149 Tablighis and their contacts who were found to be Covid-19 positive since mid-March, subsequently cured and shifted from hospitals to quarantine facilities, have now also completed their mandatory 14-day observation and are likely to be sent home soon.Senior officials of the health department said that most of the total 149 Covid-19 positive Tablighis as well as their contacts who were traced in 13 of the total 22 districts in Haryana, had been cured and discharged from hospitals about two weeks ago and were in quarantine facilities currently as per the Covid-19 protocol under observation.“Over 70 of them have also completed the said observation period and we have informed the home department about it. Now, the home department would address this issue of sending persons as per the policy framed in this context in consultation with their own respective states. The home department would also handle the cases of foreign nationals in which visa issues are involved,” said a senior official who did not want to be named.When contacted, home minister Anil Vij said that all the persons who were completely cured would be sent to their home states as per the policy applicable on them. He, however, denied information pertaining to their number off-hand.The state government had launched an exercise to identify persons with Tablighi Jamaat links since March 31 and had initially quarantined about 1,600 of them, of whom 149 were found to be positive, mainly in Nuh, Palwal, Gurugram and Faridabad. Of the total 46 positive cases in Nuh, 43 have been cured and of them 27 have completed mandatory surveillance period of 14 days too.In Palwal, of the total 33 cases, 31 have been cured and of them 24 have completed the mandatory 14-day observation.In Faridabad, of the total 28 cases, 25 have been cured, three are active patients while 10 have completed the surveillance period and 15 are still under observation.In Gurugram, while all the 17 Tablighis and their contacts have been cured, 11 of them are undergoing their 14-surveillance period while six are still under observation.Likewise, a few who were also traced from nine other districts most of whom have been cured and have completed their observation period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-70-cured-tablighis-complete-14-day-surveillance-period-too-likely-to-return-home-soon/story-30NLM7IKHhW3GWJlDHjcjJ.html
06-05-2020||Gurugram||Named in MeToo post, 14-yr-old in Gurugram kills himself, say police||A 14-year-old boy in Gurugram committed suicide late on Monday after being accused by a girl of molestation on social media, police said on Tuesday, amid outrage triggered by the discovery of an Instagram group where several schoolboys purportedly discussed sexual violence.Police said the teen jumped off his family home on the 11th floor of an apartment building, hours after he was named by a girl in a “MeToo” post on Instagram that came on a day when the “Bois Locker Room” group controversy went viral. “No suicide note was found but messages retrieved from the boy’s phone showed that fellow students warned him that he will be questioned by the police ,” said an officer. HT has seen screenshots of the posts made by the girl as well as other students who messaged the boy. The girl posted that she was attacked two years ago and “was tired of keeping it a secret”, before describing the alleged incident in the basement of her apartment complex and naming him.The suicide was witnessed by a close friend of the victim in another building, who said he went to check on the teen but did not report the suicide. Deepak Kumar, station house officer of sector 53 police station said the guards heard a thud and rushed to the spot. “They found the boy in a pool of blood and informed the family around 11.30 pm. He was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him dead.” Officers said they will question students, including the girl who posted and those who commented on it.The police started a suicide inquiry under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure after parents refused to file a complaint. Deepak Mathur, the forensic expert who conducted the autopsy, said: “There were multiple injuries, including head injury, which caused the death”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/named-in-metoo-post-gurugram-teen-kills-self-say-police/story-caUHBHJzevYSTX1eUJdsMI.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Woman cop’s body found in car at Delhi’s Lodhi Road||A 32-year-old Delhi Police woman constable was found shot to death in a car that was parked in a lane surrounded by government-allotted residential quarters in south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony early on Tuesday.The police are working on the theory that her husband, a head constable in the police force who has been missing since the murder took place sometime between 2 am and 9 am on Tuesday, had killed her over a marital discord.The body was found on the front passenger seat of a Maruti Ritz car owned by a colleague of the head constable, the police said. The recovery of an empty bullet shell used in 9 mm pistols from the car has given the police a reason to believe that a police weapon was used to kill constable Renu Malik who was posted in outer-north district’s Covid cell.Her husband Manoj, who uses one name, is attached with the special cell of Delhi Police and posted at its Lodhi Colony office.It is the fifth murder reported in Delhi between Monday and Tuesday. Four of the murders were reported on Monday.Joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Chandra Srivastava said a case of murder has been registered at the Lodhi Colony police station and the head constable is the prime suspect. “Multiple teams are conducting raids to nab him. The exact sequence of the incidents leading to the murder can be ascertained only when we question him. We have learnt that the couple was living separately for the last two-three years.”Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that around 9 am, a local resident spotted the woman’s body in a Ritz car and informed the police.Forensic experts inspected the crime scene. The investigating team later established that the car belonged to a head constable posted in the special cell. “He (the car owner) told us that at around 1.30 am, his colleague Manoj borrowed the car. Manoj turned out to be the dead constable’s husband, even as she used to claim herself unmarried,” an investigator said. The police raided Manoj’s home in Kotla Mubarakpur, but did not find him. Renu lived with her uncle in Burari. Her family members also suspected Manoj’s role in the murder, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-cop-s-body-found-in-car-at-delhi-s-lodhi-road/story-evsIC39YbCvC5k1T79eRwK.html
06-05-2020||City||Ludhiana STF seizes 1.6kg heroin, ₹17.5 lakh in drug money, two arrested||The Ludhiana branch of special task force (STF) recovered 1.6kg heroin, 150gm smack and Rs 17.5 lakh in drug money from two men on Monday.The duo was identified as Amit Sharma, 37, of Simran Enclave, Chuharpur Road and his relative, Rajan Kumar, 36, of Kunj Vihar, Jassiyan Road. Amit’s wife, who is also involved in drug peddling, is at large.Sub-inspector Gurcharan Singh, in-charge at STF, Ludhiana, said they stopped the accused Maruti Suzuki Creta for checking on Chuharpur Road following a tip off.On searching the vehicle, 1.3kg heroin was recovered from the dashboard. Later, STF recovered 150gm smack and Rs 6.6 lakh drug money from Amit’s house and 320gm heroin and Rs 10.9 lakh drug money from Rajan’s house.The sub-inspector said both accused were already facing trial in various drug peddling cases. “Amit is a driver and Rajan works as a labourer in a factory. They are relatives of another drug peddler Birju, whose family members are also into drug peddling,” the cop said.“Amit’s wife used to procure the heroin, and he and Rajan would further sell it among addicts and other peddlers. We are working to arrest her to establish their source even during the curfew,” he added.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at the STF station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stf-ludhiana-seizes-1-6kg-heroin-17-5-lakh-in-drug-money-two-arrested/story-6Ny9xlPMkIeNgF62jPrJDP.html
06-05-2020||City||Suicide abetment accused among 14 new cases in Ludhiana||As many as 14 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the district count to 124. The health department received results of 704 samples, of which 14 were positive.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said among the 14 patients, nine were pilgrims who had returned from Nanded in Maharashtra and four contacts of positive patients.An 18-year-old boy, nabbed in an abetment to suicide case after his female classmate ended her life by hanging, was the 14th person to test positive. 26 CONTACTS OF POSITIVE YOUTH QUARANTINEDAfter the results of the youth came out, five cops, including two ASIs and three constables of Mundian police post and Jamalpur police station, were quarantined.Besides, four members of the youth’s family, four family members of the deceased girl’s family and five panchayat members, who came in his contact to resolve the matter out of court, were also quarantined at home.Eight inmates, who had shared the Brostal Jail barrack with the teen for two days, were also isolated.According to the youth’s father, he did not leave the house during the lockdown period and had no travel history.His classmate had committed suicide on April 9, while the case of abetment to suicide was registered on April 30 when he was also arrested.Announcements were made in Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar of Mundian,where the youth lives, for residents to stay indoors after the area was sealed.Health department officials said those under quarantine will be observed for a few days, following which their samples will be collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suicide-abetment-accused-among-14-new-cases-in-ludhiana/story-GzciPW0dHpv6DWL29R3UOI.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||20 boys from 4 reputed Delhi-NCR schools part of lewd chat club||At least 20 boys studying in at least four prominent schools in Delhi-NCR were part of an Instagram group in which members discussed raping their classmates and made lurid remarks while sharing their photos, police officials said on Tuesday, as more details of what went on in the closed social media chatroom reignited concerns about sexual violence involving minors.Investigators said the group, “Bois Locker Room”, had 22 members in all, and two of them were adults studying in colleges, after they took into custody a 15-year-old boy who was identified as the administrator.“We have apprehended the 15-year-old boy and are questioning the adult members of the group,” said Anyesh Roy, the deputy commissioner of police of the Cyber Crime cell.“While we are questioning the adults, we are also interviewing some minors. We know the names of most of them, but are still ascertaining their other details,” said an investigator involved in the case, asking not to be named. On Tuesday, 10 members had been questioned over phone, while the 15-year-old was sent to a remand home meant for juvenile suspects. The content on the group included a remark by one member who suggested collecting a group of boys to gang rape a classmate, and several photos of schoolgirls that were accompanied with texts objectifying them. There were also copies of photos posted by girls on Instagram that were then appended with lewd and violent remarks. The conversations were exposed after one of the boys in the group took screenshots and passed it on to someone else, said the officer, before it was posted on social media by one of the girls who was targeted. “Some of the other teenagers we have interviewed claimed that they did not involve themselves in such conversations. One other student has said he saw these conversations as harmless. The student did not see the criminality in such conversations,” said the officer. The police said that they have seized some of their mobile phones to check if they were having similar discussions on other social media platforms as well. On Monday, multiple such screenshots were shared on social media before the police took suo motu cognisance and registered a case invoking sections of the Information Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code dealing with the distribution of pornographic content and making objectionable remarks about women. According to the investigator quoted above, the minor members will be booked under the juvenile justice act.On Monday, authorities of one of the schools – where the whistleblower student studied -- filed a complaint with the Delhi Police. “Once the screenshots emerged in the public domain, the group was deleted and another one created. Some girls were added in the new group to mislead police,” said the investigator. The original group was created in early April, the investigator quoted above said, adding that it was yet to be verified if all screenshots being shared on social media were actually part of the actual conversations or if some were morphed or picked up from elsewhere. Swati Maliwal, the Delhi Commission for Women chief, called out to other people who could possibly be members of such similar groups on other social media platforms, to exit such groups and report them to her. “Lockdown or not, such boys won’t be spared,” she said. On Monday, the DCW had issued notices to the Delhi Police and Instagram to respond to the allegations.On Tuesday, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) too took notice of news reports on the incident and issued a notice to the Delhi Police to take action in the case.“From a broader perspective, try to understand how such things come to pass. Our society faces three different sets of stark realities. One, we are a discriminatory society; second, we are a society where there is normalisation of violence, especially in close relationships; and third, sexuality and violence are intricately enmeshed. If one triangulates these three realities then one recognises that such instances are not one-off... A substantive response has to be thought of. To begin with, each one of us must communicate with our children about respect, equality and empathy: between genders, between castes, between ethnicities, between identities, between people. It is when we recognise people as people first that we stop violence and humiliation,” saaid Achal Bhagat, senior psychiatrist, Apollo Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/20-boys-from-4-reputed-delhi-ncr-schools-part-of-lewd-chat-club/story-C9oFvgNUFCzggvJKCNtLqM.html
06-05-2020||City||Punjab’s second Shramik Special train leaves from Ludhiana for Prayagraj with 900 migrants||After the first Shramik Special train from Punjab departed for Jharkhand from Jalandhar on Tuesday morning, the second train, carrying 900 migrants, left for Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh at 10.15pm from the Ludhiana railway station.The district administration ran 43 buses to board the passengers from different pick-up points across Ludhiana. They were brought to Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal in Ludhiana, where after medical screening, they were granted fitness certificates and taken to the railway station in the same buses.The train Ludhiana-Prayagraj Shramik Express (04606) comprised 22 coaches. It departed from Ludhiana at 10.15pm to reach its destination at 12.50pm on Wednesday.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said so far, 5.4 lakh migrants had registered on the Punjab Helpline Portal from Ludhiana to return home. Most of them were from Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, he added.“Text messages were sent to 1,200 people willing to return to Uttar Pradesh, to reach the pick-up points. Of these 1,200, around 900 boarded the buses, while 300 decided to stay back,” the DC said.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “We have set up 50 pick-up points in the district, of which 28 are within the city limits. Staff deployed in the buses checked the identity of the passengers as per the list.”Train tickets were provided to the migrants in the buses while they were taken to the railway station in small batches. The TTEs deployed at the station checked the tickets and accommodated around 50 passengers in each coach having 70 seats.RAILWAYS APPROACHED FOR MORE TRAINSAgrawal said after approval from Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, they had placed requests with railways to run trains to Katni (Madhya Pradesh), Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) and Daltonganj (Jharkhand) on Wednesday.He appealed to the migrants not to believe in rumours, and not to reach the railway station directly as they won’t be allowed entry. “Migrants will be informed by the Ludhiana administration via text message about the bus pick-up point near their residence,” he added.10 LAKH MIGRANTS REGISTER TO TRAVELRapidly increasing by the day, the number of migrants registering on the Punjab Helpline Portal to travel to their home states touched 10.8 lakh on Tuesday.Of these, 5.4 lakh have registered from Ludhiana, followed by 1.13 lakh from Jalandhar; 88,887 from Mohali, 59,053 from Amritsar and 34,242 from Patiala, besides other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/second-shramik-special-train-leaves-from-ludhiana-for-prayagraj-with-900-migrants/story-KvJmVcPvEpFXblhuBiqwhJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Chaos at Ludhiana railway station as migrants from Jharkhand look for train that wasn’t||Lack of coordination within the Jharkhand government regarding Shramik Special trains from Punjab left over 70 migrants high and dry as they reached the local railway station to board a train back home, only to find none was leaving.The first two Shramik Special trains were planned from Punjab for Tuesday - one from Ludhiana for Uttar Pradesh and another from Jalandhar for Jharkhand.Ludhiana was also on track to send a train to Jharkhand on Tuesday itself, but the plan was dropped after the Jharkhand government expressed reservations about receiving two trains in a day.Despite this, Jharkhand minister for drinking water and sanitation Mithilesh Kumar Thakur tweeted on Monday night about “two trains starting from Ludhiana and Jalandhar in Punjab”. The tweet read, “Ghar vaapsi ke ishuk saare shramik bandhu kripya samaye se station pahuch jaaye (All stranded migrants willing to return home should reach at respective stations as per timings of trains)”. The information was also published in Jharkhand-based dailies. Besides, administrations of various districts also notified migrants over phone to reach the Ludhiana railway station.Consequently, chaos was the order of the day at the Ludhiana railway station as migrants turned up to leave for Jharkhand. Holding on to their luggage, the hopeful migrants showed the tweet and news clippings to the cops, who only turned them away.Waiting for a solution, they sat on the roadside near Jagraon Bridge, without food or water. They had arrived from Jeewan Nagar in Focal Point, Makkar Colony in Giaspura and Punjabi Bagh in Jawaddi.Many claimed they had also applied on the Punjab Helpline Portal on May 2 to travel to Jharkhand.“I got a call around 9am on Tuesday from the Palamu district administration to reach the Ludhiana railway station by 10.30am as the train will leave at 11am,” said Sarfat Ansari, 36, who hails from Palamu district in Jharkhand.A tailor at a hosiery unit, he had decided to return home after getting no salary from his employer or ration from the Ludhiana administration.Rajak Ansari, 35, from Makkar Colony wished to travel to Ranchi. “I have vacated my rented accommodation. Now, I don’t know what to do. I waited for two hours with my wife and children, but nobody from the district administration or police came to guide us,” he said.Meanwhile, Youth Akali Dal leader Gurdeep Singh Gosha reached the spot and distributed packaged water glasses and biscuits among those waiting.Eventually, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Sukhpal Singh Brar reached the spot around 1pm and apprised the workers of the change from Jharkhand government’s end.He guided them that they will be informed through Ludhiana administration whenever the next train will be available, and their nearest police station will assist them.After he directed the police force to help the workers go back home in Ludhiana, three pick-up trucks were deployed.Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has clarified that the administration was sending text messages to migrant workers shortlisted to board the special trains. The text message will include the date and venue where these workers can board a bus near their residence, and from there, only the shortlisted workers will be transported to the railway station and provided train tickets.ANTI-RIOT POLICE DEPLOYED OUTSIDE STATIONTo manage law the and order, the commissioner of police has deployed 100 personnel of the Anti-Riot Police (ARP) outside the railway station, apart from the personnel from the Division Number 1 police station. The police are further coordinating with Government Railway Police to manage the rush of passengers and ensure their safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chaos-at-ludhiana-railway-station-as-migrants-from-jharkhand-look-for-train-that-wasn-t/story-iFa6W3YiW3pXoDfr7FLm1M.html
06-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Ignoring social distancing, cops, volunteers throw dance party in Ludhiana||Even as large gatherings are banned by the Ludhiana administration during the coronavirus lockdown, the district police organised a get-together at Division Number 1 police station, with several senior police and administration officials in attendance, on Monday night. A video that has been circulated widely on social media shows a number of police personnel and volunteers dancing to Punjabi numbers with many not wearing face masks. Among those in attendance at the get-together were police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City-1) Gurpreet Singh Sikand and assistant commissioner of police (ACP, central) Waryam Singh.The officials claimed that they had a cup of tea with the police personnel and volunteers during the event, and they had no idea how the crowd increased after they left the police station.ADCP Gupreet Singh Sikand said, “All that was allowed was food and some chit chat, but what happened after the senior officials left, should not have happened.”ACP (central) Waryam Singh said some lower rank cops must have initiated dancing, ignoring the social distancing guidelines, but it should have been avoided. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal was not immediately available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ignoring-social-distancing-cops-volunteers-throw-dance-party-in-ludhiana/story-scNNbmvK5vpWEwalKCkdCK.html
06-05-2020||City||Admission drive: Ludhiana Democratic Teachers Front condemns education dept officials for retracting statements||The Ludhiana unit of the Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) Punjab have condemned the district education officers’ (DEOs) alleged change in their statements regarding door-to-door school enrolment drive during the Covid-19 lockdown.On Tuesday, a media report stated that four government schools were found open on Monday for carrying out the admission process. Front secretary Daljit Singh Samrala said when the media demanded accountability from the DEOs in this regard, they concealed the fact that the instructions were issued by them to the teachers, head teachers and cluster head teachers on the Zoom app. The front members said, “The DEOs simply answered that no such admission orders have been issued to the teachers.”District DTF president Hardev Singh Mullanpur said the DEO (elementary education) Rajinder Kaur and deputy DEO (elementary education) Kuldeep Singh had held regular meetings over Zoom app with teachers, head teachers and cluster head teachers (CHTs) of various blocks. “During the meetings, verbal orders were issued to the teachers, head teachers and cluster head teachers for admission in schools and written orders were issued by the block primary education officers (BPEOs),” Mullanpur said.“This is a violation of the guidelines issued by the government. Despite the written orders issued to the teachers by the BPEOs under the pressure of the DEOs, the alleged retraction of their own statements to save their own skin indicates the insensitive approach of the DEOs towards the health and education of students,” he said.The front members said they had earlier sent a memorandum to the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to intervene in the matter but in vain. “The verbal and written orders for the enrolment of students in schools during the lockdown should be immediately revoked. Action should be taken against the department officers,” the front members demanded in a written statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/admission-drive-ludhiana-democratic-teachers-front-condemn-education-officials-for-retracting-statements/story-dp6TdNierFIFjaTknbS0RJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Allow industrial operations in mixed land use areas as well: FICO||With the state government allowing industrial operations only in the areas outside municipal corporation (MC) limits and in designated industrial areas/focal points, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) has urged Union ministers Amit Shah and Harsimrat Kaur Badal to intervene and allow the industry and commercial establishments to operate in mixed land use areas as well.FICO office-bearers said, “The large industry cannot work till the time the micro and small units, situated in mixed land use areas, are also allowed to operate as these units work as vendors for large units. Also, there is a need to open the commercial establishments, including hardware shops, oil and lubricant suppliers and electric shops as the industry is opening after several weeks days and the machinery will require repairs.”FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “A large number of industrial units are situated in mixed land areas, including Janta Nagar, New Janta Nagar, Shimlapuri, New Shimlapuri, Dashmesh Nagar, Dhuri Line, Dholewal, Partap Nagar, Vishwakarma Colony, etc., which were established around six decades ago. The area of these units ranges from 50 square yards to 100 square yards and it is very easy to maintain social distancing in these units as few labourers work in these units. These units have also got Udyog Aadhar.”FICO general secretary Rajeev Jain and propaganda secretary Satnam Makkar also appealed to the government that the railways should not resume regular trains to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other native places of migrant labourers working in the city for at least 45 days after the lockdown.They rued that, viewing the current scenario, when the workers were keen to move back to their native places, it would be another lockdown for the industry if they returned to their home states after the lockdown was over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-industrial-operations-in-mixed-land-use-areas-as-well-fico/story-C9uya3ljP2jCNEDAXaDjgL.html
06-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Locals don’t give two hoots to social distancing in Old City areas of Ludhiana||Defying social distancing norms, residents came out of their houses in large numbers for various purchases in Ludhiana on Tuesday. Maximum violations were witnessed in areas of Old City, including Sabun Bazar and Pindi Street, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Dr BL Kapoor Memorial Hospital and Giaspura. Though the district administration has asked the public not to use vehicles while visiting shops, several people ventured out on their two-wheelers during the curfew relaxation hours between 7am and 11am. With no police personnel deployed on the roads in Old City areas, locals made most of it, and were seen gossiping and laughing standing in smalls groups, most without any face masks.Avtar Singh, 57, of Karimpura, said he needed some medicines for which he came to Pindi Street. “It was not possible for me to walk three kilometres to reach the market, so I came on a two-wheeler,” he said.The market near BL Kapoor Hospital also witnessed vehicular rush. Lajjawanti of Chhawani Mohalla said, “Though grocery is available at small shops near my house, we have to come out to buy vegetables. Vendors avoid entering narrow streets and if they do, they overcharge.”YOUTHS PLAY CRICKET ON ROADS, QUEUES OUTSIDE GROCERY SHOPSIn Jawahar Nagar Camp area, streets were barricaded using bamboo sticks, but locals were found roaming around without any restrictions. Some youths were even playing cricket on the vacant roads. A resident said despite lockdown, street food such as “golgappas” were easily available in the area. The police never come inside the streets to check the violations, he said.Main market of Jawahar Nagar Camp was closed except some grocery shops. While the shopkeepers sold articles from half-open shutters, customers queued up outside the shops, waiting for their turn. Model Gram resident Prabhjot Singh, who was among those waiting, said, “There were long queues outside every shop. We are forced to buy locally produced articles as according to shopkeepers, they have run out of branded ones due to the lockdown.”Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the police will initiate action against the defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-locals-don-t-give-two-hoots-to-social-distancing-in-old-city-areas-of-ludhiana/story-88NZ8mrBCOGxEHiKvAxERK.html
06-05-2020||City||Sanitising door installed at Shimlapuri police station||After another accused arrested by police tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, the Shimlapuri police have installed a sanitising door at main entrance of the police station.Sensors installed in the door will spray the sanitiser on the person passing through the door.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said the Shimlapuri police station was the first in the city to have this facility.“We have a staff of over 50 police personnel. Due to curfew duty, they are at risk of exposure to the virus. So, the door has been installed at the police station,” Brar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sanitising-door-installed-at-shimlapuri-police-station/story-xpXotmFhNh54m8whyPNZcN.html
06-05-2020||City||Congress supporter, five others booked for assaulting senior leader Daljit Singh Bhola’s aide in Ludhiana||A Congress worker and an aide of senior leader and former general secretary of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, Daljit Singh Bhola, was allegedly assaulted by a party supporter and his five unidentified accomplices near the office of party MLA Sanjay Talwar, police said on Tuesday.Complainant Ashwani Sharma, alias Gopi, said he had been receiving threats following a spat with the husband of ward number 9 Congress councillor Gulshan Kaur in a WhatsApp group. On Monday night when he was returning home after meeting Bhola, a party supporter, Sahil, and some of his accomplices intercepted and assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon and sticks. After he raised the alarm, the accused left the spot. Following this, Gopi called up Bhola who rushed him to Christian Medical College and Hospital where his condition is stable. BOTH FACTIONS HAD A SPAT EARLIER Sources said the two factions of the Congress leaders had indifferences over the distribution of ration among the needy. Earlier, members of both the factions had indulged in a spat in public over “discrepancies” in the distribution of ration.Tibba police have lodged an FIR against six people, including Sahil. Assistant commissioner of police (East) Davinder Chaudhary said the case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 325 (grievous hurt), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code following the statement of the victim. He said more names could be added in the FIR and efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-congress-workers-booked-for-assaulting-senior-leader-daljit-singh-bhola-s-aide-in-ludhiana/story-8cJnq7L7HjPfqHF6GH1yUO.html
06-05-2020||City||Amid lockdown, defunt tubewells add to Ludhiana residents’ woes||At a time when the residents are facing difficulties in catering to their daily needs amid the lockdown, non-functional tubewells in different parts of the city are increasing their woes in the scorching heat.There are over 40 tubewells, which need replacement or repairs in Lohara, Chhawani Mohalla, Tibba Road, Chhoti Haibowal and Giaspura, but the work has come to a halt because of the curfew imposed due to Covid-19. The municipal corporation (MC) officials are either diverting the supply from nearby tubewells or providing water tankers.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu conducted a meeting with the officials of operations and maintenance (O & M) department officials on Tuesday and directed them to expedite the repair and replacement work. “The councillors have been complaining about the defunct tubewells in their respective areas. I have asked the officials to commence the work at the earliest after getting approval from the district administration so that the residents don’t suffer during summer,” he said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor (ward number 29) Prabhjot Kaur said, “Three tubewells in my area need replacement, including the ones at Prem Nagar, Indra Colony and Lohara area. Installation of one tubewell was stopped due to the curfew, while the installation of other two is yet to start.”“Though water tankers are being supplied in the area, residents are facing shortage of water,” she said.Scuffles have also been reported from Lohara area as residents jostle to get water from the tankers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-lockdown-defunt-tubewells-add-to-ludhiana-residents-woes/story-4WXPGTuRpDeorcxZVlHuIO.html
06-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MC conducting trials to treat wastewater at Jamalpur STP with poly aluminium chloride||To treat the wastewater entering the sewage treatment plant (STP) in the Jamalpur area, the municipal corporation (MC) has started using poly aluminium chloride to treat the sewage as part of a trial. As per MC officials, the trial commenced on April 29 and initial results are encouraging as the black water flowing out of the plant has now diluted and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) levels have improved. BOD is the amount of oxygen consumed by bacteria while decomposing organic matter under aerobic conditions, whereas COD is the amount of oxygen required for the chemical oxidation of total organic matter in water.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu visited the STP to assess the results of the trial on Tuesday and directed the officials of the MC and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PCBB) to conduct sampling of the water treated with poly aluminium chloride.“The results of the trial are encouraging, but we need to check effects of the chemical on the water coming out of the STP, as this water gets into the Sutlej and it should not affect the aquatic animals,” said the mayor.He added, “Both MC and PPCB have been directed to collect samples and a final decision on whether this chemical will be used to treat the wastewater or not, will be taken after sample reports are received.”MC superintending engineer (SE) Rajinder Singh said, “Till now, results of the samples are good and the black water, which earlier used to come out of the plant, has diluted. As directed by the mayor, samples are being collected.” An MC official, requesting anonymity, said, “Due to the lockdown, industrial waste is not getting into the STP and the trial might give different results when the dyeing units restart operations. The industry is accused of dumping untreated waste into the MC sewer lines, which affects the working of the STP and is a major reason behind Buddha Nullah pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-conducting-trials-to-treat-wastewater-at-jamalpur-stp-with-poly-aluminium-chloride/story-cMHI1myZxOhb7y0JjHrDsM.html
06-05-2020||City||Ludhiana neurologists caution residents against ignoring symptoms of stroke||Noticing a drop in the number of brain stroke patients coming to the hospital amid the lockdown, neurologists of Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) have cautioned residents against ignoring the symptoms of stroke, which can have far-reaching consequences.Instead of being confined at home, the patients should be rushed to the nearest health facility, the neurologists said, adding that amid lockdown, on an average, only one patient has been arriving at each hospital as opposed to three patients arriving every day during normal circumstances.“Moreover, that one patient also arrives late which can cause long-term damage. Most patients and their relatives are reluctant to visit the hospital as they fear getting afflicted with coronavirus,” said Dr Anirudh Kulkarni, assistant professor of neurology at CMCH.“Timely treatment can reduce the disability associated with stroke. Newer treatments like clot retrievals have been introduced, which involves the removal of clots that block the blood supply to the brain by using special stents,” Dr Kulkarni added.Dr Birinder Paul, neurologist at DMCH, said patients who were not coming to the hospital may suffer long-term damage.Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian, vice-president of World Stroke Organisation, said due to the coronavirus outbreak, some patients may be apprehensive about coming to the hospital. “However, hospitals have made necessary arrangements to screen and isolate patients afflicted with Covid-19,” Dr Pandian added.He said as per studies on prevalence of stroke in urban and rural areas published in 2015 and 2019, respectively, 140 people in a population of 1 lakh suffered from brain stroke in urban areas, while in rural settings, the number was 193.SYMPTOMS OF STROKEThe symptoms of stroke include sudden weakness and numbness felt on one side of the body, sudden difficulty in speaking and understanding, giddiness, unconsciousness and sudden headache.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-neurologists-caution-residents-against-ignoring-symptoms-of-stroke/story-ZTmQOhuiMNXGeBaTo8wqeK.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Wipro campus in Pune to become Covid hospital||Information technology (IT) giant Wipro Limited signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Maharashtra government to convert its campus in Hinjawadi, Pune, into a Covid-19 hospitalThe hospital will be a 450-bed intermediary care centre for those infected by the coronavirusThe hospital will be ready by the end of the month and will be equipped to treat moderate cases, said a statement from the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s officeAs per the MoU signed recently, the proposed hospital would also have 12 beds to stabilise critical Covid patients before shifting them to a tertiary care facilityThis will be an independent, isolated Covid-19 dedicated complex It will also include 24 well-appointed rooms to accommodate doctors, nurses, ward boys and other medical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wipro-campus-to-become-covid-hospital/story-7qLdGoSvK2jwDVCZikYnMM.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Migrants, wine shops: Every day is a new challenge for Mumbai Police||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday received several complaints on crowding at wine shops from residents from Ghatkopar, Mulund, Andheri, Powai and Byculla on their Twitter handle. Residents had posted pictures and videos on @MumbaiPolice of crowds at wine shops throughout the day. Responding to the repeated complaints for two days in a row, Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “New measures are being chalked out. No FIRs [first information reports] are registered, but we intensified our patrolling at wine shops.” The police also introduced a token system to disperse the crowds.Raghvendra Thakur, senior inspector of Versova police station, said, “The wine shop owners have been asked to distribute 30 tokens per hour. So only 30 customers will stand in queue while maintaining social distancing and others can stand far away from them to avoid crowding.” Police officers also said that it would have been better if the shops were not allowed to operate but with the government giving a nod for the shops to remain open, the police said they will ensure that social distancing is maintained.942 migrants set to return to Andhra Pradesh Since the lockdown began in March, 942 migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh have been stranded in Dongri, Wadi Bunder and other areas of south Mumbai. They were provided food by the Mumbai Police for a month with the help of a non-governmental organisation (NGO) and the civic body. These migrants are finally set to return home. “All of them will be taken to Kalyan in buses, from where they will board a train to Andhra,” Sangramsingh Nishandar, DCP, zone 1, said. Truck driver tries to ferry 40 to UP, bookedThe RAK Marg police booked a truck driver in Sewri on Monday night for allegedly trying to ferry around 40 daily wage labourers to Uttar Pradesh (UP) without permission. All the daily wages workers were rescued and sent back to their respective shelters in Mumbai. The police said the labourers were from garment and private electronic units in Sewri and Daru Khana. 23-year-old pelts stone at BEST bus A 23-year-old man was booked by Sakinaka police for allegedly pelting a stone at a Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus because he was allegedly denied an entry despite telling the bus driver that he had to visit a hospital for a medical check-up. The accused, Shahid Ahmad, who works with a private company, said, “The incident took place on Friday when I was on my way to Sion Hospital for my medical check-up. Due to the lockdown, I didn’t find any taxi or autorickshaw and hence I tried to board the bus. The driver asked me if I was a government servant. I explained that I have developed an infection and needed to visit the hospital. The conductor pushed me out and in a fit of rage, I pelted a stone at the bus,” Ahmad told HT.A patrolling police vehicle nabbed him from the spot. Kishor Sawant senior inspector of Sakinaka police said, “We have lodged an FIR against Ahmad because as per protocol, citizens have to carry medical documents and can travel by autorickshaws available for patients. But he attempted to board a BEST bus which is exclusively running for medical staff and other government servants.” 44 FIRs on Monday The police registered 44 FIRs on Monday for lockdown violations, of which 25 were from central region, while nine were from the west region. Seventy-one people were booked, while 29 were arrested. Both the areas are the worst-affected owing to the Covid-19 outbreak in the city. A maximum of these (14) were filed for gathering at one place, while 12 each for not wearing masks and illegal use of vehicles. 458 cases reported in Maharashtra policeA total of 458 cases of Covid-19 have been reported among Maharashtra Police personnel, of which a majority (409) are constables. While 419 are being treated, 35 of them have recovered. With one more personnel’s death in Pune, the total number of deaths owing to Covid-19 in the state’s police force has now reached four, with previous three deaths reported from Mumbai. Four police constables from Kandivli police station were quarantined after a 45-year-old police constable from the police station tested positive on Tuesday. The constable and other staff were tested at a special testing centre set up in a private school at Jogeshwari near the station. The police said he was posted at the police station for general duty and it’s not clear how he got infected. About 211 police personnel from Mumbai Police have tested positive till Monday. (Inputs from Faisal Tandel, Suraj Ojha and Pratik Salunke)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/migrants-wine-shops-every-day-is-a-new-challenge-for-mumbai-police/story-p4PkuuspaJ5lZwJEptNIDN.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Only essential stores can stay open in Mumbai||Mumbai A day after the state government relaxed restrictions to allow non-essential shops, including liquor outlets, to open, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) overruled the order for the city, owing to the huge gathering of crowds outside wine shops, blatantly disregarding social distancing norms. Civic commissioner Praveen Pardeshi issued a circular on Tuesday stating only groceries and medical stores will be allowed to stay open. “There are multiple reports, news in social media and inputs received from the police and the ward officials that due to the relaxation there has been huge crowds gathering near these shops where it has been impossible to maintain social distancing and there were few instances of law and order situation arising out of such crowds gathering at one place,” the circular stated. “It has been observed that number of positive cases in the city of Mumbai have been rising and the downward trend to set in a gathering of crowds in large numbers without following social distancing will be detrimental to the control of spread of virus and the advantages of the lockdown will be lost due to gathering of people in large numbers,” the circular issued by Pardeshi further read. The state on Sunday had issued an order allowing non- essential shops, including liquor outlets, to be opened in all zones provided every lane had only five shops in red zones. But with Mumbai’s coronavirus cases reaching the 10,000-figure, Pardeshi in the circular pointed out the relaxations were likely to deteriorate the conditions further in the city and hence withdrew them.“Hence, I issue orders to the assistant municipal commissioner of wards that no such permissions for opening of the five shops which are non-essential be given and the police within each ward jurisdictions will ensure compliance of these orders . Only the groceries and medical shops will be allowed to be opened,” added the circular. Pardeshi’s order overrules state notification issued on Sunday, allowing functioning of non-essential shops (limited to five per lane) as well as the Mumbai collector’s order on Monday that allowed wholesale and retail liquor shops to be opened. Pardeshi being the civic commissioner, is an empowered officer nominated by the state to overrule orders of the state within the purview of the city. The corporation was earlier contemplating to draft a policy to the regulate functioning of non-essential shops by limiting certain kinds of shops and introducing odd-even opening slots for them. However, Pardeshi ruled out the policy in favour of a complete ban. Traders have criticised the move. Viren Shah, president of Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association ( FRTWA), said, “Shopkeepers across Mumbai are shocked and confused with the government’s change in stand every other day.There was no issue with opening of non- essential product stores in Mumbai. Queues were noticed outside wine shops and not outside other non-essential stores. So why have other non-essential shops been asked to shut? ““As of now most of the products in the non-essential category have also become essential commodities. For instance, as most people are at home, they feel the need to buy garments, kitchenware, baby products, toys and indoor games, apart from groceries,” Shah further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-essential-stores-can-stay-open-in-mumbai/story-RYFQObQtKgm8LqrkmR8OxL.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER begins trials for plasma therapy to cure Covid-19 patients||After the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research received a nod for conducting trials for the convalescent plasma therapy on critical patients of Covid-19, the institute has started calling up recovered patients for donation of plasma.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had okayed the idea last Friday.The plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those antibodies into an active coronavirus patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection.The Union health ministry last week had warned against the use of the therapy, saying it was at an experimental stage and had the potential to cause life-threatening complications.The hospital, however, will go ahead with the process. Since the exact role of this therapy in the treatment of positive patients is still debatable, the ICMR has decided to conduct a multicentric study to clarify its role on the patients.The collaborative departments for this trial are internal medicine, anaesthesia and intensive care, transfusion medicine, endocrinology, virology and community medicine.“We have contacted around seven recovered patients who have sought time to take the decision,” Dr Ratti Ram Sharma, head, department of transfusion medicine said.The study is aimed at assessing the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications in Covid-19 patients, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-begins-trials-for-plasma-therapy-to-cure-covid-19-patients/story-IyZfqSu2fyuxEP08sGHgpK.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||HC seeks clarification from state on payment of travel and medical report costs of migrants||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the state government to clarify who will be bearing the 15% cost of travel of migrant workers to their hometowns, as the Centre has undertaken to bear 85% of the cost. The directions were prompted after the petitioner said that there was no clarity in the tri-party state government on who would pay the amount. The petitioner also sought directions to the state to bear the cost of medical screening of migrant workers before they can embark on their journey back home. The single bench of justice S C Gupte, while hearing public interest litigations (PILs) filed by NGO Ghar Bachao, Ghar Banao through video conferencing, was informed by advocates Kranti L C and Ronita Bhattacharya that after the state wing of the Congress party had said that it would bear the transportation cost of migrant workers, the Centre had clarified that it would bear 85% while 15% would have to be borne by the state. However, as the Congress was a stakeholder in the state government, there was no clarity as to who would pay and hence the state should be asked to clarify. The advocates for the NGO also submitted that as migrant workers who want to go home need a medical certificate, the cost of the same should also be borne by the state government. However, after the state’s counsel submitted that the policy was silent on this aspect, Justice Gupte said that there was a need for coordination between the state and central governments on payment for the transportation and the same should be informed to the court on May 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-clarification-from-state-on-payment-of-travel-and-medical-report-costs-of-migrants/story-HkvayyQpuXNHKYg2g4EavJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Month into advance payment scheme, PSPCL collects ₹102 crore in Ludhiana||After a month of introducing the advance payment scheme, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) central zone has collected over ₹102 crore in bills.The power corporation had offered 1% interest per month to all categories of consumers on the advance payment of power bills.Majority of the advance payments have been received by the industrial units in central zone, that includes Ludhiana (East), Ludhiana (West), Khanna and suburban circle.DPS Grewal, engineer-in-chief, PSPLC central zone, said, “Till date, around 104 consumers have made the advance payment, out of which around 30 were commercial and domestic consumers while the others were from industries.”Establishments such as Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and M/S Oasis Enterprise based in Mandi Gobindgarh had also availed of the offer.“We are thankful to all the consumers who availed of this scheme and helped the department mobilise its operations. We request more people to come forward and pay their bills in advance,” said Grewal.PSPCL’s OFFERStaring at losses due to non-consumption of electricity by bulk consumers, including industries and big commercial establishments amid the lockdown imposed due to the novel coronavirus, PSPCL had made an offer to all its consumers in April.“PSPCL offers consumers of all its categories to make the advance payment towards their electricity bills up to March 2021, and earn 1% interest per month. Thus, consumers can earn around 12% interest per annum (double the rate of interest per fixed deposit),” the appeal read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/month-into-advance-payment-scheme-pspcl-collects-102-crore-in-ludhiana/story-Qaxeivej68h22vT48G3FLI.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Good news: Cured patients in UP far outnumber fresh corona cases||In a heartening development, the number of coronavirus patients cured and discharged from hospitals in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday far exceeded the number of fresh corona positive cases in the state.On Tuesday, the state also achieved a landmark of testing over one lakh samples since the pandemic struck UP.Uttar Pradesh reported 118 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of coronavirus cases to 2,880, while 185 patients were discharged from different hospitals, including two from KGMU.“The state has reported 56 deaths till now, including one each in Basti, Varanasi, Shrawasti, Bulandshahr, Kanpur Dehat, Aligarh, Amroha, Mainpuri, Jhansi, Bijnor, Bareilly and Lucknow, four in Mathura, two in Ghaziabad, seven in Meerut, three at Firozabad, 5 in Kanpur, 7 in Moradabad, 16 in Agra,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.“The number of discharged patients is more than new patients’ admissions. If this trend continues we shall soon considerably reduce the number of active cases,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, International Association of Doctors.In all, 66 districts that reported cases till now are Agra (640), Lucknow (231), Ghaziabad (104), Noida (193), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (276), Pilibhit (3), Moradabad (116), Shamli (29), Jaunpur (8), Bagpath (18), Meerut (163), Bareilly (10), Bulandshahr (56), Basti (32), Hapur (44), Ghazipur (6), Azamgarh (8), Firozabad (165), Hardoi (2), Pratapgarh (11), Saharanpur (205), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (7), Maharajganj (7), Hathras (7), Mirzapur (4), Rae Bareli (46), Auraiya (13), Barabanki (2) Kaushambi (2), Bijnor, (34), Sitapur (20), Prayagraj (10), Mathura (32), Badaun (16), Rampur (25), Muzaffarnagar (24), Amroha (32), Bhadohi (2), Kasganj (3), Etawah (6), Sambhal (21), Unnao (3), Kannauj (7), Sant Kabir Nagar (26), Mau (1), Etah (11), Sultanpur (3), Aligarh (43), Mainpuri (8), Gonda (8) Shrawasti (7), Bahraich (15), Balrampur (1) Ayodhya (1), Jalaun (5), Jhansi (9), Kanpur Dehat (2), Siddharthnagar (14), Deoria (2), Mahoba (2), Kushinagar (1), Amethi (1), Gorakhpur (3) and Varanasi (68).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/good-news-cured-patients-in-up-far-outnumber-fresh-corona-cases/story-rA2T6iTvuJJWfPaBrYmMaK.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Screen, quarantine UPites returning from abroad: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to establish the required facilities at Lucknow, Varanasi and Hindon airports to screen UP’s residents coming back from abroad as part of the central government’s biggest-ever peacetime repatriation exercise, beginning May 7.He said arrangements to quarantine them should also be made. Thousands of Indian citizens, including UPites, are stranded across the world due to the coronavirus disease pandemic.Reviewing the lockdown-3 situation at a meeting here, Yogi said industrial units should start functioning in accordance with union government’s advisory to ensure an increase in the state’s revenue. He advised the industries to follow security protocol while functioning.He said norms of social distancing should be followed and necessary amendments in policies, along with labour reforms, should be carried out.The chief minister said UP’s recovery rate of Covid-19 patients was 33 per cent, which was six per cent higher than the national recovery rate of 27 per cent.Yogi said registration facility has been provided on the ‘Jansunvai portal’ for UP’s residents willing to return to the state, and residents of other states living in UP who are willing to go back.He said corona testing facility in the state should be increased and all necessary facilities should be provided in the Covid-19 hospitals. He said facility for disposal of bio-medical waste should be provided while setting up new testing labs. He said number of doctors available for medical consultation through telemedicine facility and toll free number of ‘State Corona Assistance Call Centre’ should be publicised for benefit of the people.The chief minister said district magistrates should ensure that nodal officers for quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens submitted to them regular reports about arrangements at these centres. He stressed upon the need of protective measures for medical and police teams to protect them from corona infection. He said social distancing must be followed at mandis.Yogi said a work-plan should be prepared to protect milching animals from foot and mouth and other diseases by vaccinating them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/screen-quarantine-upites-returning-from-abroad-yogi/story-Rz6Bq1Hg2ddqmtFCyz5daN.html
06-05-2020||City||Ludhiana mayor tells Tata company to repair dysfunctional streetlights in two days||Following complaints by residents of different areas about non-functional LED streetlights, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu conducted an inspection on Monday night and directed the officials to initiate action against the Tata company if it failed to repair the lights in two days. Residents had alleged that around 60% of the streetlights in various areas of the city, including Shimlapuri, Model Gram, Model Town Extension and Dugri, were non-functional, throwing all these areas in darkness all through the night amid the Covid-19 curfew.In fact, streetlights even outside the camp office of the mayor near the Rose Garden, residences of the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner and the CEO of the Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) near Rakh Bagh were also not working, the complainants said. President of the AC Market Shopkeepers Association and a resident of the Dugri Urban Estate, Gurcharan Singh Chan said, “Most of the streetlights in our block have been non-functional for around a month. Despite complaints submitted with the MC, no steps have been taken to repair the lights.”A resident of Model Town Extension, Simranpreet Singh said, “Even posh areas of the city are facing the same problem and the fear of thefts always haunts residents. In some areas, not a single light is functional in the entire street. Regular inspection should be carried out by the authorities and action should be taken against guilty officials or the company staff.” In response, the mayor said, “What can be expected of the company when even the lights installed outside houses of the mayor and the MC commissioner are not working. The completion certificate has been issued to the company for two zones, but still around 60% of the city is under darkness due to lack of proper maintenance. I will not allow any kind of payment to the company till all lights are repaired in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mayor-tells-tata-company-to-repair-dysfunctional-streetlights-in-two-days/story-A69WewdAtYGXbk6y0kYBUL.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt clears confusion on resuming industrial activities||The Yogi Adityanath government on Tuesday came up with more clear guidelines related with reopening of industrial units across the state.To begin with, the District Industries Centres (DICs) across the state started issuing forms and a set of undertakings to be filled by local industrialists who want to restart their units.For districts such as Noida, Meerut and Agra, where cases of COVID-19 are high, the guidelines are more stringent.The form and the set of undertaking to all industrialists who want to resume production was sent through email.“We are submitting forms and in the next 24-hours permission is likely to be granted. I am hopeful that from Thursday onwards industries will start in the state capital,” said Awadesh Agarwal, president, Indian Industries Association (IIA), Lucknow chapter. The IIA is an industry lobby body of the MSME sector.The government has directed industrialists to start operation with 33 percent to 50 percent of their work force.“A 25-point undertaking has been issued by the state government. We have to abide by all instructions to check spread of COVID-19,” said Agarwal.It may be pointed out that all sugar mills and industrial units categorized in ‘essential goods’ category are already functioning.The state government has already issued instructions for reopening of all industrial units in rural areas.“Government has responded positively to our requests. The district industries centre across the state have issued forms to industrialists who want to resume production. In the next two days, there will be some industrial activity in the state,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, IIA.With the government exchequer drying up and expenditures increasing with each passing day in fight against COVID-19, the government wants industries to start functioning.However, even after clear guidelines from the Centre and the state government, district magistrates at the local level failed to set the industries in motion in their regions, say industry experts.JOINT MEETING OF ALL INDUSTRY DEPARTMENTSThe entire industry ministry of the state government conducted a joint meeting on Tuesday to make sure industrial activities begin at the earliest.The Industrial Development minister Satish Mahana and MSME and Khadi minister Siddharth Nath Singh conducted a joint meeting with all officials of the industry department.Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner Alok Tandon, principal secretary (Industry) Alok Kumar and principal secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal along with other officials were present.In the meeting it was decided that the Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner will conduct a meeting with the state home department and issue guidelines for industries.At the local level, district magistrates will implement these guidelines and will also make sure that there is no harassment of industrialists in the name of inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-clears-confusion-on-resuming-industrial-activities/story-by56GnHzy3P963x8ezBbJI.html
06-05-2020||City||With 235 new cases, three-digit daily leap continues in Punjab||Tarn Taran district added the maximum Covid-19 patients (47) to the Punjab’s Tuesday tally of 235, of which 199 are Hazur Sahib pilgrims. With this, the number of Covid-19 patients in state has gone up to 1,490. A 22-year-old woman, who had died at a hospital in Amritsar on Sunday, was found positive for the virus, taking the death toll linked to Covid-19 in the state to 26.Of the 47 patients in Tarn Taran, 46, including 13 women and a 3-year-old child, have Nanded link. The district now has 87 cases, including 86 Nanded pilgrims.Gurdaspur too saw a sharp spurt with 42 fresh cases recorded on Tuesday of which 39 are Nanded pilgrims. Among the Tuesday patients is one-and-half-year-old boy and gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria.Thirty-four people tested positive for novel coronavirus in Fazilka district on Tuesday, of them 33 are Hazur Sahib pilgrims.In Faridkot, of the 26 infected persons detected on Tuesday, 22 had returned from Nanded. Nine cases were reported in Moga district and six have Hazur Sahib link.Sangrur’s Tuesday tally was 22, including 21 Hazur Sahib-returnees. A migrant labourer was also found positive for the virus.Three policemen were among 15 Covid-19 infections detected in Muktsar on Tuesday and one of the patients jumped home quarantine. Police have started a search for the patient.Fourteen cases were detected in Ludhiana on Tuesday and nine of them are Nanded pilgrims. Among the patients tested positive on Tuesday is a youth who is facing abetment to suicide charge after a girl took her own life on April 9. The health department quarantined 21 people, including eight fellow inmates who had shared barrack with the youth.Sixteen people, including 13 Nanded pilgrims tested positive in Amritsar on Tuesday, civil surgeon DR Jugal Kishore said. Also, the swab samples of a 22-year-old woman who had died on May 3 were found positive for the virus. With this, the district’s tally has reached 230.“The family of the woman has been informed and her contacts are being traced. Her family members will also be tested for the virus,” said Dr Kishore.In Kapurthala, four Nanded pilgrims, including a 13-year-old girl, were found positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Three Hazur Sahib-returnees were among five who tested positive in Jalandhar on Tuesday, while two pilgrims were found infected in Patiala.A driver from Rupnagar, who had brought pilgrims from Nanded, was also tested positive in Amritsar. (With inputs from Bathinda, Fazilka and Jalandhar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-235-new-cases-three-digit-daily-leap-continues-in-punjab/story-nygxjRhFO5173KSlwU11NI.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Seven migrant labourers killed in road accident in Mathura||Seven migrant labourers were killed in road accident on Monday night after the tempo in which they were travelling was hit by a truck near Umri village of Mathura district. The driver of the tempo was also killed in the accident.The deceased were from Madhya Pradesh’s Chatarpur district and were heading to Jajan Patti crossing after they got information of a bus leaving for their hometown from there.These labourers were jobless due to lockdown and were waiting to travel back to their villages.Roshan Lal, incharge of Mogarra police station in Mathura, said, “These people were informed that a bus for MP was leaving, so they hired a tempo to catch the bus. On their way, they were hit by a mini truck coming from Bharatpur on Mathura- Bharatpur road. The truck, carrying water melon’ was fully loaded and badly damaged the tempo. Two labourers were killed on the spot, locals rushed and tried to save the others and informed the police.”The injured were taken for treatment but five more including the driver died later in the hospital during treatment. “Seven labourers were killed while two are seriously injured,” said Roshan Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/seven-migrant-labourers-killed-in-road-accident-in-mathura/story-bK7Bgl524UOujEcXBsygaN.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police escort three differently abled Kashmiri youths home||The three hearing and speech impaired Kashmiri youths who had been stuck in Mohali since the curfew began were sent back to the Valley on Tuesday with a policeman escorting them.A special vehicle was provided to them by the Punjab government for a drop till South Kashmir’s Anantnag district. The development came after the Hindustan Times had on May 1 reported about the youths’ plight.Manager of JK House, Chandigarh, and liaison officer for JK students in the region Dr Inderjot Singh said, “A special vehicle has been provided to them by the Mohali administration that will drop them to Anantnag. Last I heard, they had entered Jammu and Kashmir after being cleared at Lakhanpur.”A policeman of the Punjab Police is escorting the three Kashmiris to the Valley. The trio will be screened by the local district administration in Kashmir for infection if any.The trio from South Kashmir had come to Mohali in February to pursue a three-month skill development programme under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana at the Mentor Skills India LLP in Mohali.Umaisar Gull, brother of one of the students, said, “We are thankful to the government of Punjab and JK administration for immediate evacuation of the three. It is a relief for the families of all the three students.”Meanwhile on Monday, around 550 students of Jammu and Kashmir were sent back from Punjab. “We are evacuating the stranded Jammu and Kashmir residents in a phased manner. Around 6,000 have been sent back from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. We are also preparing the evacuation of stranded patients and labourers,” said Inderjot Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-escort-three-differently-abled-kashmiri-youths-home/story-IYU3cELCnyglAgq7Qm1JTI.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||UPSRTC bus service in 11 green zone districts from today||The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) will resume normal bus operations in and between the districts categorised as ‘green zone’ from Wednesday, with all precautions in place.Currently, there are 11 ‘green zone’ districts identified by the UPSRTC for bus operations. As per the Central government’s new Covid-19 guidelines, inter and intra-green zone bus operations can start with certain restrictions. UPSRTC managing director Raj Shekhar on Tuesday issued necessary directions in this regard to the officials through a videoconference.Explaining an elaborate list of dos and don’ts to officials, he said all the bus stations within the ‘green zones’ must be sanitised twice every day and every bus be sanitised before each trip.He said wearing masks would be mandatory for conductors and drivers and conductors would also wear gloves. All personnel would compulsorily undergo thermal screening every day.“Also, passengers will be allowed to begin their journey only if they wear a face mask or cover their mouth nose with handkerchief, towel etc after they board a bus,” Shekhar said.He said officials had been asked to make a 500 ml bottle of hand sanitiser available in each bus with the conductor to ensure that each passenger sanitized his or her hands after boarding the bus. A separate hand sanitiser and soap would be available at bus stations.“We have also set up a ‘Covid Task Force’ at depot level to ensure compliance with all the directions,” Shekhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/upsrtc-bus-service-in-11-green-zone-districts-from-today/story-pxxOJvYGHnANcs7sgsLpSI.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||1,900 Indians stranded abroad to return to the city starting May 7||About 1,900 stranded Indian nationals are expected to fly back to the city starting May 7, as part of the Central government’s plan to evacuate citizens stuck abroad amid Covid-19 pandemic. Total seven flights will land in the state through the week. On May 7, three flights will arrive at the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), with 800 passengers-- a special flight from London (250 passengers), a flight from Singapore (250 passengers) and one from San Francisco in the USA (300). The San Francisco flight, however, will further depart to Hyderabad.The second day around 250 passengers from Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia) and 250 from New York will land in the city. The next day, a special flight will be departing from Chicago to Mumbai and Chennai and is scheduled to bring back around 300 stranded Indians. Further, around 200 Indian nationals from Dhaka (Bangladesh) and around 250 from Manila (Philippines) will be landing in Mumbai on the same day. The seventh flight to the city will fly from London on the fourth day (May 10), with around 250 passengers. This will be the last set of stranded passengers to land at the CSMIA for the week.The government had announced on Monday that they will be operating special flights to evacuate thousands of citizens stranded abroad. Hence, it had been compiling details of distressed Indians, making a list of people who should be prioritised on the initial round of evacuation flights. Other flights will be operating from New Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-900-indians-stranded-abroad-to-return-to-the-city-starting-may-7/story-Fxaocy4rVN8JXoTz0bSbJN.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha tally goes past 15,000 as city inches towards 10,000 mark||Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the 15,000 mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 984 infections, taking the tally to 15,525. Just like on Monday, 841 of the new cases were reported in the 24 hours before the announcement, while the remaining 143 were over the past few days, as per the Central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the website of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the state government said. State capital Mumbai is nearing the 10,000-cases mark with a total of 9,945 cases, including the 635 new infections on Tuesday.Maharashtra breached the 10,000 mark on April 30, 53 days since the first case on March 9. The state took five days to cross the next 5,000. India’s worst-hit state has been witnessing a rapid rise in cases over the past few days. In the past ten days, since April 26, 7,897 cases and 299 deaths have been recorded across the state. Mumbai has seen 4,455 cases and 196 deaths in the period. The state also reported 34 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday, taking the toll to 617. Mumbai saw 26 deaths on Tuesday. Of the other deaths, six were in Pune and one each in Aurangabad and Kolhapur. At least 14 of the patients who died on Tuesday were above 60 years of age, while 28 had high-risk comorbidities. The mortality rate in the state stood at 4.01%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths is increasing, with 299 deaths in the past ten days. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.23%.On Tuesday, the state directed district collectors and municipal commissioners to concentrate on containment zones as their monitoring is expected to become more difficult. “There are complaints of crowding in many places after liquor and other non-essential shops were allowed to operate. Restricting the spread from red and containment zones will become more important after the relaxations. The clampdown in containment zones, especially in MMR and PMR should not be relaxed at any cost,” district authorities have been directed. Late on Tuesday, the Mumbai civic body issued a notification, saying liquor shops and non-essential shops will not be allowed in the city, a move to prevent crowding.According to officials, although chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed district authorities to contain the virus by May-end, full containment by then is looking difficult. “He has set a target and asked authorities to ensure strictest monitoring under the principle of 3 Ts (tracing, testing and treatment) in containment areas. He has also asked them to focus on shrinking containment zones to neutralise the areas. Though the cases are not expected to come to nil so soon, we expect the downward trend to begin by then,” said an official.The official said that though there are various projections about the graph of the cases, the government expects the downward trend to begin in the next two-three weeks.Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “Almost all the contacts of the patients are traced and will be quarantined in the next ten days. During this period, the rate of the cases will move northward and once two weeks of quarantine is over, we expect a drastic fall by the end of this month.” Officials said the state government has set a target of May 31 to flatten the curve to ensure that the spread is contained and the lockdown in Mumbai, Pune and other cities is ended at the earliest. Meanwhile, the state government issued a clarification on timings of shops and establishments, saying that there would be no restrictions on timings unless directed by the municipal commissioner and district collectors. “All shops and markets, which are allowed to remain open as per the order, shall function according to their timings. However, municipal commissioners in MMR and PMR, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad and district collectors in other areas will have rights to decide on the timings in case there is need of regulating these commercial activities. “There were too many authorities issuing orders without any uniformity on timing and days at the local level. This order brings clarity,” said Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary, Maharashra government.The state government, in the wake of the partial relaxations for the shops and establishments given from Monday, had received complaints about too many restrictions. In some areas, police were regulating the shops without any reason and it was leading to crowding in the areas.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the recovery rate in Maharashtra has improved. “As many as 354 patients were sent home after they fully recovered from the infection. This was the highest single-day number since the first patient was reported on March 9. We are conducting more than 7,000 tests in 45 laboratories daily and the number is highest in the country,” he said.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 6,561 coronavirus tests and 841 people have tested positive, which is 12.81% of the total people tested. The number of tests in the state touched 1,82,884 on Tuesday. 1,67,205 of them were negative. 1,99,182 people are currently under home quarantine, while 12,456 are under institutional quarantine. 11,629 teams of health workers have screened 50.81 lakh people for suspected infection, after they came in contact with patients. 2,819 patients have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past six weeks. Meanwhile, some district and municipal authorities have been imposing restrictions on the movement of people from Mumbai, the worst-hit city, to its jurisdiction. Ulhasnagar and Kalyan- Dombivli municipal corporations have issued orders to the citizens working in Mumbai to arrange for accommodations near their workplaces. According to the officials from the state government, collectors of many districts like Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have refused to issue permissions for citizens from Mumbai to enter the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-tally-goes-past-15-000-as-city-inches-towards-10-000-mark/story-ND3l18NX6phfj1ZlkqZweJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula revises order on non-essential services, salons to remain closed||Two days after issuing fresh directions allowing shops rendering essential services to open on all days, and the remaining on every alternate day, the Panchkula administration revised its order, with the addition of a new category for shops, and days on which they can operate. The new order issued by Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja classified activities into four categories for purpose of regulation.In the ‘A’ category, all shops rendering essential services including departmental and grocery stores, flour mills, dairies, bakeries, confectioneries, poultry, vegetables shops, chemists, books and stationery will be allowed to open on all days as per conditions, between 7am to 6.30pm. Earlier, the timings were set from 8am to 6pm. In the ‘B’ category, shops for services including plumbing, electrical works, AC repair, construction material, vehicle repair, workshops, hardware and paints and cycle stores will remain open on Wednesday and Saturday, between 8am to 6pm. Earlier, shops under this category were allowed to open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.In the ‘C’ category, shops dealing in gifts, toys, bags and suitcases, garments, cloth houses, shoes; dry cleaners, jewelers and opticians will remain open on Thursday and Sunday, from 8am to 6pm, replacing earlier orders allowing them to remain open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Now, the administration has added another category to avoid large gatherings. In the ‘D’ category, shops dealing in furniture/plywood/timber glass, inverter battery, electronic items including laptops, computers, mobile phones, watches, refrigerators, water purifiers, LED televisions, microwaves and other appliances, photostat, mobile recharge, glass houses and scrap shop, will remain open on Tuesday and Friday at the same time. Most services in the new category earlier fell into ‘B’ category.“Any activity not covered in ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ categories will be considered to be part of the ‘D’ category of activities. However, operation of barber shops, salons and spas shall remain suspended,” Ahuja said. He said activities allowed as per recent orders will not be permitted in containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-revises-order-on-non-essential-services-salons-to-remain-closed/story-3bVUIabyDHleWYRq9kH8lJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Anti-militancy operations to be intensified across Kashmir: DGP Dilbag Singh||Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh Tuesday said that anti-militancy operations will be intensified further across Kashmir and that the security forces have to bear losses in the form of killing of its men, at times.Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of the wreath-laying ceremony of three CRPF men killed in a militant attack in the Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Monday, DGP, Singh said that CRPP had established a checkpoint at Wangam in Handwara where militants attacked them.“There was a civilian movement and when they were asked to stop, the militants who were hiding behind the civilians opened fire and in retaliation, we also lost our men.’’DGP said that operations against the militants will be further intensified and will be carried with full force. “The militants were being chased from three days before the encounter. Unfortunately, we lost five people there, including three officers,’’ he said adding that some time forces too have to suffer losses during operations.DGP said that fresh infiltrations have been reported in Baramulla and many militants are active in Sopore as well. “We have a list of those active in Sapore and they are on our radar,” he said.Terming the Covid-19 pandemic a challenge, he said, “Police personnel in thousands are everywhere on roads, contact tracing, quarantine centres, with screening teams at red zones, orange zones and at the same time maintaining law and order and also fighting militants very effectively. Our men are fulfilling all responsibilities in a professional manner and will continue to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-militancy-operations-to-be-intensified-across-kashmir-dgp-dilbag-singh/story-DWlEwYHnZKYxe1Kq6GIRpN.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||95K tests conducted in Mumbai: City surpasses Delhi, Gujarat, Kerala||Over 95,000 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in Mumbai so far, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). As of May 2, when the city had conducted 93,500 tests, it surpassed tests conducted in the states of Kerala (32,000), Gujarat (80,000), and Delhi (47,000). Mumbai has so far conducted approximately 7,200 tests per million of the population of the city. Mumbai recorded 635 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total of positive persons to 9,945. Of the 635 cases, 120 patients tested positive in private laboratories between May 1 and 3 and were added to Tuesday’s report. The city also recorded 26 deaths on Tuesday, taking the city toll to 387. Of these, six deaths occurred on May 1 and May 2. The mortality ratio in the city stands at 3.89%. The 26 casualties (16 men, 10 women), 22 had co-morbidities. Eleven of them were above 60 years of age and two were below 40. A total of 2,128 persons have recovered so far. There are now 2,083 containment zones in the city. The count doubled in the past 10 days since April 24, when it had 983 containment zones. The highest number of containment zones are in L ward (233), corresponding to areas of Kurla, Sion, and Ghatkopar, followed by E ward (177) corresponding to areas of Byculla, Nagpada, Mazagaon, and Mumbai Central; G North ward (159) in areas of Dharavi, Dadar, and Mahim; K West ward (158) corresponding to Andheri West, and H East ward (135) in Bandra East. The G South ward corresponding to Worli and Prabhadevi areas has 139 containment zones.Dharavi recorded 33 new cases on Tuesday, taking the area’s total to 665. There have been 20 deaths there due to the coronavirus. So far, BMC has screened 83,500 people in Dharavi, and 2,380 have been institutionally quarantined and 196 residents have been discharged after full recovery from Covid-19.BMC has conducted 255 fever clinics across the city and approximately 10 clinics a day in high-density areas. The health department has screened 11,591 persons and found 238 positive cases through fever clinics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/95k-tests-conducted-in-mumbai-city-surpasses-delhi-gujarat-kerala/story-j1tHOFhB6r58T2KtRAiO2L.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Petitioner’s residence alone can’t determine court’s jurisdiction: Allahabad HC||A three-judge bench of Allahabad high court has said one cannot initiate legal proceedings against the other in a particular high court solely on the ground of residence of the petitioner or the parties to any petition.Maintainability of a writ petition in a high court would depend on whether the cause of action for filing the same arose, wholly or in part, within the territorial jurisdiction of that court and if cause of action arises within territorial jurisdiction of a high court, then the case is maintainable before such court irrespective of place of residence of parties. Cause of action is ‘fact or combination of facts that gives a person the right to seek judicial redress or relief against another’, the court observed.The bench comprising justice Sunita Agarwal, justice Anjani Kumar Misra and justice YK Srivastava decided a reference made by single judge. The reference to the larger bench was made by the single judge in the case of Manish Kumar Misra and others expressing view that there was a conflict of opinion between the views expressed by full bench and other division benches in respect of the maintainability of writ petition against the orders/ decisions taken by an authority outside the state of Uttar Pradesh.“The only difference made by the Constitution (Fifteenth) Amendment is that the location of the seat of Government or authority or residence of a person to whom the writ is to be issued is not to be the sole criterion for conferring jurisdiction and writs may also issue to Governments, authorities or persons outside the territory of a High Court provided the cause of action, in whole or in part, arises within the limits of its territorial jurisdiction,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/petitioner-s-residence-alone-can-t-determine-court-s-jurisdiction-allahabad-hc/story-3E9rYGYZZISyb1cM0MjBNM.html
06-05-2020||City||Press service of your companies in fight against Covid: Punjab Congress MLA to Sukhbir||Gidderbaha Congress MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on Tuesday urged the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to ensure free broadband internet and cable television services to the people of Punjab through the company in which the latter is a shareholder.In an open letter addressed to Sukhbir and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal posted on his Facebook, Warring said that being one of the richest political and business families in the state, the Badal clan should set an example by offering their businesses for the larger community service during the fight against coronovirus.“Sukhbir and Harsimrat Kaur have stakes in transport, hospitality and other businesses. When the entire state is going through a tough time, the Badal family is expected to play a much bigger role,” Warring told HT.He said the SAD leadership is constantly using pandemic for petty political interests but the Badal clan that played an important role in Punjab politics for more than six decades and led government on five occasions should have come forward to work with the state government for community assistance.Sukhbir’s media advisor Jangveer Singh said SAD president was unavailable.The Congress MLA claimed that a section of employees hired by the transport companies, in which the Badal family has stake, are apprehensive of salary cuts and job loss due to the lockdown.“Prime Minister Narender Modi has appealed the business world to ensure that their employees do not suffer in these unprecedented times. I urge Sukhbir Ji to make an announcement that jobs of all workers engaged in his transport or other businesses will remain safe,” said the MLA.Warring said a 7-star resort near Chandigarh is owned by the Badals and since it is non-functional due to lockdown, the spacious compound can be used as Covid-19 care facility. Sukhbir should also let his extensive fleet of buses to be used for community service by the state government, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/press-service-of-your-companies-in-fight-against-covid-punjab-congress-mla-to-sukhbir/story-gebEgyCRNVbstMchhSOiJI.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab wheat procurement reaches 100-lakh tonne mark in 20 days||Wheat procurement in Punjab reached the 100-lakh tonne mark on Tuesday since the produce started arriving in the state’s grain markets on April 15, even as there were apprehensions amid the ongoing lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak that necessitated following of social-distancing norms.With 4.74 lakh tonne wheat reaching the mandis on Tuesday, the cumulative arrival so far is 101 lakh tonne and purchase 99.67 lakh tonne.Despite certain glitches in the operations, the state departments of food and civil supplies, and agriculture call it a successful operation carried out in a better manner than the previous rabi procurement seasons. Senior officials say if all goes well the procurement will be over in 10 days from now, as compared to the last year when the operations continued till May 28.“Following the social distancing and other protocols was a huge challenge. We have overcome the tough phase,” said additional chief secretary Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state-level committee on procurement and harvest.Amid the fast pace of wheat arrivals, the departments concerned are worried 40% of total procured produce (40 lakh tonne) is yet to be lifted from the mandis. The shortage of gunny bags may also hamper the last leg of procurement.As per reports, the state is facing a shortage of 12,000 bales of gunny bags and sending them to all 4,100 procurement centres will take some time.“We have asked the procurement agencies to purchase one-time use gunny bags so that operations are not affected. These will be purchased from flour mills, arhtiyas and rice shelling mills,” said principal secretary (food and civil supplies) KAP Sinha.Secretary (agriculture) Kahan Singh Pannu said barring some areas in the Majha belt wheat harvesting is almost complete. “We are hoping to touch total arrivals to the tune of 130 lakh tonne,” he said.145 FARM FIRE CASES SO FARAt least 145 cases of stubble burning have been detected in the current rabi season till date.On Tuesday, 25 cases were reported — Kapurthala (8), Ferozepur (4), Hoshiarpur (3), Fazilka and Ludhiana (2 each) and one each in Bathinda, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Sangrur and Moga.In 2019 and 2018, as many as 563 and 1,826 such cases were detected during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-wheat-procurement-reaches-100-lakh-tonne-mark-in-20-days/story-8oftNx3coe63WSQgihJBJJ.html
06-05-2020||City||Speeding car leaves 4-year-old boy dead in Panchkula||A four-year-old boy was killed after being hit by a speeding car while crossing the road in Sector 27, Panchkula, on Monday. The deceased, identified as Saurabh Kumar, was living in Sector 27 where his father, Nandan Sharma, a native of Bihar, had been working as a daily wager for the past four months. In his police complaint, Sharma said he was crossing the road from herbal park side towards their house while Saurabh was in front of him when a rashly driven white car coming from Sector 28 hit his son and sped away. Chandimandir SHO inspector Deepak Kumar said the boy had received severe head injuries and was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 26 where he was declared brought dead. He said the unidentified driver has been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/speeding-car-leaves-4-yr-old-boy-dead-in-panchkula/story-rsuuryyol0OR1KbhmvIBKL.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC mulls capping prices at private hospitals after claims of overcharging||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) held a meeting with the representatives of private hospitals recently to discuss capping the price of treating Covid-19. There have been multiple complaints from patients’ families regarding the exorbitant fees charged by private hospitals.On March 18, when the BMC permitted private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients, all private hospitals were directed to charge ₹4,000 or 50% of the total bill for a bed. However, the instruction did not mention or specify cost of medicines, personal protective equipment (PPE), ventilators, staff services and other details.“We have learnt that hospitals are charging exorbitant amounts from patients. The amount has gone up to ₹1 lakh per day, which is not feasible. We have got the bills and found several loopholes. We called for a meeting with the CEOs to discuss the issue,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.On May 1, HT had reported that bills from private hospitals like Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital showed discrepancies and overcharging. Following the report, a reader sent a soft copy of his father’s hospital bill. His father, who succumbed to the infection, had been in Nanavati Super Specialty Hospital’s intensive care unit for 15 days. The family was charged ₹16 lakh.Patients have complained that private hospitals are also inflating charges for treatments not related to Covid-19. A 60-year-old dialysis patient, who is not Covid-positive, was asked to deposit ₹1 lakh in order to be admitted to Nanavati Hospital.When asked to comment on the allegations of overcharging, chief operating officer of Nanavati Hospital, Manpreet Sohal said, “Whenever any patient raises questions about billing, we always address their concerns.”At the meeting on Tuesday, the BMC discussed capping the price of treatments under the Epidemic Diseases Act. “We have sought their suggestions on the fixed charges they want to impose for the treatment. Once, we get it, we will impose the cap and if anyone is found in violation of it, action will be initiated,” said Kakani.Dr PM Bhujang, president of Association of Hospitals, said, “We are yet to come to a conclusion as we are still discussing it amongst our hospitals.”Cap on treatment costs for those without insuranceOn May 1, the state government capped treatment costs at private hospitals for patients without medical insurance. For others, capped prices will come into effect after they exhaust their insurance cover.In the circular, principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas stated hospitals should charge the lowest rates for procedures as per their pacts with insurance companies. Hospitals without such tie-ups must adhere to capped rates. The cost of an angiography has been capped at ₹12,000; angioplasty with one stent, at ₹1.20 lakh; dialysis at ₹2,500; and knee replacement at ₹1.60 lakh.Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor of Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, approved of the BMC’s decision and suggested that the BMC should check with experts for the service prices of medical procedures and set caps accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-mulls-capping-prices-at-private-hospitals-after-claims-of-overcharging/story-tSVXPPNEhwkUAj3UqetrwI.html
06-05-2020||City||193 Pakistan nationals return home via Attari-Wagah border||As many as 193 Pakistani nationals, stuck in various states of India after the country announced nationwide lockdown on March 24, returned to their country through Attari-Wagah border on Tuesday. “All Pakistani nationals were screened by a team of health officials at the Integrated Check Post (ICP). They were allowed to return after their customs and immigration formalities were completed,” said a senior official of Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) posted at the ICP. The Pakistani nationals thanked the Indian government for facilitating their repatriation. “I along with my family had come to Mumbai to meet our relatives around 2 months ago. As the lockdown was announced, we were stuck here. We are thankful to the Indian government for facilitating our return,” said 25-year-old Anju Mhanlal from Karachi in Pakistan. Ashok Kumar, a resident of Sindh providence in Pakistan, said he had come to India with a 41-member Hindu jatha and was scheduled to return to his country on March 20 but as the borders were sealed in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, they were stuck too. “The Indian government was very supportive and helped us during this outbreak. We are thankful to the government,” he said.Another Pakistani national Ameena Kumari said even the Indians stranded in Pakistan should be allowed to return their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/193-pakistan-nationals-return-home-via-attari-wagah-border/story-WnsNmkpB5jR2i7vCwFQYNO.html
06-05-2020||City||Two arrested for assaulting cop in Vashi||A man and a woman were arrested for allegedly assaulting a policeman on Monday when they were asked to shut their shop which provides money transfer services. According to the police, they found a huge crowd outside the shop at Sector 21 in Vashi.“When a police constable on patrolling duty told the duo to shut the shop as people were not following social distancing and that they did not have a permit to keep shop open, they started arguing with the policeman. They hurled verbal abuses at the constable and the woman attacked him,” said an officer from the APMC police station.The accused identified as Khusbu Giri, 27, and Jitendra Giri, 32, were arrested. They were booked under sections of Indian Penal Code for violating orders and attacking an on-duty policeman along with other sections of Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-assaulting-cop-in-vashi/story-P9weZSCmufBoIUxJAfPvpL.html
06-05-2020||Noida||Noida mobile makers get nod to start factories, 50K workers to benefit||In heartening economic news, the UP government on Tuesday allowed all cellphone manufacturing firms based in Gautam Budh Nagar to resume production while adhering to the 33% staff-strength norm to ensure physical distancing. As per the data provided by India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA), these units produce 40% of all cellphones made in India. The district has also allowed all private offices to start functioning and said such employees did not need passes to come from Delhi or Haryana. Principal secretary Alok Kumar, in his order on Tuesday, directed all district magistrates to allow functioning of mobile manufacturing units in their districts. “Since mobile phones and their appliances fall under 7(ii)(b) of ‘IT hardware production’ of the government order number 381/2010/CX-3 dated May 3, 2020, their production is also allowed,” the order states. Reacting to this order, an enthused ICEA chairman, Pankaj Mohindroo, said, “This order has come with attuned permission, which will create a balance between the economic needs and people’s health and safety amid Covid-19 (pandemic). We are committed to abide by the government’s order strictly in terms of taking care of people’s health. This order will be a great opportunity for around 80 mobile manufacturing factories, which operate in Noida region and provide employment to over 50,000 people,” he said.He added that companies will be able to achieve 30%-40% manufacturing capacity this month while abiding by the government’s health guidelines. “As Noida region has been considered a global hub of mobile phone and component manufacturing, it will certainly result in a gigantic leap in production of mobile phones and accessories in coming days,” Mohindroo said.MORE SERVICES GET GO-AHEADMeanwhile, the GB Nagar district administration, on Tuesday, permitted all private offices, including IT companies, IT-enabled services, data and call centres, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facility management services and services provided by self-employed persons (except for barbers) to operate. “Their work strength must not be over 33% in any case. The employees of these offices also do not need any passes and they have been asked to follow social distancing strictly in their respective offices. The employees of these private companies, who are residing in other neighbouring states such as Delhi and Haryana, will be allowed to enter GB Nagar district during the lockdown,” Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-mobile-makers-get-nod-to-start-factories-50k-workers-to-benefit/story-BOazuzpVu5tssfxqfcrYfJ.html
06-05-2020||City||GB Nagar admin allows domestic helps, plumbers, electricians to resume work||NOIDA: Relaxing a few more lockdown restrictions, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration on Tuesday allowed self-employed persons, including domestic helps, plumbers, electricians and washer men, to resume their work with strict social distancing norms. Such people will not need any pass for their intra-district movement, officials said.District magistrate Suhas LY said that entry of domestic helps/maids, plumbers, electricians, AC repair professionals and washer men to residential societies and high-rises are no more restricted. “They do not need any pass for their movement within the district. Their identity cards will be their passes at any checkpoint. However, they will always follow the social distancing norms of Covid-19,” he said.However, barber shops will remain closed till further orders, the officials said. The DM further said that offices of private firms, including IT and IT-enabled services companies, and data and call centres in the district have been granted permission to resume operations. Besides, cold storage, warehousing, and private security services can also start their operations.“But, their work strength must not be over 33% in any case. The employees of these offices also do not need any passes and they have been asked to follow social distancing strictly in their respective offices. The employees of the private companies, who are residing in neighbouring states like Delhi and Haryana, will be allowed to enter GB Nagar district during the lockdown,” Suhas told HT.The district administration on Tuesday issued a detailed guideline regarding the opening of offices and services during the ongoing lockdown. About the government offices in the district, the DM said that they have been permitted to function as per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the Uttar Pradesh government in this regard. “All government offices shall function with senior officers of the rank of deputy secretary and above at full strength, and the remaining staff attending up to 33% as per requirement. Besides, services related to defence and security, fire, and disaster management shall function without any restrictions. The identity cards issued by their departments will serve as the passes for these government employees,” he said.Besides, offices of National Informatics Centre (NIC), customs, Food Corporation of India (FCI), National Cadet Corps (NCC) and Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) can also be opened. The DM said that in rural areas, all shops, without distinction to the nature of goods, are allowed to open, except those in shopping malls. “In urban areas, all stand alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open,” he said.The officials said that the standard operating protocols (SOPs) issued by MHA will continue to operate. “We will strictly follow the SOPs in release of quarantine persons, movement of stranded labourers within state and movement of stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons by road and rail,” the DM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gb-nagar-admin-allows-domestic-helps-plumbers-electricians-to-resume-work/story-77uHRZekedQeJ8nsko0QAJ.html
06-05-2020||Noida||Man shot dead over personal enmity in Greater Noida, five arrested||A 20-year-old man was shot dead Monday night, allegedly because of personal enmity, in Dhoom Manikpur village of Badalpur area. The victim, Prashant Rawal, was allegedly killed by the suspect, Ankit, a native of same village. A police team reached the spot after being called and arrested the suspect and his four accomplices.The victim’s father, Shripal Rawal, said Prashant was at home when the suspect Ankit called him and asked him to come at a neighbour—Mahesh Bhati’s—house in the evening. “Prashant initially refused to meet him. However, Ankit insisted and asked him to come,” said Rawal. Prashant left the house saying he would return soon. “However, he did not return for hours and it bothered me. We launched a search and found him sitting at a neighbour’s house at 7.30pm,” he said.Rawal said that Ankit and his four accomplices – Dushyant, Manish, Arun and Lokesh reached Bhati’s house and started abusing Prashant. “Ankit took out a countrymade gun and fired at Prashant’s chest leaving him fatally wounded. All the suspects fled the spot. We took Prashant to a private hospital in Badalpur, but doctors referred him to a bigger hospital. My son was then rushed to a private hospital in Ghaziabad where doctors declared him brought dead,” Rawal said.Prashant had completed a diploma in mechanical engineering and he was looking for a job. Rawal said Prashant and Ankit lived in the same village and their enmity was not known to the family. As per police, Prashant liked a girl who is Ankit’s cousin. “During interrogation, Ankit revealed that a few months ago Prashant had asked for his cousin sister’s mobile number. This led to differences between the two resulting in Prashant’s murder on Monday,” said Patneesh Kumar, SHO Badalpur. The Badalpur police later arrested Ankit and his four accomplices. Deputy commissioner of police (Noida Central) Harish Chander said a case has been registered against the suspects under Section 147 (rioting), Section 302 (murder) and Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-shot-dead-over-personal-enmity-in-g-noida-five-arrested/story-bP6YfFVsdBkAVxIrOLLLfM.html
06-05-2020||City||3-day-old girl is youngest Covid-19 patient in Ghaziabad, district tally crosses 100||A three-day-old girl is the youngest patient in Ghaziabad to test positive for Covid-19. The newborn tested positive along with eight others on Tuesday.The health department officials said with the new nine cases, the total count of Covid-19 positve patients has reached 104 in Ghaziabad district. Out of the total cases, 52 persons have been discharged from different hospital and two persons with comorbidities have died of the coronavirus disease.“The mother of the three-day-old infant had tested positive for Covid-19 after she delivered the baby at Meerut Medical College last week. The woman is from Dasna and the test of her daughter confirmed that she too is infected. Both the mother and the child are under treatment at the L3 Covid-19 facility at Meerut,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO).Last week, another newborn girl was put under quarantine after her mother, who lives at Kaila Bhatta locality had tested positive for Covid-19. The woman was later discharged from ESI hospital in Sahibabad and the reports of her daughter are still awaited.The CMO also an additional regional manager(ARM) of Uttar Pradesh Roadways, posted at Aligarh, and his fpur family members tested positive for Covid-19.“Till Monday, the ARM of UP Roadways and his two other family members had tested positive till Monday. Two more of his family members tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. All five family members, including the ARM have tested positive.. The family is from Modinagar. Further, we have the reports of a man from Khoda who died in Noida on Monday. His cause of death is still not clear and a death audit report from Meerut is awaited. He died due to long-standing bronchial asthma,” the CMO added.The CMO said other positive patients include a 66-year-old woman from Vijay Nagar; a 48-year-old woman from Ramprastha, two dialysis patients from Pratap Vihar and Shalimar Garden, and an eight-and-a-half-month-old pregnant woman from Bhopra, Sahibabad.The number of active cases in the state stood at 1,862 till Tuesday.PROHIBITORY ORDERS EXTENDEDMeanwhile, the Ghaziabad district magistrate on Tuesday also extended the prohibitory orders in the district till May 31. Officials said 10 more restrictions have been added to the prohibitory orders and their violation will attract legal action.“Any person violating the prohibitory orders as well as the 10 additional conditions will be subjected to legal action under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC. The 10 conditions have been added till May 31, and should not be understood as an extension of the lockdown. In case the lockdown opens on May 18, the 10 conditions will be removed from the prohibitory orders,” said SK Vaishya, additional district magistrate( ADM - executive).Under the ten conditions, the officials have prohibited any political, cultural, religious, sports, exhibitions, rallies etc among any other large gatherings, ordered closure of all religious places for the public; disallowed any assembly in public places, localities etc; disallowed any assembly of five or more than five persons by any associations; allowed marriages and last rites only after prior permissions; prohibited movement of public from 7pm to 7am besides barring persons above age of 65 years, pregnant women and children aged below 10 years from leaving their homes.The directions further stated that no salons, cinema halls, malls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks will operate and also mandated all schools and colleges to remain shut. The orders allow maximum of two persons (besides the driver) in four-wheelers and a maximum of two persons on two-wheelers.“Anyone moving out in public places will have to wear masks or cover their faces with a cloth. People will not be allowed to spit in the open. Violators will be subjected to legal action if caught,” ADM added.LIQUOR SHOPS OPENMeanwhile, the city on Tuesday witnessed a large sale of alcohol as the liquor shops opened for the first time since the lockdown came into force in March. Long queues were witnessed outside many shops and barring some places, the sale of alcohol went on smoothly, said officials.“We had issued strict directions to the shop owners for making provision for maintaining an adequate physical distance. Our PCR vans checked liquor vends regularly and made public announcements. No untoward incident was reported,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said.After the administration announced various relaxations under the third-phase of the lockdown, officials received various applications from grocery store owners, mobile shop owners among others to open their business establishments. Officials said that permissions were given to all 1,009 applicants from rural areas to open their businesses.Another set of 650 applicants were granted permission to open essential item shops in city areas. Over 1,177 applications were also received from small and big industrial units, and till Tuesday evening at least 517 were granted permissions to open.“ We received a total of 12 applications from can operators and we granted them permission to start their services. We have received no application for starting construction. The secretary of Ghaziabad Development Authority(GDA) has provided a list of standard operating procedures which is meant for workers at construction sites,” a district administration spokesperson said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-day-old-girl-is-youngest-covid-19-patient-in-ghaziabad-district-tally-crosses-100/story-1g2tH7kuqwSK57GabVd3hN.html
06-05-2020||City||Punjab local bodies minister orders probe into ‘misuse of power’ by Zirakpur EO||Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the alleged misuse of power by the Zirakpur civic body’s executive officer in issuing completion certificates to eight major residential-cum-commercial projects in February this year.The minister has directed the chief vigilance officer (CVO) to conduct the inquiry and submit the report in four days.The development comes after Hindustan Times highlighted how EO Manvir Singh Gill, despite having no authority under the relevant rules, issued certificates to major projects that are spread over more than five acres each. One of these projects has been developed over around 21 acres.Speaking to HT, the minister said: “If found guilty, strict action will be taken against the officer concerned.”According to sources, Zirakpur MC officials did not even carry out physical verification of the projects for issuing fire-safety no-objection certificate or giving permissions for sewerage and water connections and setting up of sewage treatment plant. Even in May last year, the Punjab and Haryana high court had pulled up the Zirakpur EO over inaction in removing illegal structures within 100 metres of the Chandigarh International Airport. Warning the EO, the court had said, “Shall we direct the chief secretary to look into your conduct,” while warning him of criminal contempt proceedings.NK Sharma, the Akali state legislator from Dera Bassi, said: “Corruption in not just rampant in the Zirakpur MC, but all government departments. The state government is looking other way.”The Zirakpur MC was dissolved on March 8 as its five-year term got over, and now the state government has appointed Mohali additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain as its administrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-local-bodies-minister-orders-probe-into-misuse-of-power-by-zirakpur-eo/story-m3KUlDOgb8sP5R8NU5lrRI.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||J&K sees 15 fresh infections, count mounts to 741||With 15 fresh Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir, the UT’s tally on Tuesday climbed to 741.Officials said while 14 cases were reported from the Valley, where the total count has risen to 678, one case was detected in Jammu division, where the total number of patients is 63. The new cases were reported from Baramulla, Srinagar, Anantnag, Shopian and Udhampur districts. Meanwhile, the official statement said that 17 patients recovered and got discharged from various hospitals in Kashmir division. So far, 320 patients — 267 in Kashmir and 53 in Jammu — have recovered from the disease.Of the total 413 active positive cases, 404 are in Kashmir while nine are in Jammu.As per the government statement, till date, 80,206 people have been enlisted for observation with 13,688 in home quarantine (including facilities operated by the government), 413 in hospital isolation, 213 in hospital quarantine and 7,274 under home surveillance. 58,610 people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-sees-15-fresh-infections-count-mounts-to-741/story-9to9HqOr89DNaUPdjpRE6L.html
06-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad residents urge admin to allow helps and others to return to work||On a day when neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district administration allowed all self-employed professionals such as domestic helps, plumbers, electricians and laundry persons to resume work, the Ghaziabad residents’ associations have written to the district magistrate asking that such persons be given permission to function in the district as well.“We have requested the district magistrate to provide clarity on allowing domestic helps, drivers, electricians, and plumbers, among others, to return to work. Further, we want to know if high-rises can allow in relatives or guests and whether delivery persons can come to individual flats for doorstep delivery. Also, we want to know if residents are allowed to take walks in parks or take up cycling,” Alok Kumar, founder member, Federation of Association of Apartment Owners, said.“There is a lot of confusion as residents want these services back. They also need AC technicians/mechanics as summer has already started. There are senior citizens who need services of physiotherapists, private nurses, etc. So, we want the DM to clarify if any special passes will be given to these persons. A clarification from the administration can help clear a lot of confusion,” he said.The office bearers of Kaushambi’s apex residents’ body, Kaushambi Apartments Residents’ Welfare Association (Karwa), said domestic helps, drivers, plumbers etc are much needed in high-rises.“It is requested that a suitable procedure be chalked out so that high-rise residents can get services of such persons. There are many elderly residents who have been staying away without domestic helps, drivers or attendants. If the administration permits, passes can be issued to such persons and RWAs can submitted a list. Or, the RWA itself can issue authorisation letters. A way out needs to be drawn up,” VK Mittal, president, Karwa, said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he has received requests from RWAs. “We will look into the issue and see how permissions can be given. We will chalk out a plan that allows for the movement of self-employed professionals,” he said.Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said the movement of such persons was not restricted specifically by police.“There are many instances wherein RWAs themselves suspended the services of domestic helps and others in the wake of the coronavirus spread. There are complaints by senior citizens that RWAs are stopping their attendants or helps from entering the premises. The RWAs should approach the administration if their issues are to be resolved,” he said.Few standalone shops openMajor markets remained closed across Ghaziabad city on Tuesday, even as a few standalone shops opened after the district magistrate issued directions on Monday night.“There is a lot of fear among shopkeepers about the Covid-19 spread and many are still not getting any clarity about the order. On Tuesday, only a handful of customers arrived. I hope that with time, people will get to know that shops have opened and more customers start coming,” AK Khanna, who runs a small stationery shop in Kavi Nagar, said.“The shop owners need more clarity on opening and closing timings. The customers are fewer in numbers due to lockdown and there is less or no availability of stock with such shops. They depend on wholesale shops which are located in bigger markets that are still shut. So these factors have hampered many standalone shop owners from opening shops,” Ved Kumar, who owns a small bike parts’ shop in Raj Nagar, said.Most shops that opened Tuesday were those of stationery items, photocopy outlets, cobblers, electronic repairs, type puncture repair, and motorcycle workshops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-residents-urge-admin-to-allow-helps-and-others-to-return-to-work/story-ZKgcTvOxLP7yjMNBIeGvNN.html
06-05-2020||City||Mandi youth dies of corona in Shimla||A 21-year-old youth from Sarkaghat subdivision of Mandi district died of Covid-19 at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla on Tuesday. He had returned from Delhi on April 29 after undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment.He was shifted to Lal Bahadur Shastri medical college in Mandi’s Nerchowk on Monday evening, from where he was brought to Shimla on Tuesday, director of national health mission, Himachal Pradesh, Dr Nipun Jindal said.His samples were tested for Covid-19 at Nerchowk medical college, which came out positive, he added. The doctors and paramedical staff, who came in his direct contact at IGMC, have been quarantined.The management of Nerchowk hospital has been told to quarantine the staff who attended to the patient. “Authorities have also started his contact mapping and all of his direct contacts will be tested for Covid-19,” said Dr Jindal.This is the second covid-related death in Himachal Pradesh that has so far registered 42 cases, two of which are active.BIGGER THREAT LOOMSHimachal Pradesh is now staring at a bigger threat as thousands of people have entered the state in recent days without being properly scanned.The state government had opened its borders on April 26 to facilitate return of people stuck in the others states. Thousands of them had thronged the state borders to return home, resulting in huge gatherings at interstate barriers.As per the government record, more than 95,000 people have returned to the state within a week, which prompted the government to close its borders again. Those who had already entered were simply requested to observe home quarantine. No concrete steps were taken to screen for them for the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mandi-youth-dies-of-corona-in-shimla/story-p19puggx9rAdWJbq49drKO.html
06-05-2020||Noida||GIMS narrowly avoids strike as two more medical workers test +ve||After two more paramedical staffers tested positive for the deadly and highly infectious Coronavirus disease, around 60 nurses and other staff at GIMS went on strike Tuesday morning demanding that GIMS should test at least 100 paramedical staff for Covid-19 if they want them to continue working. Though the district administration was able to convince them to resume work at the Covid-only facility, authorities at GIMS said they were waiting for the reports of few other paramedical staff members and they are expected to come positive as well as they are showing symptoms. Till Tuesday, 25 paramedical staffers had contracted the coronavirus disease, including six from GIMS, overwhelming the medical staff in the district.“They went on a strike but we have managed to convince the staff to resume work. We are also trying to hire new people. They demanded that we test 100 persons but it’s not possible. We have tested 12 more of our staff involved in the fight against Covid-19. We have been trying to convince them. Currently, we have enough staff to handle Covid-19 patients and we need more people. We are trying to hire people on contractual basis. After a few of our people have come positive for the infection, many others have got scared,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director GIMS.The state government has also sent a team of officials from the World Health Organisation, Indian Medical Association, Noida and other senior officials from the health department to do an audit of 26 hospitals to check if they have separate section for patients with flu symptoms. These are called ‘flu counters’.“Our audit will be completed by Wednesday as we have already checked 24 hospitals. Only Sharda hospital and GIMS are remaining and that will be done soon. This audit will be submitted to the state government. We have to ensure that hospitals have flu counters to ensure the safety of paramedical staff. It is important for the hospitals to provide all the required safety kits to their staff. Nurses and other staff members need to follow the safety guidelines strictly to ensure their own safety,” said Dr NK Sharma, president, IMA, Noida.Meanwhile, a 25-year-old Afghan national in Gautam Budh Nagar tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday. He was among the 13 cases detected of the deadly disease, taking its case tally in the district to 192.According to a senior health official, the Afghan national lived with four other students in C-block of Alpha 1 area of Greater Noida. “He is a student of the Noida International University. He had approached the officials himself to get tested after which he and his flatmates were put under institutional quarantine,” the health official said.When the education Attache at the Embassy of Islamic Reepublic of Afghanistan in Delhi, Sediqullah Sahar, was approached for comment on the health status of their national, he said he was yet to gather all the information and would be able to comment not before Wednesday.Among the others whose results came back positive for Covid-19 are a 2-day baby and his father. They contracted the disease from the mother who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at GIMS, where she delivered the baby. Officials have taken the second sample of the baby, as per protocol. A 57-year-old police sub-inspector attached with a Noida PRV also tested positive for the highly infectious disease. His three teammates have been quarantined and the police are tracing all those he came in contact with while on duty in Sector 20. “The test report is positive and he has been admitted to a hospital. We have sanitised the PRV. Staff has been told to exercise caution at work,” said Noida DCP (traffic) and nodal officer for UP 112 Rajesh S.By Tuesday night, the health department collected a total of 3,722 samples. A total of 192 cases have come out positive while 109 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 83 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 297 persons are under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gims-narrowly-avoids-strike-as-two-more-medical-workers-test-ve/story-39SmOuTDpYz8MBRntlQmCN.html
06-05-2020||Noida||Admin asks industry owners to maintain health records of all employees turning up for work||The health department of Gautam Budh Nagar wants all industries which have started functioning from Monday to keep a tab on the health of their employees and maintain records for the safety of others. Workers who are on immunosuppressants are at higher risks of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Uttar Pradesh government had allowed private offices to resume work with 33% of the total staff strength. Also, industries in urban areas, export-oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships have been allowed to function. The Gautam Budh Nagar district falls in the red zone category, and no vehicles, other than those related to essential services and carrying bona fide passes, will be allowed to enter or exit the district till the lockdown ends on May 17, 2020.Health officials have suggested that people above the age of 65 years, those with co-morbid conditions, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years continue to remain at home.Doctors have said people who are on immunosuppressants are at the maximum risk of contracting the infection and such people shouldn’t go out to join work. Immunosuppressant drugs are a class of medicines that is used to suppress or reduce the strength of the body’s immune system, especially in those with auto immune conditions. The most significant side effect of immunosuppressant drugs is an increased risk of the infection.People on steroids are also prone to the infection. So all such employees should be allowed to work from home, doctors said. People with diabetes or blood pressure can join work but only if their disease is in control, they said.The additional chief medical officer of GB Nagar has said the industry owners have to follow the protocol of screening employees for body temperature before they enter the premises. “Owners of industries and offices should ensure that everybody is scanned. People should be made to sanitise their hands regularly. Social distancing is crucial and it should be followed strictly. One mistake can put many lives in danger,” Dr Sunil Dohre, ACMO, GB Nagar, said.“Organisations should maintain a health record of employees to ensure that anybody with flu-like symptoms can be identified. Persons with such symptoms should be isolated. It will require some effort on the part of the company but it is important for everybody’s safety,” Dr Dohre said.Industrial activities permitted since May 3 are manufacturing units producing essential goods, including drugs, pharmaceutical products and their raw materials. Production units requiring continuous process, supply chain, manufacture of IT hardware and mobile phones, units producing packaging materials, construction activities with employees on site and construction of renewable energy projects have also been allowed.Units having more than 50 employees will have to ensure timely pick-up and drop facility for employees within the relaxation hours (7am to 7pm).Private offices have been allowed to operate with maximum 33% staff strength, with the remaining staff being asked to work from home. “It is a crisis situation and everybody has to come together to control the spread of the coronavirus infection. We expect that all industries which are allowed to function will follow the guidelines related to the precautions,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/admin-asks-industry-owners-to-maintain-health-records-of-all-employees-turning-up-for-work/story-l6tQz77Z6WKUiGJf87Q2IN.html
06-05-2020||City||Two killed one injured as truck runs over them on expressway||Two helpers were killed and the truck driver critically injured when a speeding truck ran over them while they were trying to replace their truck tyre on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway near Sirsa village early Tuesday. The deceased helpers were identified as Rajan (50) and Bablu (27), and the truck driver as Sohanveer. Police said the three persons were ferrying wheat from Rajasthan to Ghaziabad when one of the front tyres of their truck burst.Prabhat Dixit, station house officer, Site 5 police station, said the three persons parked the truck and started replacing the tyre. “The truck was parked in the overtaking lane since it had broke down suddenly. The three persons were on the road trying to fix it. Another truck, coming from Palwal, ran over the three persons killing Rajan and Bablu and critically injuring Sohanveer,” he said.A police team reached the spot after being alerted by a passerby and rushed the victims to a private hospital. Two persons were declared brought dead while Sohanveer was referred to a higher centre in Delhi.Police said that they have detained the errant truck driver. The suspect was travelling with an empty truck from Palwal to a factory in Noida’s Sector 63. “We are registering a case against the driver under Section of 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. His identity will be disclosed once we officially register an FIR,” Dixit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-killed-one-injured-as-truck-runs-over-them-on-expressway/story-zRdWIDn30HYCGgMlGeMYDJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Anxious Haryana farmers awaiting wheat payment||Two days after Haryana took baby steps to start wheat procurement on April 20, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had reiterated his vow to “purchase every single wheat grain”, promising to deposit money in the bank accounts of farmers “without any delay.”But in the past 16 days, the government has transferred “not more than 20% payment” of the over 50 lakh metric tonne (MT) wheat procured till Tuesday, top government sources, refusing to be identified, said.At the core of this inordinate delay are certain “technical problems” the banks have been facing while transferring money into the accounts of commission agents.“The agreements with the banks for transferring the MSP were finalised late. This led to delay in uploading commission agents’ details which were required for electronic transfer of the money,” a senior official said.“These technical problems will be resolved within two days. And funds are sufficient,” the official added.The government is procuring wheat at Rs 1,925 per quintal minimum support price (MSP).Until Tuesday, the government had procured over 50 lakh MT wheat from over 6 lakh farmers. On Tuesday alone, around 24,000 farmers brought about 27 lakh quintal wheat across 1,045 mandis in the state. Another key reason behind the delay, being cited by the government, is the changes made in the old and obscure system of payment that commission agents have been resisting. Now, commission agents will have to transfer the money into the bank accounts of farmers with details of loan given to the farmer(s). It is this transparency that the government wants to introduce, while the commission agents are resisting it.“All the payment will be made via e-kharid portal and in the beginning, the ahrityas did not support this initiative. Finally, last week they agreed...” a senior government official. WORRIED AHRTIYAS AND FARMERSSanjay Kumar, a commission agent from Bhiwani’s Siwani is anxious even after having procured 17,000 quintal wheat from farmers since April 20. “The government has not made any payment to us so far,” he claimed.According to Surender Kumar, a farmer of Yamunanagar district, he urgently needed Rs 50,000 to release payments regarding wheat harvesting. “When I approached my ahrtiya, he gave me only Rs 15000 even as I have sold wheat of around Rs 2.50 lakh to him. The government is yet to release the wheat MSP,” Kumar said.Not only farmers, but labourers and the ahrityas are a worried lot too. Ahrityas are unable to make payments of the farmers and the farmers don’t have money to pay wages of the labourers engaged for the harvesting.“I have sold wheat worth nearly Rs 50 lakh to government agencies but so far I have not got a single penny,” a commission agent of Kurukshetra alleged, pleading anonymity.PK Das, additional chief secretary (ACS, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs) said all issues have been sorted out.“We have already issued instructions to clear payments of the wheat procured till April 25,” Das said.“And in the next two days, we will also clear the payments of wheat procured till April 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anxious-haryana-farmers-awaiting-wheat-payment/story-lvr1OJz4Lz2nl5J831SLHN.html
06-05-2020||Lucknow||Gangster Act imposed on five Ranjeet Bachchan murder case accused||Five persons allegedly involved in the murder of Ranjeet Bachchan, head of a lesser-known Hindu outfit, has been booked under the Gangster Act, said police on Tuesday.Bachchan, a resident of Gorakhpur, was on a morning walk along with his cousin Aditya when a man fired at them on the pavement of the Globe Park near Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) building in Hazratganj on February 2.Police had arrested deceased’s second wife Smriti Srivastava, her friend Deependra Verma, Sanjit, and Jitendra Verma in connection with the murder. “We have invoked provisions of Gangsters Act on them,” said a senior official.As per police claim, Smriti had hatched the conspiracy to kill Bachchan, who had married her without telling her that he was already married. Smriti separated from Bachchan after she came to know about his first marriage and his other relations.“On January 17, Bachchan visited Srivastava and tried to force her to celebrate their marriage anniversary on January 18. When she refused, Bachchan assaulted her,” A senior cop, privy to the matter said.After the assault, Srivastava and Kumar hatched a conspiracy to kill Bachchan and recruited Kumar’s driver Sanjit Gautam and cousin Jeetendra, police probe suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/gangster-act-imposed-on-five-ranjeet-bachchan-murder-case-accused/story-3OKJ987PEC05MMo6b55sVL.html
06-05-2020||City||Woman files case against unknown caller for blackmailing her||A 29-year-old woman filed a complaint on Tuesday, alleging that an unknown man was threatening and blackmailing her.She has alleged that the man has been demanding ₹1 lakh otherwise he will make public her photos and videos with her former boyfriend.According to Vartak Nagar police, the woman came to police station with her brother and lodged a case. She told the police that the person has sent some of her photos to her relatives when she did not pay him the money. The woman told the police that she was in a relationship with man in 2018. They broke up a year later. A police officer from Vartak Nagar police station said, “We have registered a case against the unknown person under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and have started investigations. We are yet to get the call record details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-files-case-against-unknown-caller-for-blackmailing-her/story-9iXkMMyO2VZ9DdqGoEuDJO.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 31 new cases, Haryana’s Covid-19 count climbs to 548||With 31 fresh cases, most with a Delhi link, the Covid-19 count in Haryana climbed to 544 on Tuesday.The new cases include 11 from Gurugram and eight from Jhajjar. Senior health officials said that of these, 14 had been frequenting Delhi’s Azadpur mandi. Among others, five cases were reported from Sonepat, three from Karnal, two from Yamunanagar and one each from Faridabad and Panipat.Health officials say all these patients had contracted infection from already infected persons working or frequenting Delhi.With this, there seems to be no let up in the number of cases in the state, which saw 66 fresh cases on Sunday and 77, the highest ever in a day till date, on Monday. 4 MEDICAL COLLEGE EMPLOYEES POSITIVEAs many as five persons, including four employees of BPS Medical College for Women at Khanpur Kalan, tested positive for Covid-19 in Sonepat. They include two sweepers, a Class 4 employee and a staff nurse of the institution. The other patient is a resident of Jati village who got infected from a Delhi-based person. Sonepat civil surgeon BK Rajoura said that all the infected persons had been sent to isolation ward at BPS in Khanpur Kalan.EIGHT IN JHAJJAREight persons found infected with Covid-19 in Jhajjar included five vegetable sellers, who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi. The remaining three are Delhi-based labourers, who had shifted to Bahadurgarh after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the virus.JAUNDICE PATIENT AMONG 2 INFECTED IN Y’NAGARTwo more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Yamunanagar, taking the tally to eight in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya said a 33-year-old woman from Sarojini Colony in Yamunanagar city area and a 61-year-old man from Kutipur village tested positive. The elderly man has some chronic kidney ailment and black jaundice. He was undergoing dialysis treatment from civil hospital in Jagadhari city of the district. Both the patients have been isolated at covid hospital in Jagadhari while the medical teams have so far collected around 27 samples from the two areas.1 MORE IN KARNALAn 18-year-old youth hastested positive for the coronavirus in Karnal, taking the number of infected persons to nine in the district. As per health department officials, the infected person is resident of Uttam Nagar locality of Karnal city and had returned from Delhi on Monday. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said that the said locality has been declared as a containment zone and his family members have been quarantined. On Monday evening, a vegetable seller and a labourer were also tested positive.3 CASES IN PANIPATThough the official bulletin mentioned only one fresh case in Panipat, later in the evening two more cases came to the fore. The infected persons include a 32-year-old labourer of the grain market, a 17-year-old labourer at the vegetable market and another is 22-year-old youth from Sector 11 of Panipat city. The 22-year-old is a contact of a woman who had tested positive earlier. Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said 32-year-old man tested positive had already left for Jaipur in Rajasthan and they have alerted the authorities there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-31-new-cases-haryana-s-covid-19-count-climbs-to-548/story-Vn9Kuw6LxFgQ6ZlV1D2AAM.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Fadnavis trolled: Maharashtra BJP approaches police across state||After submitting a complaint to Mumbai police commissioner against social media trolls, who have been using unparliamentary language against former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis, BJP Maharashtra on Tuesday started a campaign, with all district units in the state submitting similar complaints to their concerned police commissioners. The complaint also alleged that false cases are being filed against BJP workers and paid trolls are targeting Opposition leaders like Fadnavis. “There is a worrisome law and order scenario in the state and with respect to this, the BJP state unit has submitted complaints to police commissioners across the state,’’ said a statement from the BJP. “In the last few days, media is being gagged, those who criticise the state government have police cases filed against them, the state Governor has faced comments that are unconstitutional and threats of encounter are being made against former CM Fadnavis on social media,’’ added the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fadnavis-trolled-bjp-approaches-police/story-fMDnFb3NA4LyG0upnMYTYJ.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 pandemic: Delhi govt begins cutting costs, shelves expensive projects||The Delhi government has initiated cost-cutting measures by freezing the dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) of its employees and keeping any proposal for spending not related to the Covid-19 outbreak in abeyance till June 30.The move comes amid a substantial hit to revenues with a complete shutdown of industries and trade due to the nationwide lockdown to stave off the spread of Covid-19. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has been able to generate only Rs 400 crore in tax revenues in April -- a tenth of its projected collections. In order to cover the massive deficit, the administration has been ordered to cut expenditure and take measures to put the economy on the road to recovery. On Monday, the city-state’s finance department issued an order to every state department, corporations and others, asking for all projects to be placed under “abeyance”. It stated that no proposal be submitted to the finance department for approval till June 30, unless it is an “activity/work” that cannot be postponed.The fresh order was issued after the government observed that departments were “sending files to the finance department for seeking relaxations and approvals” on different pretexts, even after it stated on April 8 that only Covid-19-related activities will be granted funds.In an interview with HT on Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, said that even if the lockdown is totally lifted, no government project will take off for at least two to three months. “Particularly construction projects, because they are capital-intensive. Paying salary is our priority. Only after that will we decide which flagship schemes to spend on depending on the funds’ situation,” he said.The state government’s decision to freeze DA and DR will affect around 220,000 employees and pensioners of Delhi government till July 2021. They will continue to receive DA and DR at the current rate of 17%.Sisodia presented a Rs 65,000 crore budget in March, the biggest by fiscal size for any government in Delhi. Besides other components, the government had estimated Rs 44,100 crore in tax revenues, excluding a GST compensation of Rs 7,800 crore. As per the Delhi Budget 2020-21 documents, of the estimated Rs 44,100 crore tax revenue, excise accounted for Rs 6,300 crore and Rs 30,000 crore was to come from GST and VAT. While the government expected to mop up Rs 5,300 crore in stamps and registration fee, another Rs 2,500 crore were expected to be earned in taxes on motor vehicles. With all trade and industry shut, liquor shops closed and almost zero new registration of property or vehicles, the government’s revenue estimates have taken a debilitating hit. Officials said besides cutting expenditure, the government may have to now review several projects and take a call as per the rate of the economic recovery. “The Delhi government is not even considering taking up any of its major projects, especially anything related to infrastructure. Construction works be it of schools or roads will take a pause. What we are thinking of starting with are soft projects such as notifying the electric vehicle policy or the tree transplantation policy,” said a senior official. Now, with the Centre coming up with fresh guidelines to relax rules under Lockdown 3.0, which will continue till May 17, the Delhi government has launched a graded response to jump start the economy. On Tuesday, the government levied additional cess on liquor and fuel. While an additional 70% corona cess was levied on sale of all liquor in the city on late Monday evening, the government announced 30% hike in value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. Officials said with the government struggling to pay salaries of its employees, these measures will bring in money to run the government machinery and pay for urgent measures required to fight coronavirus and start critical projects. As per the Budget document, excise makes for 14% of the total tax revenue. “But these will give only limited gains to the government. In the case of liquor sale, firstly only around 150 shops of over 800 have been shortlisted to open. Secondly, almost 90% of these 150 shops are not even being able to operate for the full permissible time of 9am to 6.30pm because of crowding. They are forced to shut for not following social distancing. So, the revenue is very negligible as of now,” said a senior official in the excise department.In another development on Tuesday, the Delhi government also opened sub-registrar offices for registration of property. “Registrations have opened in all sub-registrar office from today. Twenty-six applications were received today,” Sisodia announced in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday. Stamps and registration fee make up for 12% of the estimated revenue for the current financial year. With the government rationalising funding, some projects that could be delayed by at least a month despite the lockdown relaxation include an underpass connecting Benito Juarez Road with San Martin Road, and the flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur, a second official said.“With the relaxation in in-situ construction activities, a few agencies like the public works department had sought funds for their ongoing infrastructure projects. Additional funds of this nature are not allowed at this time. They can continue with construction activities if they have funds in place, not just for the raw materials and machinery, but also for salaries. So, most construction activities are being put on hold till June at least,” the first official said.The government his hoping that the relaxations announced by the Centre to grant limited economic and normal activity while observing guidelines to curb the spread of coronavirus will help states to jump start economy and plot broader measures in the long run to chart recovery. “Our only hope is that more and more vehicles start plying on the city roads. The problem is now, even if the lockdown has been relaxed, people are going out only for essential works. So, the kilometres travelled per vehicle has also significantly come down and it is going to continue for some more time, which means the sale of fuel will also not be as high as it used to be before the lockdown was announced,” an official in the trade and taxes department said.The official added that compared to the monthly average VAT collection of around Rs 216 crore on petrol and diesel, the government last month could collect only Rs 37 crore. With the increase in fuel prices, it expects the monthly collection to increase by Rs 140 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delh-govt-freezes-da-puts-off-projects-till-june-30-as-revenue-takes-a-hit/story-jaFvuFJdJaVtKZKHJK1UmI.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Tax hike fails to dampen liquor demand in Delhi||A 70% corona cess tax on alcohol announced by the Delhi government did not appear to have an impact on demand in the Capital on Tuesday. There were long queues outside liquor shops on the second day of the third phase of India’s Covid-19 lockdown, but the situation was not as chaotic as it was on Monday, when several outlets had to be shut because throngs of people violated social distancing norms required to contain spread of the deadly pathogen.Delhi has so far reported 5.104 Covid-19 cases, including 64 deaths and 1,468 recoveries.Of the 172 government liquor shops that opened after a 43-day hiatus on Monday, several in parts of south and south-east Delhi’s Govindpuri, Mandawli, Ashram and Kalkaji remained shut on Tuesday. Delhi Police officials said some had run out of stock, while others could not open because they did not have enough volunteers to ensure an orderly queue.Like on Monday, customers on Tuesday started lining up from early morning, hours before the shops opened. In some areas, the wait was in vain because the Delhi government and the Delhi Police did not give details about which shops would open and which wouldn’t.The buyers were a mix of citizens from all groups. People come in luxury sedans and SUVs, on motorcycles and cycle rickshaws.In parts of Tilak Nagar, Rajouri Garden, Karol Bagh and Jhandewalan, there were long queues outside liquor stores. Although some people said the hike in prices was steep, they added that their purchase was a “contribution” towards strengthening the country’s economy at a difficult time.“All we are asking for is better management. We do not mind paying extra money, but they should ensure we get stock,” said Mahavir Kumar, a resident of Uttam Nagar, who has to stand in line for 40 minutes before he could buy a crate of beer.The Delhi government on Monday imposed a “special corona fee” of 70% of the MRP on all categories of liquor. The fee would apply at “70% of the maximum retail price of all categories of liquor sold through written licences for consumption off the premises,” read the Delhi government order, approved by the L-G. In terms of income, alcohol accounts for around 14.1% of the city government’s total revenue projections for 2020-21. For 2020-21, the city-state projected a total revenue of around ₹6,279 crore through the sale of liquor, compared to the revised estimate of around ₹5,480 crore for the previous fiscal.Delhi has a total of 864 liquor shops. Of these, 389 are privately owned, and other than the 172 stand-alone identified by the administration, the other government shops with L-6 and L-8 licences are either in markets or complexes.The L-6 licence allows a shop to sell foreign liquor and beer, while the L-8 licence is needed to sell country liquor. The government’s tax component depends varies from one brand to another; but it is the same for all private and government shops.Compared to Monday, when the police needed to resort to lathi-charge in some areas to control the crowds, the intervention was minimal on Tuesday though force was used to disperse large gatherings in parts of Ghazipur.“The situation on the streets was peaceful. The local police got in touch with shop owners(liquor) and ensured that people ensured social distancing. Shopkeepers have been asked to rope in volunteers to help them in social distancing. At places where people were not following rules, they were advised and dispersed accordingly,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Mandeep Randhawa.Excise department officers said that things worked in better order also because shop owners were warned that they would have to shut if they could not ensure social distancing. “The call to shut a shop can be taken by police and the district administration, based on the ground situation. Things will improve further from here on,” said an official who asked not to be named.However, people did flout government guidelines in some areas. In outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar, they started queuing outside a liquor vend from 5am; some spread bedsheets and mats on the ground, while those who had come in groups took turns to hold their position. At 9am, when the shops opened, there was rushing and crowding at the counters.Delhi police officials stationed outside the store said that the crowd was dispersed, and the shutters had to be downed until the store was reopened at around 1pm. “There is no management here. The police are treating us as if we’re goons. We are paying money to buy alcohol. They should tell people to maintain distance and come in line,” said Dharmendra Singh Meena, who had lined up outside the store at 6.30am.Some shop owners took it upon themselves to control crowding outside vends. In south-west Delhi’s Palam, they distributed tokens to ensure people did not jump the queues and start crowding. “There is a crowd but things are better managed today. We are regularly making announcements that if the norms of social distancing are not followed, we will close the shop for the day,” said Naman Arora, the owner of one of the stores in Palam.In Vasant Vihar, liquor shops in C-Block remained shut on Tuesday after residents complained of large crowds on Monday. Although people started gathering outside the shop on Tuesday, there was police on hand to manage the situation. “There was some crowding around 8am, but the police officials ensured the crowd was cleared and made announcements it would remain shut for the day. The market was sanitised on Tuesday,” said Gurpreet Bindra, president of Vasant Vihar residents’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/70-tax-on-alcohol-fails-to-deter-delhi-crowds/story-n8Ty2mSzcb4ibjMclDHPKP.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s cross-border movement plans hit as Panchkula stays put with curbs||The UT administration’s plan to open up city’s borders and allow opening of shops and industrial units has hit a roadblock as the Panchkula administration is sticking to their restriction orders for cross-border movement.The UT on Monday allowed inter-city movement of people and vehicles, both public and private. While Mohali agreed to UT demand for issuing movement passes for private persons and official ID cards for government officials, Panchkula administration is allowing no entry from Chandigarh, exempting only emergency vehicles, ATM cash vans, LPG and oil containers, health officials and staff among other authorised government officials.Significantly, as per the Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, nearly 30% of management of industrial units in Chandigarh residing in Panchkula commutes across the borders daily. On May 1, Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had barred “movement for any additional purpose (not allowed under exemptions) without specific exemptions granted by this office.”Panchkula SDM Dheeraj Chahal said, “Movement passes are only permitted to those with medical or other emergencies. One-time pass can be issued in case of private employees of Chandigarh and Mohali, but they, as per the orders, have to get themselves accommodated there only. We are not allowing entry to Panchkula without restricted movement passes.”Meanwhile, Mohali DC Girish Dayalan on Tuesday said as the district borders Chandigarh and Panchkula, it is necessary to align relaxations with those given in these places to enable genuine movement of people. Those working in Chandigarh and Panchkula but residing in Mohali may apply at https://epasscovid19.pais, he said.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “I am coordinating with the neighbouring cities to sort out the problem of entry/exit at inter-state borders.”All three administrations are undertaking thermal screening of outsiders coming to their cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-s-cross-border-movement-plans-hit-as-p-kula-stays-put-with-curbs/story-RVNeGY94GS37LaeMPo0EPO.html
06-05-2020||Gurugram||Industry struggles with automatic permission on Saral portal||The new online system launched on Tuesday for industries to obtain automatic approval for the resumption of work during the lockdown remained slow and erratic in the city. The new system is part of the Saral Haryana portal, which has given a tough time to city-based industrialists for the last two weeks, who have found it to be slow and non-responsive. The automatic permission to industry and business were to be granted from Monday but the state industries department launched the new online system for automatic approval on Tuesday.Businesses in the city have been asking the state government to expedite the process of granting permission to industry to start operations, after relaxations were announced by ministry of home affairs on April 20.Industrialists based in Manesar said that they had been facing a lot of problems in uploading documents and information on the Saral portal for the past several days. “The new module must expedite permissions but for the past several days, the industry is facing problems due to lack of permissions and movement passes,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice-president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, adding that he was very hopeful that the new system, which had become functional in the afternoon would improve things. Confusion also prevailed among industry owners on whether units with less than 10 workers need to apply for permission or not as per guidelines issued on April 30.Manoj Jain, Manesar based industry owner, said, “We applied for the resumption of operations with 10 workers but the system rejected my application. I spoke to an official and he told me I did not need any approval. However, the department of industries and commerce (DIC), Gurugram has made it mandatory for every industry to apply for approval.”A major difficulty faced by the industry owners was that they were not being able to upload documents on the portal and that the system was too slow. Deepak Maini, president of industrial development association, Sector 37, said, “Our members told us that a few applications were accepted but system did not generate approval at all. There were 10,000 applications pending for approval but there has been revision of the guidelines several times that has led to confusion,”In Udyog Vihar, the industry owners said that they wanted the government to do away with permissions for smaller units, which have up to 10 workers. “We are ready to submit the documents manually and also file the affidavit. But, there is an urgent need to accelerate this process.”The industrialists are also worried that so much delay, they will be left with no manpower, as many migrant workers have started returning home. “There could be a massive shortage of labour if the permissions are delayed further. A lot of workers have returned and many are ready to go back to their states. If the situation is not checked, we could face shortage of labour,” warned Manmohan Gaind.The authorities, however, said that they have streamlined the system and upgraded the portal, which will facilitate the permissions with ease.Digvijay Singh, joint director, DIC Gurugram, said, “One can apply online with the correct documents and f acts and can get approval automatically. We do not need to approve applications anymore. Now and as per new and latest guidelines, every industry has to apply. This system has been introduced on Tuesday. The system may be slow because of the rush of applications. But the technical team is looking into the matter.”The industries and commerce department Haryana on May 3 issued the latest guidelines that superseded all the previous guidelines.”These guidelines shall supersede and replace all the previous guidelines issued by the department so far,” stated the order by principal secretary, Haryana government.According to this guidelines, in a city like Gurugram which is in the orange zone, industries can be opened under automatic approval system with 75% workforce for the first week and 100% workforce on the second week(May 11-18).In Gurugram, there are 10,000 industries employing over 11 lakh workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industry-struggles-with-automatic-permission-on-saral-portal/story-fas4NP5J8XJhbwwxijGxQM.html
06-05-2020||Gurugram||Restriction-free movement for Gurugram residents between 7am and 7pm||The Gurugram district administration on Tuesday said there are no restrictions on the movement of people within the district between 7am to 7pm. The administration added that barring residents living in containment zones in the city, who are not allowed to move outside, people in the rest of the areas do not need any permission or passes to move around the city between the 7am and 7pm.As Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code will still remain in force in the district, residents’ will, however, not be allowed to move from 7pm to 7am. Only those in an emergency situation will be allowed to move after 7pm after acquiring a digital pass from the administration. Interstate and interdistrict movement is still out of bounds.The clarification comes after confusion prevailed among residents about whether they need to collect passes from the administration to visit markets to or any other public place in the city as the phase-wise exit from the nationwide lockdown kicked in on Monday. The Haryana government on Sunday allowed shops, markets, businesses, industries and IT companies to operate with a limited number of employees.VS Kundu, additional chief secretary, Haryana, said as Gurugram district was in the ‘orange zone’, movement of residents is not restricted between 7am and 7pm according to the directions of the union ministry of home affairs. Kundu, who is also the monitoring authority for Covid-19 in the state, a so said that all preventive measures such as wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, and others norms prescribed for using private vehicles will have to be strictly followed by people.“Only persons who have an emergency situation would be allowed to move between 7pm to 7 am and they too need to seek passes online,” he said.Interstate and interdistrict movement of people would, however, remain restricted till further orders from the state and central government, he added.Meanwhile, in another development, the district administration has appointed Jivender Malik, tehsildar, Gurugram as the nodal officer for the return of migrant workers (especially those from Bihar) to their home towns. The district administration has also released three phone numbers—9560319839, 9899621163, 9899292234— for migrants to get in touch with Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/restriction-free-movement-for-gurugram-residents-between-7am-and-7pm/story-dPPmYARHuXw68kZJZLWUZP.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt awaits MHA orders before releasing quarantined Jamaat attendees||The Delhi government has written to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) seeking directions for the release of around 3,000 people who were shifted to state government-run quarantine facilities in the last week of March from the Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin Basti and other mosques in the city.According to senior Delhi government officials, while all of them tested negative and completed at least 28 days in quarantine, the lack of clear guidelines from the Centre have delayed their release. The officials said the Delhi government has received requests from several state governments asking that many of them be sent home.According to an official, 3,013 persons had been shifted from the Jamaat’s headquarters (Markaz building) and other mosques in the city to quarantine centres at Narela, Bakkarwala, Mandoli, Sultanpuri, Dwarka and Badarpur. Of them, 2,446 are Indian nationals, including 191 from Delhi.In a letter to the home ministry dated May 3, the Delhi government’s health department requested the MHA to issue directions/protocol immediately for the release of these people. “These people have tested negative for Covid-19, including several who have tested negative twice and completed more than 28 days in quarantine. We have informed the MHA that it is becoming difficult to explain the reasons for their extended stay to these people, especially during Ramzan,” said a senior Delhi government official, requesting anonymity.Home ministry officials refused to comment on the matter.This is the second letter sent to the MHA seeking directions, according to another senior Delhi government official.“While we are getting requests for their release from various states, we can’t release them as we don’t have a protocol or directions from the Centre. We are waiting for the MHA’s response,” a government official said.The Markaz building in Nizamuddin Basti emerged as India’s biggest Covid-19 hot spot towards the end of March, and accounts for at least one-fifth of the 5,106 cases reported in Delhi until May 5.Of the 3,013 persons in quarantine, 1,080 tested positive, as per the Delhi government’s April 17 medical bulletin - the last one that gave a separate count of Markaz attendees and their contacts. The Delhi government listed cases related to the Markaz as “under special operations”, starting April 11.HT earlier reported that around 16,500 people had visited the Jamaat’s headquarters around the time it emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot between March 13 and 24. “All the patients who were brought to the hospital from the Nizamuddin markaz have already been discharged after they tested negative twice consecutively. They have been sent to government facilities for a 14-day quarantine, which people who have recovered usually undergo at their homes. Many of them have also agreed to become plasma donors,” said a senior doctor from Lok Nayak hospital, on condition of anonymity. Anees Ahmed, 38, who was shifted to the Badarpur quarantine facility from Markaz on March 31, said, “We have been here for 35 days, and no one is able to tell us when we will be allowed to go home. Most of us here have tested negative for Covid-19 twice. We have completed more than the required quarantine period. Why are we not being sent home?”All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi had also written to Union home minister Amit Shah to allow 38 people from Telangana who were part of the gathering at the markaz to return to their home state.“Wrote to @AmitShah @kishanreddybjp & Telangana Chief Secy Somesh Kumar sahab requesting discharge & travel pass for 38 persons from Telangana who are still in Delhi’s quarantine centres despite completing their quarantine period & all their tests being negative,” Owaisi had tweeted on May 2, along with the photographs of the letters he had written. “Our MP has written to the home minister, but we don’t know when we will be allowed to go back home,” said Ahmed, who runs business in Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-awaits-mha-orders-before-releasing-quarantined-jamaat-attendees/story-LwEoHxjxzE4TfJ25irGfgJ.html
06-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi issues SOPs for those entering city||After allowing migrant workers and others stranded across the city to travel, the Delhi government has allowed only people with no symptoms of Covid-19 to enter the state, according to standard operating procedures (SOP) released on Tuesday. Those with mild symptoms will have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days, after downloading the Aarogya Setu app, while those who have symptoms like high fever, cough, chest pain, difficulty breathing, will be tested for Covid-19.Officials working on the ground said that increased testing has led to the detection of more cases in the city.“It is possible that we are detecting more cases now that we are testing more. Earlier, only those who were symptomatic were being tested. However, now we know that around 80% people either have no symptoms or very mild symptoms. So we might have missed many cases who have now spread the infection in the community,” said another district official, on condition of anonymity.As per the SOPs for screening of the people entering Delhi, dedicated teams will have to be constituted by the chief district medical officers to be comprised of one doctor, one nurse, one nursing orderly, one pharmacist. The number of teams will depend on number of persons that have to be screened and the location of embarkment or disembarkment, the order states.A nodal officer will also be appointed to ensure that all the people moving in and out of Delhi are screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-issues-sops-for-those-entering-city/story-n2IUNiX2e7WE96G4Oq2p5J.html
06-05-2020||Pune||No consensus among Pune district authorities on allowing maids to resume work||Even as Delhi has allowed domestic maids to resume work in the non-containment zones of the capital, there was no consensus among the Pune district authorities on whether maids should be allowed to resume work. In a joint press conference held on Tuesday afternoon, Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar had allowed domestic maids in areas other than containment zones to function.However, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram countered the decision by saying it will be difficult to identify if the maid is from containment zone or not and hence, their services will not be allowed. Previously, Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had said that domestic maids would be allowed to work with proper precautionary measures. Some corporators had also given approval for domestic maids to work. “PMC commissioner in (May 5) today’s standing committee meeting approved all domestic maids to resume work, but with guidelines for housing societies such as getting a medical certificate from a doctor stating no symptoms for Covid-19, having the names of all domestic helpers on society letter head with stamp and medical certificate to be submitted at Kondhwa police station for approval,” said Nanda Narayan Lonkar, corporator, PMC.However, many residential societies across the city are still apprehensive and are refusing entry to domestic helpers. “We have 90 per cent of houses in 25 societies across Sopanbaug and we are not allowing any maids, even if the PMC tells us to,” Sachin Khandelwal, a resident of Sopanbaug said.This situation repeated itself in many other areas too, where residents questioned the precautionary measures in place. “Our society is not allowing maids to enter, the PMC commissioner allowed them to work after necessary precautionary measures. What and how to ensure it is not clear, none of the maids are silent carriers and are not positive if they cough,” Surendra Birje, a resident of Pashan said.Due to the lack of proper written orders and no stated rules or medical protocol, the issue caused a lot of panic across residential societies. “Societies don’t want the risk of allowing external persons inside their campus. The contact circle created by several domestic staff working in various homes in various societies across local areas is a huge risk,” Ravindra Sinha, a resident said.Kalyani Phadnis, another resident, said that even if her society allows maids, she has informed her domestic help to not come to work until the first week of June. “I have small kids at home and I am concerned not just for their safety but for the well-being of the family and of my maid. I have paid her for the month of May and told her to take care,” Phadnis said. Sunita Salunkhe, a maid working in the Spicer road area calls her employers almost every week to find out when she can resume.“I live close to the society that I work in, and though the employers have paid my salary for a month, I cannot just sit and wait for the next salary to come. My job is to clean homes and cook food and I feel bad for not doing any work. Once this salary is through, I will need money and we don’t know when we’d be able to resume work,” Salunkhe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-consensus-among-pune-district-authorities-on-allowing-maids-to-resume-work/story-DV3EE1UcQfkHf9UMm9xk9O.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Handwara encounter: NDA pays homage to Maj Anuj Sood||A wreath laying ceremony was organised at the Hut of Remembrance at the National Defence Academy (NDA) in honour of Maj Anuj Sood, who died on May 2 during counter insurgency operations in Kashmir’s Handwara. Lt Gen Asit Mistry, Commandant, NDA, on behalf of officers and the NDA fraternity paid homage to the fallen brave heart in the solemn ceremony.Maj Anuj Sood was an alumnus of NDA, who had graduated as part of the 120th course in June 2011. He was a second generation army officer and was commissioned in 19th Battalion of the Brigade of the Guards. He was part of 21 Rashtriya Rifles in Kashmir during the operation.Demonstrating unparalleled courage and exceptional devotion to duty while making the supreme sacrifice, Maj Anuj Sood has lived up to the motto of NDA ‘Service Before Self’. Today as his name gets etched in the four walls of sanctum sanctorum of the Hut of Remembrance, which will continue to inspire future generations of NDA cadets.‘Hut of Remembrance’ at NDA is a sublime cenotaph that commemorates the sacrifice of ex-NDA officers of the armed forces who lay down their lives in line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/handwara-encounter-nda-pays-homage-to-maj-anuj-sood/story-3YJO3ZwagZKanfv7OcvF6K.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Confusion prevails as top Pune officials huddle to clear status of administrative orders||Lockdown 3.0 has started and it has been five days since the Centre released its guidelines and two days since the new phase of relaxations were implemented, however, confusion and chaos prevailed in Pune as the top officials failed to be on the same page regarding administrative orders. Even during Tuesday’s joint press conference, there were independent orders by each authority on what will be functional - services of maids, supply of petrol and diesel, operation of non-essential shops and traffic movement.The joint press conference addressed by Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar; district collector Naval Kishore Ram; Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad and police commissioner K Venkatesham further added to the lack of clarity, forcing them to go into a huddle once again after the presser. “To avoid confusion, it has been decided that the PMC chief will take decisions regarding containment and non-containment zones in the city while the district collector has been authorised to decide orders for the rest of the district,” said Mhaisekar. PMC chief Shekhar Gaikwad said he will issue fresh order about non-essential shops and its timings by Wednesday morning. Earlier in the press conference, Mhaisekar had said, “Maids in areas other than containment zones will be allowed to function.” However, collector Ram countered it by saying it will be difficult to identify if the maid is from containment zone or not and hence, their services will not be allowed.On the issue of functioning of five non-essential shops in every lane, PMC commissioner Gaikwad’s order was to allow them. However, district collector Ram said that in absence of any clarity on which shops should be allowed to function, no decision will be taken till May 17. Mhaisekar, according to officials, has asked PMC chief to work on the odd-even formula under which five non-essential commodity shops will be allowed to operate on alternate days on every street.The lack of clarity was evident during the discussion on supply of petrol and diesel as well as the petrol pump dealers association of Pune said that all dealers have been allowed to give fuel to everyone. However, collector Ram said, “Only those involved in essential services will get fuel.”On the issue of traffic movement, Mhaisekar said that a decision will be taken soon on who will be allowed to go out. As per the previous order, only those involved in essential services will be allowed to step out with passes offered by police authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/confusion-prevails-as-top-pune-officials-huddle-to-clear-status-of-administrative-orders/story-DmbXU710a5FkPb4tJyIKzJ.html
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||37-year-old Chandigarh banker hangs self at his residence||A 37-year-old banker hanged himself with an iron rod affixed to a wall in the backyard of his residence in Sector 20, Chandigarh, police said on Monday.He was working as a chief bank manager with a public sector bank in Sector 19. He is survived by his wife and six-year-old son.“His wife woke up and found him missing. On checking, she found him hanging from the rod,” said a police official. “She claimed that her husband was undergoing severe stress due to workload for the past six months,” he said.Sector 19 police station officials said no suicide note was recovered from the house and they have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/banker-hangs-himself-at-sector-20-house/story-ZXkYLBUuCxvPBS00SKjWpI.html
06-05-2020||Mumbai||Tablighi Jamat: 20 foreign nationals granted pre-arrest bail||: The sessions court on Tuesday granted pre-arrest bail to 10 Indonesian national and 10 persons from Kyrgyzstan booked for not coming forward after attending a religious gathering of Tablighi Jamat at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. The foreigner should be treated with dignity, the court observed while passing an order on Tuesday.The accused have been booked by DN Nagar police on April 5 under two separate cases. Apprehending arrest after their period of quarantine the group through their lawyer Ashish Dubey and Sania Mirza moved Sessions court for pre-arrest bail.The accused after they were traced by the police were kept under quarantine. Dubey said that the quarantine period ends on Wednesday, hence fearing arrest a pre-arrest bail was moved. The court after considering the case papers and defence plea granted protection to the accused from arrest.The sessions judge AZ Khan while granting relief to the members of the group observed, “It is unfortunate for the accused that they came to Delhi and Mumbai and came in contact with persons which were affected by Coronavirus.”The court further held that the accused had no intention to spread the virus. “The accused are mostly foreigners and they should be treated with dignity as they have no intention to spread the Coronavirus amongst Indian Citizen,” the court observed adding that there is no need for custodial interrogation of the accused.The court has also granted anticipatory bail to four Indian nationals who were part of the gathering holding that there was no intention to spread the virus, Dubey said.The accused are booked for various charges including the charge of attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The Mumbai police had earlier issued an advisory and warning asking people who had attended the meet at Delhi to come forward failing which a criminal case would be registered against them.The group failed to come forward but were traced them in the first week of April, followed by which a case was registered with DN Nagar police station. The accused have been kept under quarantine and were apprehending arrest after the end of the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-foreign-nationals-who-attended-tablighi-jamat-in-delhi-and-were-booked-granted-pre-arrest-bail/story-HLf1bqSAfkoaF7Tadi8jWM.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Doctors work with Pune police to provide medical certificates to labourers; decision on transport awaited||The number of labourers who registered their details in order to avail transport back to their native places in Pune crossed 15,000 on the first day itself on Tuesday, according to officials. While trains have started from various parts of Maharashtra, authorities are yet to give details about Pune.Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “We have sent details of migrant workers to respective states and once they reply, we will send the workers. The migrants can get preliminary medical check-up done from any private medical practitioner and procure certificate. The process is a bit lengthy and therefore taking time”The three-step registration requires the labourers to collect forms and enter details. including name, Aadhaar number, phone number and destination. However, the forms will not be processed without a medical certificate stating absence of flu-like symptoms is the second step. In the third step, the information will be sent to respective districts in states.In Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad, the onus of registration was put on the local police while the local governments were asked to head the process in rural areas of the district by district collector Naval Kishore Ram.The Pune city police stations, which have a high number of labourer population in their jurisdiction, have tied up with doctors’ associations in their areas.The Pune Doctor’s Association, an organisation of doctors from Katraj and Bharati Vidyapeeth area, have joined hands with the police to provide certificates to over 13,000 labourers.“We have asked the doctors to charge a nominal fee of Rs 50. We have also urged them to not charge from those who cannot pay. There are more than 100 doctors working towards this now,” said senior inspector Vasant Kunwar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.“The police provided us with the copies of empty certificates and around 150 doctors in the area are now issuing certificates. This includes most of the local OPDs,” said Dr Anil Lingade, president of Pune Doctors’ Association (PDA).“Our OPD is functioning all working hours of the day (10am-2pm and 6pm-9pm) to issue certificates. We have also set up 3 camps in our area where labour camps are located. The camps are monitored by PMC health department staff. Personal protective equipment (PPE) was provided by the health department to the doctors of the medical camp,” said Dr Prashant Daundkar of Wadgaon Sheri, Chandannagar, Kharadi Doctor’s Association.The doctors at medical camps in Chandannagar, Wadgaon sheri area were provided with blank certificates which were then filled and distributed. However, for the ones who went to private OPDs, they were provided with blank certificate with the form.The initiative in Kharadi was spearheaded by senior police inspector Shankar Khatke and health officials of the area. The area has about 8,000 migrant labourers.While the police are bringing te process to a conclusion, the timeline of the labourers’ department remains to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-work-with-police-to-provide-medical-certificates-to-labourers-decision-on-transport-awaited/story-1HnBtC4ch9cMiVG41ECfsJ.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Social stigma a hurdle: Only 2 donors in Pune volunteer to give blood for plasma therapy||Fear of ostracisation, stemming from the social stigma attached to the virus, is preventing residents who have recovered from the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection, from volunteering to donate blood for plasma therapy.A senior doctor at Sassoon General hospital, requesting anonymity, said, “We have contacted 40 people till date and only two have come forward.”All 40 are patients who have tested negative for Covid-19, after having being treated and healed of the infection.“The blood collected needs to be tested for anti-bodies and other illnesses before plasma can be separated. However, most have refused because of apprehensions about donating blood for this reason. Some say that their family is prohibiting them from donating the blood; some are fasting for Ramzan and so can donate blood only after the fasting season ends. We are trying to counsel them as much as possible.” Of the 40 approached by Sassoon, only two have agreed, the doctor confirmed.On April 24, State health minister Rajesh Tope stated that the central health ministry has allowed the use of plasma therapy as clinical trial on critically ill patients at state government hospitals, including Sassoon hospital in Pune.According to Sassoon authorities, the hospital is yet to receive final approval for insurance of the recipient, a technical formality still pending with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “We will soon get the final approval from ICMR. In addition, we are also facing resistance form those who are completely cured of the virus. For plasma therapy, we need the plasma from the blood of those who have been completely cured of the virus.“However, most people who have been contacted are refusing to come forward to donate their blood. Once all approvals are in place we will try harder to counsel and convince donors to come forward. Although plasma therapy is not a single line of treatment, it has shown some positive results in foreign countries when used in collaboration with other treatment lines.”As per ICMR guidelines, only those patients who have been completely cured of the infection and tested negative twice after a gap of 24 hours post the incubation period of 14 days can donate blood for plasma therapy. The person must weigh at least 55kg; must not be pregnant; must be above the age of 18; and must not be HIV+, or Hepatitus B+. The person must not show any signs of Covid-19 infection or any flu-like symptoms for at least 28 days post recovery. In Pune district, as of May 4, 553 people have been discharged after being declared completely cured out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-stigma-a-hurdle-only-2-donors-volunteer-to-give-blood-for-plasma-therapy/story-xnKyfNUFRwT1sZi4Gf8AeP.html
06-05-2020||Pune||With 77 cases in a month, cantonment areas emerge as Pune’s fresh hotspots||The Pune, Khadki and Dehu road Cantonment areas, combined, have reported 77 Covid-19 positive cases and three deaths in the last 30 days.The worst-affected of the three is the Pune Cantonment board (PCB), which has reported 54 positive cases of the 77 in all the Cantonment areas. The Khadki Cantonment board has reported 21 cases, whereas the Dehu road Cantonment board has reported 2 cases. The Cantonment boards fall under the ministry of defence and are located in some of the most congested parts of the city.The PCB borders Bhavani peth, that has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the city.Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO) of Pune Cantonment board (PCB) said, most of the cases which have been reported in PCB are from New Modikhana and areas adjacent to Bhavani peth, which is a red zone.“Initially, there were people entering from Bhavani peth which might have caused the infection to spread. We have now sealed the area to stop any movement of people from Bhavani peth inside PCB,” Kumar said.According to Kumar, the PCB administration swung into action after the first case was identified on April 7, of senior citizen who tested Covid-19 positive.Each Cantonment area has one hospital, however these hospitals do not have ventilators or ICU facilities, which is why patients are required to be shifted to other hospitals, including the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial and the Aundh district hospital.The PCB aims to begin a 10-bed ICU facility in its 100-bedded Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital.“We have already issued a tender and in the next 10 days our ICU facility should be ready. We do not have any shortage of experts or infrastructure; we will ensure that the spread of the virus is contained. We have not referred a single patient as of yet to our hospital but we need to be prepared for any eventuality,” Kumar said.Despite various schemes for the treatment of defence personnel, some private and government hospitals are refusing admission due to overflow of Covid-19 wards.According to Dr Ranjeet Bhosale, resident medical officer at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Cantonment General Hospital, without ventilators or ICU facilities the patients had to be referred to private hospitals and even government hospitals including Sassoon.“However, our patients who needed intensive care were refused admission at private hospitals and Sassoon citing overflowing Covid-19 wards in hospitals,” Bhosale said.Bhosale further added that most of the cases reported were from a single source, the person’s family, neighbours and others were infected following a false negative after which the patient was discharged from a government hospital.“We also faced a lot of resistance from people especially in slum areas post the tablighi report. People hid their travel history and any flu like symptoms,” Bhosale said.The Cantonment board had to take police help to ensure that the lockdown is strictly implemented in slums especially where congestion is a huge issue with multiple people living in the same house.“Areas like Sayyedwada, Kasai Mohalla and Darga vasahat are densely populated,” Bhosale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-77-cases-in-a-month-cantonment-areas-emerge-as-city-s-fresh-hotspots/story-MqgJWxvGIpiH9HFsF8c8gP.html
06-05-2020||Kolkata||Blind people fear days after lockdown, say social distancing is a curse||Rahul Gambhir, a 31-year-old banker from Mumbai, is worried about the day when the Covid-19 lockdown will be lifted and he will have to join office again. His office is at Nariman Point, which is at least 20km away from his flat at Chembur. There are several questions worrying Gambhir, who is totally blind since birth.Like before, will a passerby be ready to hold his hand and assist him to board the train from Chembur railway station? Will he able to hold the hand of that stranger without hesitation? How will he be able to cross the busy Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CST) station without any assistance?“These questions are passing through my mind now. I am sure people like me are also thinking in the same lines. Because such a problem is bound to arise, the moment we step outside of the house again after the lockdown to resume work,” said Gambhir.“Manoeuvring through the CST station during peak office hour will become next to impossible without assistance,” he said.His wife Geetanjali , who works in a government school in Delhi and lives in the Palam area of the national capital with their three-year-old daughter, is also totally blind since birth. She will also face the same problem and so will millions of other blind people in India.For people like Rahul and Anjali, they primarily depend on touch to know what’s in front of them. For this section of citizens, social distancing and physical distancing has come as a curse. These people depend a lot on others when they are out of the streets. “As long as we are within the four walls of our houses or inside the office, we don’t need any assistance. It is because the ambience is known to us. But when we are out of the roads and travelling we need some kind of assistance – to board buses and trains, to cross the road,” 55-year-old Indranath Banerjee, said. The history teacher at Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys Academy at Narendrapur in the southern fringes of Kolkata has to first take the Metro and then an auto-rickshaw to reach the academy, at least 30km away from his home.According to figures provided by the Union health and family welfare ministry in the Lok Sabha on November 29, 2019, at least 0.36% of the Indian population is blind. This puts the number of blind persons in India to not less than 3.7 million. “I have heard that nearly 80% are patients are asymptomatic. While on one hand, I may not get any assistance, on the other hand, what could be worse is that without any assistance I may bump into a person who might be a carrier,” said Vaishali, a blind student studying BA at the Government First Grade College in Bengaluru.“We need to touch each and everything to get an idea of our ambience. That’s even more worrisome,” she said.Students like Vaishali have yet another reason to worry about—exams. Usually, they take the help of scribes who sit closely. The scribes read out the question, the blind person dictates the answer and the scribe pens it down on the answer sheet.“Once the schools and colleges reopen, we will need such help as exams will be held. I wonder who will volunteer because scribes need to sit very close to the blind person in the exam hall,” she added.Keeping in mind all these difficulties, which may arise once the lockdown is lifted, NGOs working for blind persons in India are now coming up with guidelines in the form of do’s and don’ts for their members to avoid contracting the disease.“Apart from the basics such as wearing masks and gloves, we would tell them to carry a small hand sanitiser every time they go out. They should not hold the strangers’ arms, hands or palm, instead they should just touch his shoulder while crossing the road,” Prashant Ranjan Verma, the general secretary of National Association for the Blind in Delhi, said.Verma said they are also planning to approach examination boards which conduct examinations such as ICSE and CBSE to find out if there could be an alternative way where blind students don’t need scribes. “Maybe they can get recorded questions (audio) and can record their answers and send them to examiners,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/blind-people-fear-days-after-lockdown-say-social-distancing-is-a-curse/story-ogyKpsOJPcpoDFKhTUkmHO.html
06-05-2020||Pune||Labourers seeking safe passage throng police stations even as construction allowed in Pune||The police have received at least 15,500 applications for registration of migrant labourers who wish to go back home. The applications are coming in based on central government directions even though the local police have allowed for construction work to begin, provided the labourers are provided accommodation on site.“I do not wish for an exodus to take place. I urge the labourers to stay back as construction sites with in-situ labourers are allowed. The work is going to begin and they should wait for it,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police.The latest Pune police order, in keeping with state government’s advice, has granted permission for construction work to begin wherever in-situ workers are available. However, the central government had ordered all states to coordinate with each other to facilitate return of labourers to their respective home states. The two conflicting orders have created a tough situation for the construction sites in the city. In the city, the highest number of applications came from natives of Uttar Pradesh followed by Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. Applications were made by natives of 17 states on Sunday and Monday after announcements were made various modes including public announcement systems and loud speakers.The applicants are given a four-page form to fill and their contact numbers, along with Aadhaar number, current address and destination address is noted down. The forms are being accepted, however, they will be processed only after a practicing medical professional provides health certificate to the applicant.In the first two days, maximum number of labourers registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.“We have over 7,000 applications on day 1 alone. Most of the workers here are from Uttar Pradesh. There is a sense of trust among the labourers towards the police. Therefore, such a huge number of applications could be recorded without any hassles. The process of medical check-up, however, will need some time,” said Sarjerao Babar, assistant commissioner of police, Swargate division, Pune police.One other police station which received a large number of applications was Chandannagar. “We have received applications from about 3,000 people. There are around 7,000-8,000 labourers in our jurisdiction. Therefore, more are expected,” said senior police inspector Shankar Khatke of Chandannagar police station.The officials of Warje Malwadi, which has received around 1,200 applications so far, witnessed a display of restlessness from the labourers.“We had put up a board at the labour pick-up point (majur adda) for the website link that can help the labourers with online applications. A check post is located nearby. They all gathered there to see the board while some started asking for their forms to be filled by the police who were deployed at the check-post. That led to a disagreement and the atmosphere turned tense so they had to be dispersed. No lathi charge was done,” said senior police inspector Ashok Kadam of Warje Malwadi police station. The permission of starting work with in-situ workers, however, has provided hope for the builders. The builders will be expected to take care of accommodation, food, and sanitation needs for the labourers.“No site has started today (Monday), but everybody has started mobilising. First, we need to organise workers. Before that we need supervisory staff to visit sites. Staff is living in different areas - Pune rural, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune city jurisdiction. We also need permission to bring some raw material. We also suggested that the supervisory staff be given identity cards which will help them move around. We are hopeful that the process will begin soon,” said Suhas Merchant, president of Credai, Pune.“For companies (which have factories outside PMC) and construction work (in-situ) - movement of staff (from non-containment area) is allowed in ‘dedicated vehicle- bus’ rather than individual vehicles; facilitated through punepolice.in,” said K Venkatesham, commissioner of Pune police in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/labourers-seeking-safe-passage-throng-police-stations-even-as-construction-allowed-in-pune/story-Ig6Yq5y3b5XZ0jB8NBlwNM.html
