07-05-2020||City||Two attacked in Kharar, 10 booked||Two persons were injured in Kharar on Wednesday when they were attacked by a group of 10 persons owing to old rivalry.The victims have been identified as Tarlochan Singh, 23, of Jandpur village and Baljit Singh, 53, an ex-serviceman and former sarpanch of Chando village in Kharar.Police have booked Gurvinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Mangal, Ravinder, Gaganpreet Singh, Kaka and Gurvinder Singh (Gundi), all residents of Jandpur village in Kharar, while three accused are unidentified.In his complaint, Tarlochan Singh said, “I had tied my cattle on Baljit’s farm in his village. I was in the cowshed, when the accused came on motorcycles and attacked me with sharp-edged weapons. When I raised an alarm, Baljit and his son Gurpreet Singh intervened. The accused attacked them too, leaving them injured.”“When I was in an unconscious state, they took me back to Jandpur on the motorcycles and threw me outside a house,” he added.They were taken to Kharar civil hospital and Tarlochan Singh sustained injuries on his head.A case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or mean) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Kharar (Sadar) police station. The medico-legal report (MLR) of the injured is awaited after which further actions will be taken. No arrests have been made so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-attacked-in-kharar-10-booked/story-A90QUtH0BPz1BxHckKcSdM.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown likely to get extended in MMR and Pune, hints CM in meeting with top politicos||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has hinted at one more extension to the lockdown till at least May 31 in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune. Speaking to leaders of various parties on Thursday, he said that the first milestone in the fight against Covid-19 was surpassed successfully by April 30 but two more crucial stages until May end have to be faced.Thackeray held a meeting of leaders of 18 political parties in Maharashtra to discuss the Covid-19 outbreak in the state and measures that need to be taken to contain it. While discussing the exit plan for the ongoing lockdown, the CM hinted at the fourth extension of the lockdown after May 17 till the end of the month for MMR and Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). According to leaders who attended the meeting, the state government is expecting a spike in cases over the next few weeks and the downward trend is not expected during the ongoing phase of the lockdown. The leaders said that the government is aiming to clear the migrants from various districts by then.“Besides the other issues we brought to the notice of the government, we also demanded clarity on the exit plan for the ongoing lockdown. The CM apprised us about the measures taken to contain the spread in cities like Mumbai and augmentation of the health services by creating facilities with additional beds. He said that April 30, May 15 and May 31 are three milestones for MMR and PMR in the fight against the virus, one has been successfully faced and the remaining two will also be surpassed successfully,” said a leader, on the condition of anonymity.The meeting was attended by leaders of opposition from the BJP, Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar, Samajwadi Party chief Abu Asim Azmi, Peasant and Workers Party’s Jayant Patil, Communist Party of India (M)’s Ashok Dhawale, Lokbharti’s Kapil Patil, and Republican Party of India’s Rajendra Gavai via video conference. Besides the CM, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, and public works department minister Ashok Chavan represented the government.Former CM and leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis pointed at the lack of coordination between the administrative machinery, and change in the protocol of testing. He said that contact-tracing has slowed down and change in the policy of testing only symptomatic patients could prove fatal. “The Centre has given the highest financial assistance to Maharashtra. Instead of complaining about the Centre, the state government should announce stimulus packages to revive the economy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-likely-to-get-extended-in-mmr-and-pune-hints-cm-in-meeting-with-top-politicos/story-CJuez2IhIgGkCydQQ7hG0J.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Senior IAS officer posted at Mantralaya tests positive||A senior IAS officer posted at Mantralaya tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. She was working as secretary of a department and has been admitted to Breach Candy Hospital.The bureaucrat was a member of the task force on Covid-19.“She is still asymptomatic but since she was on the field and considering the possibility of having been exposed to someone who was infected, it was decided to get her tested,” said a senior official.Many senior bureaucrats posted at Mantralaya have now also decided to self-quarantine. Before this, four housekeeping staff of Mantralaya had tested positive on April 27, following which the state government had disinfected Mantralaya, and the new administrative building, on April 29 and 30. Consequently, both the buildings and all the government offices there were also closed on both the days.The cleaning staff are employees of a private firm that has been appointed for housekeeping activities. Since the cleaning staff were posted at the relief and rehabilitation department, many officers got tested, but all their reports were negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/senior-ias-officer-posted-at-mantralaya-tests-positive/story-0T62jELEzEkfaTZl3AxKOO.html
07-05-2020||City||Rayat Bahra institutions announce scholarship for students||The Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions (RBGI) has announced a 50% fee waiver to students seeking admission for the upcoming academic session in view of the economic slowdown because of the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19. Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra said, “We announced this scholarship recognising our social responsibility. It will help the students seeking admission to different courses.”“Students could provisionally secure a seat in the desired course at any of the Rayat Bahra campuses,” he added.PUNJAB GOVT NOD TO ONLINE ADMISSION FOR LAW COURSESPunjab government has given approval to Aryans College of Law, Rajpura, for conducting admissions of students to LLB (three years) and BA-LLB (five years) courses for the 2020-21 session.The Punjab higher education department has allotted 120 seats in each course and appointed Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, as the competent authority to conduct the online counselling of students.There are total 27 law institutes in Punjab affiliated to various universities including Panjab University, Chandigarh; Punjabi University, Patiala; GNDU, Amritsar; which have started the online admission process. There are a total 2,840 seats in the five-year course and 1,952 seats in the three-year course in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rayat-bahra-institutions-announce-scholarship-for-students/story-sjcSLEXqK0R3DAM0UqS3qJ.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man escapes after testing positive for Covid-19; arrested by police||An 18-year-old man was arrested on Thursday after he allegedly ran away and hid at his relative’s house after testing positive for coronavirus (Covid-19) in Khandsa Mandi. The police said that the man was isolated at a facility in Sector 9 after the arrest.According to the police, on May 1, a team of health officials went to Khandsa Mandi and took samples of multiple people and shopkeepers for testing. On May 4, when the results came, the team found that nine people, including the accused had tested positive for Covid-19. The police said that the officials then called each one of them and informed them about the results.In the police complaint, it was alleged that after coming to know about his condition, the accused decided to escape and go to his relative’s home in Sector 10.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said, “During the interrogation, the man said that he was worried and scared about being isolated. He ran away to his uncle’s house in Sector 10 and did not visit any other place.” He added that a team of police officers from the Shivaji Nagar police station and Sector 17 crime branch investigated the matter and located the accused after receiving a tip-off.“Once he recovers from the disease, we will take necessary action against him regarding the incident,” Boken added.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO), said that they are investigating the matter and trying to trace people who came in contact with the accused.According to the health department, a total of 20 vegetable sellers have tested positive for Covid-19 at Khandsa Mandi so far. The vegetable market was shut down on Tuesday for sanitisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-man-escapes-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-arrested-by-police/story-tWo9EjuYHOFlQWMc1qpAOJ.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Five of ambulance driver’s family among 13 new Covid-19 cases, total count reaches 117||A vegetable trader from Khandsa Mandi and five family members of an ambulance driver were among the thirteen cases that tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. Two neighbours of a man who had allegedly killed himself in Rajeev Nagar after his wife was found positive for the infection, were also among the new Covid-19 positive cases.With the new cases, the total count of persons infected with the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the district reached 117 on Thursday. Out of this, at least 51 persons have recovered and discharged from various city hospitals. With 117 cases, Gurugram currently has the highest number of cases in Haryana.“Five family members of a Covid-19 positive patient, who works an ambulance driver in Delhi, have tested positive. They are residents of Jyoti Park area. A security guard and a nurse from the Sector 10 Civil Hospital have also tested positive for coronavirus,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, Gurugram.“Two people in Rajeev Nagar, who are neighbours of the man who killed himself on April 27 have also contracted the virus,” he said. The man had allegedly killed himself, hours after his wife was confirmed Covid-19 positive. He later tested positive after the health department send his samples for RT-PCR testing. Three days later, his daughter-in-law also had tested positive for coronavirus. A vegetable trader from Khandsa mandi, who had approached the health department for being tested, also confirmed Covid-19 positive. In the last three days, 20 cases from Khandsa mandi, a wholesale market for fruits and vegetables in Gurugram, have surfaced. This is so far, the highest number of cases recorded from a single locality in Gurugram.Also, one case each from Sirhaul, Rajender Park and Jawahar Nagar tested positive on Thursday. “They all had links with positive cases detected in the last two weeks,” said Punia.Intensifying its sample collection and testing, the health team also collected samples of volunteers who were engaged in the preparation and distribution of ration and cooked meals in different parts of the city. The sample collection drive collection was conducted at John Hall., Families of the volunteers arrived were screened at the drive.On Thursday, at least 300 samples were collected from different containment zones and other areas as a part of targeted sampling and contact tracing, health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-of-ambulance-driver-s-family-among-13-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-reaches-117/story-S12DKBtF8Pceo1vO5Kw5tM.html
07-05-2020||City||Nearly 3,000 stranded migrant workers from Uttarakhand leave Gurugram for home||Nearly 3,000 migrant workers from Uttarakhand, who were stranded in Gurugram since the lockdown came into force in March, were taken home on Wednesday morning in buses arranged by the hill state. Officials said the workers were screened for temperatures and flu-like symptoms before being allowed to start their journeys.The migrants, who worked in the city, had registered themselves online on a Haryana government portal seeking help to return home. They were called by the authorities to three designated spots on Wednesday, said officials.Over 108 buses had been sent by the Uttarakhand government which picked up the workers from Tau Devi Lal stadium, the Sector 12 bus stand, and Government Girls College in Sector 14. All the buses left the city between 5am and 10am.A district administration spokesperson said 2,978 migrant workers from Uttarakhand returned home on Wednesday. “Adequate arrangements were made for sending off the workers: 856 passengers left the Sector 12 bus stand in 38 buses, 45 buses took 1,396 passengers from Tau Devi Lal Stadium, and 726 passengers left from Sector 14 in 25 buses,” he added.Most of the workers are from Haridwar, Champawat and Rudrapur districts of Uttarakhand, officials said. Sanjay Yadav, duty magistrate, who oversaw the departure of migrant workers from the city bus stand, said the administration gave refreshments to the workers in the morning and packed food was given to them for lunch. “A team of doctors from the health department came in the morning and checked the temperatures and other health parameters of the migrants. Only those who are completely healthy were allowed to leave,” said Yadav.Yadav further said all norms of social distancing were followed during the entire exercise. ”Only 25 passengers were allowed in a 50-seater bus,” he added.The district administration also said the modalities for arranging the return of other migrants, who want to go back to their homes, are being worked out and tehsildar, Gurugram, has been appointed as the nodal officer for the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-3-000-stranded-migrant-workers-from-uttarakhand-leave-gurugram-for-home/story-Cz5tDv34wZXVUU7QB7MASM.html
07-05-2020||City||Single day highest spike in Delhi with 448 cases, city 20 short of 6,000||New DelhiJust within two days of crossing the 5,000 mark, the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi are 20 short of hitting the next 1,000. On Thursday, Delhi reported 448 cases, which is the highest single-day increase so far in the city, taking the count to 5,980.The second-highest single day increase was recorded a day earlier with 428 cases.Another death was recorded, taking the total toll in the viral infection in the city to 66. Half of the deaths were among older people – 60 years or above. 91% of them had comorbid conditions.The doubling rate in Delhi has reduced from 13 to 11 days, according to Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain. “The doubling rate in Delhi has come down from 13 days around a few days back to 11 days now, but this is mainly because the reports of many pending samples in thousands are coming back now,” Jain said.Of the 3,983 presently living with the infection, 1,358 have been admitted to 10 designated Covid-19 hospitals in the city with severe symptoms. Of them, 87 are in intensive care units and 13 on ventilators. Another 1,230 people have been admitted to Covid Care Centres and Covid Health Centres with mild to moderate symptoms.A total of 771 people are under home isolation, the data shows.Over 5,000 samples were collected for Covid-19 testing on Thursday, the report shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/single-day-highest-spike-in-delhi-with-448-cases-city-20-short-of-6-000/story-kCsZC2WdMAmAkdzdbLHfMI.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Health department adds 600 beds to treat Covid-19 patients, allows home isolation of patients||With a spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the district this week, the administration, along with the health department, has roped in six private hospitals to add 600 beds to the existing capacity for the treatment of Covid-19 positive patients. The state health department has also permitted home isolation for those Covid-19 patients who have mild symptoms or are pre-symptomatic. However, home isolation has only been allowed if the patient has the requisite arrangements in the house.The decision to increase the capacity was taken after the number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram reached 117. Of these patients, 66 are hospitalized and 51 have recovered.Apart from the 100-bed ESIC hospital in Sector 9A, the designated Covid-19 hospital in the district, where 56 patients are already undergoing treatment, the health department had also designated the 500-bed Medeor Hospital in Manesar for the same. But the facility is yet to be made operational.“Due to some technical issues in the Covid-19 isolation ward, the hospital is not yet functional. It will be functional from next week. Meanwhile, the district administration has asked six hospitals to keep 100 beds aside for Covid-19 patients,” Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO), said.The order issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, six hospitals, namely Metro, Naryana, Signature, Columbia Asia, Park and W Pratiksha, will keep 100 beds each in their facility for Covid-19 patients. They will deploy their doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for the Covid-19 isolation ward in their respective hospitals.Earlier, coronavirus patients were being treated at Civil Hospital, Sector 10, and three private hospitals of the city. The health department recently declared the hospital Covid-19 free to resume OPD services. Also, four of its medical staff contracted the virus.Patients are now being admitted to ESIC hospital and SGT medical college in Chandu Budhera. HOME ISOLATION FOR PATIENTS WITH MILD SYMPTOMSThe state government also issued an order on Wednesday to treat Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms or who are pre-symptomatic under home isolation. The district health team, however, said they will grant permission only if the patient who tested positive for the coronavirus has appropriate facilities at the residence.“We won’t allow patients to go for home isolation until we see there are apt facilities, such as a separate room and a bathroom for the Covid-19 positive patient. It will also depend upon the treating physician and the consent of the patient. Generally, most of the patients want to be treated in a hospital facility,” said Punia, mentioning they will prefer home isolation for patients only if they don’t fear the spread of disease among other family members and nearby houses.As per the guidelines issued by the state government, a house has to have rooms for quarantining the other family members apart from the separate self-isolation room for the patient. A care giver has to be available to provide 24X7 services, who will also give daily update of the patient to the district health team.The health team will also monitor the health of the home isolated patients regularly. “On the first day of isolation, health workers like an ASHA worker or a medical officer will visit the house of the patient. A red poster will be displayed outside patient’s house, the patients’ hand will be stamped and masks will be provided. On every third day, these health workers will visit the patient’s house to check if there is any deterioration of symptoms and to check if the home isolation protocols are being followed,” said Punia.The caregiver and all family members living in that house will also have to monitor their body temperature daily and report if they develop any signs and symptoms to the doctor. As per the government protocol, the caregiver and all the close contacts of such cases will be given hydroxychloroquine for treatment.However, if there is difficulty in breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, mental confusion and bluish discolouration of lips and face, then the patient will be shifted to the hospital.Taking preventive measures, the caregiver, be it a health worker or a family member, will have to avoid exposure. For instance, the food has to be provided to the patient in his room, utensils and dishes has to be cleaned with soap/detergent and waterproof gloves. Utensils and dishes can be reused. They will have to avoid direct contact with body fluids of the patient and have to use disposable gloves while handling the patient.The surfaces in the home has to be cleaned like door knobs, handles and table tops with 1% hypochlorite solution.The patient, on the other hand, will have to use a triple layer mask and discard the mask after 8 hours or even before that if it is wet or visibly soiled. Basic hand hygiene needs to be practised. Patient has to take rest and drink lot of fluids to keep the body hydratedAs per the guideline, home isolation will end only after the patient has tested negative twice in the confirmatory tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-adds-600-beds-to-treat-covid-19-patients-allows-home-isolation-of-patients/story-siAYWlwLLHgt0w7HzHkZHM.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Maruti Suzuki to resume limited production at Manesar plant from May 12||Automobile manufacturer Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. will restart production from May 12 at its Manesar plant as economic activities slowly resume across the country following phase-wise exit from the nationwide lockdown. The auto giant had stopped production of vehicles at its three plants in Manesar and Gurugram in the third week of March after the lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In a regulatory filing with the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), the auto major on Wednesday stated it would resume limited production of vehicles at its Manesar plant from May 12. “All activities would be carried out strictly in accordance with the government regulations and guidelines and observing the company’s own concern for the highest standards of safety,” the statement said.A company spokesperson confirmed the development but did not share details regarding the number of workers that would be involved in the production at the Manesar plant. The spokesperson also did not divulge any details about the status of operation and production at the company’s plant in Udyog Vihar, Gurugram.Prior to the lockdown, Maruti Suzuki’s Manesar plant produced around 2,700 cars of different models, the spokesperson said.The decision to restart production at the Manesar plant is expected to help over 2,000 large and small firms in Gurugram and Manesar which are engaged in supplying auto parts and other services to the automobile company. “This is a positive development, and it will bring back employees to the shop floors. We also want the government to help medium and small enterprises in paying wages to the workers, but nothing is happening on that front,” Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar, said.Manesar Industries Welfare Association (MIWA)— a traders’ body with over 150 firms engaged in the auto industry as members—said Maruti Suzuki and Hero MotoCorp are anchor industries in the city, and with the two companies resuming operations the region’s auto belt will revive. “Our members are enthused over this development, and it will boost economic activity n the region,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, MIWA. Two-wheeler manufacturer Hero MotoCorp commenced production at its Gurugram plant on Wednesday. The district administration on Saturday had given permission to Maruti Suzuki to start its operations with over 10,000 workers. Earlier on April 22, the company was given permission to resume limited operations for the maintenance of its plants in Gurugram and Manesar.Kuldip Janghu, president, Maruti Suzuki Kamgar Union, Gurugram said the employees of the company have been asked by the human resources department to get ready for a gradual resumption of production of vehicles. “As a large number of people work in the company, preparations are being made to ensure that physical distancing norms and other safety measures are implemented smoothly during the entry/exit of workers, on the shop floors and in canteens,” he said. Janghu added temperatures of employees will be checked at work and they will be screened for flu-like symptoms to minimise the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/maruti-suzuki-to-resume-limited-production-at-manesar-plant-from-may-12/story-kKkv88UeJ3Hlhz8xn9KKLK.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Haryana’s test positivity rate is low, but it isn’t declining, shows data||Of all samples tested for Covid-19 in Haryana (42,472 in all), just 1.47% are positive (as of May 7), according to government data. This is less than the national average of about 3.9%. Officials said this indicates that the spread of Covid-19 in Haryana has slowed, thanks to the lockdown and public health interventions. To support this claim, officials referred to a metric known as ‘Covid-19 positive rate’, a cumulative rate that has featured in the state’s daily epidemic bulletin since April 22. At the time, only 250 out of 13,647 tested samples (or 1.83%, the Covid-19 positive rate) came back positive. Despite testing numbers having increased since then, this rate has declined. As of Thursday, Haryana had conducted close to 42,500 tests, yielding 611 positive cases.Public health experts have, however, cautioned against using this metric to infer the severity of its outbreak. They said positivity rates are valuable only when compared on a daily basis, unlike the cumulative figure presented by the state.Experts pointed out that when analysed daily, Haryana’s positivity rate has not been declining. WHAT IS TEST POSITIVITY RATE (TPR)?A senior official in Haryana’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP), seeking anonymity, explained, “Covid-19 positive rate is the same as ‘test positivity rate’, or TPR. A decreasing TPR could indicate that the prevalence of Covid-19 in Haryana is lower, in comparison to other states which have a higher TPR, like Delhi.” This view was seconded by Dr. Dhruv Chaudhury, a nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS Rohtak, one of the state’s accredited testing labs. Haryana’s lower TPR becomes all the more significant, he said, given that testing numbers have grown along with the widening of testing criteria.“Since March 14, Haryana has focused on testing only high-risk subjects, such as people in confirmed contact with Covid-19 patients, health workers, and residents in containment zones. This is known as public health testing. However, we have also started doing ‘health care testing’, where the focus is on patients hospitalised with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illnesses (ILI). So we are testing more high-risk subjects, while the percentage of them testing positive is decreasing,” Chaudhury added.Dr. Ram Prakash, district epidemiologist, Gurugram, said, “Going by the TPR, we assume that the prevalence of Covid-19 in Haryana is not as serious as it is in some other states.”HOW SHOULD TPR BE CALCULATED?Other experts, on the other hand, cautioned against this ‘narrow interpretation’ of data.Dr. Rajib Dasgupta, a public health expert at the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health, Jawaharlal Nehru University, said, “The trend of infected cases is a function of the number of people tested, and this trend must be compared daily. A cumulative total is akin to a cricket team’s score, say at the fall of the sixth wicket. This doesn’t tell us how each wicket partnership scored.”For example, when calculated on a daily basis—i.e. the percentage of new positive cases among new tests conducted—Haryana’s TPR on May 4 was 3.76% (the highest since testing numbers were ramped up in mid-April), as opposed to the 1.48% net positive rate mentioned in the state bulletin. On May 6, the state bulletin showed a cumulative TPR of 1.52%, which doesn’t reveal that 3.5% of new samples tested that day came back positive. “Haryana’s test positivity rate is relatively low, but it has not been declining as the official state bulletin seems to suggest,” Dasgupta said.Responding to this, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), Haryana, said, “Even the government of India is calculating test positivity ratio this way (using cumulative numbers). However, we are also calculating the TPR daily, and it is still quite low in percentage terms,” Arora said.WHAT DOES A LOWER TPR MEAN?According to Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, epidemiologist and vice president of research and policy at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), a low TPR is desirable when accompanied by an increase in testing, especially in healthcare testing. “If this is the case in Haryana, then it may be a good sign,” he said. However, Dorairaj and other experts repeatedly emphasised that Haryana’s low TPR should not be taken as an indicator of the prevalence of Covid-19 among the population, given that many asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic cases are going undetected. In fact, a low TPR could also mean that tests are not being administered widely enough. “A low TPR could indicate a decreased transmission of the virus, or it could mean that you are testing the wrong people,” T Jacob John, a virologist and former chief of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), said.If a state is testing subjects only through contact tracing, and finding an overwhelming majority of them to be negative, the subjects are not “truly real contacts”, John explained, advocating for an increase in health care testing over contact tracing. “Efficiency requires finding a higher percentage of positive cases. That means: increase health care testing and decrease in public health testing,” he added.Dasgupta echoed this view, saying, “TPR in the context of Covid-19 cannot tell us how severe the outbreak is. For that, one might look at the disease’s prevalence or mortality rates. But TPR can tell us a lot about the quality and strategy of public health surveillance. The daily test positivity rate for Haryana remained stable throughout mid-April, but has now begun showing increases. So the picture could look very different two weeks down the line.”BOX:1. The government data shows the test positivity rate (TPR) in Haryana has declined despite an increase in testing (1.48% on May 4, as opposed to 1.63% on April 22), leading them to believe that the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is declining in the state2. However, experts say that the government is using the cumulative number of administered tests to calculate the TPR, whereas the TPR must be calculated based on the number of daily tests. When calculated in this manner, the TPR in Haryana is found to have actually increased (3.76% on May 4, as opposed to 0.78% on April 22)3. Experts also emphasise that Haryana’s low TPR should not be taken as an indicator of the prevalence of Covid-19 among the population, given that many asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic cases are going undetected. In fact, a low TPR could also mean that tests are not being administered widely enough. 4. According to experts, just the TPR cannot tell us how severe the outbreak is. For that, one must look at the disease’s prevalence or mortality rates.TEST POSITIVITY RATE IN HARYANA(CUMULATIVE, AS PER STATE BULLETIN, SHOWS DECLINE)Apr 22: 1.63%Apr 23: 1.54%Apr 24: 1.51%Apr 25: 1.44%Apr 26: 1.37%Apr 27: 1.29%Apr 28: 1.20%Apr 29: 1.24%Apr 30: 1.29%May 1: 1.27%May 2: 1.25%May 3: 1.34May 4: 1.48%May 5: 1.47%May 6: 1.52%May 7: 1.47%TEST POSITIVITY RATE IN HARYANA(ANALYSED DAILY, SHOWS VARIATION)Apr 22: 0.78% Apr 23: 0.29 %Apr 24: 0.42 %Apr 25: 1.04%Apr 26: 0.62% Apr 27: 0.34%Apr 28: 0.37%Apr 29: 0.17%Apr 30: 1.76% May 1: 0.96%May 2: 0.95% May 3: 2.28%May 4: 3.76% [largest single day jump, 75 new cases]May 5: 1.08%May 6: 3.55%May 7: 0.94%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-s-test-positivity-rate-is-low-but-it-isn-t-declining-shows-data/story-xpfGmKKuCSkvQGBPmJ06CM.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Labour department writes to industry owners, directs them to pay salaries by next week||The labour department of Gurugram has sent mails to industry owners, requesting them to pay salaries to their workers for the month of April by or before the coming Monday or Thursday.The move comes in the backdrop of the growing tensions between the workers and the industry owners in the last couple of days over the salary disbursement date, which usually happens to be the 10th of every month. The department has received several complaints from workers, seeking departmental intervention. The industries normally start disbursing salaries among the workers from the first of every month.Many industries disburse salaries within the first few days or latest by the seventh of every month. Some companies disburse their salaries by the 10th of every month.Ramesh Ahuja, deputy labour commissioner, said, “I have written to the industry owners, requesting them to pay the wages for the period of the lockdown as per the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued in March after a 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced to stop the spread of coronavirus disease(Covid-19). The entire country was put under National Disaster Management Act. The lockdown was later extended from May 3 to May 17.”The MHA, on March 29, issued a notification under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, making it mandatory for industry owners to pay their workers wages during the period of lockdown. After the MHA notification, the state government also issued directions to all district heads to implement the order in letter and spirit.“I received more than 50 such complaints from workers who told us that their employers are refusing to pay wages of April. In my letter to industry owners, I have requested them to pay wages, drawing their attention to the guidelines of the MHA. In case, the workers do not get salaries by next Monday, I will write to my seniors for further action. But I believe that since the industry owners and workers are interdependent, they should mutually solve this issue since both the parties are equally affected by the current crisis,’ said Ahuja.The trade union council, on the other hand wrote to the labour department and the police, seeking official direction to the industry owners for wages of April.Kuldip Jhangu, general secretary of trade union council, said, “The council has received complaints from over 200 workers from Manesar, Udyog Vihar, Sector 37 and other areas in the past three days, stating that their owners are dilly-dallying in paying wages to them under one pretext or another. The MHA guidelines are to be followed mandatorily. Big industries of the district have already paid salaries of April.”Industry owners across the district said that their income has taken a severe hit due to the lockdown.“Many members of our association have complained that most of the workers did not join duties despite reminders after May 3 when the government allowed operations. We never said we will not pay salaries, but they should join duties and report to the management,” said Ashok Kohli, president of the Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar, adding that the trade union is trying to create a rift between industry owners and workers. Meanwhile, the MHA guidelines over the payment of salaries during the lockdown period have been challenged in the Supreme Court by a Mumbai-based industry owner and matter is pending at the court.Earlier, the industry owners have written a letter to Union government and state government, demanding a relief package since industries have been shut for over 45 days and their incomes are nil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/labour-department-writes-to-industry-owners-directs-them-to-pay-salaries-by-next-week/story-QOhWMPfGmJ7dWHR8jOJ7eJ.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC books 3,343 hotel rooms to quarantine overseas Indians||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said it has reserved 3,343 rooms across 88 hotels in Mumbai to quarantine Indian nationals stranded in other countries once they are evacuated.Around 1,900 stranded Indians are expected to be brought back to the city by seven flights, the BMC said in a statement.Indian nationals from Britain, USA, Bangladesh, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia are expected to be flown back to Mumbai starting from May 7, the civic body said.It has reserved rooms in two-, three-, four- and five- star hotels along withapartment hotels and OYO hotels, it said. “On landing in Mumbai, the Indians returning will be quarantined in hotels, and they will be admitted in hospitals, if found infected with coronavirus on completion of quarantine period,” said Vijay Khanake, BMC spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-books-3-343-hotel-rooms-to-quarantine-overseas-indians/story-Ef04CobSyQPhETlYMoEuiJ.html
07-05-2020||Lucknow||Partially eaten body of a brick kiln labourer found in Kashi||A partially eaten body of a 30-year-old labourer was found on the premises of brick kiln in Khewasipur area of the district on Thursday, police said.Station officer of Lohta police station Rakesh Singh said initial investigation revealed that stray dogs had devoured some portions of the body that has been sent for post mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death.He said locals informed the police about the body following which a team was immediately rushed to the spot. The deceased was identified as Gupteshwar Singh aka Govind Singh by the Aadhaar card recovered from his pocket. Singh, hailing from Pahad village in Gumla district of Jharkhand, used to work in the kiln and was spotted by the local villagers on Wednesday night in an inebriated condition.Circle officer Abhishek Pandey, who also reached the spot, said efforts were being made to contact the deceased’s kin.He added that initial probe indicated that deceased was an alcohol addict and spotted in an inebriated condition on Tuesday as well.“The exact cause of death, however, will be known once the post mortem reports are in. It seems that some animal (probably dogs ate a part of the body) and a probe is underway to find out the exact sequence of events that led to the death and the animals devouring the body,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/partially-eaten-body-of-a-brick-kiln-labourer-found-in-kashi/story-7d0Tqmj15WVMYn9pYzDJQO.html
07-05-2020||City||Movement to and fro Mohali permitted with official ID cards: DM||In a huge relief to the working class, Mohali’s district magistrate (DM) Girish Dayalan has permitted the movement of people to their offices on the production of official identity cards.As per the guidelines, people working in offices, public or private in Mohali, Chandigarh or Panchkula; will henceforth not require any curfew movement pass while entering or leaving Mohali and can commute to their workplace between 7am to 7pm on production of identity card issued by the employer.Thousands of employees working in the tricity live in Mohali district. The partial curfew relaxation and permission to open offices with minimum staff had compelled the residents to get a pass from each district administration in order to commute to their offices.“We seek to facilitate genuine movement of working people and permit them to go in and out of Mohali to work in tricity with their office identity cards’’, said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/movement-to-and-fro-mohali-permitted-with-official-id-cards-dm/story-ik3ure7RPNlWH25PcUlBaP.html
07-05-2020||City||Woman shot dead by relative and accomplices, one arrested||The Ghaziabad police arrested a man from Loni for shooting dead a 45-year-old woman outside her house in Kailashpuram locality early Thursday. However, the prime suspect in the case, the deceased woman’s brother-in-law, and another associate are on the run, police said.The police said the prime suspect had allegedly planned and executed the murder as he was unable to repay ₹10 lakh he had taken as loan from the woman’s family. The woman’s identity has not been revealed by the police.The prime suspect was identified as Vinod Kumar, who is also from Kailashpuram, while his two accomplices were identified as Shailesh Kumar from Behta Hajipur in Loni and Suraj -- his full identity is yet to be established, police said.“Kumar could not repay ₹10 lakh which he had borrowed from the woman’s family and she was repeatedly asking for the money. While she was taking a morning walk outside her house around 5.35am on Thursday, the suspects arrived there and shot her. She was rushed to a hospital but succumbed to the gunshot wounds. Her husband is a paramilitary personnel, currently posted in Assam,” said Mohammad Aslam, SHO of Kavi Nagar police station.The police, on the basis of complaint given by the woman’s family lodged an FIR under the IPC Section 302 (murder) and also under the provisions of the Arms Act against the three suspects.“Vinod and Suraj fled the spot and our teams, based on local information, arrested Shailesh from nearby Raispur village. Our teams are trying to trace the other two suspects who are on the run,” the SHO said.According to police sources, Kumar had also misbehaved with the woman on February 22 after which she had approached the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-shot-dead-by-relative-and-accomplices-one-arrested/story-CTZ1tYl3Tbexa8PI2lwmkJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Covid cases in Ghaziabad doubled in 13 days, officials say district may slip back into Red zone||With Ghaziabad witnessing a spurt of cases, the health department officials are worried that the district might slip back into the Red zone again.  Ghaziabad on Thursday recorded four new Covid-19 cases taking the district’s total tally to 120. Overall, there has been an addition of more than 50 cases in six days — between May 1 to May 6.On May 1, the Ghaziabad district had been moved from Red zone to Orange zone, according to the classification issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The first case was reported in Ghaziabad on March 5 and the tally rose to 25 on April 8 in a span of about 34 days. The next 25 cases were reported by April 22, in a span of 14 days, taking the district’s total to 50. The number of samples taken for testing then stood at 1,923.However, the number of cases more than doubled by May 5, with a total of 104 cases being reported till the evening of that day (May 5). The last set of 50 patients turned positive within a span of about 13 days. The number of samples taken up for testing during that period stood at 3,573.“With the increase in number of cases, the classification of the district is likely to be affected and it is likely that Ghaziabad slips back into the Red zone. The ranking is dynamic and can change as per number of cases and other factors. I is highly unlikely that Ghaziabad will be able to move to the Green zone (districts having no cases in 21 days) any time soon,” said Dr AK Paliwal, state program manager from National Health Mission (UP) and nodal officer for Ghaziabad district.He added that more cases were coming to light as the number of testing had increased. Around 100-125 people were being tested daily now.In case the district goes into the Red zone again, the relaxations given under lockdown 3.0 may have to be rolled back. The district administration — under the relaxations provided — has directed for opening up of standalone shops, liquor shops, plying of cabs, industrial and construction activities, among others, in order to jump start the economy.“With the restrictions eased, people think that the threat from Covid-19 is over. But the threat remains and the virus is here to stay. It may take the form of an endemic again. The trend of positive cases is likely to increase further. It is about how we are able to contain it. It is in this anticipation that the state officials have asked districts to increase number of quarantine and Covid hospital beds,” Paliwal added.In their recent communications, the state officials had asked for an increase of about 52000 Covid beds and about 15,000-20,000 quarantine beds in each district to meet any contingency.The total number of samples taken for testing till May 6 stood at 3,737.“The cases are increasing at a fast pace in Ghaziabad and has affected areas like Khoda, Vaishali, Vijay Nagar and Indirapuram. Around 25% of the cases are due to medically acquired infection. With the increased number of cases, there is a likelihood that Ghaziabad may again fall into the Red zone,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.According to the Union health ministry’s classification, there are about 130 Red, 284 Orange and 319 Green zones across the country. The state of UP has 19 Red, 36 Orange and 20 green zones.The Red zones are areas with maximum number of Covid-19 cases. The government takes into account total number of active cases and case doubling rate, among others, before declaring an area as a Red zone.Places with no cases or where no case has been reported in 21 days are categorised as Green zones, while the areas not in Red or Green category are termed as Orange zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-in-ghaziabad-doubled-in-13-days-officials-say-district-may-slip-back-into-red-zone/story-8KIeFc9qxqZ34dlFIUy99J.html
07-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar ready-made garment export units get nod to operate||After several rounds of discussions, the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) and export promotion department of the Uttar Pradesh government, Thursday has asked the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration to allow over 600 ready-made garment exporting units to operate, provided they ensure that all the norms of Covid-19 are followed in these units.Secretary, MSME and export promotion, Navneet Sehgal, through a letter has sent a list of 611 ready-made garment exporting companies to the GB Nagar district administration Thursday, to allow them to operate in accordance with guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the state government.“Due to outbreak of the Covid-19, most of the export orders of these units have either been cancelled or put on hold. Besides, their consignments already shipped out are also stuck. Even the ready-made garments manufactured against orders are lying factories because of a ban on the movement/transport of goods. If they will not be allowed to restart their units, it will certainly have the worst impact on our economy,” the letter said.GB Nagar district deputy commissioner (industries), Anil Kumar, said these 611 ready-made garment exporting units have been granted conditional permission. “It is mandatory for these units to strictly follow the social distancing norms. The unit owners will have to ensure that any person or item going in or out of their respective premises has been sanitised. These units will be operated with the minimum workforce needed,” he said.Kumar further said before starting the operation, it is mandatory for these units to conduct a random RT-PCR sampling of their employees, to ascertain that none of them is Covid-19 positive. “Any worker coming from containment zone will not be allowed into these units,” he said.Lalit Thukral, president of Noida Apparel Exports Cluster (NAEC), said with this order, the apparel and textile industry in the district will get a new lease of life. “The goods and payments amounting to around ₹7,000 crore of exporters would have tanked if activities had not been allowed to resume. We are hopeful to ship garments worth around ₹1,500 crore this month, which will bring some relief to entrepreneurs,” he said.He further said it will also enhance the productivity of exporters as buyers can now place new orders. “Since our industry is labour-centric, their return will also improve the overall socio-economic scenario. Even the financial burden on exporters will be eased as banks often increase our credit limits once we have new orders,” he said.The apparel sector in the district employs about 10 lakh people and the sector has exports to the tune of over ₹18,000 crore annually.Meanwhile, mobile phone manufacturing company OPPO will also resume production with a 30% workforce at its Greater Noida unit from Friday. As per the press release issued, the company will operate t 30% of its capacity, which is in accordance with the directive issued by the authorities. “It would be operating with around 3,000 employees working in shifts of its total 10,000 workforce,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-ready-made-garment-export-units-get-nod-to-operate/story-oKdU2fOR6DAqFSqHT2TRFP.html
07-05-2020||City||Factory owners seeking nod to open say they are being unduly harassed||Factory owners in Gautam Budh Nagar district, who are seeking a nod from the district administration to reopen their units, Thursday said they were being unduly harassed by officials and being made to stand in long queues to submit documents. They said the rules that govern the granting of permission to reopen industries are confusing and ambiguous, thereby defeating the purpose of social distancing to contain spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.All manufacturing units were shut after the government announced a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown has since been extended twice, the latest being up to May 17, but the Union government allowed lowed certain relaxation in lockdown rules from May 3 ( only in non-containment zones) to help businesses get back on their feet. In Gautam Budh Nagar, all businesses, factories, companies and offices in non containment zones were allowed to reopen, but with certain riders and only after the requisite nod from the industrial development department. Most factory owners, who manufacture electronic goods such as televisions, refrigerators, and also food products, said getting the nod from industrial development department was not a smooth process.“We were asked to apply for permission online and we did so. But nothing was processed as the system was faulty. Then the department of industry asked us to submit applications along with requisite documents at its office. We had to wait in long queues to submit the documents and the application. But we are yet to get the permission,” said Pankaj Singh, president, Greater Noida industry association.On Wednesday when factory owners visited the industry department at Greater Noida’s Surajpur office they were shocked by the chaos there -- all social distancing norms were being flouted at will.“This was unbelievable that in this time of crisis, when the government is emphasizing on paperless work and digitisation to ensure containment of the Covid-19, the industry owners are made to stand in long queues,” said Aditya Kumar, member, Greater Noida industry association. Anil Kumar, deputy commissioner of the District Industries Centre (DIC), who is the official in charge of granting permissions, did not reply to repeated messages and calls, seeking his comment on the system fault and flouting of social distancing norms.“District Industries Centre distributed forms to be filled to grant permission and then deny the permission. There is no communication from this department at all ,” Singh said. When apprised of this situation, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said, “Nobody needs to be in a queue for permission. They can operate their units as per the rules laid down by the UP government. And if there is any miscommunication to industry owners then we will look into it and address the issue. I will ask Anil Kumar to communicate properly with industry owners.” Gautam Budh Nagar district has three industrial development authorities -- Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway -- apart from the Uttar Pradesh state industrial development corporation (UPSIDC) that has the mandate to acquire the land, develop the same and allot it for setting up industries, housing and other purposes. Noida authority has around 20,000 hectares , Yamuna authority has around 16,000 hectares and Greater Noida has around 38,000 hectares developed by both the Greater Noida and the UPSIDC. In their respective areas, these bodies had allowed setting up industries of different kinds. The UPSIDC allotted land to at least 3,000 industrial units, which are located in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/factory-owners-seeking-nod-to-open-say-they-are-being-unduly-harassed/story-Tfd6EZ1OvGEEaVoIpWtLgP.html
07-05-2020||Noida||Road accident injuries among animals spike in last two days as traffic returns, say animal NGOs||With an increase in number of vehicles returning to the road in the past two days, different animal welfare NGOs are receiving more cases of animals being injured, some seriously.Veterinarians have observed that animals had extended their territorial boundaries during the lockdown that was in force for 40 days. Due to this, these animals roamed freely even onto roads until last Monday when the lockdown was extended but with considerable relaxations, including allowing offices to open and vehicles to ply with a prescribed limit of passengers.While the district animal husbandry department said that they have not received any such complaints yet, a number of volunteers who had been feeding and treating the stray and community animals, especially dogs, say otherwise.“Just today we received some five cases of injured dogs and the cases had been rising for the past two days.There had been multiple cases of fractures and spine injury. It seemed that whatever hit them was moving too fast for the animals to react,” said Sanjay Kumar Mahapatra, head of Noida based NGO house of stray animals (HSA). Mahapatra, who runs a road side dispensary near sector 61, said that he had received more than 12 cases of road accidents in past two days.This, he said, pointed to speeding and rash driving.“We request people to drive slow,” he added.Other animal welfare organisations had similar stories to tell.“We have treated about six dogs with spine split in two halves over past two days. One dog died. This happens when dogs are run over, or the cars are too fast or the driver is drunk. They find wide open roads as traffic is still not up to what it was before the lockdown was announced on March 25, and they drive fast with dogs falling prey to their speed,” said Kaveri Rana, president, People for Animals (PFA), Gautam Budh Nagar.According to veterinarians, it’s a tendency of animal to extend their territory wherever there are fewer human activity.“We see more dogs sitting covering the road and this is because there were fewer vehicles on the road. For this, a lot of feeders are also responsible as we have seen them feeding either on road, or by the roadside, while they should be feeding them a little away from the road or by a park. This encourages dogs to extend their territory to roads and thus with vehicles now returning back, they get hit. This will take some time before the animals understand that roads are not their territory,” said says Dr Abhishek Dabar, official vet at Noida authority’s animal at sector-94.Meanwhile, officials said that they have not received any such report.“So far we have not received any report of road accidents, though if happens we are ready to treat such animals. It’s obvious that when there will be traffic on the roads there will also be cars. Though not the animals, but I have seen three car accidents since yesterday while returning from Vikas Bhawan,” said VK Srivastava, chief veterinary officer, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/road-accident-injuries-among-animals-spike-in-last-two-days-as-traffic-returns-say-animal-ngos/story-TfVwn0523Xc2xNj3oRAM6J.html
07-05-2020||City||Drone camera spots 10 persons out strolling; all booked||A drone camera spotted ten persons strolling in two groups in Greater Noida. Based on the aerial images, the police booked all of them for violating the lockdown. Dinesh Kumar Singh, a sub-inspector at Dankaur police station, said that police teams are enforcing the lockdown in the area. “The police teams physically patrol the roads and make use of aerial surveillance via drone cameras. Singh said that on Wednesday, a police team was flying a drone camera near Jhajahar road in Dankaur. “The camera spotted a group of five persons roaming about. The police team drove to the spot and found them sitting together. We questioned them but they did not give satisfactorily answer why they were outdoors in a group during the lockdown,” he said. The five suspects were identified as Dalchand, Kartar Bhati, Ravindra, Bharat and Vikram, all residents of Salarpur village in Dankaur. The police registered a case against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In the second case, the drone camera spotted five other persons—Vikas, Dinesh, Raju, Fakhruddin and Bhoora—residents of Junaidpur village, roaming about. Vikas and Dinesh were riding a motorcycle while the other three were on foot. Rajneesh Tiwari, station house officer, Dankaur police station, said that police teams are trying to ensure complete enforcement in the area. “The police patrol areas and advise people to stay home. But there are still some people who walk about without a valid reason. We fly drone camera at the crossings, markets, outside academic institutions, etc., spot suspicious persons and register FIR against them,” he said. Once these suspects are held, they apologise and promise not to venture out again, he added. Tiwari said that all the 10 persons were released after a warning there would be stricter action if the violation is repeated. “Section 188 of the IPC does not require the immediate arrest of the suspects. We will inform the district and sessions court, Surajpur. The court will then summon them to join the proceedings,” he said. On Wednesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar Police had registered 20 FIRs and arrested 14 persons. The police also checked 754 vehicles and issued fines to 223 vehicles and seized six of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drone-camera-spots-10-persons-out-strolling-all-booked/story-lCeU2otr3afoYkT77I2JSO.html
07-05-2020||City||‘Appeal’ by Gzb officials to restrict doctors, HCWs to Delhi draws criticism||The Ghaziabad municipal administration came under sharp criticism for appealing to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and local councillors to advise doctors and health care workers working in Delhi to stay there. At the center of the controversy is a letter dated April 20 from Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr. N K Gupta to municipal commissioner Dinesh Chandra who subsequently addressed the letter to all zonal in-charges on May 5. They said the appeal was in order to control infections that may arise with contact from Covid-19 positive cases in the Capital. Doctors, however, say that the wording of the appeal was not appropriate and at a time when there were attacks on health care workers across the country, their efforts must not be stigmatised. In light of those attacks, the central government had passed an ordinance that had heavy penalties against those who attacked front line workers and on Wednesday, the UP government followed it by toughening its laws against such attacks.“The appeal was made so that doctors and health care workers who work in Delhi do not get infection and also the other members of public and their families (in their highrises or nearby places) do not get infected. This was an appeal and in the form of a request, which is non binding upon doctors and health care workers who are staying in Ghaziabad but serving in nearby Delhi,” said Dr NK Gupta, CMO. “There are number of cases in which doctors and even patients have acquired infection. Even our government doctors and health care workers in Covid-19 and quarantine duties, about 100, are staying away from their families for over more than one month. We have made arrangements for them in hotels, hostels, etc.” Late on Thursday night, he issued another letter in which he specified that his original letter was an appeal and not binding. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls when contacted.Municipal commissioner Dinesh Chandra said, “The communication is non-binding and in form of an appeal to the doctors and health care workers and issued in public interest.”Earlier, the Ghaziabad administration had imposed more restrictions at the Ghaziabad-Delhi border areas citing reason that there were at least six cases in which people got infected after travelling to Delhi.The members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ghaziabad held discussion with their members over the issue on Thursday and said that the doctors and health care workers were the front line soliders and infection comes as a professional hazard.“The doctors and health care persons are taking best possible precautions about the infection. We feel that the issue should have been taken up at the government to government level (UP government and Delhi government) to make arrangements for doctors and health care workers and should not have been publicised. It should have been for other people involved in providing essential services,” said Dr. V B Jindal, president of IMA, Ghaziabad.“We don’t want such a stigma which may be seen as discrimination. We feel that RWAs or the councillors should not be given such powers for restricting doctors or HCWs,” he added.Jindal added that that doctors and HCWs should take extra precautions like sanitisation of their vehicles they use and even while using services like the elevators in highrises.“We will also be holding discussions with Ghaziabad administration about the communication. If they are in the form of an appeal, the language should be more appropriate,” he added.Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation, said that all the districts in Delhi are in Red Zone and doctors and health care workers are prone to risk of getting infection.“We feel that the local administration in Ghaziabad or the Delhi government should make for decent arrangement for their stay if it is essentially required. In case any residential building has number of doctors or health care workers, they should take extra precautions and share some inconvenience in light of public interest. Once the situation improves, the original practice can be restored,” he added.Anil Sharma, the secretary of the federation of association of apartment owners said that the respective state governments should make arrangements for doctors and health care workers.“It seems that the local administration, rather than acting on their own, is trying to pass on the responsibility on to the RWAs to stop healthcare persons,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/appeal-by-gzb-officials-to-restrict-doctors-hcws-to-delhi-draws-criticism/story-uJLcmV2o426Mt493EMEBGM.html
07-05-2020||Noida||Two arrested for molesting a Covid-19 patient||The Gautam Budh Nagar police has arrested two persons who had molested a 20-year-old coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient on Wednesday afternoon pretending to be doctors.The woman who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida was allegedly molested by a ward boy and a man handling the store area of the hospital. The suspects had claimed to be doctors. The woman, who had recently given birth, was admitted to the hospital along with her newborn.The woman had said on Wednesday afternoon, a man wearing a protection kit approached her and asked her for her urine and milk samples for testing. The man was accompanied by another one and both claimed to be doctors.The arrested persons have been identified as Luvkush, of Bulandshahr, and Pravin Sundar of Meerut. Both the suspects were employees of an outsourcing company contracted by the hospital. The Knowledge Park police station had filed an FIR on a complaint given by Sharda hospital late Wednesday. The accused were booked under Section 354 (assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code.After the incident, the Sharda hospital has made isolation wards separate for women and men. A permanent staff has been deployed in the CCTV control room to keep a watch on people entering the Covid-19 section of the hospital. Authorities at Sharda hospital have also served notice to the outsourcing company which has been providing workers to them. All male hospital staff have been told to ensure the safety of women patients.“We have arrested the ward boy and the store person for molesting the patient. No such acts will be tolerated and strictest of the action will taken against such persons,” Rajesh Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, said.The district magistrate has also asked the senior health officials to come up with strict guidelines for hospitals to ensure the safety of female patients. “I have asked the chief medical superintendent of the district hospital to prepare strict guidelines keeping in mind the safety of female patients to ensure that no incident like the Sharda one takes place again. There will be zero tolerance for such disgraceful acts. We will be issuing guidelines for hospitals soon ,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar, said.The 20-year-old woman had given birth to a girl at a Noida hospital on April 25 and doctors had taken her sample, as per protocol, for Covid-19 testing. On May 3, the woman tested positive for the infection and she was admitted to the Sharda hospital. Her husband and brother-in-law were shifted to the quarantine centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-arrested-for-molesting-a-covid-19-patient/story-I39NF6qcUM08rU7odORHoN.html
07-05-2020||Noida||Panic grips residential society after cancer patient and visiting nurse test Covid-19 positive||High drama was seen outside the Ajnara Daffodil society in Sector 137 on Thursday after the medical and paramedical staff of Felix hospital staged a protest against residents, in the wake of a breast cancer patient, a resident of the society, testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on May 4. Her husband, two children and six relatives have been put under institutional quarantine.Health officials said the woman is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and cancer at a private hospital in Delhi. Her breast carcinoma, in its third stage, was detected on April 8 and she underwent one chemotherapy session in Delhi. But on April 27, her blood count dipped drastically and the woman’s husband called home a nurse from the Felix hospital to give her an injection.On Thursday, the 22-year-old nurse and her 20-year-old male colleague were among 10 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar. The total number of cases in the district has now reached 202.The husband of the cancer patient said there were high chances that his wife got the infection from the nurse. Also, on May 4, a 47-year-old man from Ghaziabad who was undergoing treatment at the Felix Hospital in Sector 137 had died of Covid-19.The husband tweeted on Thursday that a majority of the Felix hospital staff are infected which is leading to the spread of the infection. His tweet started a panic in the society. The Felix hospital staff and its chairman took umbrage to the claims made by the man and other residents. The doctors and paramedical then reached Ajnara Daffodil society and staged a protest against residents trying to defame the hospital.“The nurse who was visiting my wife was positive for Covid-19 as well as a colleague of hers. I suspect that my wife might have contracted the infection from her. I am currently in paid quarantine along with my two children, aged 6 and 12 years. Our samples have also been taken for testing. It is very upsetting that the Felix hospital, instead of taking responsibility for the spread of the disease, is blaming us and other residents,” the cancer patient’s husband said.The Felix hospital chairman said he will take legal action against residents who have claimed that his hospital staff are infected.“I am going to lodge an FIR against the husband of the cancer patient for trying to defame our hospital. We are providing our services in this crisis situation but even then, people are trying to malign our image. This man has been tweeting that 80% of our staff are Covid-19 positive, which is not true as only two of our staff members have tested positive till now. We are the front-line warriors in the fight against Covid-19 and if this is how we are treated, then we will not be able to provide our services. We held a protest outside the society against the allegations made by residents there,” Dr DK Gupta, chairman, Felix hospital, said.The society people are also worried because the husband of the woman had distributed food among the security guards and maintenance persons before his wife was found positive for the infection. All guards and maintenance persons have now been quarantined.“All our guards and maintenance persons have been quarantined as they had come in contact with the family. People are now panicking. The nurse who tested positive was also visiting our society. She was also attending to patients in nearby societies,” an Ajnara Daffodil resident, who did not want to be named, said.Some of the residents sought the district magistrate’s help on social media to take legal action against the hospital for staging a protest when prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed in the district. No protest is allowed till the time the prohibitory orders are in place.“The protest by the Felix staff is in direct violation of the Section 144 and we will take strict legal action against the hospital,” Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, said.“We are already looking into the matter. Protests are not allowed when Section 144 is enforced in the district and police will take the required action,” Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.On Thursday, three male housekeeping staff from the Sharda Hospital tested positive for Covid-19. Three female patients -- a 4-year-old, a 5-year-old and 33-year-old from the Nat Madiya village in Greater Noida --were also positive for the infection. The three females are linked to a paramedical staff of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. A 17-year-old girl from sector 8 and a 55-year-old man from sector 15 were also found positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/panic-grips-residential-society-after-cancer-patient-and-visiting-nurse-test-covid-19-positive/story-uc4QiqLbOVlREBnBfqUBlK.html
07-05-2020||City||Panvel reports record spike with 17 new cases||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported its highest single-day spike with 17 new Covid positive cases on Thursday, taking the total count to 130.Among the new cases are two members of a family of a Covid positive BEST driver from Kamothe, a 49-year-old nurse of a civic hospital in Nerul, a 48-year-old NMMC nurse, a 50-year -old NMMC sanitation worker living in New Panvel, a 57-year-old sanitation worker who works in a hospital in Mumbai, a 58-year-old BEST conductor living in Kalamboli and 26- year-old wife of a Covid positive BEST driver living in Kamothe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-reports-record-spike-with-17-new-cases/story-oLTByWyz9FKyAJvpBzUQ5I.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to give ₹7,000/acre to farmers for non-paddy crops||Much before the beginning of paddy transplantation season in mid June, Haryana government has started rolling out incentive- linked crop diversification plans to push farmers towards the cultivation of maize and pulses in place of rice.The rice cultivation has been losing traction as every year, groundwater table of Haryana depletes about one metre due to non-stop paddy sowing. Just 1kg rice production consumes 2,000-5,000 litre water, Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare department has said in its crop diversification scheme. While launching ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme on Wednesday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced the state government will buy maize and pulses at the minimum support price (MSP).And, the farmers switching over to alternate crop in place of water guzzler paddy will get Rs 7,000 per acre incentive, he added. Government sources say to become eligible for Rs 7,000 per acre incentive, farmers will have to ensure crop diversification in minimum 50% land. They say the incentive could be given in two instalments — 25% after verification of the crop sown and 75% before harvesting. The first target is to implement the scheme in over exploited blocks of 12 districts by diversifying around 1 lakh hectare area.Haryana produces about 68 lakh MT of paddy, including over 25 MT basmati, across about 32 lakh acres. In one acre, about 30 quintal paddy (parmal) is produced and a farmer earns around Rs 30,000 per acre after excluding the input cost that is over Rs 20,000 per acre.Because of the assured marketing of the paddy under MSP, even non-rice producing areas have taken up paddy production on a large scale. “Maize used to be a major crop in the present rice belt of Haryana till 1970s,” an official said. Maize requires about four irrigation cycles, while rice requires 40-45, hence, the push for maize cultivation. 36 BLOCKS IN DARK ZONEGram panchayat Pentawas Kalan in Charkhi Dadri has passed a resolution not to sow paddy in their village.According to Khattar, 36 blocks of the state have become ‘dark zones’ where the groundwater depletion rate has doubled in 12 years. It means that where groundwater level was at 20 metres earlier, it has now gone down to 40 metres. In 19 of them, the water depth has exceeded 40 metres. However, out of these 19, paddy is not sown in 11 blocks.Eight paddy-rich blocks, including Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa, where the depth of groundwater exceeds 40 metres, would be included in this scheme.The land under the panchayat having groundwater depth of more than 35 metres will not get permission to sow paddy. However, the incentive amount will be given to the panchayat only. Apart from these blocks, if the farmers of the remaining blocks also want to stop sowing paddy, they can apply for the incentive amount by giving information in advance. Khattar has urged the farmers to make up their minds to sow crops which require less water than paddy, such as maize, arhar, urad, guar, cotton, bajra, til and grishm moong and (Baisakhi moong) to ensure the availability of water for future generations. Box: Why state wants its farmers to switchThe land under paddy transplantation in Haryana is about 32 lakh acres. Just 1kg rice production consumes 2,000-5,000 litre water, which significantly affects the groundwater table. There are 36 blocks where the groundwater depletion rate has doubled in 12 years due to paddy cultivation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-give-7-000-acre-to-farmers-for-non-paddy-crops/story-W0MJOUK0hdQwToUdZo3ugI.html
07-05-2020||Lucknow||Check your e-mail, SMS for house tax bill||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation, will henceforth, serve house tax bills only through online platforms like WhatsApp, SMS and e-mail, instead of physically delivering them. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “At present, we are fighting Covid-19 in the state capital. Our staff is engaged in that and we cannot pull them out to deliver bills to 5.57 lakh houses in the city. So, I have directed zonal officers to send bills through SMS, WhatsApp or e-mail.” However, the LMC has phone numbers and e-details of around 3.40 lakh house owners and it has yet to collect such details from around 2.17 lakh house owners. In this case, LMC men will visit such houses to collect e-details of owners, said an official of the LMC IT cell.The officials said that the decision to send online bills will also save a lot of money spent in paper, printer, and manpower.Residents of all the eight zones can dial their zonal office or LMC office in case they want to register their mobile numbers, and email ids with the LMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/check-your-e-mail-sms-for-house-tax-bill/story-5sSyUAPMP9Oxkkv1FJL9ZP.html
07-05-2020||City||Will launch agitation if not allowed to operate mixed land use industries by May 17: Ludhiana traders||City-based industrialists on Thursday held a meeting and decided to agitate against the state and central governments if industry was not allowed to resume operations in mixed land use areas by May 17.Members of different associations, including the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) and Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) attended the meeting.“Around 40,000 units are situated in the mixed land use areas of the city and their owners are facing tremendous losses,” the attendees said. The traders said medium and large scale industries will not be able to survive for long if the small-scale units situated in mixed land use areas were not allowed to operate. Most of the component and part suppliers of medium and large industries operate in mixed land use areas.‘READY TO FOLLOW ALL GUIDELINES’ CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said the micro and small industry was ready to follow all guidelines issued by the government and administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-launch-agitation-if-not-allowed-to-operate-mixed-land-use-industries-by-may-17-ludhiana-traders/story-a03PqMxcDEHONQina2IZqM.html
07-05-2020||City||Thane sees spurt in Covid cases; tally touches 560||Covid-19 cases in Thane continued to rise exponentially on the third consecutive day with the city recording 64 new cases -- the highest one-day spike so far. Hotspot Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar alone recorded 35 positive cases, including that of a six-month-old baby, in the last 24 hours. One death was also reported in the city on Thursday.The total number of positive cases in the city is 560 with 21 deaths so far.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) said that 35 cases are of those who attended the funeral of a Lokmanyanagar resident, who tested positive on April 13 after he died.The 72 people who had attended his funeral had been quarantined. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “A 52-year-old man from Mumbra who was on dialysis died on Thursday. He went to Kalwa Hospital on May 4 for a dialysis when he was tested. He tested positive and died in his house in Mumbra.”Hanumant Jagdale, local corporator of Lokmanyanagar, said that most people from the funeral has tested negative. “The 35 cases are mostly from Kajuvadi, Vijaynagar, Ramchandranagar and Sambhaji Nagar which are part of Sawarkarnagar and not Lokmanyanagar. For over one and half months, there is no assistant municipal commissioner in this ward. It is essential to form a special ward-level committee of experts to prevent the spread of virus in this ward.”TMC also issued a circular about following safety protocol in hospitals for all deaths. Two bodies were released from Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa, Thane, without following any safety protocol, and both tested positive after death. Taking disciplinary action, TMC replaced the dean of the hospital. The circular by civic commissioner Vijay Singhal states, “It has come to my notice that a few days ago, Kalwa hospital handed over a man’s body to his relatives without following any safety protocol. This has put the relatives, friends and family of the deceased at risk of infection as the person tested positive later. It will now be mandatory to follow all safety protocol in case of any death in hospitals as. The body will be taken straight to funeral homes while it will be packed in a body bag. This will ensure that the people attending the funeral are not infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-sees-spurt-in-covid-cases-tally-touches-560/story-0VlBgdhMXZ5VBbbGlugyMP.html
07-05-2020||City||Desilting of Buddha Nullah delayed in Ludhiana||With monsoon only a couple of months away, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has yet to start desilting of Buddha Nullah. Desilting of the nullah is conducted every year, usually beginning April, to avoid flooding during the monsoon.When not desilted, nullah is unable to contain the water, which overflows at different points and enters houses of residents living in the stream’s periphery. Residents of New Kundanpuri and Upkar Nagar are affected almost every year, with clogging of internal drains. DRAINAGE DEPARTMENT NOT PAIDThe civic body assigns the desilting work to the drainage department, as it lacks dragline excavators, a machine required for the process. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the drainage department had asked MC to submit ₹80 lakh to begin the desilting exercise. “The payment has yet to be made. MC had allocated ₹2 crore for desilting of Buddha Nullah in the 2019-20 budget,” he said.However, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said, “The civic body had planned to purchase the necessary machinery to carry out desilting itself, but the process got delayed due to the lockdown. The drainage department submitted the estimate to do the job on Thursday. The payment will be made soon.”Ratan Singh, a resident of New Kundanpuri, said the nullah overflowed almost every year in the monsoon, pushing dirty water into multiple houses. Despite repeated requests to the MC, it delays desilting work every year, he claimed.“The factories along the nullah were closed when the lockdown was announced on March 24. The waste from these factories is not being discharged into the drain and the water level has also reduced. MC should make most of this situation and start the desilting exercise at the earliest. It also needs to strengthen the banks of the nullah before the rainy season to avoid flooding,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/desilting-of-buddha-nullah-delayed-in-ludhiana/story-0PinBsnAveftuBlq4g8OtL.html
07-05-2020||City||Two charged in London with Punjab-origin man’s murder||Scotland Yard on Thursday charged two people in connection with the murder of a London-based man, Baljit Singh, who was assaulted in Hayes on April 25.The two, Manpreet Singh, 20, and Jaspreet Singh, 24, are in custody in a west London police station. A post-mortem at the Fulham mortuary on April 27 gave the cause of Singh’s death as compression to the neck.Detective chief inspector Helen Rance, who is leading the investigation, said: “We have made two arrests in connection with this tragic incident and our investigation is still very much ongoing. I want to thank the public for their help so far and also renew my appeal for any information”.The police and the London Ambulance Service were called around 11 pm on April 25 to a report that an unresponsive man had been found in an alleyway at the location. He was pronounced dead at the scene and was identified as 37-year-old Singh, who lived locally.“Mr Singh was subjected to a vicious assault; the severity of which has caused him to lose his life…I would like to appeal directly to anyone who was in the vicinity of Station Road, Hayes from around 22.00 hrs onwards on Saturday night who may have seen the victim in company with two individuals”, Rance added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-charged-in-london-with-punjab-origin-man-s-murder/story-kmCBNsjpeQ93Vu5mRXUWMM.html
07-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 44 cases, almost near 500 mark||Just a day after it crossed the 400 mark of Covid positive cases, Navi Mumbai is nearing the 500 mark.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) recorded 44 cases on Thursday, taking the city’s tally to 484 cases. There are 107 containment zones in the city.NMMC has decided to convert the spacious CIDCO exhibition centre at Vashi into a designated Covid Care Centre with 1,200 beds. Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We have a Covid care centre at our multipurpose building at Sector 14 in Vashi and Indiabulls complex in Panvel for those with mild symptoms. But they are far from the city and so we have decided to use this facility.”On Thursday, two more Shramik express trains left from Panvel railway station for Bihar and Habibganj in Madhya Pradesh.Navi Mumbai police commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “One train left for Danapur in Bihar on Wednesday night and another train left for Habibganj with 1,200 passengers on Thursday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-44-cases-almost-near-500-mark/story-GMCaxe0KY0NU7jTYelGO2J.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 accomplices of Naikoo’saide nabbed in Amritsar||The Punjab Police have traced inter-state links of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riaz Ahmed Naikoo, with the arrest of two accomplices of his close associate Hilal Ahmed Wagay from Amritsar on Wednesday.In a statement, director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the duo was traced through investigations into the trail of Hizbul terrorist Hilal Ahmed Wagay, who was nabbed from Amritsar on April 25, where he had come to collect money on the instructions of Naikoo. They have been identified as Bikram Singh alias Vicky and Maninder Singh alias Mani, both residents of Guru Amardas Avenue in Amritsar. He said the Centre has directed National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over further investigations into the case to unravel the entire conspiracy.Naikoo was gunned down by security forces in South Kashmir on Wednesday. “When the duo was arrested, police also seized one kg heroin along with Rs 32 lakh from their possession, unveiling Pakistan-sponsored conspiracy to smuggle narcotics and weapons into the state,” the DGP said.The interrogation of the two accused further revealed that they along with their cousins, Ranjit Singh alias Cheetah, Iqbal Singh alias Shera and Sarwan Singh, were dealing in drugs and weapons s​muggled from across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-accomplices-of-naikoo-saide-nabbed-in-amritsar/story-s2aa7ZuCsaPeawR2ku5LqN.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Record jump in Covid cases in Delhi, tally nears 6k||With a record 448 new cases reported in a day, the total count of Covid cases in Delhi reached 5,980 on Thursday, the Health Department said.This is the highest jump in the cases reported in a day in the city.With one coronavirus death reported in the last 24 hours, the toll reached 66, it said.A total of 389 patients recovered on Thursday, according to the Delhi Health Bulletin.“At least 1,931 patients have recovered from coronavirus so far in Delhi while 3,983 cases are active,” the Health Department said.Among the 65 who died, 57 had other serious diseases.So far, 77,234 tests have been conducted in Delhi.On May 3, 427 new cases were reported in a day while on Wednesday, 428 cases were reported in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/record-jump-in-covid-cases-in-delhi-tally-nears-6k/story-cCWpocdOyhyUzJh4i9BXYO.html
07-05-2020||City||Ludhiana cremation ground firing: Son, grandson of former market committee chairman booked for murder bid||A day after a brawl at the cremation of former chairman of market committee Hardeep Singh, the Salem Tabri police booked his son and grandson for murder bid on two persons on Thursday.The case has been registered on the statement of Sushma Grewal, who had claimed to be the wife of the deceased. Sushma’s 21-year-old son and Kiranjeet Kaur, a local Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader, who had come to attend the cremation, had suffered bullet injuries in the firing at the cremation ground at Qadian village, Salem Tabri, on Wednesday evening.In her complaint, Sushma said Hardeep and she were married and they had a son.“A day before the lockdown was imposed, Hardeep visited us and suffered a cardiac arrest. We took him to a hospital, where he died on Wednesday. While we were performing his last rites on Thursday, Gagandeep Singh, Hardeep’s son from first marriage, along with his son Nekveer Singh, turned up at the cremation ground to claim the body,” she said.She added that when she resisted, Gagandeep and Nekveer opened fire at them.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Gurbinder Singh said an attempt to murder case had been registered and efforts were on to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cremation-ground-firing-son-grandson-of-former-market-committee-chairman-booked-for-murder-bid/story-Y5ejNnT1LktIeVJJOxkhoI.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||692 new coronavirus cases take Mumbai tally to 11,219||With 692 new coronavirus cases recorded in Mumbai, the tally jumped to 11,219 on Thursday, while 25 fresh deaths took the toll to 437, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.According to a BMC release, 538 new suspected patients of coronavirus were admitted in various hospitals of the city.Also, 148 recovered patients were discharged from hospitals, it said.The BMC said out of the 692 news cases recorded in the city, samples of 170 were tested at various private labs between May 2-5.According to the civic body, with the discharge of 148 patients on Thursday, the number of such people increased to 2,435.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/692-new-coronavirus-cases-take-mumbai-tally-to-11-219/story-SHPZh3AP1hxmpukwMbd44L.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||No takers for UT plan for mild Covid-19 cases to self-isolate at home||The Chandigarh administration rules based on Union health ministry guidelines allowing Covid-19 positive patients to self-isolate at home has no takers, health officials have said.According to the ministry’s guidelines patients with mild or pre-symptomatic cases with adequate facilities at home can self-isolate there whereas earlier rules recommended hospitalisation for mild, moderate and severe cases at dedicated Covid-19 centres.The lack of response, however, is not surprising considering that the maximum number of cases are being reported from the congested Bapu Dham Colony where home isolation of patients is almost impossible, even though UT authorities had identified a few patients from other areas that could do so.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said on Thursday that around five candidates seemed eligible for the new guidelines, “but they have not shown any interest.”The conditions for isolation of patients include monitoring their health and keeping the district surveillance officer updated on their health status for further follow-up by the surveillance teams.Patients also have to fulfill an undertaking for self-isolation.The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has more than 100 Covid-19 patients and their numbers are increasing quickly, though 80% have mild symptoms.The UT administration has in the meantime decided to activate two of its Covid care centres: One for high risk contacts from Bapu Dham Colony under institutional quarantine at the Sector 47 Community Centre facility and the other for new mild or asymptomatic cases at the Ayurvedic College in Sector 46.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-takers-for-ut-plan-for-mild-covid-19-cases-to-self-isolate-at-home/story-sTq3c6Tjt27VErr6veeTKK.html
07-05-2020||City||Two infants die under suspicious circumstances in Sangrur||Two infants of Gujran village near Dirba died under suspicious circumstances on Wednesday night. Families of the kids said that they were administrated a polio vaccination on April 28 after which they were unwell. They were taken to a hospital in Sangrur, which referred them to Patiala.The deceased were identified as four-and-a-half-month-old Onkar Singh and one-and-a-half-month-old Manraj Kaur.Bikkar Singh, father of Onkar, said that his son was not well since he was administrated the polio vaccine.Dr Tejinder Singh, senior medical officer at CHC Kohrian, said that the infants were suffering from fever and vomiting. “A considerable time had passed since the vaccination, however, we will probe the matter as per directions of the higher officials,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-infants-die-under-suspicious-circumstances-in-sangrur/story-4QWdKqMmGDXLyGGoWN9LhO.html
07-05-2020||City||Delhi govt school teacher issued notice over ‘politically motivated’ social media post||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) has issued a show cause notice to a faculty member working at one of its schools in Dhaka colony in Mukherjee Nagar for allegedly posting “politically motivated” posts on social media platforms. The move has created an uproar among government teachers, with the association of teachers attached with the DoE on Thursday demanding an immediate withdrawal of the notice.According to the notice dated May 5, the teacher allegedly posted various “politically motivated” articles, clips and comments on social media platforms against the Delhi government’s initiatives such as Mohalla Clinic, Mission Buniyad, free ration distribution (amid the national lockdown), relaxation in lockdown norms and opening of liquor shops. “Criticism of politics of the government on public platforms and passing derogatory remarks is unbecoming of a government servant,” the notice read.The teacher has been asked to furnish an explanation to the department within five days.Terming it a way to “oppress” teachers, the government schools teachers’ association on Thursday wrote to the principal secretary of the DoE, saying, “This show cause notice is nothing but a decisively planned step of concerned officials to oppress, incite fear and insult the teaching community. The show cause notice must be immediately repealed.”Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of the association, said the notice will set a wrong example. “Teachers should be judged on the basis of their work and not their social media posts. We will oppose this move.”Officials in the DoE said the notice was issued after necessary deliberation. “No one should create panic among the people by unnecessarily criticising the government in times like these. We have sought a response from the teacher on it,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-school-teacher-issued-notice-over-politically-motivated-social-media-post/story-4Sd2V0Ps7KnYBw5XS3A2ZP.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 patient escapes from RML, caught in CP||An 18-year-old coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient escaped from RML Hospital on Thursday evening and managed to reach Connaught Place before the hospital’s security team and the police restrained him and took him back to his ward, the police said.According to Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), the initial information revealed that the escaped man belonged to Ghaziabad and had been admitted to RML Hospital after testing positive while staying at a relative’s place in Delhi.“Around 5pm, we received a PCR call from the hospital that a patient had escaped. When the hospital authorities got to know, they followed him till Connaught Place,” the DCP said.The man was finally cornered near Shivaji Stadium. “He resisted the hospital staff’s attempts to catch him, but they were finally able to send him back via an ambulance that they had brought along,” another police officer said.While the man was caught by the hospital staff, the police stood around to ensure he didn’t infect others and that curious onlookers didn’t approach him.The hospital authorities couldn’t immediately comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-patient-escapes-from-rml-caught-in-cp/story-Eyy6rrQzTJgFRP5CQI6yNN.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Woman kills husband, tries to pass death off as due to Covid; arrested||A 35-year-old woman allegedly killed her husband with the help of her friend in northwest Delhi’s Ashok Vihar on May 1. She then reportedly tried to pass the death off as having been caused by Covid-19, police said. However, no medical records, the suspicion of neighbours and the final autopsy report of the man nailed the woman and her accomplice, who confessed to the murder on Monday and were arrested, senior police officials said. Police identified the victim as Sharat Das, a 45-year-old shopkeeper, who was married to Anita Das, 35. The couple hail from Odisha and has two children, who live with Anita’s relatives in Noida. The woman’s friend, who allegedly helped her kill Sharat, was identified as Sanjay, 32, police said.According to the police, the incident came to light when one of the neighbours called up the control room on May 2 and reported about a man’s suspicious death. The caller said that while interacting with the deceased’s wife, they found that something was suspicious because the woman had mentioned to them that her husband possibly died of Covid-19, but none of them had seen the man unwell or visiting any hospital. On this, a police team reached the couple’s house to enquire about the death, officials said.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said during preliminary enquiry, the woman was asked to present her husband’s medical history related to Covid-19 or any other disease that may have caused his death, but she couldn’t. When cross-questioned, she claimed that she had found her husband dead in the morning but couldn’t give any satisfactory reasons as to how or why. When we asked if her man had particularly shown symptoms of Covid, she answered in the negative, the DCP said.“On this, the man’s body was removed from the house and was taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital for a post-mortem. The woman and her two children were asked to stay indoors until the autopsy reports were out,” Arya said.The DCP said, on May 4, the autopsy report of the man came and the cause of death was revealed as “asphyxia, ante mortem smothering”.“On this, we registered a case of murder and Anita was detained from her house. When she was interrogated thoroughly, she kept repeating that she wasn’t aware how her husband died. However, when she was confronted with facts, like why did she not take him to a hospital or why wasn’t he under any medication, she broke down and confessed that she had killed him,” Arya said.The DCP said, Anita told police that she is in an extramarital relationship with one Sanjay, who also lives in the same locality. “She said, some months ago, Sharat came to know about her extramarital relationship and they often used to fight over it. She said she told Sanjay to get rid of Sharat and they planned to eliminate him during the pandemic to avoid suspicion. On the night of May 1, when Sharat was asleep Anita called Sanjay and they smothered the man using a blanket,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-kills-husband-tries-to-pass-death-off-as-due-to-covid-arrested/story-qD10PBkUhICmbsvDU3dUQN.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia to hold exams for final-year students offline in July||The administration of Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday announced it would conduct the examination for final-year students in the pen-paper mode in July. The announcement follows the University Grants Commission’s recommendations for continuing academic processes during Covid-19 pandemic.Decisions were taken over examinations, admissions and entrance tests during the university administration’s first online meet of the academic council, chaired by vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar on Wednesday“Examination for only final semester or final-year students will be held offline between July 1 and 31. We have asked the students to submit online examination forms as early as possible,” said media coordinator Ahmad Azeem. The university has around 18,000 undergraduate and postgraduate students, of whom around 7,700 are in the final year or semester.Azeem said others will undergo an online internal assessment, in view of mandatory social distancing. “We will finalise the final protocols in the coming days as per the government guidelines,” he said.The varsity also decided to hold the online classes till May 31, instead of wrapping up by April 30 as scheduled earlier, to mitigate academic loss. Date of submission of assignments, which will be used for evaluation of students who are not in their final year, has been extended up to June 5. Teachers have been asked to evaluate these assignments and upload marks on the university website by June 15.During the four-hour-long meeting on Wednesday, the administration also decided on reducing the summer vacation to 15 days. “Summer vacations will take place from June 15 to June 30,” Azeem said, adding that classes for regular students would begin on August 1.The deadline for online registration for admissions has been extended till May 31. The entrance tests for these courses will be carried out in August. Earlier, vice-chancellor Akhtar had told HT that the university may set up fewer examination centres across the country or none at all, keeping the Covid-19 limitations in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-millia-islamia-to-hold-exams-for-final-year-students-offline-in-july/story-kUdLfvzoIhLF54779hcUNL.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Adjoining hotspot Bapu Dham, residents of Sec 26E decry shortage of supplies||With 76 coronavirus cases, Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 has become the worst affected pocket in Chandigarh and has been cordoned off, with Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel patrolling the perimeter. However, the adjoining Sector 26E has found itself in the midst of problems, with area residents complaining that they have been unable to get essentials supplies for many days now as all supplies are being diverted towards the colony.Highlighting this, general secretary of the residential welfare society (RWS) of the EWS houses here, Sanjeev Shukla ,said, “There have been no positive case in our neighbourhood, yet it has also been sealed. We have no markets within our sector and we only depend on the buses of essential supplies that the administration sends us. Right now the colony is their priority, so all buses are sent there and we have to make do with leftovers. Many times, we don’t get any supplies at all. It is very frustrating for us to see buses full of fresh vegetables going towards the colony every day, and yet we can’t purchase any.”Vice-president of the RWS, Mukesh Chaudhary, added that the administration needs to provide a separate passage for residents of Sector 26-E as currently all their entry and exit points are through the colony. “We just want amenities. If the authorities can’t provide them to us, then they should at least let us go to a market nearby and purchase essentials for ourselves,” he said. The RWS through Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) had submitted a representation to deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, but they alleged that the situation didn’t improve at all. FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said, “The residents are ready to stay inside their houses for the best interests of the city, but they need food to eat. The ATM service here has also not been regular, and the administration needs to make sure that they are provided with essentials daily.”Claiming to have not received any such complaint, local area councillor, Dalip Singh, who also lives in the colony, said, “Our focus right now is to keep the morale of the colony high, so most supplies have been heading there first. I will ensure that buses with supplies are also sent to the adjoining locality of Sector 26E.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/adjoining-hotspot-bapu-dham-residents-of-sec-26e-decry-shortage-of-supplies/story-UnIIzhAYV8T38ASO5I7isJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Door-to-door survey in Panchkula for Covid-19-related help, beneficiary schemes||The Panchkula administration is carrying out a survey in the district to prepare family identity cards for which around 411 teams have been deployed. Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the teams, with three members each, are carrying out door-to-door survey work.“So far, around 60,935 families of the district have been surveyed for ID cards. Work is still underway and will soon be completed,” the DC said. He said Anganwadi workers, Asha workers and teachers have been deployed in these teams, which are going house-to-house collecting information that will be used for Covid-19 related help, Ahuja said.“On the basis of figures obtained in the survey, new public welfare schemes will be implemented and other benefits will also be made available,” he added. Officials said teams are collecting data using cellphones and digital tablets. In an appeal to the residents, the DC has urged them to give correct information in the survey, and to assist employees engaged in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/door-to-door-survey-in-panchkula-for-covid-19-related-help-beneficiary-schemes/story-Dtqr8ZdTuomf1xrm2p62TO.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Fire at factory near Nashik in Maharashtra||A fire broke out at a pharmaceutical packaging factory near Nashik city in Maharashtra on Thursday evening, an official said.The fire started at the factory located in Satpur area around 7 pm, a police official said.There was no report of anyone getting injured, he added.The fire was doused after one hour, he said, adding that the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-at-factory-near-nashik-in-maharashtra/story-8u0tUnPw6YSjzc8VsXluRK.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fleet of buses to evacuate JK students, labourers from Chandigarh||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sent a fleet buses to evacuate hundreds of students and labourers who are stranded in Chandigarh amid the nationwide lockdown. Around 25 buses are expected to arrive in Chandigarh on Thursday night. Manager at JK house in Chandigarh, Dr Inderjot Singh, who is also the liaison officer for students in the region, said, “At least 25 buses have been sent by J&K administration to Chandigarh to bring home labourers and students who are stranded in Chandigarh and its adjacent areas. The buses are to reach Sector 43 by Thursday night and will leave on Friday for J&K.”“The buses will leave with a two–hours gap during the day. We have informed authorities in Lakhanpur,” Singh said.Meanwhile, on Thursday, around 117 JK students were sent home in four buses from Mohali and Zirakpur.“There are many patients here, too, from J&K and we are providing them special passes and vehicles to reach home,” said Inderjot Singh.According to information provided by the liaison officer, there are more than 200 students in Chandigarh and its vicinity, and more than 700 labourers from Jammu and Kashmir in the city, with most of them in Manimajra and Sector 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fleet-of-buses-to-evacuate-jk-students-labourers-from-chandigarh/story-diI0EObBioSMTx6ElSi6vL.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Young Covid-19 warriors in Chandigarh undaunted by infection risks, skin lesions, dehydration||Chandigarh: They’re not just battling to save lives or avoiding infections, frontline warriors at hospitals with dedicated Covid-19 centres also have to tackle blisters, intense heat and other discomforts associated with personal protective equipment (PPE) .“Yes, there are challenges,” admits 23-year-old Pallavi Sandhu, one of the youngest nursing officers at the Covid-19 hospital at Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).“I joined the institute early this year and did not expect to be dealing with a pandemic at the frontline so soon. However, now, every six hours or so, we have to be with Covid-19 patients in the intensive care unit, checking vitals, assisting the doctors with the examinations and procedures, sweating all the while as the central air conditioning system remains switched off to prevent the infection from spreading,” she says.Most of the health workers at the Covid-19 centre have to wear PPEs for seven to eight hours straight. Donning and doffing the protective suit also takes time.“For a few minutes you lose sensation after you take off the PPE. Your feet swell up, you feel dehydrated. The protective eyewear causes blisters and marks on the forehead,” Sandhu adds.Face shields fog up, says Monu Mariya Jose, a 26-year-old nursing officer. “After 10 to 15 minutes you cannot see anything. And you don’t have the liberty of cleaning it as it is fixed and you cannot use your hands to touch your face.”Many healthcare workers wear adult diapers as the PPE kits cannot be removed during duty hours, and controlling bladder pressure can be difficult, Jose adds.However, even as the youth brigade enthusiastically goes about its duties, seniors keep a close eye on them to make sure they are following the guidelines and protocols.Shinder Pal Kaur Lidhar, a senior nursing officer at the Covid-19 hospital, says “We keep checking whether the PPEs have been worn properly, negating any chance of infection. We too are at the risk, but seeing the young people at the forefront gives you a shot of energy,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/young-covid-19-warriors-in-chandigarh-undaunted-by-infection-risks-skin-lesions-dehydration/story-eqhDgUhED3lreabkgjbiPI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Heckled by police, residents of southern Chandigarh sectors cry foul over movement curbs||Residents living on the southern periphery of the city, including sectors 55 and 61, are annoyed by the apathy of the Chandigarh administration, alleging they are not being allowed to drive into the city even after curbs were lifted from Monday onward.Speaking on this, Vinit Chauhan, president of Sector 61 resident welfare association (RWA), said, “We used to go to the city via the inner road of Sector 52, which has now been blocked. We have to go from YPS Chowk side which connects with Mohali, where policemen stop us saying we cannot use the road without a movement pass. The administration’s step-motherly treatment towards southern sectors is unwarranted.” He also said he had written to UT adviser Manoj Parida asking him to resolve this issue.A resident of Sector 61, Colonel (retd) Jaspal Anand said the administration had turned a blind eye towards the southern sectors. “We had asked for the liquor vend here to be closed as this is a small sector and unruly people gather here. But the vendor’s licence was again renewed recently. Officials are not ready to listen to us.”Residents of Sector 55 are also facing the same issue. An employee of Punjab National Bank who lives in Chandigarh housing board society here, on the condition of anonymity, said that bank employees living there had been facing trouble from Monday onward. “There are two entrances to the complex. The Chandigarh side was blocked while the other entrance opens towards Mohali, which didn’t allow us to go to Chandigarh. After we wrote to the UT adviser the barricades were removed and we finally went to office on Thursday,” the resident said.Police officials said that all vehicles coming from the Mohali side passing through the roads from here are being checked, but those with residence proof were allowed to pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heckled-by-police-residents-of-southern-chandigarh-sectors-cry-foul-over-movement-curbs/story-1wtiMZ4Bobh7oGHv1n2aiP.html
07-05-2020||City||Kalyan records highest single-day spike with 20 new cases||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) saw the highest single-day spike of Covid cases on Thursday, with 20 new patients. The total number of cases is 253.Two days ago, 18 new cases had marked the highest 24-hour spike in KDMC.“Among the new cases is a two-month-old girl,” said an official from KDMC health department.KDMC health department said out of the 20 new cases, 10 travel to Mumbai for work every day.Out of the 253 cases, 87 are those working for essential services such as the police, healthcare and bank and travel to Mumbai daily.Three police personnel, one civic employee, a health department staffer and an employee of a civic hospital are among Thursday’s cases.A 32-year-food delivery boy, who works in Mumbai and lives in Kalyan (East), has also tested positive. “He has not been going to work for more than two weeks as he self-quarantined himself after his housing society members objected his travel to Mumbai every day. Recently, he was tested and he tested positive,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-20-new-cases/story-CKY3s93ld41qUzpAM2REpN.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Procedures take time, no need to politicise: Tope||After the video showing dead bodies of Covid-19 victims lying in a ward at Sion hospital went viral on social media, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that he has instructed authorities to remove bodies under 30 minutes. He, however, stated that medico-legal procedures take time.“Some videos are circulated and attempts are made to politicise them. When a person dies, he or she, as per the protocol, is wrapped in black plastic to prevent chance of infection. This takes time. Their relatives are also apprehensive; they, at times, take time to reach the hospital,” he said.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis condemned the “inhuman treatment”. “Sion hospital incident is extremely serious and (sic) shocking. Patients, who are being treated are lying besides dead bodies. This is utterly inhuman. Is there no one to take care of Mumbai ? The government must immediately look into this and ensure this doesn’t happen again,’’ he tweeted .BJP leader Ashish Shelar tweeted: “Has the BMC and state government lost all its sensitivity ? Is this the pattern that you will take to the world? CM, guardian minister seem to be making a mockery of poor patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tope-no-need-to-politicise-issue/story-ebCPLK3tIOKqNtPDQ3LBHI.html
07-05-2020||City||To pedal home, 18 migrants in Mohali sell phones to buy cycles||Desperate to reach home, a group of 18 migrants, all construction labourers living in Sohana, sold their cellphones to buy bicycles in order to pedal home to Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh.Their stories were similar, about misery, hunger, poverty and being ditched by the employers in time of need.Ram Niwas, a migrant part of the group of 18, said, “Left with little money and ration, we decided to go back home. No one is stopping people on cycles, so we all sold our cellphones and bought cycles. Once we reach home we can buy new phones.”For last two years, these migrants had been working at a construction site in Sohana, but were rendered jobless when Punjab imposed the curfew to check spread of the epidemic.“The last 40 days have been a nightmare,” said Mangal, with the group from Sohana village. Riding cycles that cost them ₹4,200 each, they began the journey back home on Wednesday night.Apart from their belongings, their backpacks contain ration and a small cylinder, enough to last them over the 359 kms they will be covering.Although the rising temperature is a cause of worry, they have a plan to beat the heat. “We will cycle mostly at night and take a break when the Sun is at its peak,” said Vicky, who has memorised the names of all important towns they will be crossing on their way, to ensure they do not get lost. He has drawn a rough map of the route back home with the help of the internet.Determined not to return, Ghanshyam said, “There are many factories in UP, too, so we will get jobs. We had come to Mohali for work, but in the last few days it dawned on us that family is far more important.” Ram Niwas added that when the curfew was imposed, their contractor disowned them. “He stopped taking our calls. We survived only because we had each other. We shared whatever little resources we had among the group,” said Niwas.Asked why they did not choose to register online for the Shramik special trains ferrying migrants who wished to go back home, the group said that not everyone who is getting registered is allowed to go back. “We did not want that any of us be left behind. We have been together in this difficult time and together we will reach home safe,” came the reply in a chorus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-pedal-home-18-migrants-in-mohali-sell-phones-to-buy-cycles/story-nP4gniTyY2wAMQNH8XoAgL.html
07-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: With migrants returning home, Ludhiana schools fear dwindling class strength||With lakhs of migrant labourers choosing to return to their home states from Ludhiana, schools located in the district have another reason to worry amid the coronavirus lockdown — the decreasing class strength.Principals of various government and private institutions are receiving calls from parents for school leaving certificates.Over 5 lakh migrants working in Ludhiana have registered on the Punjab helpline portal to return home.As per sources, majority of students at the government and private schools in Giaspura, Dhandari Kalan, Dhandari Khurd, Sherpur Kalan, Lohara, Shimlapuri, Jamalpur and Mundian Kalan belong to migrant families. Headmaster of Government High School, Sherpur Kalan, Lakhvir Singh said, “Of the 1,010 students in Classes 6-10, 90% come from migrant families hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand. I am receiving many calls from students informing that they are going back to their home towns. This is worrying, as it will bring down our enrolment.”“Most of the 1,056 students in Classes 6-12 at our schools are from other states. So far, 12 students from Bihar have informed me about their return and they are not sure when they will come back to Ludhiana,” said Ujjalvir Singh, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Dhandari Khurd.Satish Kumar, who works at a factory, said he and his family will be travelling to Uttar Pradesh on Friday. “Due to depleting finances, we have decided to return home. My family will die of hunger here. My children study in Government School, Sherpur Kalan, and I have informed their teachers about them leaving,” he said.Durga Rani, a domestic help who hails from Gaya in Bihar, said they were a family of six. “Earlier, my three children got mid-day meal from school, but it stopped with closure of schools. Now, I have no money to buy ration and prepare meals for my family, so we have decided to return to Bihar,” she said.Head teacher of Government Primary School, Giaspura, Nisha Rani, said, “We have a strength of 2,675 students. As of now, no parent has informed me of their ward leaving. We will get clarity once the school reopens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-with-migrants-returning-home-ludhiana-schools-fear-dwindling-class-strength/story-sNzlI8ecK7R0FBZOp9FLvI.html
07-05-2020||City||UP migrants board train home for ‘3 regular meals’||For 1,288 migrants, it was a route to freedom from hunger and helplessness, on Thursday, as the first special train ferrying migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh chugged off from Mohali railway station.The workers who left for home in Hardoi, UP, were relieved their torment in the city had ended. They said they were living in wretched conditions, with no food, little water and empty pockets, as their employers had stopped paying them salaries. Saying they were unlikely to return soon, as they would at least get “three daily meals at home”.The 24-coach non-stop train ferrying these 1288 migrants home left Mohali railway station at 10 am and will have no intermittent stoppage before Hardoi.There are around 6,000 migrant workers from Hardoi, who are working in Mohali.On of the migrants Mohammad Tayyab, 32, said that over one month, they struggled to get three meals a day. “Our employer did not give us any money, so we had to borrow which has left us in debt.” When asked about what work would they do when they get back home, he said he didn’t know but would atleast eat three times a day. About returning, he said, “It will take at least three months for me return back.”Another migrant worker said they were ‘living in hell’ for the past 40 days. “we were finding it really difficult to make both ends meet. We thought that if we didn’t die of the virus, we would surely die of hunger. Our employer gave us no money so we borrowed from here and there,” said Naresh Kumar, 30.A domestic worker from Hardoi, Seema, 32, said, “At least we have house in UP. For two months we sat idle without work. Whatever we ate came from NGO’s and other organisations. Now, I don’t feel like coming back.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, who was also present at the railway station, said that the workers had been thoroughly screened at the designated collection centres before they boarded the train. However, only 65% of those who had registered on the government portal turned up for departure.“It is a good omen,” said the DC, adding, “People deciding to stay on is an indication that we are tip-toeing towards normalcy. Permission to resume labour intensive construction work and industrial operations has provided an opportunity to earn money and will check mass exodus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-migrants-board-train-home-for-3-regular-meals/story-5E6OdXqVxukFcslQvwcNfI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Experts foresee acute labour shortage in post-lockdown Chandigarh||As more migrant workers in the city are queuing up to move back to their home states, the local industry and businesses foresee acute labour shortages in the coming months.With only partial reopening of private offices and industry in the city, the demand for workers is low for now, but severe shortages can be expected of semi-skilled and unskilled workers when businesses finally pick up, say experts.After the UT administration revoked the 41-day curfew on May 4, the shops were allowed to open based on the odd-even formula. A maximum of 33% staff was allowed to resume work in private sector offices. Industrial activity, too, resumed operations as per the guidelines of the Union home ministry on May 1.SO FAR, SO GOODCharanjiv Singh, chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “Only 30% of total shops in the city are open on any given day. The buyer footfall is still relatively low and there are concerns about personal safety. Consequently, the demand for migrant workforce is low for now.”In the city’s industrial areas, too, manufacturing activity is yet to pick up, but labour issues have already started to crop up. “Around 25% of the labour is turning up in factories. And 30% of the total workforce is headed home. Another 20% who used to come from Panchkula and Mohali districts are stuck in containment zones,” said Siddharth Gupta of the Industrial Association of Chandigarh.After remaining shut for 45 days, industrial units are opening up with stock-taking, maintenance activity, cleaning and sanitisation, rather than manufacturing. Many segments, like screw manufacturing where adhering strictly to social distancing norms is difficult owing to the nature of the machinery operation and setup, are yet to open.MAJOR CRUNCH PREDICTED“Ancillary units with large manufacturing orders with strict deadlines and export-oriented industries have most to lose in the coming days as the pressure to deliver products will step up,” said Harjit Singh, general secretary of the Furniture Market, Chandigarh.As for the smaller units, while labour crunch will not be a major problem, a paucity of skilled craftsmen will be. “In the furniture manufacturing units, work orders can be managed with a small workforce. Overtime or work on holidays can be opted for. But a lack of skilled workers like polishers or designers is posing a problem already. With no work coming in, many of them left early. If the business activity does not pick up quickly, most will leave in the coming days and months,” added Singh.In addition to fears of reverse migration among labour, businesses are also complaining of labour shortages because of cross-border restrictions within the tricity. “Nearly 30% of the workers in the city reside in cheaper locations like Zirakpur, Naygaon in Mohali and Panchkula villages. Because of the restrictions, the labour movement has been severely impeded. If not sorted soon, it will cause major problems for the industry,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/experts-foresee-acute-labour-shortage-in-post-lockdown-chandigarh/story-itwMQqlPlBT1UwWOYNarVM.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||13 new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, city tally reaches 117||A total of 13 more cases of coronavirus have been reported in Gurugram, taking the city count to 117.Out of the 117 cases, 66 are active cases and 51 got cured of the infection, Chief Medical Officer JS Punia said on Thursday.According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the number of infections in Haryana has reached 594, including 7 fatalities.Meanwhile, the count of the country’s coronavirus cases reached 52952.According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health: 1,783 people have died from the deadly contagion across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/13-new-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-city-tally-reaches-117/story-cfAvhgFkDpihspRMePR5MK.html
07-05-2020||Noida||9 arrested, 203 vehicles challaned for defying lockdown in Noida||Nine people were arrested and challans issued to owners of over 200 vehicles across Noida and Greater Noida on Thursday for allegedly defying curbs imposed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, police said.Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) section 144 is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar which falls in the ‘Red Zone’ for Covid-19, even as lockdown restrictions continue due to the pandemic which prohibit normal movement in this district in western UP adjoining Delhi.“Five FIRs were registered on Thursday for lockdown violations and nine people arrested. A total of 709 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 203 of them, while another six were impounded,” the police said in a statement.The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said.The district administration has already banned movement between Noida and Delhi except for ambulances, doctors, media, and those directly involved in Covid-19 services.The Gautam Buddh Nagar police has extended till May 17 the restrictions imposed under CrPC Section 144 covering the duration of the countrywide lockdown as announced by the central government.All public events, including religious or political congregations, cultural or sports meet and protest marches and processions will remain banned till May 17 and action will be taken against violators under IPC section 188, officials warned.As of Thursday, 202 positive cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the district while 109 patients have recovered and got discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/9-arrested-203-vehicles-challaned-for-defying-lockdown-in-noida/story-GMMRANIXFxNUzINeknjb7J.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers cross 18,000, infection spreads to Arthur Road jail||Maharashtra recorded 1,362 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s tally to 18,120, the state’s health minister Rajesh Tope said.To cut down risks of more infections because of crowding, the government also decided to waive medical certificates for migrant workers heading home.“We have decided that migrant labourers who want to go to their native places need not procure medical certificates from now onward. Only thermal checking will be done. This decision was taken to avoid big queues outside doctors’ clinics,” Tope said according to ANI.A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said 50 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Dharavi which has emerged as a hotspot. The new cases have taken Dharavi’s tally to 783.As the pandemic continued to spread in Mumbai with 72 inmates and 7 staff members in the high security Arthur Road prison testing positive for Covid-19 . All inmates who have tested positive will be shifted to GT Hospital and Saint George Hospital Friday morning while staff members will be shifted separately, Maharashtra jail authorities said.The state government has turned the CIDCO Exhibition Centre in Vashi in Navi Mumbai into Isolation wards for Covid-19.Earlier Thursday, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh said that around 250 policemen from the city police have tested positive for the virus so far.The Maharashtra Police department has recorded 531 cases of Covid-19 including the 250 cases from Mumbai police. Thirty nine have recovered while five have died of the infection. Three of the casualties were of the Mumbai Police.The Mumbai police chief visited the Sir JJ Marg police station which has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the city with 27 policemen testing positive.Other police stations like Dharavi, Wadala and Vakola are among the worst hit police stations across 94 police stations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-cross-18-000-infection-spreads-to-arthur-road-jail/story-FsX8lvynuKg1XxdWpfLg3N.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, register online on Mohali district’s bureau of employment and entrepreneurship||The youth of Mohali district can now register on the portal of district bureau of employment and entrepreneurship (DBEE) at www.pgrkam.com.Additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain said registering would help the youth take advantage of various initiatives on career counselling and employment avenues provided by the bureau. This will help the youth channelise their energy in a positive direction, Jain said. Deputy CEO of DBEE, Manjesh Sharma, exhorted people to get themselves registered. He said the bureau has started online career counselling under which people can contact career counsellor of the bureau, Nabia Khan, from 9 am to 5 pm on Monday to Saturday at 6280554158.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-register-online-on-mohali-district-s-bureau-of-employment-and-entrepreneurship/story-w37VtbnjK1J9ztdE7doF6N.html
07-05-2020||Education||Final decision on Maharashtra university exams to be announced on Friday: Minister Uday Samant||Calming nerves of lakhs of students, the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Thursday evening tweeted that a final decision on the status of university examinations will be announced on Friday, at 1pm.This statement comes almost a month after Samant formed an expert committee including vice chancellors of state universities, directors of state common entrance test (CET) cell and Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) as well as other experts, to come up with a concrete plan for the current and next academic year.“A committee of vice chancellors presented their report to the government today. The same was discussed with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the examination dates for higher and technical education will be declared on Friday at 1pm,” said a statement by Samant.Last month, Uday Samant conducted virtual interactions with heads of all state universities as well as the directors of DTE and CET Cell along with the state principal secretary, urging all to come up with constructive steps to conduct exams for the current academic year as well as structure the 2020-21 academic year. An expert committee was formed in order to file a report on the same.“Before any plans are drawn or executed, the state government first needs to temporarily tweak statutes of the Maharashtra State Public Universities Act, 2015, so that the changes are applicable to the entire 2020-21 batch and are discontinued thereafter. State government needs to pass a temporary ordinance in this matter,” said T A Shiware, chairman of the Mumbai Association of Non Government Colleges. According to the association, state higher education institutes can not start their next academic year before September-October 2020. “If the lockdown is lifted by May-end, colleges still have the month of June to conduct exams and announce results in the same month while the university can conduct final year exams in July and ensure results are out by August. Online exams will not be feasible for several students studying in the rural parts of the state,” highlights a letter sent by the association to the heads of state education department as well as minister of state.In case the current lockdown situation is extended till June 30, the association suggests that all students be promoted based on their performance in the previous semester. “Several state governments are preparing plans but we suggest that Maharashtra take into consideration the decision of the University Grants Commission (UGC) before taking a final call,” added Shiware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/final-decision-on-maharashtra-university-exams-to-be-announced-on-friday-minister-uday-samant/story-Id0ZUpr53tc4jtLluI83BK.html
07-05-2020||City||African swine fever in Assam: GADVASU cautions pig farmers in Punjab||Scientists at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana,have expressed concern over the first instance of African Swine Fever (ASF) in the country in Assam where the disease has killed around 2,900 pigs.Expressing that the disease can cause heavy losses to pig farmers due to its high mortality rate, they have advised farmers to exercise caution.HK Verma, director of extension education at GADVASU, said no vaccine was available against ASF, which was spread by live or dead pigs. “ASF symptoms include high fever, diarrhoea, vomiting, lethargy, and internal bleeding with red patches on the pig’s skin,” Verma said. Amit Sharma, assistant professor of livestock production and management, said farmers should keep a check on the entry of wild pigs in their farms. “The main entrances of farms must remain closed at all times. All boundary walls must be constructed high enough so that stray animals may not climb inside the farms. Pigsties must be thoroughly cleaned daily with a disinfectant or hot water. Utensils which are used to serve food to sick pigs should not be used to serve food to healthy pigs,” Sharma said.He added, “Use ectoparasiticides to control ticks in pigs. Deworming of the animals must be done. Quarantine the newly-purchased animals for 20 days before their introduction in the herd.”Dr Vishal Mahajan of Animal Disease Research Centre said vaccination of all animals must be conducted for Swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease (FMD).“No kitchen waste should be fed to the pigs. Workers at farms must also take precautions against Covid-19, which include maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands regularly,” Mahajan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/african-swine-fever-in-assam-gadvasu-cautions-pig-farmers-in-punjab/story-HVXOleqB52RYeKR8WI2f4N.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||17-year-old booked for raping two-year-old||Chandigarh Police apprehended a 17-year-old boy on Monday for allegedly raping a two-year-old toddler when she was sitting inside a three-wheeler near her house in Sector 25.Police said the accused is a neighbour of the victim. “The boy was caught red-handed by the child’s mother. She then called the police and filed a formal complaint,” police said.A case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused who has been sent to a juvenile home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-year-old-booked-for-raping-two-year-old/story-C8PCid92Bo5PZcV2DhLHWM.html
07-05-2020||City||J&K National Panthers Party chairman put under ‘house arrest’, later released||While former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has been booked under the stringent Public Safety Act for another three months on Thursday, former minister and J&K National Panthers Party chairman Harsh Dev Singh was once again put under house arrest at his office in Gandhi Nagar for some time by the UT police and was later released.Since August last year when the Centre revoked Article 370, he along with other leaders of opposition parties had been put under house arrest but his “saga” continued in the Covid-19 lockdown as well.“I was about to stage a demonstration against gross discrimination being meted out to Jammu region, be it youth, SRO 24, termination of 181 paramedics and a slew of other issues when police put me under arrest in my own office. They later released me and asked me to head straight to my house,” Singh said.“Never before was Jammu and its youth treated so shabbily by any previous dispensation in the erstwhile state of J&K. While there are no takers for the concerns of the educated youth of the Jammu region, the common man, the civil society, and the employees class too were bearing the brunt of the highly apathetic approach of the UT administration at the behest of their New Delhi masters. The unemployed, underemployed, the contractual and other temporary class of employees of the Jammu region were the worst affected section with no attention whatsoever being paid by the present regime to address their bonafide concerns. The health employees of the Jammu region appointed under SRO-24 had been arbitrarily terminated while allowing their Kashmir counterparts to continue in service,” he said.He said that repressive measures adopted by the BJP government won’t stifle his voice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-national-panthers-party-chairman-put-under-house-arrest-later-released/story-EYHtmGF3ePYT2Xp84CdEDP.html
07-05-2020||City||48-year-old woman tests positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, count now 46||Himachal Pradesh reported a fresh Covid-19 infection on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 46, officials said.A 48-year-old woman from Sarkaghat of Mandi district, whose son had died of the infection at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla on Tuesday, has tested positive for the virus, officials said.Her 21-year-old son had returned from Delhi on April 29 after undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment. He was shifted to Lal Bahadur Shastri medical college in Mandi’s Nerchowk on Monday evening and was subsequently referred to Shimla where he passed away on Tuesday. His sample had tested positive for Covid-19 after death.“She was in institutional quarantine after his death. After sample tested positive she was admitted at IGMC,” additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said.Authorities have traced her 48 contacts and they have been placed under quarantine, he added.A person, who was accompanying the woman, has tested negative for the virus.Himachal Pradesh has recorded six Covid-19 cases in the last four days.Till date, 17,492 people were kept under surveillance in the state of which 6,970 have completed the mandatory 28-day observation period. As many as 10,522 people are currently in home or institutional quarantine.So far, 9,004 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state. Himachal Pradesh is staring at a threat of a bigger outbreak as thousands of people returned home last week after the government opened the state borders to facilitate return of residents who were stranded in other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/48-year-old-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-count-now-46/story-4U2ux7xf5henJq2SbOdWWP.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Car careens off Kopri bridge, 2 containers fall in Thane in separate accidents||In three separate accidents in Thane, three vehicles, including a car, lost control and fell on Thursday. A container carrying medical supplies turned turtle near Cadbury bridge, while another container fell on Ghodbunder Road. However, no one was injured. In the third accident at Kopri bridge, a car fell off the bridge. The car driver suffered minor injuries. According to an official from Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) team of Thane, who was part of the rescue operation said that the containers and the car were removed immediately. “The first accident happened near Gaimukh on Ghodbunder Road. The container coming from Gujarat toppled while going to Navi Mumbai around 5.30am. The second accident around 6am took place near Cadbury junction on eastern express highway. The container carrying medicines was heading towards Gujarat from Andheri. No one was injured in both the accidents,” said a RDMC official.“In the third accident around 10.30am, a car fell off just at the start of Kopri bridge. Pralay Samanta, who was driving the car, was going to Bhiwandi from Navi Mumbai. He suffered minor injuries and was taken to nearby hospital. There was no traffic on the road when the accident happened,” said the RDMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/car-careens-off-kopri-bridge-2-containers-fall-in-thane-in-separate-accidents/story-io1yWkMtsF37AdbCt5FcqI.html
07-05-2020||City||Jammu SSP helps patient to get life-saving medicines from Mcleodganj||Jammu senior superintendent of police Shridhar Patil came to the rescue of a woman patient that required life-saving medicines from Mcleodganj in Himachal Pradesh.“The Jammu police’s swift action to my request for arranging life-saving medicines from Mcleodganj within 24 hours is laudable,” said GL Sandhu, who required the medicines for his wife suffering from a chronic disease.Sandhu had sent a message to the SSP on his cell phone requesting life-saving drugs from Dr Dolma’s clinic in Mcleodganj.He had also messaged the picture of the prescription with complete details and address.SSP Jammu without wasting time responded to the message and directed his officers to act swiftly.“The police officer in Mcleodganj was contacted and the medicine was procured. It was first sent to Pathankot Police, which further delivered it to the in-charge of the Nagri police post and on Thursday we finally delivered it to the Sandhu family at Gangyal area in Jammu,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-ssp-helps-patient-to-get-life-saving-medicines-from-mcleodganj/story-Q2vd1RdLeN9qDQLST16G7K.html
07-05-2020||City||17-year-old Ludhiana girl shoots herself dead with father’s pistol||A 17-year-old girl allegedly shot herself in the throat with the licensed pistol of her father in Mundian on Wednesday night. Police said the girl, a student of Class 12, was upset due to poor performance in academics and was undergoing treatment for depression. Her father, who is a farmer, said they were sitting outside in the verandah while their daughter was inside. They suddenly heard a gunshot and ran inside, where they found their daughter lying on the floor in a pool of blood. The family rushed the girl to a local hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harbhajan Singh, who is investigating the case, said according to the deceased’s family, she was suffering from depression, which may have led her to take the extreme step. No suicide note was found. The girl is survived by her parents, an elder sister and a younger brother.Police have inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of her father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-year-old-ludhiana-girl-shoots-herself-dead-with-father-s-pistol/story-yg56JPFxQJZexRbx0tiNkK.html
07-05-2020||City||Hike in fuel prices unjust, burden on common man, say Ludhiana residents||Ludhiana residents have criticised Punjab government’s move to increase petrol and diesel prices by ₹2 per litre each, stating it was extra burden on them amid the Covid-19 crisis. Petrol is now available at ₹69.99 per litre, while diesel will be sold at ₹62.56 per litre.Amandeep Singh, a city-based advocate, though welcomed the decision by Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan to increase the excise duty on liquor, condemned the Punjab government for increasing the fuel prices.“Liquor is not a necessity, but people need fuel to commute to work or even buy groceries. The tax on liquor is justified, but hike in fuel prices will hurt the common man,” said Amandeep.Davinder Singh, a counsellor at Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) Centre of Ludhiana civil hospital, said the hike in fuel prices will burden providers of essential services the most.“If the government has increased the fuel prices, it should also provide proper facilities to health workers and other government staff, who are risking their lives daily. Many health workers are still working without safety gear, while the contractual staff are not even covered under the government insurance,” Davinder said.Gurjit Singh, a Model Town-based grocer, criticised the government for burdening the middle class.“The lockdown has not stopped electricity bills, monthly rent, school fees, EMIs or phone bills for us. People are still somehow managing it when all the economic operations are shut. Though the government had announced some relaxations for the economically weaker section (EWS), the middle class are on their own. Such hike will only make our lives miserable,” Singh said.DISASTROUS MOVE, SAYS INDUSTRIALISTS Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), said the hike in fuel prices will only make it difficult for the industry to get back on track.“Although the industries here are gradually restarting their operations, some decisions made by the government will definitely make their revival difficult. The fuel hike will have damaging consequences for the industries, which are already struggling due to shortage of labourers who are being sent back home. We condemn both the decisions of the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hike-in-fuel-prices-unjust-burden-on-common-man-say-ludhiana-residents/story-IvNtMSZriKSVYK2p8BXTlI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘At 42%, J&K’s Covid recovery rate better than national average’||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 42.24 % as against the national average of 27%, officials said, even as the Union territory continues to report fresh infections everyday.Principal secretary and government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said, “Out of 793 cases, 335 have recovered, 449 are active cases and nine patients have died so far.” “A week ago, Jammu and Kashmir had a recovery rate of over 38% but by Thursday we recorded an average of 42.24 %, which is higher than the national average,” Kansal said.“On Wednesday, we conducted 3,429 tests in a single day,” he said, adding that total number of positive cases are now 793 that include 68 in Jammu and 725 in Kashmir.“We are probably the only UT/state in the country which is ensuring 100% testing of all migrant labourers returning to J&K from outside,” he said.“We have a three-pronged strategy, which is robust tracing, strict quarantine and aggressive testing. Due to this strategy we have been able to trace positive cases that were asymptomatic. These people would have infected many if not been traced. We are tracing every single contact of positive cases,” he added.A health department official claimed that some protocols implemented by J&K to trace contacts and test them are stricter than other states.The administration has set up 11 exclusive Covid hospitals—eight in Srinagar and three in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-72-j-k-s-covid-recovery-rate-better-than-national-average/story-uJ1LzPxbPtTX73qiyGBU7L.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh snowfall, rain in parts of Himachal||The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh received light to moderate snowfall and the middle and lower hills had heavy rain, hail and thunderstorms on Wednesday, leading to a dip in temperature of three to five degrees Celsius.The state’s meteorological department said Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district received 2 cm snow and Rohtang in Kullu district received 10 cm. Renuka in Sirmaur district received the heaviest downpour in the state with 30mm rain, followed by Palampur in Kangra district with 18mm rain.A yellow warning (lowest in severe weather category) has also been issued for Chamba, Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan districts for May 10.Dr Manmohan Singh, director, HP meteorological department, said weather will be dry throughout the state on May 8. However snowfall in the higher reaches and rain with hail was very likely to occur throughout the state from May 9 to May 13 due to a fresh western disturbance.State capital Shimla had 6.5 mm rainfall, recording minimum temperatures of 8.3 degrees C. Lows in other areas included Kufri with 4.6 degrees C; Manali with 4.8 degrees C; Dalhousie with 5.9 degrees C and Dharamshala with 12.1 degrees C.Solan, Bilaspur, Hamirpur and Nahan in district Sirmaur recorded lows of 10.6°C, 21.5°C, 21.2°C and 18.9°C, respectively.Keylong, at 0.3 degrees minimum temperature, was the coldest in the state while Una was the warmest with a maximum of 34.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-snowfall-rain-in-parts-of-himachal/story-2JFMlI03QAu3p7X3lC247M.html
07-05-2020||City||Kalwa hospital resident doctor tests positive, staff yet to be isolated||After the doctor who heads the medicine department of civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital at Kalwa in Thane tested positive, a resident doctor tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. The 36-year-old resident doctor was one of the high-risk contacts of the infected doctor, whose two daughters have also tested positive. The resident doctors have again demanded to get tested. They said some of them are not quarantined and made to work in the hospital. A resident doctor requesting anonymity said, “There are nine resident doctors, out of which, two have been tested. Out of the remaining seven, five are showing symptoms and should be quarantined and tested.”Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “We had tested senior doctor’s close contacts. One resident doctor has tested positive.”The newly appointed dean of the hospital, Pratibha Sawant, said the high-risk contacts have been quarantined and the stress is now on using proper safety kit. “There was some negligence in using a proper safety kit while doing rounds of the wards. I have made it compulsory that all the required kit should be used. We have tested some doctors and the others will soon be tested.”The hospital has 1,200 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, which the administration claims is sufficient. Two doctors and one nurse from the hospital have tested positive.Woman tests positive after death After inviting flak for handing over two bodies of suspected Covid patients without following any safety protocol, Kalwa hospital was careful after a 45-year-old woman died on May 5. Her Covid test report had not come, but the hospital authorities followed protocol while handing over the body.RT Kendre, officer on special duty for Covid-19, said, “The woman from Varli pada of Srinagar was admitted to Kalwa hospital for chest pain. She was admitted to ICU and later shifted to the general ward. When she showed symptoms of the virus, she was shifted to the isolation ward. Her swab was taken. She died on May 5 before the report was out.”The next day, she tested positive. “We took all precautions while handing over the body to relatives,” said Kendre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalwa-hospital-resident-doctor-tests-positive-staff-yet-to-be-isolated/story-IbLLVwby46We94A7XiwhMM.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||CPI(M) demands action against Shimla admn for violating rules on Covid||Communist Party of India (Marxists) has demanded the state government to conduct an inquiry against the district administration for not following the protocol of the Union health ministry for cremating a 21-year-old Covid-19 patient who succumbed to the disease.CPI(M) has also demanded the state government to strictly follow the World Health Organisation (WHO) norms.CPI(M) said that the cremation took place hastily and the district administration violated norms of cremating bodies of Covid-19 patients set up by WHO.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that this proves that state government is not fully prepared to combat coronavirus and now they are trying to hide their shortcomings by passing the buck.He said that in the last few days, the state government has been allowing entry of thousands of people coming from outside by issuing entry passes, but they are not following the protocol regarding testing and quarantine. The state government should have made enough arrangements for testing these people and should have set up quarantine centres at a local level with all basic requirements so that infected individuals could have been identified immediately.But due to their negligence, five new Covid-19 positive cases and one fatality has been reported in the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cpi-m-demands-action-against-shimla-admn-for-violating-rules-on-covid/story-IQsCYLnNMJZMVkN0KOSVxN.html
07-05-2020||City||Nine men arrested for gambling amid Covid lockdown in Ludhiana||Defying the lockdown imposed in the region due to the coronavirus outbreak, nine men organised a gambling party at a house in New Shimlapuri on Wednesday night. While they were busy setting bets, the police conducted a raid and arrested them red-handed. Rs 55,300 in cash and a pack of cards was recovered from their possession.Those arrested have been identified as Dharampal, alias Bittu of New Shimlapuri; Sahil Makkar of New Preet Nagar, New Shimlapuri; Sonu Kumar of New Shimlapuri; Madan Lal of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar; Dharminder of Gobind Nagar, Shimlapuri; Sukhwinder Singh of New Janta Nagar; Ravi Kumar of Gobind Nagar and Ranjit Singh, alias Raju of New Shimlapuri.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge, CIA staff-3, said they conducted the raid at Dharampal’s house following a tip-off, and found nine men assembled in one room and setting bets, in violation of orders banning gatherings.A case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 13, 3, 67 of the Gambling Act and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act at The police station Shimlapuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-men-arrested-for-gambling-amid-covid-lockdown-in-ludhiana/story-qaqvjVZuyGcERV7KnBLCeL.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi High Court orders govt to set up complaint boxes at all ration stores||The Delhi High Court has directed the city government to put up complaint boxes at every Public Distribution System (PDS) and non-PDS distribution centres, within three days on Wednesday. The court’s order came while hearing a plea which had contended that people in the city are not availing the free ration services of the government.A bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh also asked the government to file a compliance report on the steps taken by the government to ensure that all the poor and needy are provided ration.The court’s order comes while hearing a plea by an NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Abhiyan Adhikaar, which had contended that many people are still not getting rations. The plea had also pointed out that the government has introduced e-coupons for people did not have a ration card. However, obtaining an e-coupon would require a person to have a smartphone, and knowing know how to fill in details and upload photographs.On Wednesday, during the video conference hearing, the court was informed by senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, who represented the petitioners, that many ration shops were closed during working hours. Around 38% of the shops, which volunteers of the NGO visited between April 29 and 30, were found to be closed. The counsel also submitted that the system of issuing e-coupons to those who do not have ration cards was inaccessible to the most vulnerable as it required a smartphone, ability to use the internet, generate OTP, upload photos of the family and a copy of the Aadhaar card and finally to download the e-coupon. It (the NGO) suggested that facilitation desks should be set up at all schools and ration shops to give coupons to people who need foodgrains but do not have ration cards and are unable to apply for e-coupons. They also said that the complaint number was inaccessible.Appearing for the Delhi government, additional standing counsel, Anuj Aggarwal, sought some time from the court to file a detailed compliance affidavit, following which the court granted him four days to file the reply.The bench also directed that complaint boxes be installed at the PDS shops so that people do not face any problem and posted the matter to May 11 for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-orders-govt-to-set-up-complaint-boxes-at-all-ration-stores/story-azTtXtH2KEPk8ynOeJcx0J.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kullu man, Russian woman caught while entering Shimla by hiding in pickup van||A Russian woman and her friend from Kullu were caught while trying to enter Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla district in a pickup van during the coronavirus-induced lockdown and imposition of curfew here, the police said.The woman and her friend who hails from Kullu’s Nirmand area and were caught at Shoghi while trying to enter Shimla district on Wednesday, Shimla superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal said.The woman earlier lived in Mathel village in Kullu district and had moved to Noida with her friend, a few years back. They were coming from Noida after hiding themselves in the back of the pickup van without any curfew pass and both of them were planning to solemnise their marriage after reaching Nirmand, he added.“It was later decided to send them back to Noida,” the SP said.The driver and cleaner were also caught by the police. An FIR has been registered against them under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act. The Russian woman has been quarantined at a centre in Kasupti whereas the three men have been quarantined in Shoghi itself.When the matter reached the chief minister’s office, he immediately directed Shimla district magistrate Amit Kashyap to send them back to Noida. The driver was issued a curfew pass to drop the duo back to Noida. CM Jai Ram Thakur while presiding over a meeting with the senior officers directed them to ensure that Himachalis coming from other parts of the country must strictly follow quarantine norms. He said that all such persons must be examined and complete data of people arriving in the state should be compiled.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kullu-man-russian-woman-caught-while-entering-shimla-by-hiding-in-pickup-van/story-MmmSUfjrU3ESBEm0wMPEOO.html
07-05-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: Home min confirms cops were aware of rumours||Palghar police were aware of the rumours about thieves on social media from around eight days before the April 16 lynching took place at Gadchinchale in Dahanu wherein three people were murdered by a mob of 500 tribals, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh. He talked to the media in Palghar after visiting the site of the incident as well Kasa police station. Rumours about thieves in disguise roaming around Palghar to kidnap victims for organ smuggling led to the panic among tribals, which in turn resulted in the lynching incident.Deshmukh said the home department has received a report about the rumours from local police and is gathering further information from local MP, MLA, Zilla Parishad members. The state CID has taken over the probe. The minister said they have received applications seeking release of those innocent who have been arrested and added that the process of releasing the innocent from among the arrested will only take place after the CID completes its inquiry. “We will later inquire as to how the three victims managed to hoodwink the police and travel 120 km from Mumbai to reach the spot, and the guilty will be punished,” said Deshmukh.Earlier, five police personnel, including Kasa police in-charge API Anandrao Kale, PSI Sudhir Katare and three others were suspended while 35 police personnel (the entire Kasa police staff) were transferred to other police stations in Palghar police district. So far 115 accused have been arrested and have since been remanded in police custody till May 14 by the Dahanu court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-home-min-confirms-cops-were-aware-of-rumours/story-tSwCYH93OurLqj6xLQYdkJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Former DGP tries to enter HP without curfew pass; stopped by police||A former Punjab director general of police (DGP) was stopped at the Himachal Pradesh border in the early hours of Thursday after he tried to enter the hill state without a curfew pass amid the Covid-19-induced lockdown, police said.Sumedh Singh Saini, who was along with two other persons in a car, tried to enter Himachal Pradesh through the Khaira Mora check post at 4 am, but he was not allowed, Bilaspur Superintendent of Police (SP) Devakar Sharma said.Former DGP Saini and the others were in a car with registration number CH-01-BW 0820 and they were coming from the Punjab side of the border, the officer said.Sharma said the two other persons accompanying the former DGP identified themselves as an inspector and an assistant sub-inspector to the personnel at the check post on the Punjab-Himachal Pradesh border near Swarghat in Bilaspur district.“On their insistence, the staff called the Naina Devi deputy superintendent of police who in turn called me and I directed him not to allow their entry into the hill state without a curfew pass,” he said.Sharma said the former DGP called him after about half-an-hour insisting entry into Himahcal Pradesh stating that he had a property at Karsog in Mandi district. Saini was refused entry without a curfew pass, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-dgp-tries-to-enter-hp-without-curfew-pass-stopped-by-police/story-4pc6JdFJLfT83kcYimy0MI.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Environment ministry’s CRZ amendment ends debate on inland mangrove protection in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||The Union environment ministry’s latest amendment to the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms ends speculations by planning agencies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) that claimed artificially created “inland mangroves” need not be protected.The notification dated May 1 was published by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) on its website on Wednesday amending the CRZ 2011 norms stating mangrove forests developed towards the landward side due to saltwater flow from sluice gates or bunds, mainly identified as inland mangroves, need to be protected under the coastal protection notification.“Provided that in case there exists a bund or a sluice gate constructed in the past, prior to February 19, 1991, the high tide line (HTL) shall be restricted up to the line along the bund or sluice gate and in such a case, area under mangroves arising due to saline water ingress beyond the bund or sluice gate shall be classified as CRZ-IA irrespective of the extent of the area beyond the bund or sluice gate. Such areas under mangroves shall be protected and shall not be diverted for any developmental activities,” the notification said.The notification could protect mangrove forests in Uran and Dronagiri where the Navi Mumbai Special Economic Zone — an integrated industrial township — has been planned. A Bombay high court (HC) order from September 2018 had made it clear that mangroves anywhere in Maharashtra cannot be destroyed and the notification reiterates the declaration.In 2015, the City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco), the planning agency for Navi Mumbai, had claimed that mangroves that had grown in holding ponds (for high tide water connected to sluice gates mainly at Panje, Karanje and Koparkhairne) were not protected under the CRZ notification since they were “inland mangroves”. Cidco had filed an application in the HC in the public interest litigation (87 of 2006) originally filed by environmentalist Debi Goenka where the claim was made. “This notification, once and for all, settles the issue that all mangroves are protected under the CRZ notification and that all embankments and sluice gates built without valid permissions after February 19, 1991, are illegal,” said Goenka. “Hopefully, the Panje wetlands and all the other mangroves in Navi Mumbai will have to be protected by Cidco.”Pramod Patil, nodal officer (environment), Cidco said, “The sluice gates in Uran were constructed sometime during 1994-95. The case was made at the time in 2015-16 due to rapid mangrove growth that was happening post-construction of the bunds and gates, which was causing inconvenience during monitoring of the holding ponds under our jurisdiction. However, following the HC order from September 2018, mangroves, irrespective of their location, are provided the highest protection status within our jurisdiction.”Goenka alleged that since the construction of the gates happened post the CRZ 1991 notification, they had been illegally built. “While the sluice gates had not been properly maintained (by Cidco themselves), the planning agency made several efforts to destroy mangrove trees within Navi Mumbai and Uran. Pursuant to the notice of motion, the HC in 2016 had directed the MoEF to give us a hearing and had asked the MoEF to decide on this issue. However, despite the hearing held February 29, 2016, no formal order was passed by the ministry then,” he said.Meanwhile, the state mangrove cell welcomed MoEFCC’s amendment. “It is a good development and gives legal protection to especially those areas where safety measures were proposed to be reduced due to the claim that they were inland mangroves,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell).Why the amendment?MoEFCC’s amended comes after the Goa government made a request to demarcate the HTL (the extent to which coastal waters can reach the farthest on land) along embankments even if they were breached. Independent experts said the consequences of the amendment need to be studied for all other coastal zones to check the impact it would have on constructions planned in the future across CRZ areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/environment-ministry-s-crz-amendment-ends-debate-on-inland-mangrove-protection-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/story-zVWhyRWH3TYXGF06rtzZ9I.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Infant discharged after second test comes negative||A 26-day-old boy who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 19 was discharged from a Nallasopara hospital on Wednesday evening after his results came negative in the second test. The baby was delivered on April 11 at the Sir D M Petit Hospital and tested positive on April 19. While his mother tested negative, his father was diagnosed with Covid-19. “Since then, the boy was kept under observation at the Riddhi Vinayak hospital, Nallasopara,” said Dr Tabassum Kazi, chief medical officer, Vasai.“The boy’s second test came negative, hence we discharged him,” she added. The father is also undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the hospital and his second test report is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/month-old-boy-discharged-after-second-test-comes-negative/story-iT7WRZK7T1OcNR2e6TQHEL.html
07-05-2020||Education||Punjab declares vacation for colleges, universities from May 15||The Punjab Government on Thursday announced that summer vacations will be observed in government colleges and universities across the state for a month.The summer vacations will be observed from May 15 to June 15.“The Punjab Government has decided to declare summer vacation in Government Colleges and Universities of the state from May 15 to June 15,” the tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/punjab-declares-vacation-for-colleges-universities-from-may-15/story-VuqJWzwYMXcM1EpNlZ2M3J.html
07-05-2020||Noida||2 hospital staffers molest Covid-19 patient in Greater Noida, arrested||A coronavirus patient was allegedly molested by two staffers at a private hospital in Greater Noida where she was undergoing treatment, with the police on Thursday arresting the accused, officials said. The 20-year-old woman, who had recently given birth to a child, was admitted to the Sharda Hospital for Covid-19 treatment, the officials said. After the matter came to light, an FIR was registered at the Knowledge Park police station against the two staffers -- a sanitation worker and a store worker -- on a complaint by the hospital authorities. “Accused Luvkush and Praveen were booked under IPC 354 (attempt to outrage modesty) and have been arrested,” a police spokesperson said. A spokesperson for Sharda Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, said the two staffers were hired by another agency engaged by it for the work and they have been removed from their jobs. “As the matter came to light, the two were immediately removed from the job and their hiring agency was informed about it. They have tendered an apology. On our part, we gave a complaint to the police so that action could be taken against the two,” the hospital spokesperson told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-hospital-staffers-molest-covid-19-patient-in-greater-noida-arrested/story-iUbo3ZQS73FmUv0lDHFHCN.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||No money, hotel bills pile up as 33 West Bengal tourists remain stranded for over a month in Amritsar||They came to Amritsar on March 21, all the way from Bankura in West Bengal to pay obeisance at Harmandir Sahib, but then as India was put under lockdown to prevent the transmission of Covid-19, all 33 members of a tourist group were stranded, slowly growing desperate as the hotel bills piled up and money ran out.It’s been well over a month now and they have been unable to go home.“Nine families, all 33 of us, were so happy when we reached Amritsar on March 21 for a week’s holiday. However, the lockdown from March 24 ruined our holiday and we have been stranded here since then, not knowing what to do, says Swarup Ranjan Saha, a member of the group who works in the railways. Living in the hotel where they have hired 10 rooms, the tourists earlier paid Rs 600 per room, which has now been reduced to Rs 200 by their hotel. “Since there are 12 children in the group, we’re having a hard time getting meals from them,” Saha adds.The tourists hope the Punjab government, which has started sending back groups of migrants back to their towns and villages, will help them too.For food, they say they are dependent on langars (community meals) at Durgiana and Golden temples. “We are still paying the hotel and buying essential items. All of us, including the children, are healthy and fit and do not suffer from any Covid-19 symptoms,” says Sabyasachi Ghosh, another group member. No one, however, has been screened for the virus, he adds.Registered with adminThe group has reached out to the police and district administration and has been guided by them to get registered with the administration as stranded people who want to return home. “Nothing has been done so far. Since the government is making efforts to send migrant labourers home, they should also make arrangements to send us back to West Bengal,” demands Ghosh.In what could give them hope, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal says, “Since the Punjab government has scheduled trains to ferry stranded people in various states, we have also sent a proposal to start a train from Punjab to Howrah district in West Bengal. Once approved, we will send them back home on priority.”Aggarwal said the administration was constantly in touch with them and helping out wherever possible. An offer had also been made to them to stay in government shelter homes, which had been rejected by the group members, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-money-hotel-bills-pile-up-as-33-west-bengal-tourists-remain-stranded-for-over-a-month-in-amritsar/story-6zbHcJyyLRLBSL3HciLMcN.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||PG med admissions: HC reprieve for in-service candidates||In a relief for candidates seeking admission to post-graduate (PG) medical courses through the in-service quota, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday clarified that there was no cap on the number of years of completed service in tribal, difficult or rural areas for which they could get additional marks for admission.Justice SC Gupte was hearing a petition filed by Dr Abinav Bhute, challenging a government resolution (GR) issued by the Maharashtra medical education department on March 19 last year, granting only 4℅ additional weightage to in-service candidates who rendered service in rural areas, instead of the 10℅ weightage given by the Medical Council of India (MCI).In the petition, advocate Madhav Thorat pointed out that Maharashtra government has reserved 25℅ of the PG diploma and 25℅ of PG degree seats for in-service candidates. To encourage in-service candidates to work in rural, tribal, or difficult areas, the MCI has provided additional 10% marks for each year of service, subject to a maximum of 30% additional marks obtained by them in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET).According to Thorat, Dr Bhute has served in rural areas for seven years and last year sought 30℅ additional weightage, but the department refused to give him the maximum marks, prompting him to move HC. On his petition, the court on March 12, 2019, directed the department to extend additional weightage as contemplated by the MCI notification to in-service candidates who have served in rural areas. Despite the direction, the department refused to give the 30% weightage to Dr Bhute, giving rise to a second round of the litigation.On Tuesday, assistant government pleader Rina Salunke pointed out that the department had on March 19, 2019, issued a GR varying the weightage of marks to be given. It had decided to provide 10% weightage for rendering service in tribal areas, 7% weightage for rendering service in difficult areas, and 4% for rendering service in rural areas. She also pointed out that the scheme contemplates reckoning only three years of service for giving these additional marks to in-service candidates.Justice Gupte, however, refused to accept the last contention. The judge said that none of the GRs on the topic reckons only three years of service. “For each year of completed service, the in-service candidates are entitled to marks in accordance with the altered scheme of marks,” said the judge, adding, “It is accordingly clarified that the entire service, whatever be the length of such service, of in-service candidates is to be reckoned for allotting weightage of marks for postgraduate admissions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pg-med-admissions-hc-reprieve-for-in-service-candidates/story-mfMi2UvNfJ6mWDCsCs9l7K.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||A couple tests Covid-19 positive, Gurugram society sealed||An up-scale Vipul Belmonte residential complex at Golf Course road was sealed after emergence of two Covid-19 cases, here on Thursday.The patients, a senior citizen couple, underwent Covid-19 test after the wife got fever. The husband had recently visited the Azadpur vegetable and fruit wholesale market in Delhi.After the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) sealed the complex, health officials initiated the sanitation works. Ravi Kumar, the estate manager of the complex, confirmed the development. Manish Shandilya, convener of 80 RWA residential complexes in Gurugram, said medical team questioned the residents about their contacts with the couple. Neighbouring groceries and vegetables shops are also on the radar.“The team suspects residents of neighbouring flats on the same floor may get infected. Being senior citizens, they frequently sought neighbour’s help,” Shandilya said.Around 700 families, living in the complex, have been asked to stay in home quarantine till further orders.With these two cases, the coronavirus tally of Gurugram has reached to 106. Of this, 54 are active cases. On Wednesday, the Gurugram administration had detected 17 cases. Of this, 10 are vegetable wholesalers. They have shops in Khandsa Anaj Mandi, here, and Azadpur wholesale market connection.In the mandi, 19 wholesalers have tested Covid-19 positive after they visited the Azadpur market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/a-couple-tests-covid-19-positive-gurugram-society-sealed/story-8p57eD5dPw3eWyW9t4hvCJ.html
07-05-2020||Noida||Covid-19 cases cross 200-mark in UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar||Ten more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar district, taking the number of cases to 202, officials said on Thursday.No patient was discharged on Thursday and the number of cured people stood at 109, leaving 93 active cases in the district, the officials said.“Total 124 reports have been received in the last 24 hours. Ten of them were positive and the rest were negative for COVID-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 202,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.“So far, 109 of the 202 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 93 active cases in the district,” he said.The recovery rate of patients is 53.96 per cent, according to official statistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-cases-cross-200-mark-in-up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar/story-WORN8F6vu24kGzGkHIixyK.html
07-05-2020||City||Thane to have ward-wise containment plan||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) will devise a ward-wise containment zone plan, taking into account the number of cases in each ward. The plan will also study the recovery percent, the death toll and compare the numbers of congested areas and individual buildings.If no new cases are found in a particular area, the area will be gradually removed from containment zone.From May 3, TMC started barricading the containment zones to ensure people strictly follow lockdown. Each of these zones will also get a separate containment plan, as per the infection status of the ward where these zones are situated.A TMC official, requesting anonymity said, “The plan will be flexible and changes will be made daily, depending on the rate of increase or decrease in cases. Measures will be taken depending on rate of increase, recovery and death.”Free Ayurveda tablets for slum residentsAs the Covid count in the slums is increasing, the TMC has decided to start distributing free Ayurveda and homeopathy tablets prescribed by Ministry of Ayush to boost the immunity of slum dwellers. These tablets will be distributed in CP Talao, Kisannagar, Pipeline road, Lokmanyanagar and Mumbra, where the cases are more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-to-have-ward-wise-containment-plan/story-MpNZNa8Lz23D0QdodGzIqM.html
07-05-2020||Education||IIT Bombay asks students not to believe rumours about cancellation of exams||With uncertainty looming over the spring semester exams, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, has asked its students not to believe rumours of cancellation of exams. The administration is yet to take a decision on the matter.On March 28, amid the nationwide lockdown over the Covid-19 outbreak, the institute announced an early summer vacation for students from April 1 to May 31, 2020. It, however, did not clarify the status of the spring semester examinations which are usually held in the month of March. Last week, rumours were rife that the institute had cancelled the exams altogether causing anxiety among many students. However, on Wednesday, IIT Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri dispelled the rumours and said a final decision was pending.“During the time of such a pandemic, such rumours add to the agony and anxiety of our students who are away from the campus right now. Please stop such fake news. Our Senate will take a decision on this soon and it will be reported on the institute’s website and all students will be informed,” said Chaudhuri.While academic and research activities remain suspended at the institute since March 14, the institute shut for summer vacations on April 1 and examinations remain deferred.An expert committee formed by the central government last month had suggested that universities hold online examinations. Meanwhile, different IITs have chalked out plans to conduct exams in batches while maintaining the social distancing guidelines laid down by the central government. While IIT Roorkee has prioritised its final year students for the completion of semester, IIT Madras may allow its students to take their exams at the nearest IIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-bombay-asks-students-not-to-believe-rumours-about-cancellation-of-exams/story-kK4rdSnLD1hAwfUAKCa2GO.html
07-05-2020||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank declares 10% pay cut for staff with over Rs 25 lakh annual salary||Private sector lender Kotak Mahindra Bank has decided on a 10 per cent pay cut for the employees earning above Rs 25 lakh per annum, in a business sustainability move amid the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a communication.The move comes weeks after the top management voluntarily surrendered 15 per cent of their payments for 2020-21.The COVID-19 crisis is expected to have a heavy impact on the economy and many corporates have been cutting salaries. Some have also retrenched staff, with the unorganised sector being hit the most. The unemployment rate in India touched 27 per cent in the week to May 3, according to think-tank CMIE. “What seemed like a 2-3 months phenomenon in the beginning, has turned out to be a pandemic with serious implications on both lives and livelihood. More importantly, it is increasingly clear that the pandemic is not going away anytime soon,” Kotak’s group chief Human Resources officer Sukhjit S Pasricha said in an internal note.  The move to recalibrate salaries is driven by the objective of business sustainability, Pasricha said.“We have decided on a 10 per cent reduction in CTC (cost to company) for all colleagues with a salary of more than Rs 25 lakh per annum, with effect from May 2020 for FY21,” the note said.Quoting the bank’s Managing Director Uday Kotak, the note said, “we are into unchartered waters and only time will tell how we as a firm, as an economy, as a country, as a world, as humanity, emerge from this momentous event.” The group and Kotak himself had earlier announced donations to the PM-CARES Fund and also the Maharashtra chief minister’s relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/kotak-mahindra-bank-declares-10-pay-cut-for-staff-with-over-rs-25-lakh-annual-salary/story-4TXZxEw9XHYKlrWnfi6IoO.html
07-05-2020||Arts||An ode to Irrfan, in a Mumbai alley||About two days back, the late actor Irrfan Khan’s elder son Babil Khan shared a story on his social media — it was a large mural of his father donning the bylanes of Waroda Road in Bandra. The mural is made by Ranjit Dahiya, a 42-year-old artist based in Mumbai. “I liked him a lot, and his death was very unfortunate. I have made many murals of Bollywood actors in different parts of Mumbai so I thought why not give Irrfan a tribute too,” says Dahiya, founder of Bollywood Art Project, a collective of street artists. The artwork is mixed in colours of black, white and yellow, and is a close-up shot of the late actor. Dahiya, who started painting the mural on the day Irrfan passed away, says, “I was very sad. We lost one of Bollywood’s gems. The idea to make his mural came from my heart.”When asked if there were any restrictions while painting the mural as Mumbai continues to battle Covid-19, he says, “We took all the necessary precautions. I was helped by a friend. Him and I, both maintained social distance while painting, and tried not to speak to anyone who passed us by on the road.”Dahiya, originally from Sonepat, Haryana, and a graduate of the National Institute of Design (NID), Ahmedabad, came to Mumbai years ago for a job. “Before going to college though, I used to paint slogans on the streets and did a lot of whitewash related odd jobs. I guess that taught me how to make large size murals.”Just adjacent to Waroda Road is Chapel Road which is adorned with murals of the late actors Sridevi and Madhubala, which too were Dahiya’s way of paying respect to them. Dahiya now plans to paint a Rishi Kapoor mural. He says, “He too was one of my favourite actors. I grew up watching his films. We are looking for a wall and we are also looking for people who can help us with purchasing paints and leathers as this is a financially difficult time for us artists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/art-and-culture/an-ode-to-irrfan-in-a-mumbai-alley/story-ryzbr1dv26vLvMVWwWoXAN.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||No queues, crowds as Mohali liquor vends open after six weeks||Even as opening of liquor vends in Chandigarh and other parts of the country from May 4 made news, with long queues and even clashes with police reported outside such outlets, Mohali vends opening after six weeks on Thursday remained deserted. Liquor contractors blamed the UT administration for this, saying people had already smuggled liquor from Chandigarh into Mohali in the absence of checks at borders.About 140 liquor vends in the district remained open from 7am to 3pm, but none reported major sales, unlike Chandigarh.“We have already suffered a huge loss (because of the lockdown) and now blame Chandigarh authorities for opening the vends earlier on May 4 and collecting around Rs 20 crore a day. Mohali residents have been getting liquor from Chandigarh and no checks are being carried out at the borders,” said JP Singh, general manager of the Turtle Group owning 15 liquor vends here.Another liquor contractor, Arjun Singh, said, “Though our rates are more or less comparable with Chandigarh, the Punjab government should not have allowed home delivery. We should have also been given some relief as most of the migrant workers, our main customers for country liquor and regular segments have left the city.”In his Wednesday order, deputy commissioner of Mohali, Girish Dayalan said vends could open from 7am to 3pm, but no shop would be open in the open in the containment areas of Jawahapur village in in Dera Bassi and Nayagaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-queues-crowds-as-mohali-liquor-vends-open-after-six-weeks/story-7FawSn8S77ove4WIecdqcJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Seven workers fall ill after inhaling poisonous gas in Chhattisgarh||Seven workers fell ill after inhaling some poisonous gas at a paper mill in Chhattisgarh’s Raigarh district, police said on Thursday.The incident occurred at Shakti Paper Mill in Tetla village, where the victims were cleaning an open tank on Wednesday evening, Raigarh superintendent of police Santosh Singh told PTI. However, the factory owner did not inform the administration about the incident, which only came to light after the hospital authorities alerted the police, he said. The mill had remained shut ever since the Covid-19 lockdown was enforced and the cleaning work was underway to resume operations, the official said.The workers were admitted to a local hospital, from where three were shifted to Raipur in view of their critical condition, he said. A team of forensic experts was dispatched to the spot to investigate the exact cause of the incident, Singh said, adding that a case will be registered soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-workers-fall-ill-after-inhaling-poisonous-gas-in-chhattisgarh/story-eCVlxXqY9W5N4CwpcSPYOI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Police launches STOP portal to monitor people entering SBS Nagar||The district police on Thursday launched the online portal, STOP (Surveillance of Travellers’ Online Portal) Covid-19 on Thursday to monitor people entering Punjab and its districts to ensure they are medically checked and their details maintained on one platform. Senior superintendent of police, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Alka Meena said the portal will help the police keep an eye on persons with travel history from other states or districts. On how the system will work, she said the medical team at checkpoints will check travellers and details of each person will be filed through the portal. Fourteen inter-district checkpoints where this portal has been made functional with the help of tabs will maintain data on the entrants, Meena added.As details of all entrants will be available on one platform, authorities will then be able to screen or quarantine every entrant in their districts.Since the inter-state movement of people has increased, it is important to ensure that no person goes unchecked and is examined and quarantined appropriately to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the district, said deputy superintendent of police and nodal officer for Covid-19, Deepika Singh. Superintendent of police (detective) Wazir Singh Khaira said that this initiative will enable documentation work and surveillance by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-launches-stop-portal-to-monitor-people-entering-sbs-nagar/story-BcmPrO9LV4Vw9WhA4VNxdL.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Akal Takht jathedar slams reopening of liquor vends, says will lead to domestic violence||Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Thursday slammed the reopening of liquor vends in Punjab, saying it would lead to domestic violence during lockdown. Criticising the Punjab government’s decision, Giani Harpreet Singh on Thursday said the move was ridiculous as places of worship, which act as immunity boosters, were closed but liquor was being sold. “Sale of liquor should not be allowed. Shopping malls, cloth stores and other shops are closed. Why are liquor sales being prioritised? The move will also cause an increase in cases of domestic violence,” he said, during a media interaction at the Akal Takht Secretariat.“All temples, mosques and gurdwaras have been closed by the government. Where will people go to express their devotion? People’s devotion acts like an immunity booster and is key in the fight against Covid-19,”he said. On places of worship in Muktsar being asked to announce on loud speakers that liquor vends had opened, the jathedar said the incident was unfortunate. TREAT COVID-19 PATIENTS RESPECTFULLY He condemned the vilification of Nanded pilgrims who had tested positive for Covid-19. “Those infected are victims, not criminals, and they should be treated respectfully. Strict action should be taken against those who make derogatory remarks against them,” the jathedar said.“First, attempts were made to target the sangat, which had gathered at Sri Anandpur Sahib during the Holla Mohalla festival after Baldev Singh of Nawanshahr tested positive for Covid-19. Then, our NRI brothers from Punjab were targeted. Now, the pilgrims who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, are being vilified, which is condemnable”, said Giani Harpreet Singh.‘ONLY PILGRIMS BEING BLAMED’ The jathedar said, “Punjabi workers from Maharashtra had also joined pilgrims at Nanded to avail the transport facility being provided. They took shelter at the gurdwara there, which was not wrong, but, only the pilgrims are being defamed.”“This vilification drive against pilgrims will not be tolerated. No person, who tests positive for the coronavirus, should be treated like a criminal.”On quarantining Nanded-returnees in congregation halls of Dera Radha Soami, the Akal Takht jathedar said, “There are no accommodation arrangements at deras. These deras have only sheds not rooms and rapidly heat up during the day, but pilgrims are forced to live in them. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has appealed the government to shift them to gurdwara serais, which have rooms, but the government seems adamant on keeping them at deras.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/akal-takht-jathedar-slams-reopening-of-liquor-vends-says-will-lead-to-domestic-violence/story-rv30j5rq3JKbF8LhcpbEcO.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC to start online sale of liquor to ensure social distancing||A plea was filed in the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the AAP government to start online sale of liquor to ensure social distancing during the Covid-19 pandemic as people turned out in large numbers crowding such shops after they opened this week increasing the risk of spreading the virus.As an alternative prayer, the plea has sought introduction of a token system at liquor shops that will help in crowd management. The petition is likely to come up for hearing on May 11.Petitioner Sajag Nijhawan referred to various media reports highlighting instances of crowds gathering at liquor shops since they opened on May 4, without maintaining social distancing and leading to law and order situation.It alleged there was a failure on the part of the AAP government in taking appropriate steps to control the large gathering in and around 150 government-run liquor shops which were opened after 47 days.Hundreds of people turned up outside the liquor shops, creating a complete chaos as social distancing norms were not adhered to and forcing the police to use mild force to disperse the unruly crowd, it said.The petition, filed through advocates Simran Kohli and Abheehshek Bhagat, sought direction to the Delhi government and its Excise Department to take immediate steps in view of the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic to control the crowds outside the liquor shops and to ensure strict adherence to social distancing.It sought direction to the Delhi government to evolve a proper policy to start the online sale of liquor and deliver it to the consumers’ homes at a time when the entire machinery of the country is tirelessly working to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.The petition said it does not seek closing of these shops considering the burden on the government to deal with major revenue dip, but was seeking judicial order for appropriate steps to balance the need of revenue generation as well as social distancing. Another PIL was filed by NGO Civil Safety Council of India in the high court on Wednesday seeking direction to the Delhi government to close the liquor shops in the national capital until the situation of Covid-19 pandemic is under control. It is likely to come up for hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/plea-in-delhi-hc-to-start-online-sale-of-liquor-to-ensure-social-distancing/story-OA2cTyaeNQXEF0evcLbOsL.html
07-05-2020||Education||Bihar govt warns students, teachers against ‘fake’ app for study material||As the state dabbles in various online options to engage students at the start of the new session during the lockdown period, the Bihar state textbook publishing corporation has warned students against ‘fake’ app claiming to provide Bihar board and CBSE textbooks.“The corporation has got information about one such app launched on the Google Play Store by unknown persons. It has unauthorised copies of all the study material provided on the corporation’s official website for Class 1-12,” said its managing director Ranjit Kumar Singh.The MD said that due to the app ‘Bihar textbooks & CBSE books’, the students as well as teachers were getting confused. “The corporation has not launched any such app so far. The corporation takes exception to this app as it is a clear case of copyright violation, as no permission was sought from the corporation prior to launching the app,” he addedMaintaining that earning through the unauthorised app was a case of cyber crime, the corporation has warned the students and teachers to not use it, as it was fake. “Besides, the app also shows some old study material. When the corporation will launch its own app, it will be communicated,” said the MD, adding that chapter wise study material for all the classes had been made available on the corpoeayion’s website and the students could download them from there.However, despite the alleged fraud, the corporation has not lodged any case against it.Earlier, the corporation used to provide free books to the students, but due to delayed printing and more delayed distribution, the government decided four years ago to provide money for books in the bank accounts of students so that they could buy it on their own. Though in that case also, many kind of books copying the corporation’s material reportedly flooded the market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-govt-warns-students-teachers-against-fake-app-for-study-material/story-9MlcSbmnqRy0KWcDDKECwK.html
07-05-2020||Patna||Crowds swell at Muzaffarpur Railway Station in Bihar as special train arrives||Violating all social distancing norms, crowds were seen at Muzaffarpur Railway Station in Bihar on Wednesday, after a special train carrying students from Kota reached Bihar.The train was carrying around 1,318 students from Kota in Rajasthan. Another special train, carrying 1,200 migrant workers, left for Bihar’s Patna from Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi on Wednesday.The development comes after, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) granted the permission for movement of the stranded people, including migrants labourers, workers, students, tourists, and provided the procedure for the same.The lockdown, which was scheduled to end on May 3, has been extended by another two weeks. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/crowds-swell-at-muzaffarpur-railway-station-in-bihar-as-special-train-arrives/story-2RZARBDdrnJ4NcjWsZy4FK.html
07-05-2020||Bangalore||Yediyurappa expresses sadness over gas leak incident in Vizag||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday expressed sadness over the gas leak incident at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and said his thoughts and prayers are with the families affected .“Extremely saddened by the incident in Visakhapatnam. My thoughts and prayers are with the families affected. @AndhraPradeshCM,” Yediyurappa tweeted.Nine people, including a child, were killed and over 100 hospitalised after a major gas leak at a polymer plant in Visakhapatnam in the wee hours of Thursday.The gas leak impacted villages within a five kilometer radius of the plant, according to officials.Former Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas M Veerappa Moily expressing shock over the incident said, “...we find from the report that not much rescue operation has been taken. Emergent measures will have to be taken on a war footing to bring the situation under control. I pray that situation comes under control and all the affected are taken care.” Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, “Sad to know about the tragic gas leak in Visakhapatnam which has taken many lives. We stand in support with the people of Andra Pradesh in this hour of grief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/yediyurappa-expresses-sadness-over-gas-leak-incident-in-vizag/story-w2DTzMgHdJMqOZYDbn4gII.html
07-05-2020||Viral||Parrot ‘asked’ to choose its owner, flies to freedom instead||This is a curious case of an unfaithful parrot who let his master down. The parrot belonged to an inspector and went missing on Tuesday.The inspector Ram Kripal, posted in the PAC, claimed that his neighbour had stolen the parrot and the bird was with the neighbours who claimed that they owned the parrot.When the matter reached the Ashiana police station, the station in-charge, in an Akbar-Birbal style of judgment, said that he would open the cage and the ownership would be decided by the parrot.“The parrot will obviously go to its master,” he told both the claimants.As soon as the station in-charge opened the cage, the parrot without much ado flew out into the open sky embracing its new found independence, while both the claimants returned to their homes disappointed that the bird had disowned them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/parrot-asked-to-choose-its-owner-flies-to-freedom-instead/story-L3tXuTtPWRQPUed2LFDrdK.html
07-05-2020||Lucknow||‘UP’s migrant workers will return home’: Adityanath||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has sought a list on migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh stranded in other states due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown and assured that they will all be brought back home.Adityanath said, till now, 37 trains have arrived in the state carrying over 30,000 migrant labourers.Besides them, last week over 30,000 labourers from Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh arrived in buses, he said, adding that in March last week over 4.5 lakh migrant labourers were brought to Uttar Pradesh.Between March 1 and March 15, two lakh labourers have arrived in the state, the chief minister said, according to an official spokesman.“The Uttar Pradesh government intends to bring back all its migrant labourers from other states and for this district-wise list has been sought from them,” Adityanath said.“From the states, which are giving lists, we are immediately taking measures to bring them (migrants) back,” he said.The chief minister said on Thursday, 20 trains are arriving in Uttar Pradesh from other states with migrant labourers while on Friday 25 to 30 trains will come “Over 10,000 buses of the (UPSRTC) Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation have been deployed to take them to their homes,” he said.He said arrangements for medical examination and quarantine centres have been made for all those coming from other states, and they will be provided food packets and Rs 1,000. The state is also preparing “skilling data” of the labourers so that after they complete home quarantine, they can be given jobs accordingly, Adityanath said.“The capacity of quarantine centres in the state has now gone up to 12 lakh. For check-up of migrant labourers 50,000 medical teams have been constituted,” he said, adding that district administrations have been asked to take care of all those coming from other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-migrant-workers-will-return-home-adityanath/story-SDRVy3ZuUjeisipHADHFnO.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Number of Covid-19 positive cops in Mumbai reaches 250; 27 at one police station||Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh said that around 250 policemen from the city have tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 till date.Singh on Thursday visited Sir JJ Marg police station, which has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Twenty seven of the Covid-19 policemen are reportedly posted here.Other police stations like Dharavi, Wadala and Vakola are among the worst-hit across 94 police stations in the city.Singh also said that most of the infected policemen are asymptomatic and none of them are in the intensive care.So far, three policemen from Mumbai have died of Covid-19.Till Thursday morning, the Maharashtra Police department recorded 531 cases of Covid-19. This includes 250 cases from Mumbai Police. Out of the 531 cases, about 480 are police constables while rest 51 are officers. About 39 have recovered while total five died of the infection.Meanwhile, 40 more people, including undertrial prisoners and jail officials, inside Mumbai’s Arthur Road Prison tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday morning.The came a day after Maharashtra Prisons department reported its first Covid-19 case after a 45-year-old man, facing charges under the Narcotic Drugs and Pyschotropic Substance Act, tested positive for the disease.The Arthur Road Prison, which has a capacity to house 800 prisoners, currently has about 2,700 inmates.The tally in Mumbai, the worst hit city in the country by the coronavirus pandemic, crossed 10,000-mark on Thursday. It reported the highest single-day jump of 769 Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, state health department officials said. The total cases recorded in the city are 10,714.The city accounts for 63.93 per cent of the state’s total infections and 19.20 per cent of nationwide tally. Mumbai’s civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has made a projection of 75,000 cases by the end of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/number-of-covid-19-positive-cops-in-mumbai-reaches-250-27-at-one-police-station/story-XlruHxQWtJOj2VId6ZRcVI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||750 AIDS Control Society employees go on indefinite strike in Punjab||Around 750 staff members of the Punjab AIDS Control Society initiated an indefinite strike across the state on Thursday. The employees have demanded a salary hike and permanent jobs as most of them have been earning a measly Rs 13,000 per month for the last 20 years, said Jasmail Singh, general secretary of the of Punjab AIDS Control Employees Welfare Association (PACEWA). Sixty contractual staff members of the PACEWA staged a protest against the state government outside Ludhiana’s civil hospital. The employees also went up to the civil surgeon’s office and raised slogans against the government.Mahinder Pal, the association’s president said, “Besides being deployed during de-addiction programs, the AIDS Control Society employees are also being assigned frontline duties in Covid-19 units.” Pal said the state government must cover the employees under the state health insurance.He said that the strike will continue till the worker’s demands are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/750-aids-control-society-employees-go-on-indefinite-strike-in-punjab/story-jLBdniYp8J4S7qZkjociVL.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini booked in 29-year-old kidnapping case||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Police have registered a case against their former chief Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991.Saini was the Chandigarh senior superintendent of police at that time. Multani was picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini in Chandigarh in which four cops in his security were killed.The case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on Wednesday evening. A complaint about Multani’s kidnapping was lodged by his brother.A Central Bureau of Investigation probe was initiated in this case against Saini in 2007 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court but it was later quashed by Supreme Court.When contacted, Saini, who is said to be in Delhi, said: “What comments are required when a chief minister joins hands with anti-national elements to settle personal scores for having him booked for corruption?”Saini has been in the crosshairs of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government since the sacrilege cases of 2015 surfaced. He had challenged the Vigilance Bureau’s closure report in the Ludhiana City Centre scam in which Amarinder was an accused. DENIED ENTRY TO HIMACHAL WITHOUT PASSHours after the FIR was registered against Saini and seven other cops at Mataur police station in Mohali district, the former police chief was stopped from entering Himachal Pradesh at the state’s border with Punjab in the wee hours on Thursday as he was not carrying a valid pass for inter-state travel.Bilaspur superintendent of police (SP) Devakar Sharma said that Saini, accompanied by two persons, in a Toyota Innova arrived at the the Gara-Mora inter-state barrier near Swarghat in the district at 4am without a valid entry pass. “When police personnel manning the barrier stopped the vehicle, one of the occupants claimed that he was a former Punjab DGP and was headed to Karsog in Mandi district,” Sharma said. A person accompanying him said that he was an inspector-rank officer, while the other was an assistant sub-inspector.Saini owns an ancestral farmhouse at Karsog.However, the police personnel at the border told the trio that entry was not allowed without a valid pass. “The guard at the barrier then informed Naina Devi deputy superintendent of police (DSP), who eventually informed me,” said Sharma.“Later, the former DGP called me up with a request to allow them to enter the state, which was turned town,” the SP added. (With inputs by Naresh Thakur in Dharamshala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-booked-in-29-year-old-kidnapping-case/story-2j41W3GWIcYcS1bgid1ZHI.html
07-05-2020||Kolkata||TMC lashes out at Union home secretary Bhalla over Indo-Bangla cargo movement issue||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal on Wednesday denied charges levelled by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla that the state government is not allowing movement of essential goods through the Indo- Bangladesh border, and claimed the senior official is “trying to please his political bosses in Delhi”.Accusing the Union government of sending less number of testing kits and “faulty” equipment to the state, the party leaders said that was why the number of tests conducted is low.Senior TMC leader and MP Sougata Roy said, “The central government is playing a political game and is using the services of bureaucrats who are obligated to the political leadership of the central government.” “Otherwise they would have known that state has not objected to the opening of the borders for cargo movement. It had to be stopped because of tremendous local agitation. As we dont believe in using police force, talks have started with the locals so that services can be resumed,” he told PTI.Officials of the Petrapole land port authorities on Tuesday said they are trying to hold talks with local people and the state government in order to resume Indo-Bangladesh trade, which was stopped on May 2 after two days of operation following protests by local people.They had said villagers are afraid that truck drivers and labourers might spread coronavirus infection when they return from Benapole, located on the other side of the border and has been affected by the disease.In a letter to West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha earlier in the day, the Union home secretary slammed the state government for not allowing movement of essential goods through the Indo-Bangladesh border, saying such acts violate the Constitution and will have international implications.The Union home ministry also criticized the West Bengal government over its Covid-19 management in another letter. Referring to the second letter by Bhalla, Roy said the union home secretarys letter has a “subliminal political tilt, which is devoid of facts and figures”. “As far as Covid-19 management is concerned, West Bengal is doing its best. It ranks 10th in terms of infected people. But the Centre is not sending letters to states such as Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, where the number of such people is much higher,” the senior TMC leader said.“If at all there is short of tests, the fault lies entirely with the Centre, which has not only sent less number of kits but those faulty Chinese kits are faulty also. The state government is also doing its best to enforce stricter lockdown,” Roy said.The West Bengal government alleged last month that the Covid-19 testing kits supplied by the NICED, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) nodal agency in the state, were “apparently defective”.The NICED had then withdrawn the consignment of defective Covid-19 testing kits from some of the state-run laboratories in West Bengal. Another senior TMC leader and MP Manas Bhunia claimed that Centre is trying to wash its hands off by constantly blaming the state government. “It was the Centre which had sent less number of kits, and the majority of them are faulty. If you don’t give us kits, how will we conduct tests?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-lashes-out-at-union-home-secretary-bhalla-over-indo-bangla-cargo-movement-issue/story-MAlfgk7Qws0X5gUD7YhGuI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar’s Rs 1800-crore sports industry may not revive after Covid-19 setback, say traders||The district’s sports industry, which was already in doldrums due to increasing price of labour and high tax slabs, has been hit hard by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, so much so that traders believe that it is unlikely that the industry will revive once the situation normalises. Jalandhar’s sports industry once estimated to be worth Rs 1,800 crore, catered to over 55% of the country’s demand, now, with thousands of migrant labourers leaving the city, the future of the industry seems bleak.SHORTAGE OF LABOUR, RAW MATERIALTraders say, at present, Jalandhar’s market share is around 30% as several units have been shut down over the decade due to losses. More units are expected to shut shop as raw material and labour become unavailable and dearer.The industry also exports to the United Kingdom, South Africa, Germany, France, Netherlands, New Zealand, Australia and some other nations.Jalandhar Sports Forum president Ravinder Dhir said now Meerut had become the main sports market of the country as the local government there is supportive of the traders. “Leather and labour are also available at cheaper rates,” he said. FINANCIAL STIMULUS NEEDED“There were around 70 units of leather ball manufacturers before 2010. However, at present, only 10-15 of them are in business,” Dhir said. “The industry will not revive unless a special financial package is not released by the government. People will anyway not purchase sports equipment amid the pandemic,” Dhir said.‘GOVT MUSTN’T LET LABOURERS RETURN’Another trader, Vipan Prinja of Marshall Exports, said all industrialists had taken care of the labours in their employ, and had provided them with essential services and money for past two months. However, as soon as the government allowed us to run the units, they permitted the labourers to return. “In the absence of labour, how can we run our units?” Prinja asked. CAPT APPRISED OF INDUSTRY’S WOESDhir said he had also written to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in this regard on Wednesday.Sports manufacturers say they had little hope for business this year. “The future of the Indian Premier League and Cricket World Cup is under the shadow. Labour, too, is unlikely to return anytime soon. With all national and international borders sealed the industry has been hit hard,” said Vikas Jain of Jainson International.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jalandhar-s-rs-1800-crore-sports-industry-may-not-revive-after-covid-19-setback-say-traders/story-1OscDWfM3AOR2CJUHR9mXL.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Special train for migrant labour to leave Pune for Rewa at 5 pm today||The Central Railway’s special Shramik train for stranded migrant workers will be leave Uruli station near Pune at 5 pm on Thursday for Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, where it will scheduled to arrive at around 11 am on Friday. This will be the first such train from Pune. Rewa is about 400 km northeast of the state capital Bhopal. A notification issued by the Railways Board said the train will run on end-to-end basis and there will be no commercial halt en route. The train will have seating for 1,100 passengers with coach having a capacity of 54. The four general coaches will accommodate a maximum of 40 persons each.A railway official said only registered migrants would be allowed on the train and they will be brought to the state in buses. The government’s nodal officer will purchase the tickets which will be handed over to the passengers after due verification. The passengers will be expected to maintain social distancing norms.On Wednesday, Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram had said that the special train from Pune won’t start from Pune railway station as there would be a huge crowd there and the area comes under the red zone. Alternate stations close to Pune such as Daund, Uruli and Loni were being considered.Pune divisional railway manager (DRM) Renu Sharma said the railways was ready to run the special train on any given day and time. “Once we get the consent and list of passengers from the Pune district administration the special train will run from Pune railway division with all the safety and precautionary measures,” she had said.A senior official from the Pune district administration said that thousands of applications have been received from migrant workers who were eager to travel towards the northern parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-train-for-migrant-labour-to-leave-pune-for-rewa-at-5-pm-today/story-IW9jDSNBeKC1Hrcel787mI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||As part of Haryana’s diversification drive, farmers opting for non-paddy crops to get Rs 7,000 per acre||CHANDIGARH: In its first firm crop diversification push, the Haryana government has decided to buy maize and pulses at the minimum support price (MSP).This was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar while launching the ambitious Mera Pani Meri Virasat scheme during his address on the Haryana Aaj programme on Wednesday evening.Appealing to farmers to save water, Khattar said, “Under the Mera Pani-Meri Virasat scheme, farmers switching over to an alternative crop in place of paddy during this season will be given an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre.”The crop diversification drive of the BJP-JJP coalition government comes ahead of the paddy transplantation season that begins on June 15. Haryana produces near 68 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of paddy, including over 25 LMT of basmati.The land under paddy transplantation across the state is about 32 lakh acres.In one acre, about 30 quintal paddy (parmal) is produced and a farmer earns around Rs 30,000 per acre after excluding the input cost that is over Rs 20,000 per acre.Haryana’s agricultural production programmes have been determined by the need for national food security. The Centre gives a remunerative price, leading to certainty among farmers for marketing for paddy. Because of the assured marketing of the paddy under MSP even non-rice producing areas have taken up paddy production on a large scale.The cultivation of paddy has contributed to the degradation of natural resources such as water and soil. The groundwater table of Haryana has been declining steadily.36 BLOCKS IN DARK ZONEAccording to Khattar, 36 blocks of the state have become dark zones where the ground level water depletion rate has doubled in 12 years. It means that where the ground water level was earlier at 20 metres, it has now depleted to 40 metres.There are 19 such blocks, where the water depth has exceeded 40 metres. However, out of these 19, there are 11 blocks in which paddy is not sown.Eight paddy-rich blocks, including Ratia, Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad and Sirsa, where the depth of groundwater level exceeds 40 metres, would be included in this scheme.The land under the panchayat having ground water depth of more than 35 metres will not get permission to sow paddy. However, the incentive amount will be given to the panchayat only.Apart from these blocks, if the farmers of the remaining blocks also want to stop sowing paddy, they can apply for the incentive amount by giving information in advance.80% SUBSIDY FOR MICRO-IRRIGATIONKhattar has urged the farmers to make up their minds to sow crops which require less water than paddy, such as maize, arhar, urad, guar, cotton, bajra, til and grishm moong (Baisakhi moong), to ensure the availability of water for future generations.The state government is giving 80% subsidy to the farmers who have adopted micro-irrigation and drip irrigation system along with growing alternative crops in place of paddy.Khattar has appealed to the farmers of the state to promote water conservation and save water for future generations in the same way they leave their land as inheritance for their coming generations. AT A GLANCERice procured from Haryana for Central pool (in lakh metric tonnes)2015-16: 292016-17: 362017-18: 402018-19: 402019-20: 43||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-part-of-haryana-s-diversification-drive-farmers-opting-for-non-paddy-crops-to-get-rs-7-000-per-acre/story-irJV2KBr7kffiMe31CrQuO.html
07-05-2020||Lucknow||KGMU staff against using limb centre building for Covid-19 patients||King George’s Medical University (KGMU) task force on coronavirus has proposed to use the rehabilitation and artificial limb centre (RALC) building for Covid-19 patients, but the staff have opposed the move.“If this building is dedicated to Covid-19 patients, three departments will be affected – orthopaedic, RALC and rheumatology. About 40% of the patients injured in accidents need orthopaedic treatment. This building is the only one in the state providing artificial limbs and also running PG (postgraduate) course,” said Arvind Nigam, secretary of the orthotics and prosthetics association, UP chapter, and former incharge of the workshop in the department.The medical university is currently running an isolation facility in its infectious disease department building but is looking at the option to dedicate more beds for Covid-19 patients.Prof SN Sankhwar, chief medical superintendent of KGMU, said, “We are coordinating with HoDs of the department that run in the building. The facility will come up in a way that does not harm patient care.”The building has 300 points for oxygen supply and the medical university is planning to set up 200 beds for the isolation facility, according to those in the know of things. Oxygen supply will be maintained with the help of large cylinders. “The building is expected to be ready in the next two weeks,” said Prof Sandip Tiwari, head of the department of trauma surgery. He is looking after oxygen supply on the campus.The staff members, however, said the isolation facility should be set up away from residential areas. “The best option will be to make an isolation facility take some big college outside the city,” said a staff of the RALC.A 14-member committee was also formed to decide how the building will be utilised for coronavirus patients. The employee teachers’ joint front has written a letter to the principal secretary, medical education, to review the proposal by KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kgmu-staff-against-using-limb-centre-building-for-covid-19-patients/story-b7EOTUr25THSfS3xx2cuKL.html
07-05-2020||Bhopal||Lockdown 3.0: 15 people detained for gathering at Indore temple||Madhya Pradesh Police on Wednesday detained 15 people for gathering at Narsingh Temple in Indore to offer prayers amid lockdown.“The 15 people had given me a letter saying that they will perform aarti in the Narsingh Temple. However, we had told them that it is not allowed due to the lockdown norms,” said Sarafa Police Station In-charge.According to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, no religious congregation is allowed amid the lockdown.Meanwhile, Indore reported as many as 18 more people in Indore have confirmed Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, taking the total count to 1,699.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/lockdown-3-0-15-people-detained-for-gathering-at-indore-temple/story-EWgUfsPVleha4biM5sd1BP.html
07-05-2020||Lifestyle||Buddha Purnima 2020: Acts of compassion to mark festive celebrations in Delhi-NCR||Compassion has no language. And when it’s an occasion like the birth celebration of a revered one, then what could be a better way to celebrate by giving back to the society. On Buddha Purnima, today, youngsters in Delhi-NCR who follow Buddhism, have decided to celebrate the occasion by distributing food and other essential commodities among the daily wagers and labourers. “Me and my friends have bought dry rations to be distributed to the needy. We feel that it’s the best way to celebrate this festival, by helping others amid the ongoing lockdown... Help is what is truly needed right now,” says Akshita Sahai, a Delhi University student. A number of city dwellers have also planned a special treat for the strays in their locality. Arnab Halder, a teacher assistant at an NGO and an animal lover, says, “I love to meditate and chant, but this Buddha Purnima, I’m cooking special treats for all the stray dogs in my colony. I’m an animal lover and wanted to do something special for the animals in my city.” Those who used to celebrate this day traditionally, say that they have planned to not to miss the same, and will yet maintain social distancing. “This used to be a big festival for us. But, amid the lockdown we can’t go and pray at our monastery. That’s why I’ll be connecting with my Buddhist teacher over a video call, for a meditation session,” says Anamika Shrivatsav, a student of a Noida-based private university. Monasteries in Delhi have also planned to light up lamps and pray for this pandemic to end. Thinlay Namgyal, an office secretary of an NGO Karmapa International Buddhist Society, says, “There will be vast lamp lighting with aspirational prayers for the entire world during these challenging times. We will pray for peace and well-being to prevail.” Follow @htdelhi for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/buddha-purnima-2020-acts-of-compassion-to-mark-festive-celebrations-in-delhi-ncr/story-fo95tYbX6K4rq43VTQnZnO.html
07-05-2020||City||Four special trains for migrants from Ludhiana on May 7||As many as four special trains will depart from Ludhiana to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.Confirming the details, Ludhiana police uploaded the details on their Facebook page. The post read, “It is planned that on May 7 four trains will go from Ludhiana. One train each to Purnia (Bihar), Amethi (UP), Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh) and Gorakhpur (UP) .”“The persons going in these trains are being sent SMS. Please do not come to Ludhiana railway station if you have not received SMS,” said police chief Rakesh Agrawal, adding that buses will receive the migrants, who have received messages at the pick-up points and bring them to the railway station after medical screening.He said at least 12 trains will run daily from Ludhiana from Friday onwards. As many as 5 lakh migrants in the district have registered on the Punjab helpline portal for help in returning to their home states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-special-trains-for-migrants-from-ludhiana-on-may-7/story-dS7S2MLuMqJKcKLAJy1DpI.html
07-05-2020||City||Two groups clash in Ambernath with swords, 4 injured||Four people were injured after two rival groups clashed with each other at Shastri Nagar in Ambernath on Tuesday.The men, armed with swords, attacked the rival group, alleging they have given information to the police about them. The police said the two groups have enmity for years and have seven cases registered against them. After Tuesday’s clash, both groups registered complaints against each other.Assistant police commissioner S Narale said, “On Tuesday, the two groups fought alleging that they have tipped-off the police about each other’s activities. They attacked each other with swords and four are injured. They were admitted to Central hospital in Ulhasnagar.”Ambernath police have registered two cases under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code against 30 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-groups-clash-in-ambernath-with-swords-4-injured/story-986Hsq62ozJoBGhqdnMV7M.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||With 428 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi witnesses highest single-day spike||The number of novel coronavirus infections in Delhi mounted to 5,532 on Wednesday after 428 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, the biggest single-day spike so far, the government said.The death toll due to the Covid-19 pandemic rose to 65 with a fatality after a gap of three days, according to the Delhi government.As many as 1,542 patients have recovered so far, while there are 3,925 active cases, the Health Department said, adding that 84 patients were in the ICU and 12 on ventilators.In the last 24 hours, 428 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Delhi, taking the tally to 5,532, it said. This is by far the largest single-day spike in coronavirus infections in Delhi. The previous highest jump was 427 on May 3.The number of containment zones in Delhi have reduced to 88, the department said.A total of 71,934 Covid-19 tests have been conducted till date. The number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation stands at 695, it said.Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that the coronavirus cases were now doubling in 11 days, which was earlier 13 days. “It is so because lot of pending reports were there whose results have now come out,” he said.Jain also visited the newly-constructed hospital at Burari with the health secretary and other officers of the department, with an aim to initially start this hospital as a 450-bed Covid-19 care centre, the bulletin said.Out of the total 5,532 cases recorded so far, at least 1,299 are admitted at various hospitals like the LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and AIIMS Jhajjhar, it said.An order has been issued on the standard operating procedure for shifting asymptomatic or mild symptomatic Covid-19 patients from hospitals to care centres, and shifting of moderately or severely-affected patients from the care centres to hospitals, the bulletin said.According to the statement, an order has been issued on guidelines for effective tracking and monitoring of people, who are suspected to be infected with Covid-19 and getting themselves tested at various accredited labs across Delhi.An order has also been issued regarding mobilisation of district teams to ensure timely action and proper follow up of cases under home isolation, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-428-new-covid-19-cases-delhi-witnesses-highest-single-day-spike/story-dadTh7k96YN6ntqsu5owkJ.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||MCA secretary, 3 others booked for opposing burial of Covid victim in Bandra||Bandra police have booked Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) secretary, Sanjay Naik and his three associates for allegedly opposing the burial of a 45-year-old man who died on Tuesday. The person was tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at Jaslok Hospital, said Bandra police officials.“When they were burying the body, Sanjay Naik and his three associates came to the cemetery, they had also called several others and opposed the burial. They argued with BMC officials and even threatened the relatives,” said a police officer.Bandra police officers said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had permitted to bury Covid patient in the cemetery at Bandra (East). But, there was a dispute on the BMC’s order, and locals had approached the high court which upheld the BMC order. Even the Supreme Court had refused to interfere with the high court order.However, on Tuesday, when BMC officials and relatives took the body to Navapada Kokani Kabristan in Bandra (West) for burial, they were opposed by Naik, said police.The accused Naik, 50, and his three associates Muzaffar Jarif Khan, Yunus Muzaffar Khan and Akbar Jarif Khan and have been booked under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease that is dangerous to life) 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Naik, however, has denied the allegations. “We did not stop anybody. We have been booked falsely. The people who came for burial had permission for another cemetery in Bandra (East), but they came to Bandra (West). We went there to see what they were doing and police were also present there,” he said.Nikhil Kapse, senior police inspector at Bandra police station, did not respond to calls or messages.The Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with the April 27 order of Bombay high court directing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to remove locks put up by some locals’ residents on the gates of three connected cemeteries at Bandra West and make them available for burial of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mca-secretary-3-others-booked-for-opposing-burial-of-covid-victim-in-bandra/story-vaYcHlfrertOQuYbptTh1J.html
07-05-2020||City||Industry in designated focal points can run operations without curfew pass: Ludhiana admn||In a major relief for the industry in designated focal points and shopkeepers selling essential commodities, the district administration on Wednesday lifted the restriction of securing curfew passes to operate these units. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said permission had been granted to operate industry without passes, but an industrialist will have to submit a self-declaration with the department and he will strictly adhere to the Covid-19 management guidelines.The relaxation has also been extended to private offices, with a rider that no such office will allow more than 33% staff.The labourers and workers of these industrial units will be allowed to commute on the passes issued by their employer, while the staff of shops dealing in essential items have been asked to carry personal ID cards or any document of the shop. The movement of industrial labourers is allowed from 7am to 9am and 5pm to 7pm, while the shop workers are allowed to commute from 8am to 9am and 6pm to 7pm.As per the District Industries Centre (DIC) officials, industrialists have already availed of permission to run over 5,000 factories in the district and from now on, no permission is required for operating these units.As per the district administration directives, rural shops have been allowed to operate between 7am and 3 pm; urban standalone shops, neighbourhood shops from 7am to 3pm; shops selling essential goods in urban areas from 7am to 3pm and shopkeepers can deliver essentials from 3pm to 7pm. For construction in rural areas and urban areas (for ongoing projects and for in situ construction), the owners will have to submit a self-declaration at acgludhiana@gmail.com.Agricultural, horticulture and veterinary services, courier and postal services can remain open between 9am and 1am. Banks can be opened from 9am to 5pm but no public dealing will be allowed after 1pm.The residents have been allowed to fetch essential items from 7am to 3pm, but they will have to move on foot. They have been prohibited from using vehicles and e-pass is mandatory for using personal transport.INDUSTRY WANTS PERMISSION FOR MIXED LAND USE AREASThe industry has welcomed the move, however, it reiterated its demand for permission to operate in mixed land use areas.Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association (JNSSMA) president Jaswinder Thukral, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) president Upkar Ahuja and United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) president DS Chawla said thousands of micro and small units were located in mixed land use areas, and industrial units in designated areas cannot survive without its vendors, who mostly operated from these areas.“The large industry will not be able to survive for more than a week without its vendors as most of the products are manufactured in mixed land use areas,” said Thukral.‘ALLOW TEXTILE INDUSTRY TO OPERATE IN NIGHT’The Federation of All India Textile Manufacturers’ Associations (FAITMA), Ludhiana, has demanded that the administration allow the textile industry to operate between 8pm and 7am.President of the association, Tarun Jain Bawa, said this will reduce the rush in the market during the day and will also bring the industry back on track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/industry-in-designated-focal-points-can-run-operations-without-curfew-pass-ludhiana-admn/story-gSLBbHaDlsYeyaEEh3mb2K.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: ED files charge sheet against Rana Kapoor and family||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet in connection with the YES Bank fraud against the bank’s former chief operating officer and managing director Rana Kapoor, his wife and daughters before a special PMLA court in Mumbai on Wednesday.ED sources said the charge sheet is filed against Kapoor, his wife Bindu, and daughters Rakhee, Roshni and Radha along with entities allegedly associated with them – Morgan Credits, RAB Enterprises (India) Private Limited and Yes Capital India Private Limited.The central agency, which probes financial crimes, filed the charge sheet before the special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), on Wednesday.ED has pegged the total amount of the fraud at around ₹5,050 crores and have put 168 bank accounts under scrutiny. The probing agency has provisionally attached 59 paintings, including a portrait of Rajiv Gandhi by MF Husain, which were seized during the raids.After special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves submitted the charge sheet before the court, Kapoor’s counsel Subash Jadhav requested the court to provide a copy of the same to the accused, which the court allowed.The charge sheet comprises statements of key Yes Bank management officials. The agency had begun investigation based on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case for alleged sham transaction between Yes Bank and Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL).The agency claimed that Yes Bank bought debentures worth ₹3,700 crore of DHFL, and in return, DHFL sanctioned a ₹600-crore loan without adequate collateral to Doit Urban Ventures Pvt Ltd where Kapoor’s daughters are directors.The agency claimed that during his tenure, Kapoor was instrumental in sanctioning loans worth ₹30,000 crore, of which ₹20,000 crore has turned into non-performing assets (NPAs). Kapoor is also accused of accepting illegal gratification for granting loans.Kapoor, along with his family members, is under investigation for suspected money laundering through several shell companies. He is also under probe for his alleged role in the loan scam which led to a moratorium on the bank by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). He was arrested on March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-rana-kapoor-and-family/story-ceocTHi3Fh110ZM3OwebrJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Tata’s contract to be scrapped if LED lights not repaired by May 15: Ludhiana mayor||With over 50% of the LED streetlights in the city lying non-functional, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has warned Tata company that its contract will be terminated if the lights were not repaired by May 15.The mayor gave this warning during a meeting with the company officials at MC’s Zone D office on Wednesday. The meeting was also attended by municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar, chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) Sanyam Agarwal and councillors Jai Prakash and Mamta Ashu.Sandhu told the company officials that residents and councillors were continuously complaining about non-functional streetlights in their respective areas.“I also conducted a field survey on Tuesday night and found that lights were not functional even outside my camp office and the MC commissioner’s residence, which shows inefficient working of the company. If the company fails to repair the lights by May 15, I will call a special House meeting and pass a resolution to terminate the contract,” the mayor said.MC TO PURCHASE SANITISERS, GLOVESSenior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said a meeting of the purchase committee had decided to buy 10,000 gloves and sanitisers for its employees at government-approved rates. Earlier also, the MC had purchased 16,000 gloves for its field employees.NGO SANJHI SOCH DONATES 10,000 MASKSNGO Sanjhi Soch, led by its president Poonam Arora, donated 10,000 masks to the MC in the presence of MC commissioner Kanwapreet Kaur Brar at MC’s Zone D office on Wednesday. In an appreciation letter written to the NGO, Brar said the masks will help the field employees keep themselves safe from coronavirus. The MC has also sought help from the NGO in arranging 6,000 masks for its employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tata-s-contract-to-be-scrapped-if-led-lights-not-repaired-by-may-15-ludhiana-mayor/story-50PLIYZwfaJehabxP5fmnL.html
07-05-2020||City||SAD leader, woman hurt in firing at cremation ground in Ludhiana||Two persons, including a local Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader, suffered bullet injuries on their legs following a brawl at the cremation ground in Qadian village, Salem Tabri , on Wednesday evening. The injured were rushed to hospitals, where their condition is stated to be stable. The incident occurred when a woman claiming to be the wife of former market committee chairman Hardeep Singh, who died on Wednesday, turned up at the cremation site, along with her son and relative. When the family members of the deceased asked them to leave, they insisted to stay, claiming to be his family members and sharing their desire to pay respect to the deceased. However, the son and grandson of the deceased opened fire at the trio. According to eyewitnesses, as many as 15 bullets were fired. Son of the woman, who claimed herself to be wife of the deceased, and Kiranjeet Kaur, a local SAD leader, who had come to attend the cremation, suffered bullet injuries.Salem Tabri station house officer (SHO) inspector Kanwaljit Singh said the police were investigating the case and appropriate action will be taken after recording statements of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/local-sad-leader-among-two-hurt-in-firing-at-cremation-ground-in-ludhiana/story-qjjeTafBZBCuwjbamebbeN.html
07-05-2020||City||Ludhiana labourer held for raping seven-year-old daughter of neighbour||The Focal Point police have arrested a labourer for allegedly raping his neighbour’s seven-year-old daughter.Inspector Mohammad Jameel, SHO at Focal Point police station, said the accused was identified as Umesh Kumar, 27.The victim’s father complained that on Wednesday afternoon, his daughter went on the terrace from the ground floor of the quarters where they reside. “The accused, who lives on the first floor of the labour quarters, lured her to his one-room rented accommodation on the pretext of showing an animated movie to her on his smartphone and then raped her,” a police official, privy to the case, said.“The complainant also said Kumar threatened his daughter to stay mum, but she came downstairs and narrated the incident to her mother,” police said, adding that following this, her family members and other residents of the labour quarters nabbed Kumar and handed him over to the police.The accused was booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-labourer-held-for-raping-seven-year-old-daughter-of-neighbour/story-nZ2nasWox37bzSUwvCU1QM.html
07-05-2020||City||Ludhiana industry hails Karnataka decision not to allow labourers to leave the state||Hailing the Karnataka government’s decision to cancel inter-state trains to stop the migrant labourers from leaving the state, the local industry has also urged the Punjab government to make efforts to do so, otherwise the industry will not be able to survive post-lockdown.Industrialists complained that the exodus of labourers will lead to a “forced lockdown” for the industry and they will not be able to run in the times to come due to unavailability of workforce. So far, over 10 lakh labourers have registered themselves to leave for their home states, including over 5 lakh from Ludhiana, an industrial hub.Industrialists also urged political parties not to play politics over the issue and stop the labourers from leaving the state.President of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “It is unfortunate for the industry that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is allowing workers to move out. Industry will not be able to recover itself this way.”Kular added that the government should not start trains for migrant labourers for at least 45 days after the lockdown.President of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) DS Chawla said, “Immediate steps should be taken to stop the labourers from leaving, and political parties should also not make it an issue. It is ironical that, on the one hand, the government is encouraging the industry to commence operations and on the other hand, it is allowing the labourers to return home. How will the industries run without workers?”“The government should take steps to retain the workforce, otherwise the industry, already facing an uncertain future, will suffer a lot,” said president of the Knitwear and Textile Club Vinod Thapar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industry-hails-karnataka-decision-not-to-allow-labourers-to-leave-the-state/story-VGJ5ffyOkUNQoOGeZi4VjJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Cop’s mother found dead in Amritsar, robbery suspected||A 47-year-old woman was found dead with her throat slit at her residence in Sandhu Colony here on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Sarabjit Kaur, mother of constable Gurkirat Singh who is posted at Gharinda police station.The incident came to light at around 8 pm when Gurkirat returned home from his duty. He found his mother dead and everything in the house scattered all around, police said. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-north) Sarabjit Singh said the preliminary investigation suggested that it was a case of robbery.He said some gold ornaments and cash were stolen from the house. The ACP said the woman was alone at her home when the incident occurred. “Both Gurkirat and his mother had been living in the house. Gurkirat’s younger brother lives in Canada,” he added.Police said they were collecting the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to ascertain the identity of the accused. A case under charges of murder (Section 302) and robbery was registered at the sadar police station in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-s-mother-found-dead-in-amritsar-robbery-suspected/story-UkJ8aU1kVDSiKBPBXMfACL.html
07-05-2020||City||Educational institutions in Ludhiana can open for office work with 33% staff||In line with the orders of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), deputy Ludhiana commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal has allowed educational institutions to remain open for office work with 33% staff from Thursday.As per the orders, books can be distributed among parents to help students attend classes online. The school principals have decided to ask office staff and Class 4 employees to report on rotational basis. The staff has been instructed to follow all guidelines under the national directives for Covid-19 management which, include wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and washing or sanitising hands. The staff has also been asked to keep a copy of the notification issued by the district administration in their mobile phones and carry their school identity cards with them.Principal of Guru Nanak Public School, Model Town Extension, Mona Singh, said, “We have asked all employees to take all necessary precautions. A proper schedule will be prepared for parents to visit the school and collect books.”“The school building has been sanitised on Wednesday and the administrative staff and Class 4 employees will come on rotational basis from Thursday. We will make proper arrangements for the parents to collect books for their wards,” said Harmeet Kaur Waraich, principal of Nankana Sahib Public School.Arya College principal Savita Uppal said a few employees had been asked to report on Thuesday, while teachers had been asked to continue with online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/educational-institutions-in-ludhiana-can-open-for-office-work-with-33-staff/story-fx0Xg5MJFtvxaxeTGCrAcJ.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B develops way to detect asymptomatic Covid patients||A multi-institute research team led by the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B) has developed a new testing protocol that could help identify asymptomatic carriers of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19.The 28-member team comprises researchers from IIT-B, National Centre for Biological Sciences, InStem, Harvard University, Harvard Medical School, SASTRA University and the Mumbai-based start-up, Shop101. Tapestry, the new testing method, is described as “a single-round smart pooling technique for Covid-19 testing”. With Tapestry, one swab sample is sent to three pools. If a sample tests positive, samples in the remaining two pools will also test positive. Tapestry has been validated through laboratory experiments with synthetic RNA and DNA fragments. Results have been confirmed using computer simulation.“The algorithm describes a novel way to pool samples and test in a single step, thereby conserving resources and increasing testing capacity by increasing throughput,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, who was not involved in the study and is a pulmonologist at PD Hinduja Hospital in Mahim.The researchers believe Tapestry could help identify asymptomatic carriers of the virus. “The peculiarity we are seeing with Covid-19 is asymptomatic individuals are carriers and can spread the virus. The only way to combat this is either you put everyone under lockdown or test everyone; neither of which are desirable options. One option is to test as many as possible in a cost-effective way, and one way to do it is by pooling samples,” said Manoj Gopalkrishnan, principal investigator and associate professor, department of electrical engineering, IIT-B.Tapestry’s method is unlike the technique of pooling samples approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), which requires at least multiple rounds of testing if a sample from a pool tests positive. Each round of testing takes four hours.Pooling test samples based on ICMR norms involves placing a mixture of five different swab samples in a pool, extracting the virus ribonucleic acid (RNA) and conducting a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test that spans four hours at one go. A positive pool indicates that at least one person is infected but the individual’s identity is not known. What follows is retesting and separately extracting virus RNA from each of the five samples from the pool.“Pooling is a good method and should be deployed more widely. But two rounds of pooling takes eight hours. Our protocol can test 1,000 people in 100 tests and recover up to 10 positives,” said Gopalkrishnan, adding that the single-round pooling technique allows for more extensive testing, which would help identify asymptomatic carriers. “For instance, medical staff, police personnel, delivery personnel, residents in high-density locations or organisations that want to bring employees back can undergo pool testing every day or at least once in two or three days,” said Gopalkrishnan.The team has also developed an app where laboratory technicians can enter the viral load seen in the test. The algorithm, deployed on the cloud, will then make the calculations and give the test results. Once permissions come through and clinical trials are successful, the team will approach the ICMR to consider deploying Tapestry in testing centres as well as other institutions such as hospitals and airports.“Tapestry needs to be validated on clinical specimens, in which the quantum of RNA extracted from each nasopharyngeal swab, pre-test probability, prevalence will all vary across different states/cities,” said Pinto.In the second phase, the team plans to undertake clinical trials at five testing centres across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-develops-way-to-detect-asymptomatic-covid-patients/story-MAZYeTlgcg1qqMpiRfsKkN.html
07-05-2020||Lucknow||Senior member of Tablighi Jamat dies in Jaunpur||Senior member of Tablighi Jamat and Jaunpur area chief of the outfit Nasim Ahamd (65) died of illness in Jaunpur in the wee hours on Wednesday, said a senior official of the Jaunpur administration, adding that Nasim had been suffering from heart disease. However, the body was sent for post mortem examination.The officer, who did not wish to be named, said that on April 2 a case was registered against Nasim for giving shelter to 16 Tablighi Jamat members, including 14 Bangladeshi nationals, who returned to Jaunpur in the last week of March after attending the Jamat event in Delhi. All 16 Jamatis, including the 14 Bangladeshis, were caught in a house in Lal Darwaja area of Jaunpur city on March 29. They were kept in a quarantine centre. Later, their samples were tested and two of the 16 were found positive for corona virus in the first week of April.The officer added that Nasim was arrested on April 2 after police registered the case on charges of giving shelter Bangladeshi nationals and hiding information about Jamatis present in the city. Nasim reportedly helped arrange a rented house for the Jamatis.The officer added that after being arrested on April 2, Naseem was kept in a quarantine centre in Jaunpur for 14 days. Thereafter he was shifted to a temporary jail on April 17. A week ago, he took ill and was shifted to the district hospital from where he was referred to the BHU. After his condition improved, he was again shifted to the temporary jail two days ago.During the wee hours on Wednesday at around 1.30am, Nasim took ill again and he was immediately rushed to the district hospital where doctors examined him and declared him dead. His kin reached the district hospital on getting information.Sub divisional magistrate and superintendent of temporary jail Nitish Kumar Singh said that Nasim was suffering from heart disease. The exact cause of death would be clear from his post mortem examination report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/senior-member-of-tablighi-jamat-dies-in-jaunpur/story-U8HnfajfSVSSSe06rkzCqI.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||No FIRs against doctors: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided not to go ahead with its plans to prosecute doctors prescribing Covid-19 tests to people without physical examination. The Union health ministry’s guidelines for Covid-19 testing, issued on March 21, stated: “Laboratory test should only be offered when prescribed by a qualified physician as per the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines.”But the BMC has found out that some doctors are violating the guidelines by providing prescriptions for tests without physical examination. Recently, a doctor from Delhi prescribed Covid test to a resident of Mumbai. The private laboratory informed BMC officers, who after investigation found out the doctor didn’t even check the suspected patient physically. “It is important to examine the person physically to check if the suspected patient has any breathing problem or fever. Just because a person is anxious and wants to undergo a test, it should not be allowed by wrongfully prescribing a test,” said a ward officer who is aware of the development. Taking note of it, BMC decided to file FIRs against doctors indulging in malpractice by violating the rules of the state and Centre. A sample form available with HT indicated BMC wanted to charge doctors under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant) and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The document reads: “With reference to above subject matter, Dr (name) has placed requisition for Covid-19 test to (name) laboratory without physical examination of (name) patient, which is in violation of Covid-19 guidelines issued by MCGM/Government of Maharashtra/ICMR.”“Earlier, we planned to start filing FIRs against the doctors. But later, we held a meeting with private practitioners and decided to put the decision on hold. However, we are going to take stringent action against doctors if they are found issuing fake prescriptions,” said Manish Valaniu, L ward officer. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said it would have demotivated doctors from practising. “Despite having no personal protective equipment (PPE), we are screening and treating patients. We aren’t some local criminals for FIRs to be filed against us. It would have been too harsh to arrest doctors during the ongoing pandemic,” he said. He also suggested that doctors shouldn’t prescribe test without examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-firs-against-doctors-bmc/story-6VyxkRnAc8xtQAersoxxDO.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha sees record 24-hour spike of 1,233 infections||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day jump of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases with 1,233 infections, taking the tally to 16,758. It also recorded 34 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 651. Maharashtra’s doubling rate currently stands at 10 days, as it crossed the 8,000-mark on April 26.Of the new cases, Mumbai recorded 769 Covid-19 cases, taking the state capital’s tally to 10,714. Of the deaths registered on Wednesday, 25 were in Mumbai, three each in Pune and Akola, and one each in Jalgaon and Solapur. A resident of Uttar Pradesh died in Mumbai. The toll in Mumbai is now 412.Mumbai alone accounts for 63.93% of the cases in the state and therefore the state government is focusing on strengthening medical infrastructure in view of a likely spike in the number of cases. As per one of the several projections of the Central government (and going by the current doubling rate of 10 days), Mumbai could see around 29,000 cases by mid-May.According to a senior bureaucrat, the Centre had projected a spike in mid-May and by the end of the month. Therefore the state is acting to make the necessary arrangements. The official said that the state is ramping up the number of intensive care unit (ICU) beds and ordering around 15,000 private doctors in Mumbai to go on Covid-19 duty.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray interacted with Central agencies, including the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Ministry of Railways and Mumbai Port Trust, on the matter of availability of their hospitals in Mumbai, Pune and other major cities as “part of preparedness”.“As part of the planning, the State Government has requested hospitals, institutions & buildings under the management of the Railways, Mumbai Port Trust, Indian Army, Navy and other Central Gov. undertakings to make their facilities available across Maharashtra. This is to make sure there is availability of ICU beds & isolation centres as a part of preparedness,” the chief minister’s office tweeted.State health minister Rajesh Tope held a meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on the preparation and planning related to the pandemic. Tope said that the state has issued a notification, making it mandatory for private doctors in Mumbai to report to hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“The decision on private doctors was taken, considering the demand in the coming day. Currently, as per the Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER), there are about 15,000 doctors in Mumbai who are at home. I appeal to private doctors that the state needs you now and they should participate in this work. The services of the doctors would primarily be for Mumbai. If needed, their services can be used elsewhere as well,” Tope told reporters on Wednesday.The state government has asked private doctors who are below age of 55 and ones without comorbidity to report with immediate effect to Covid-19 dedicated hospitals for treatment of patients, the minister said. Failure to report to the hospital will lead to their medical license being revoked. The government has invoked the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, and Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act to issue the above-mentioned order.The minister added that outside Mumbai, private doctors should start their practices and assured that the state would provide them Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits through district collectors if required.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has raised concerns as 34 out of the 36 districts in Maharashtra have Covid-19 cases. He later spoke to the chief minister and assured all help required to keep the number of cases in check. Tope, in the meeting with the Union minister, also took up the issue of making hospitals under the Central agencies available to Maharashtra. The patients who have tested positive and are asymptomatic can be kept in train coaches that are repurposed as isolation wards by the Indian Railways. “We have sought the availability of hospitals from Central agencies. During the meeting, the Union minister said that the Army and Navy hospitals should be kept as a last resort. For now, he would speak to the Railways [for its facilities],” he said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is looking at reviewing its guidelines for discharge of asymptomatic patients by reducing the period they have to be kept in hospital from 14 days to seven days. “We are awaiting new guidelines from the ICMR. They would reduce the period from 14 days to seven. Besides the number of tests required before discharging them from the hospital may also be reduced from two tests to one,” the minister said. The move would also help make more hospital beds available in hospitals.Maharashtra, which has 54 testing laboratories including 24 private labs, has so far tested 1,90,879 samples. Out of which, 1,73,838 have tested negative. “Daily we are testing around 8,000 to 10,000 samples. Maharashtra is number one in the count for tests per million. Due to all these reasons, too, we are seeing more cases,” Tope said.The mortality rate in the state has gone under 4%, even as the toll continues to rise. The number of patients discharged has crossed 3,000-mark on Wednesday with 275 people recovered. Mumbai civic chief Praveen Pardeshi gave a presentation on the preparedness plan for Mumbai, while Dr Sanjay Oak, under whom a taskforce has been set up to tackle coronavirus-related deaths, made a presentation on the treatment protocol for critical patients during the cabinet meeting held on Wednesday evening in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-record-24-hour-spike-of-1-233-infections/story-VN4gZx64R59Mbe1vxkiWSN.html
07-05-2020||Lucknow||Like Muslims, Dalit group to also give ‘zakat’ to help migrants this Ramzan||A group of professionals from the Dalit community have announced to adopt the Islamic way of earmarking ‘zakat’ (charity) from their earnings and using it for the welfare of the lesser fortunate members of their society.Under the ‘Dalit Zakat’ initiative, these professionals, bureaucrats and businessmen, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, will compulsorily donate a small percentage of the income and used the sum for assisting the economically weak members of the community during the nationwide lockdown.“Our group was launched way back in 2003 and we have been assisting talented youths from our community in pursuing higher education. With Ramzan underway, and lockdown in place, we have decided to mobilize the resources to assist the poor members of the community, particularly the migrants,” said J Ram, a retired bureaucrat and the brain behind Bhartiya Dalit Zakat Foundation.“Before the start of the holy month of Ramzan, the Muslim religious organisations and clerics have called upon the members of their community to assist the poor during the nationwide lockdown with giving a small percentage of their surplus wealth as ‘zakat’ to the needy. Taking a cue, we have also decided to assist people in raising money, running kitchen and providing medical assistance to the deprived members of our community,” he said while claiming that the members of the Dalit Zakat foundation are spread across the state.“Due to lockdown we cannot hold meetings as majority of the members are following the Covid-19 guideline issued by the government by staying in their respective homes. We are using technology to raise the fund, transfer the money into account, contacting each other on the mobile to locate the needy and to hand over the money,” he said.Majority of the migrants returning home are from the Dalit and the backward community.“With limited resources, we know that it is not possible to assist all but we are zeroing in on the extremely poor, deprived and marginalized people in the rural and urban areas of the state. Large numbers of the Dalit students are facing hardship after their parents’ lost job. The Dalit Zakat Foundation has supported the talented students in pursuing the higher education. Several of them are employed they have also joined hand in donating a portion of their earning,” he said.The organisation has also launched Ramabai Ambedkar Uthan Samiti to assist the women in developing vocational skills.“We have already enrolled 300 Dalit women. They will learn tailoring skill to earn extra money for the family. We are planning to launch more such schemes for women to make them self-reliant. We have urged the members of the community to contribute from their saving to assist in the empowerment of the women,” said an office-bearer of the Dalit Zakat Foundation, SP Kureel.He said that not many are aware of the fact that Gautam Buddha was first to propagate the idea of alms giving. He called upon his followers to donate a part of their earning to the deprived.During diksha (initiation) to Buddhism at Nagpur on October 15, 1956, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar spoke on the uplift of the Dalit community members. “Ambedkar called upon his followers to donate five percent of their earning as done by the Muslims for the social, religious and economic emancipation of the members of the community,” Kureel said while insisting that their organisation was apolitical.A group of students staying in Ambedkar Hostel in Gorakhpur have also adopted the principles of Zakat to run community kitchen for supplying food packets to the poor members of the community stuck in city in lockdown.“Along with contributing fund from savings, students have called upon the well-off among the community to contribute edible items or money to run the kitchen,” said Vinod Gautam, a student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/like-muslims-dalit-group-to-also-give-zakat-to-help-migrants-this-ramzan/story-wEKcoKTE33pIc2gwdq0lrN.html
07-05-2020||City||Man held for blackmailing former girlfriend||A 28-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for blackmailing his former girlfriend in Thane.The 29-year-old woman had filed a case alleging that an unknown caller had been demanding ₹1 lakh otherwise he will make public her private photos with her former boyfriend. According to anti-extortion cell officers, the arrested man, Parmesh Bhairy, is a resident of Bhiwandi. He befriended a man from Pakistan through social media. He gave him the idea to blackmail his former girlfriend. Senior police inspector of anti-extortion cell R Kothmire said, “We checked the phone number from where the woman was getting calls and learnt that the number was in touch with her former boyfriend. While questioning him, he confessed to the crime. We arrested him and recovered the pen drive where he had stored the photos.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-blackmailing-former-girlfriend/story-wKpCo6K3zTplmpwpEIlLZN.html
07-05-2020||City||GADVASU to soon start Covid-19 testing||After Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) will become the second facility to conduct Covid-19 tests in Ludhiana. Confirming the development, vice-chancellor (V-C) AS Nanda said the process will start soon after the university receives the requisite infrastructure. “We are in talks with the vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, Raj Bahadur, who is supervising the project. Once fully functional, minimum 400 tests will be conducted in a single day at the diagnostic lab of GADVASU,” Nanda added.To conduct Covid-19 tests, the university has sent 10 scientists – six to Government Medical College, Amritsar, and four to Government Medical College, Patiala – for training, GADVASU V-C said.Nanda said, “Due to the lockdown, mobility has been restricted. So some tasks are taking more than the usual time to get completed. But we are trying our best to start the facility soon.” He added that the veterinary varsity had trained the medical support staff in conducting the tests.“Scientists, including Dr Rajnish Sharma, Dr Mudit Chandra, Dr JS Arora, Dr Neeraj Singh, Dr Harsh Pawar and Dr Omar Khaleel Baba, have joined duty at Government Medical College, Patiala. Dr Mohan Jairath, Dr Deepali, Dr Jaspreet Kaur and Dr Astha Sharma are giving their services at Government Medical College, Amritsar,” the V-C said.Besides, the university has provided two PCR testing machines, one each to Government Medical College, Amritsar, and Government Medical College, Patiala, Nanda added.Besides DMCH, in Punjab, Covid-19 tests are also being conducted at BFUHS, Government Medical College, Amritsar, and Government Medical College, Patiala.MORE TESTING CENTRES IN STOREThe state government has also decided to rope in universities and state-run labs to conduct Covid-19 testing. The chief minister has sanctioned ₹12 crore for six such institutions to purchase required equipment. Besides GADVASU, Ludhiana, these are — Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL), North Zone Jalandhar; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjabi University, Patiala; Punjab Biotech Incubator, Mohali; and Punjab Forensic Lab, Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-to-soon-start-covid-19-testing/story-RucEbYNQU0WJBfXV1m67bN.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai fared better than global cities against Covid-19: Experts||For a city with a population of 12.44 million, 42% of which resides in informal settlements spread over just 8% of its landmass and the average density is 31,700 people per square kilometre (making it the second-most crowded city in the world), Mumbai has fared better than cities across the globe while fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, experts opine. A recent analysis by a think-tank, Observer Research Foundation (ORF), of the top 10 most-affected metropolitan areas (including New York, London, Madrid, Lombardy, and Ile De France) in the world reveals that urban agglomeration accounts for 32.19% of the total cases recorded in all the countries and 29.53% of the total deaths, on an average.However, as of Wednesday morning, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which includes the city and its neighbouring areas, accounted for 25% of the total cases in India and 26% of the deaths in the country. The numbers were lower than New York (33.57% of total cases in the US), Lombardy (36.51% of cases in Italy), Flanders (58.67% of Belgium cases) and Hubei (82% of the total cases in China). Dhaval Desai, vice-president of ORF, Mumbai, who also authored the report, said Mumbai has done well when compared to medically-endowed cities across the globe. “The pandemic has exposed the weakness of even global cities like London and New York that boast of highly-advanced medical and public health systems,” Desai said. “With large informal settlements spread across the city, Mumbai has done largely well,” he added.When compared with Asian counterparts, Singapore, which was lauded for its response initially, has recorded 19,410 cases with 18 deaths. The city-state had not entered double-digits even till mid-March. Tokyo has recorded 4,654 cases, of which 1,589 were already discharged and 150 have died. South Korea’s Seoul has recorded 637 cases with two deaths. According to Pankaj Joshi, executive director at the city-based Urban Design Research Institute (UDRI), the city performed well owing to strategies like active primary health-care centres, pre-empting the lockdown, substantial response from the NGOs working on the field and early sealing of containment zones. “Many global cities reacted late, which was not the case in Mumbai. The lockdown was in place even before the country-wide lockdown was imposed,” Joshi said.A senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “Decentralisation of power to local wards, aggressive contact tracing and testing, and getting quarantine facilities ready in time have helped the civic body in controlling the spread to a large extent.” However, experts feel the city also needs to strategise its long-term response to the pandemic, which also looks at mitigating scenarios like migrants crowding at Bandra station or social distancing norms being flouted with liquor shops being opened on Tuesday. Dr Anant Bhan, researcher, global health, bioethics and health policy, said that Mumbai’s response has to be more nuanced and well-resourced in the coming days with aggressive testing. “The civic body has to strategise a medium to long-term response which means investing more in resources and public health systems,” he said. “Delhi fared slightly better than Mumbai with the concept of mohalla clinics and more investment by the state government in the health sector. Although one cannot deny the neglect in the Nizamuddin event,” Bhan added.While major European cities planning and re-thinking responses to a post-Covid world, Mumbai is yet to draft a comprehensive strategy in that sector. Cities like Paris, London and Milan have started rebuilding streets to make them more pedestrian and bicycle-friendly. “We will have to do some major re-thinking in terms of urban planning, especially for slum rehabilitation in the city. Even mobility will need to be thought through before the city starts opening again,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-fared-better-than-global-cities-against-covid-19/story-wYA6cqrUubVwaVorWJLIsM.html
07-05-2020||City||Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai touch 440||Navi Mumbai recorded 45 Covid positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total count to 440.This was the second highest single-day spike in the city.Cases in Navi Mumbai have doubled in just seven days with 126 cases being reported in just three days.The Covid positive cases had touched 206 on April 29. It touched 314 on May 3 and on May 6, the figure reached 440.Twenty-three of the cases are reported to be from either from APMC market or related to those working in the market. There are 96 containment zones in the city.Almost 90% of the cases being reported in Navi Mumbai presently are from those working in Mumbai or their families and APMC related which too has visitors from Mumbai, said Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC).It has decided to provide accommodation in the city to those working in its health department but living in Mumbai and other neighbouring cities such as Thane and Kalyan.Navi Mumbai mayor Jaywant Sutar said, “Those working in NMMC hospitals or health department but living outside NMMC jurisdiction will be provided accommodation by NMMC. Hotels, lodges , schools and also vacant flats can be used to provide them accommodation. There are various state Bhavans here which can be used to accommodate them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-cases-in-navi-mumbai-touch-440/story-cwVQW0WpNaGQdYRLLxC9gP.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||Andheri village sets trend in civic discipline||At a time when people in the city continue to flout social distancing and hygiene rules, a gaothan in Andheri (East) has become an example of civic discipline.Not only are the residents of Sahar village ensuring that they maintain social distancing, residents have also managed to raise close to ₹1 lakh in the last week to install three sanitisation walkways to help maintain cleanliness, especially in crowded areas.“We first saw a similar installation in a neighbouring area and we were informed that the local corporator helped set it up. We realised that we need something similar in our area as well because we are a large community and we wanted to make sure everyone is safe,” said 32-year-old Francis Fernandes, a resident. He and his friends contributed money to set up the first sanitisation walkway in their neighbourhood. Within a day, they were discussing the need for similar installations around the village.“We zeroed in on areas that witness maximum crowd, mostly to buy food and other essentials. The fish market attracts large crowds, so a local group of sports enthusiasts, called Glory Boyz, agreed to raise funds for the second installation,” said 29-year-old Maneesh Nair, a local who helped set up the sanitisation walkway. A third and similar set-up was placed near a milk booth, for which the locals raised funds and are maintaining the same. Zeist Interactive Solutions along with Experiatech helped the residents set up the sanitisation walkways.While there is no guarantee that the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can be destroyed through the sanitisation walkway, locals feel it’s presence highlights the need for better sanitation in the area. “Many locals saw the entryway being set up and were sharing ideas of how a similar but smaller version can be placed outside homes. The idea is to ensure that everyone understands the need for better sanitisation,” said Fernandes. At present, the locals are collecting money to set up another walkway outside the local vegetable market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/andheri-village-sets-trend-in-civic-discipline/story-DF1Xyqd0LxhzFXwRNVcudM.html
07-05-2020||Noida||Shifts in-charge will be held responsible for violation of social distancing norms in offices||The shifts in-charge in offices will be held responsible if there are violations of social distancing and other standard operating (SOP) provisions at industries or offices, according to the new guidelines from the district administration. So far, the Noida authority and Greater Noida authority have issued permissions to around 400 units to resume operations with the norms of the nationwide lockdown, put in place to contain the Covid-19 spread, easing from May 3.The Uttar Pradesh government has directed officials of Gautam Budh Nagar district to allow industrial units and private offices to function. There are at least 12,000 industrial units in Noida and 10,000 units are located in Greater Noida, officials said. According to the procedures laid down, the district administration will first recommend the permission and then the Noida authority or the Greater Noida authority will issue the permission to a particular industry or office, allowing operations to begin. The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed these industry units and offices to operate on conditions such as staff strength will be kept to 33%, social distancing norms will be followed strictly, premises will disinfected regularly, and all Covid-19 related norms will be displayed prominently on notice boards, as well as inform the health department in case an employee falls sick symptoms.“Apart from following the SOPs, the shifts in-charge for the day will be held responsible if SOPs and social distancing norms are violated on the office/industrial unit premises. If a person is infected, then the unit owner or company owner will share the onus of taking care of the infected patient, the new guidelines stated,” Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.In Noida a total 1,800 units had applied for permission to resume operations. Of them, 180 were allowed and 120 applications were rejected on Tuesday. The authority is yet to calculate the number of permissions given on Wednesday. The Greater Noida authority had issued 165 permissions on Tuesday and Wednesday.“We are issuing permissions to units/offices that have submitted all required documents. We closely examine the documents and then grnt them permission, as per the laid down rules,” Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty, Noida authority, said. Meanwhile, factory owners demanded simplification of permission rules.“Officials are demanding so many documents before granting us permission. We have to submit papers such as our Aadhaar card, PAN number, property details and several other documents. Instead, they should just ask us for our GST (Goods and Services Tax) number. All details of a legitimate company are online under that number. By just keying in the number, the authority can immediately see if a unit is legal or not and then grant permission,” Pankaj Singh, president of Greater Noida Industrial Association, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/shifts-in-charge-will-be-held-responsible-for-violation-of-social-distancing-norms-in-offices/story-teHPqOgFm6tlkUuvcKTYtJ.html
07-05-2020||Noida||No interstate movement allowed, says GB Nagar admin; UP govt ordinance protect corona warriors||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has clarified that employees of private companies that have resumed operations in Gautam Budh Nagar, but residing in other states such as Delhi or Haryana, will not be allowed to enter the district.District magistrate Suhas LY said interstate movement of individuals is strictly prohibited except for medical reasons or for activities as permitted by the ministry of home affairs (MHA). “Although we have allowed the opening of all private offices, including the IT companies, IT-enabled services, data and call centres, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facility management services and the resumption of services provided by self-employed persons (except for barbers), the work strength in offices must not be more than 33%. Employees of these offices also do not need any passes and they have been asked to follow social distancing strictly at work. But, no employee residing in neighbouring states of Delhi and Haryana will be allowed to enter Gautam Budh Nagar district during the lockdown,” he said.The DM further said that apart from taking various safety measures and organising regular health camps in different localities to check for Covid-19 symptoms, the administration is also sensitizing the residents through awareness campaigns. “We have received a video clipping from the central government in this connection. We are sending this clip to all residents, to make them aware about the various safety measures to be taken to combat this pandemic. We are also making regular announcements about our health camps, so that they could turn up in large numbers for a thorough health check-up,” he said.Meanwhile, the Yogi Adityanath cabinet, on Wednesday, passed a stringent ordinance, amending the existing Epidemic Act, for providing legal protection to front-line health workers and the police in the state.Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said according to the new ordinance, anyone assaulting or misbehaving with health workers will face imprisonment up to seven years and/or a fine of ₹5 lakh. “This ordinance covers health workers, paramedical personnel, police personnel, sanitation workers and other corona warrior deployed by the government,” he said.He further said that in case of jumping quarantine, the person may face a jail term of up to three years and/or fine of up to ₹1 lakh. “After this amendment, any deliberate attempt to spread this disease will attract harsher punishments, even a life sentence,” he said.BOX:Crime and punishment as per the new rule:Violation of quarantine rules: imprisonment of one to three years and fine of Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakhEscape from hospital: Jail of one to three years and fine of Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakhFor obscene and indecent conduct with corona warriors: jail of one to three years and fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakhConcealing of corona cases: jail of one to three years and fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakhIntentionally travelling at public places by corona patient: jail of one to three years and fine of Rs 50,000 to Rs 2 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-interstate-movement-allowed-says-gb-nagar-admin-up-govt-ordinance-protect-corona-warriors/story-NGFEoiVx8t7qzfjSUk0mbK.html
07-05-2020||Noida||21 labourers booked for trying to go to Bihar amid lockdown||As many as 21 construction workers were booked by the Sector 24 police on Tuesday evening for trying to catch a bus to go back to their homes in Bihar. According to the labourers, there was a rumour going around that there would be buses available to take them home.The incident was reported from the Morna bus stand around 6pm when nearly 100 daily wage earners gathered in hopes to catch buses to their home towns.“I got a message from another worker who said that we could get a ride back home on buses from here. Even our contractor had heard the rumour about the buses leaving. But when we got here, the police told us that the buses were only for students and there was nothing for us at the moment... Most of us are from Bihar,” said Raj Nihal, a construction worker living at a site in Sector 34 who belongs to Muzaffarpur.The labourers said that they have been stuck in Noida for more than a month now without work and wages, relying on the generosity of the public for essentials.After the crowd gathered, the police tried to disperse most of them but a few gathered at the Morna police post and started creating a ruckus after which more police intervened.“Most of the labourers left after it became clear that there were no buses. But, 21 people were booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code for violating the guidelines of the lockdown. They were later released after being granted interim bail and were asked to go back to their dwellings,” Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, said.The police said that when buses do ply for migrants, the information will be shared with them. However, Tuesday’s incident was based on a rumour that circulated among the workers.“We are investigating the matter to trace the source of the rumour. Due legal action will be taken once the individual(s) is identified,” said the ACP.This is not the first incident wherein migrants have been desperate to leave the city to go back home. On May 1, 36 migrants from Bihar who live in Sector 8 had been booked by the Noida police for attempting to leave the district in a mini-truck.A nationwide lockdown had been first announced on March 24 after which the country witnessed massive migrant movement on its way home in light of lack of work and resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/21-labourers-booked-for-trying-to-go-to-bihar-amid-lockdown/story-1QuzeNK510LTolgcB5r3iL.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||Medical professional asks cops for help; cops allege he misbehaved||The civil surgeon of Charkhi Dadri allegedly misbehaved with police personnel, including the station house officer (SHO) of Sector 56 police station, and threatened to get them fired, the police said on Wednesday. However, he denied the allegation and said that he was attacked by some people at the Wazirabad vegetable market, Sector 52, and when he approached the Sector 56 police station to file a complaint, he was informed that the area was not under their jurisdiction and he should contact Sector 53 police station instead.The police are investigating the matter and a case against Dr Pradeep Sharma, the civil surgeon, will be registered. The incident took place on Sunday afternoon when Dr Sharma had come to Gurugram to visit his son.He said, “I had gone to Wazirabad vegetable market to buy some vegetables for my son. I accidentally forgot to wear a mask. When some people saw me, they attacked me with a stick and pushed me. I immediately contacted the SHO of the Sector 56 police station but he did not help me. I was able to escape the spot and return home. In the evening, I then went to the Sector 56 police station to talk to the officer.”A statement given by Sumit Kumar, SHO, Sector 56 police station, read that the civil surgeon called him on the phone regarding the alleged brawl at the vegetable market. “I informed him that the Wazirabad vegetable market is under the jurisdiction of the Sector 53 police station and offered to give him the phone number of the SHO concerned. However, he began speaking in a loud voice and threatened me. I did not want to argue and hung up. Later, I sent him the number of the SHO concerned.”The police said that in the evening, the civil surgeon allegedly arrived at the Sector 56 police station.“He came to the police station and misbehaved with the personnel. He claimed to know senior officials and threatened to get us suspended. I recorded the incident on my mobile phone,” the SHO added. The police said that senior officers are investigating the matter and a case will be registered against the civil surgeon.Dr Sharma said, “They are trying to implicate me in a fake case. I have already given a complaint to the Sector 53 police station regarding the incident that took place at the Wazirabad vegetable market. However, I am yet to receive a copy of the FIR.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/medical-professional-asks-cops-for-help-cops-allege-he-misbehaved/story-dZiZKGDD26w6uAk2Yn9gMO.html
07-05-2020||Gurugram||At 104, orange zone Gurugram has the highest number of cases in Haryana||With 17 more confirmed positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19)—the highest single day spike yet—Gurugram district’s tally touched 104 on Wednesday. Of these 10 are vegetable sellers of Khandsa Mandi, with links to Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi hot spot, four from Dundahera, a declared containment zone, and three health care workers from a city-based hospital, who were in contact with other Covid patients.Khandsa Mandi, the wholesale fruit and vegetables market of Gurugram, will remain shut till May 8. Total cases from here on Wednesday touched 19—highest from any area of the city.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “We have reported the highest spike in Covid-19 cases today (Wednesday). While 10 are vegetable sellers, who had links with Azadpur Mandi, four cases from Dundahera are from the same building where six Covid-19 cases were reported last week. Also, three health care workers of a private hospital on Railway Road contracted the virus after coming in contact with a driver working with the referral ambulance service in Delhi; he had tested positive on Sunday.”Gurugram, despite being an orange zone, now has the highest number of cases in the entire state, much more than the other affected district—Sonepat (81), Faridabad (78) and Jhajjar (70).INTENSIFYING TARGETED SAMPLINGHealth department officials said spike in Covid-19 cases is due to intensified targeted sampling which is being conducted to control the spillover of infection coming from Delhi, which has third highest number of Covid cases in the country. “We were cautious after positive cases surfaced in Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi as many traders visit it regularly. We must also remember that there are a lot of frontline workers, such as police personnel and health staff, who work in Delhi but live here. Contact tracing becomes crucial in areas where density of population is high, especially in districts like Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Panipat and parts of Panchkula,” additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said, adding that these cases are mostly asymptomatic and pose a greater threat than symptomatic cases.In case of Khandsa, the health department did surveillance of more than 1,600 people and collected samples of over 128 vegetable sellers. The health team’s plan is to track hawkers who were in contact with the Covid-19 patients and to reach out in areas where they have sold vegetables. “Ward-wise, these hawkers will be traced. To detect if the infection has spread random sampling will be done. If positive cases are found, then containment strategy will be prepared,” said Dr Punia. Arora, on the other hand, said the state government has decided to increase the base for targeted sampling. “We will now cover ration depot holders, people who are involved in the task of procuring food grains as this activity has been going on continuously across the state,” he said.EXPECTING POTENTIAL CASESHealth experts called targeted sampling and testing an efficient approach in identifying emerging hot spots. “Targeted sampling is an appropriate use of resources to target areas for testing where high risk cases are likely to be concentrated,” said Dr Preeti Kumar, a public health systems expert and vice-president of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). “Targeted sampling and testing is done in areas where you expect a high yield of potential cases or to identify clustering of cases in or out of the containment zone or to study a silent area. It helps in understanding the distribution of disease in a community,” said Kumar.In Gurugram, Khandsa remained a silent area till targeted sampling was done after cases emerged in vegetable sellers in Delhi, Sonepat and Jhajjar.It is the fourth wave of targeted sampling in the state, said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer Covid-19 in Haryana. “First, it was for people with travel history to China, second for people coming from other western countries, third was people who attended the congregation in Delhi and fourth are people with essential services jobs in Delhi, a place which is experiencing community spread.”According to him, the purpose behind targeted sampling is to prevent or delay the community spread of Covid-19 by tracing asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic cases in affected district.Chaudhary said, “There are two strategies– targeted and random collection of samples – to detect infection spread in a community. Random sampling cannot be 100% correct so targeted sampling is an effective measure.”According to health officials, targeted sampling was the only way to break the chain of spread. According to Arora, intensive targeted testing was a key factor in breaking the chain of transmission in Nuh and Palwal when patients were traced in large numbers. “It helped us in containing the infection in the affected districts,” said Arora. In Nuh 59 cases have been reported till now, out of which only 6 are undergoing treatment, rest have recovered. Likewise, in Palwal 36 cases were reported, of which only four are hospitalised.INCREASING CASES CAUSE FOR ALARM? Arora said that the number of Covid patients might increase as they are proactively searching for potential cases in a community. Affirming Arora’s view, Kumar said, “Number of cases might increase in this strategy, but it should not lead to panic reaction. Sudden spurt will help in identifying high risk groups and building up the containment strategy.”But Kumar also cautioned that targeted sampling didn’t imply the district administration would be able to start doing mass testing in a population where population has remained asymptomatic for long. “Testing them gives no additional advantage. It may give a false assurance and may lead to people avoiding social distancing and hand washing–which are really the most key strategies for breaking the transmission,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-104-orange-zone-gurugram-has-the-highest-number-of-cases-in-haryana/story-5K8ciFDrK43zM6772tCNLL.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police questions Maulana Saad’s son in Tabhligi probe||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch questioned the son of Maulana Saad, the Tablighi Jamaat chief, for two hours on Tuesday. He was questioned about Jamaat members, activities at their headquarters and office-bearers of the organisation.A senior officer, who did not wish to be named, said Saad’s son was particularly asked about the whereabouts of 20 people who worked at the Markaz in Nizamuddin area to look after the visitors. These people have been missing since cases pertaining to the gatherings were registered, the officer said.According to the police, Saad’s son is involved in the Jamaat activities and was hence, questioned.Shahid Ali, spokesperson for Tablighi Jamaat, said they welcome all investigations by the police. “We seek fair and impartial probe and therefore, expect Maulana Saad and others will be cleared of all charges,” Ali said.A criminal case was registered by the Delhi Police against Maulana Saad and six other senior officials of the Jamaat on March 31 for defying a series of government directives in the national capital, as cases linked to the Jamaat have been traced across the country.The Delhi Police did not respond to repeated texts and calls for comment.In an earlier interview to HT, the Tablighi chief had told through his lawyer that he is willing to cooperate with the police and that no illegal activity took place at the Markaz.JAMAAT ATTENDEES RELEASEThe Delhi government on Wednesday decided to release 4,000 persons, mostly those who had visited Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, from government-run quarantine facilities after they tested negative and completed 28 days of quarantine.The decision was taken by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, as the Delhi government didn’t receive any response from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to their letters in this regard.“There was no response the MHA. The Delhi government has decided to allow them to return to their home states as they have recovered and completed more than the mandatory quarantine period,” said a senior Delhi government official, requesting anonymity.When contacted, an MHA spokesperson said they have not sent any communication to Delhi government on Tablighi Jamaat. Asked if MHA’s permission is required for the release, the spokesperson refused to comment. Of the 4,000 persons, 3,013 are those who were shifted from the Markaz and other mosques in the capital, while the rest are those they had come in contact with.According to a senior Delhi government official, those evacuated were sent to quarantine centres at Narela, Bakkarwala, Mandoli, Sultanpuri, Dwarka and Badarpur. Of this, 2,446 are Indian nationals, including 191 from Delhi, while 567 are foreign nationals.“For sending the foreign nationals to their home countries, there will be discussions with the Central government in the coming days. Those who want to return to other states can apply in the government scheme for helping stranded individuals reach their home states, which covers pilgrims. Those who have access to private vehicles can apply for inter-state passes,” the senior government official said.“Within the city, there is no restriction in movement from 7am to 7pm. They can stay with their relatives and friends. If they wish to stay continue staying in the quarantine facility, there is no restriction on that as well. Their quarantine period is over,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-questions-maulana-saad-s-son-in-tabhligi-probe/story-Hb9qEST5MEUoMuYJ7bElBP.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Limit public transport capacity, maximise social distance: CRRI||The Central Road Research Institute’s (CSIR-CRRI) recommendations for the safe use of public transport, once the nationwide lockdown is lifted, include limiting the number of passengers in buses and separate gates for boarding and alighting Metro coaches.The guidelines, to be shared with all state governments and ministries in the central government, also propose creating a partition between the driver’s seat and the back seat in taxis using a plastic sheet, a dynamic display showing the number of available seats in Metro trains and buses, and earmarking the waiting area in stations, among others. The guidelines also propose painting additional zebra crossings at each intersection to ensure pedestrians crossing on to opposite sides do not come in contact with each other.Transport experts at CSIR-CRRI say these moves will help manage crowds, ensure the presence adequate transport infrastructure to discourage people from using private vehicles, encourage pedestrians and cyclists to ensure social distancing.Experts recommend a social distance of at least six feet between people, as well as reducing physical contact, to minimise the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Satish Chandra, director CSIR-CRRI, said, “The biggest challenge is crowd management in public transport so that social distancing is effectively implemented. As only 50% occupancy is allowed in public transport currently, there is a need to immediately enhance the capacity and also manage the demand by ensuring staggered office timings.”If this is not done, Chandra said, a lot of public transport users might switch to private vehicles to protect themselves from contracting Covid-19.Public transport services have been shut in the national capital since March 23, two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19.Officials said the Delhi government is working a plan to ensure social distancing in public transport once the lockdown is lifted and public transport resumes.“We are working on a plan to decide how we will reopen public transport. We will also have to work out a plan to sanitise public transport,” a senior Delhi transport official said.Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said public transport may resume soon, and that the Central government was formulating guidelines for the same.Officials of the Delhi Metro, the Capital’s transport lifeline, said the organisation would follow guidelines framed by the Union and state governments.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, “We will follow all guidelines set by the government while framing advisories for passengers. Additionally, models adopted by metro systems across the world are also being studied to ensure that the resumption of services is smooth, convenient and safe for Delhi Metro’s commuters.”With schools shut and inter-state movement banned, experts said a lot of private buses, including chartered buses, are currently unused. “These buses can be made part of the public transport system to help meet the increase in demand, ensure quality by observing social distancing measures, and discourage people from shifting to private vehicles. Staggered office timings and better work-from-home norms will also be helpful,” said E Madhu, head, transport planning division, CSIR-CRRI.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director transport at the Centre for Science and Environment, said Delhi could easily induct the unused buses into its public transport fleet.“The Delhi government has used private buses during the odd-even scheme. They just have to build on it. Though these are testing times, it is an opportunity to address the issue of overcrowding in public transport,” Roychowdhury said.“Pre-booking travel time slots in buses and Metros will help manage crowds,” Madhu said.The guidelines recommend that the existing seating arrangements be changed in e-rickshaws, which are an essential part of the city’s last-mile connectivity mechanism. The CRRI recommends that e-rickshaw passengers not face each other and that the number of people who travel together in one vehicle be limited.To reduce the load on public transport systems, the guidelines suggest short trips be encouraged and infrastructure provided for cycle-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, bicycles and pedestrians.Rowchowdhury asked that plans be prepared to improve local infrastructure for travel over short distances. “With bollards and paint, we can create more space for pedestrians on the road and ensure their safety. People can make these trips either by walking or cycling. This will bring down the load on public transport.”Experts also pointed to innovative public transport systems other countries had adopted.Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India, said, “Bogota, the capital of Colombia, has converted 100km of streets into cycle lanes to reduce the load on its bus systems. Mexico City is planning to quadruple its cycle network to reduce the pressure on its metro. Budapest, the capital of Hungary, is creating cycle lanes as a safe alternative for the commute as the city has seen a 90% drop in public transport use,” Bhatt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crri-guidelines-for-public-transport-include-separate-boarding-and-alighting-gates-in-metro/story-N8iLlVW7IIuDY8tqTqPTtO.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: At Delhi airport, repatriated Indians to be screened, split into groups||Stranded Indians who are to be evacuated from other countries and flown to New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport will be screened and primarily be divided in three categories — those with Covid-like symptoms, those who have been in touch Covid patients and asymptomatic people.People with symptoms of the infectious disease will be straightaway sent to hospitals, while those who have been in touch with Covid-19 patients will be sent to quarantine facilities. The rest will be asked to fill out a declaration form and to quarantine themselves at home.The Delhi government on Wednesday passed an order defining the setting standard operating procedures for the movement of such repatriated passengers at the Delhi airport. The passports of those sent to home quarantine will only be returned at the airport, the order said.The order said the passengers will be escorted out of the plane by airline staff using dedicated aerobridges and will arrive at the APHO health counters for initial thermal screening. Here, symptomatic passengers will be isolated and moved to designated hospitals. The staff present inside the aircraft and those on the ground will ensure that arriving passengers have filled their self-reporting forms (SRF) properly.“After screening, the asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to move to dedicated immigration counters with their passports and a copy of their filled up SRFs. After clearance, their passports shall be retained by the immigration officials and the passengers will be handed over to a five member escort team (headed by CISF and comprising representative from DIAL, the respective airlines and Delhi Police) in batches of 30. The passports of these passengers will be handed over by the immigration staff to the CISF officer leading the escort team,” the order saidIt mentioned that the passports shall not be handed over to passengers in any case.Passengers will then be taken to the conveyor belts. “If there is any delayed or missing luggage, the respective passenger shall stay behind along with a team member while the rest shall proceed to the customs area and move to the triage area manned by Delhi government officials,” said the order.At the designated triage area, there would be five screening counters manned by medical officers and paramedical staff deputed by Delhi government. “At the assigned counter, the passports of the entire batch will be handed over by the CISF team leader to the medical officer in-charge of the counter. Passengers will be screened and those without any risk factors will be sent for home quarantine after providing them their passports. A declaration will be collected from them stating that they will remain strictly under home quarantine, or face penal action, as per rules,” the order said.It said, these passengers will be linked to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP) and that the government will depute a Delhi State IDSP team for this purpose.“The remaining high-risk passengers will be sent to various quarantine facilities. They too will be first asked to fill up a declaration where they will be asked to choose between a paid or government quarantine facility (based on availability). The escort team will then move these passengers to the transport provided by the state government to be taken to their designated quarantine facilities,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-draws-up-rules-for-citizens-being-repatriated-from-other-countries/story-f1I0mdhuCUtd0qTfcyoqKL.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Banks can now apply for stamp papers online in Chandigarh||Society for Promotion of Information Technology (SPIC) launched an online application, exclusively for scheduled banks to apply online for issuance of stamp paper from sampark centres, on Wednesday.“This application will reduce face-to-face interaction at sampark centres to the minimum and make the process for issuance of stamp papers less cumbersome,” a senior UT official said.With the launch of this facility, banks can now apply online on sampark portal www.sampark.nic.in, for stamp papers of any denomination and also pay online as the application is integrated with payment aggregator. After applying and paying online, the designated sampark centre will accept the request of requisition bank for issuance of stamp papers, and print them as per details provided by bank(s).Once the stamp papers are printed, the message will be sent to the requisition bank to collect it from the designated sampark centre between 11am to 3pm.This service is exclusively for banks (for bulk purchase only) as they have huge requirements for high denomination stamp papers for their banking process and had to spend alot of time at sampark centres for filling the form manually, making payment and getting it printed, which is not advisable during the Covid -19 pandemic.If any organisations/institutes/companies/individual except bank apply for the stamp paper, it will be treated as a violation and no e- stamp will be issued and payment won’t be refunded.During filling of application form, it is advised to check all details carefully before submission. Once submitted, no correction can be made and sampark will not take responsibility for any spelling mistake/wrong name entered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/banks-can-now-apply-for-stamp-papers-online-in-chandigarh/story-mVVc86H5CSKCSmAU4vQMfO.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport handles over 1,310 cargo, relief flights during Covid-19 lockdown||The Delhi airport handled at least 1,000 cargo flights and more than 310 evacuation flights, both domestic and international, during the lockdown, the airport operator said on Wednesday. Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), which operates the Indira Gandhi International Airport, said since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, evacuation flights to 58 destinations — 16 domestic and 44 international, operated out of Delhi Airport. “Around 27,500 foreign nationals and 2,300 Indians were evacuated during this period. Also, the airport handled the movement of over 12,600 metric tonnes of import and export cargo, including COVID-19 related medical essentials and fresh vegetables,” DIAL said in a statement. Over 500 personnel from DIAL’s operations, cargo, housekeeping, airport rescue and fire fighting (ARFF), apron control teams, in coordination with CISF, immigration, airlines, ground handling agencies, ATC and others have been working round-the-clock to make such functioning possible, the statement said. The airport has also created a dedicated medical distribution facility to process and distribute imported medical essentials to medical institutes and hospital across the country. The airport was also recently designated as the major hub for import and distribution of Covid-related medical essentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-airport-handles-over-1-310-cargo-and-relief-flights-during-lockdown/story-fTvmDuxBQYTsXyPPNTeVBN.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Traffic snarls return to Delhi, Covid-19 lockdown curbs take back seat||For 40 days, the Capital’s roads were empty. Cars remained parked, motorcycles sped away only when the police were not looking.But from Monday, rush hour was back in many areas as the lockdown norms, in place since March 25 to contain Covid-19, were considerably relaxed. Along with “Covid-19 hot spots” (all 11 districts) were now over a dozen “traffic hot spots” that the Delhi traffic police counted. Many commuters brazenly violated lockdown norms by overloading vehicles beyond the prescribed limit of passengers, and flouted traffic rules too. Traffic police assessment showed that in areas around Chirag Delhi, Akshardham, Rajouri Garden, Zakira, Karol Bagh, Patel Nagar, Uttam Nagar, Janakpuri, Kirti Nagar, Kondli, Ghazipur, Okhla and Seelampur, reported long traffic snarls during the peak morning and evening hours over the last three days. On Wednesday, traffic was slow moving in areas around Palam, Naraina, Vikaspuri, Mundka and Munirka (on the Outer Ring Road).The traffic department say the traffic at these areas were considerably more than what they had estimated after factoring in the relaxations -- government and private offices could resume work with 33% workforce, standalone shops, industrial units and in-situ construction were also allowed.“We knew traffic would increase since during the lockdown it had been nearly zero. However, it was more than what we had expected. Especially during office hours, we now need some officials at these areas to manage traffic flow,” said a senior traffic police official.The official said controlling movement, especially when the Capital is under the “Red Zone” where strict adherence is required to control the spread of Covid-19, was difficult because there was no way to ascertain if a person on the road was out for a genuine reason.ON THE GROUNDThe Delhi government order on May 3 relaxing the restrictions added there would be no public transport and private vehicles are required to adhere to passenger limits -- only driver and two passengers. To ensure social distancing, no pillion riders will be allowed on two-wheelers. However, when HT visited some of the police pickets in the city, people were found openly flouting this restriction.“If there is no picket to slow the vehicles they just zoom past us. Some plead that they be allowed to go this one time because there is no public transport,” said Dheeman Singh Yadav, a traffic constable stationed at east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar.Policemen on the road also said they generally don’t stop vehicles with just the driver and a passenger to verify why they were out. Delhi police officials said that though there is no provision to book people under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, because of the special nature of such times, violators were booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (disobedience of an order promulgated by a public servant), which carries a fine of ₹200 and a jail term of up to a month. Police are also slapping sections 269 and 270 of the IPC, which books them for the spread of the infection of any disease dangerous to life.“Action will be taken looking at the gravity of each violation. If anyone flouts the rules of the lockdown, they are not only risking their own lives, they are also putting the lives of others in danger. They are being prosecuted and action includes fines and even jail term,” said MS Randhawa, Delhi police spokesperson.Data provided by Delhi traffic police shows that during the lockdown period, between March 25 to May 3, 454,438 speeding challans were issued and 18 people lost their lives in 17 accidents. Since Monday, 12,098 fines have been issued for speeding and 4,987 fines have been issued for jumping the red-light.Traffic experts said that the relaxations should have been implemented in a phased manner with a proper plan for enforcement agencies to follow.“There should have been a mechanism in place to ensure that the vehicles that are out on the road are actually out to reach their offices and are not out without reason. The state government can ask private companies to give letters of authenticity to those employees who have started coming to work, which can be handed over to the policemen on duty,” said Dr Tribhuvan Jain, epidemiology and disease control expert, who is a consultant with the union government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-back-on-road-people-violate-lockdown-restrictions/story-1omfrKo1e3EtblHc9UNS1L.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi braces for surge in Covid-19 cases, but says it’s ready for it||District health officials are expecting a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases next week, arising from the thousands of people who have been defying social distancing norms, especially outside liquor stores since Monday -- throngs that are threatening to become a logistical nightmare for staff working on contact tracing. “The decision to open up the liquor stores was taken in haste. There was no proper planning or communication with government bodies and departments, leading to chaos and confusion on Monday. We were totally blank about which shops were being opened where— how were we to ensure adherence to social distancing norms? And, in the next two weeks, this will cause a lot of trouble because there is no way we will be able to trace who came in contact with whom at such stores,” a district administration official said on condition of anonymity.To be sure, the crowds were not unique to Delhi. Similar scenes were witnessed in other states too. Still, the crowding is likely to see a spike in cases in Delhi -- much like similar crowding in a vegetable market in Chennai caused the number of cases, on a downswing, to spike. “There will be an increase in the number of cases, that is the natural course of the infection. We have to see whether the relaxation of the lockdown will exacerbate it. However, Delhi is reasonably well prepared for around 1,000 cases a day for about 15 days at a stretch. Even if we assume that for every 500 cases, 10 to 12 will need ventilators, we have enough in the city. The actual numbers are lower,” said Dr SK Sarin, chair of the five-member team advising chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Covid-19 preparedness.To market, to marketMarketplaces have emerged as the source of several clusters of infection across the country even before the relaxations of lockdown norms. In Tamil Nadu, 300 of the 527 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday were traced back to one of the country’s largest vegetable and fruit wholesale market in Chennai’s Koyambedu area.In Delhi, 17 cases were reported from Azadpur Mandi, where the government has restricted the number of trucks coming in with goods, extended the market’s timings to ensure distancing, and has two teams of health care workers screening people.“Now, vegetable vendors in the city have also started testing positive — customers could have infected them or someone from the mandi. However, one thing is for sure, the numbers will go up as the norms are relaxed,” the district administration official added. Shortage of staffThe increase in cases expected over the next two weeks will pose a challenge for a team already fatigued by weeks of screening and contact tracing.“We have hundreds of other things to do. We were already tracing the contacts of positive cases, ensuring people follow through with their quarantine, screening and testing people from the community. Now, with positive people being allowed to be in quarantine at home, our staff will have to keep a check on them for the progression of symptoms. There are also hundreds of migrant workers coming in and leaving Delhi, who have to be screened and given passes. With liquor shops and markets opening, our staff will also have to ensure social distancing everywhere. How can this be done? There is no additional manpower,” a second district administration official said on condition of anonymity. “If 8-10 people test positive in each district and have come in contact with around 50 people, it is possible to trace them, but if suddenly there are 40-50 fresh cases in each district every day, this exercise will become impossible,” the first district official said.The government is making provisions for private services to check on positive patients under home isolation, a third district official said.“Currently, our teams call up everybody to check on them but we have been told that the government is in talks with some private agency to make the calls so that some of our staff is free for other work”..Hospital-based careDelhi has around 2,800 beds in government hospitals and another 420 in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. Of the 3,572 people who are infected, 1,231 with moderate-to-severe symptoms are admitted to hospitals as on May 5. This means about 44% of the total bed capacity is being utilised.Lok Nayak hospital, with the highest capacity for Covid-19 patients, will add 500 more beds in the next few days, increasing the number of beds in government hospitals to around 3,300. “Another 500 beds will be added in the next few days, taking the total number of beds dedicated to Covid-19 patients to 2,000. We can handle any surge in the number of cases. Besides, we have observed that 80% of the people are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and can remain in isolation in their homes. So there shouldn’t be too much pressure on the hospitals,” Dr JC Passey, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital said.The Delhi government is also looking to purchase 500 more ventilators. There are 306 ventilators in government hospitals and around 800 in private ones in the city. There were 92 people in intensive care units and 17 on ventilators on Monday.The Delhi government also has a stock of about 50,000 personal protective equipment kits, with more expected this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/crowding-may-lead-to-surge-but-delhi-prepared-for-1-000-cases-a-day/story-BYR8gcNpTFPUG5qgM5ybLP.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||125 migrants to leave for Bihar in ‘Shramik Special’ train from Ambala||As many as 125 migrant labourers will be ferried to their native places in Bihar from the Ambala cantonment railway station in a ‘Shramik Special’ train on Thursday.The district administration held a meeting to ensure smooth running of the train that will leave for Kathiar district.Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “These migrant workers include those involved in agricultural activities. Arrangements have been accommodate labourers from Ambala and four to five neighbouring districts. Screening of passengers from other districts will be done as per criteria. They will be provided coach numbers and tickets with the help of RPF (Railway Protection Force).”“I have told the Ambala superintendent of police to ensure buses from other districts carrying labourers should enter the station directly. The health department will conduct a health check-up of all the workers including those from other districts. If any of them have symptoms of Covid-19, they will not be allowed to board the train,” Sharma said.Sources in the railway department said two special trains from Ambala Cantt to Katihar and Ambala Cantt to Bhagalpur will depart on Thursday and Friday, respectively, and two trains from Mohali to Hardoi on these two days.  Unwilling to divulge further details, railway officials said.“We want to avoid unnecessary influx of people other than those registered for travel by the state government,” Meanwhile, a few Congress workers led by local leader Renu Aggarwal handed over fruits to labourers travelling from Jalandhar to Bihar at the station on Tuesday. “We tried to reach on time, but missed out due to some confusion over departure time. But, we handed over the fruits and water to the GRP/RPF staff at the station. We have made arrangements for these items for labourers leaving on Thursday as well,” Aggarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/125-migrants-to-leave-for-bihar-in-shramik-special-train-from-ambala/story-IQi2L8ucKqNtG7tMd3iTWO.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Summer break for Delhi govt schools from May 11 to June 30||Government and government-aided schools in the capital will shut for summer vacations from May 11 to June 30, the Delhi government announced on Wednesday. Officials in the education department said private schools in the capital, as usual, would decide the dates of their vacation.While regular classroom teaching has been suspended in schools since March 23 due to the Covid-19 lockdown, government and private schools continued lessons through web classes, texts and automated messages.The summer vacation schedule of government schools follows a similar to that of previous years. However, the education department has decided to suspend additional teaching-learning activities that used to take place in the school during the vacations, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“We used to conduct Mission Buniyaad classes and remedial classes during vacation, which won’t take place this time. So, we will be continuing all online classes and sending daily activities to students, through text and interactive voice response (IVR) calls,” said Binay Bhushan, director of education. Under Mission Buniyad initiative, schools hold special classes to improve learning levels of students.Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar, said, “The online classes were started to mitigate academic losses and hence, will continue. Besides, there should be something to engage children during the vacation to ensure social distancing measures are followed during this pandemic. In addition to the online classes, even the Spoken English project initiated for government school students will continue online.”Principals of private schools said they were waiting to finalise the dates for the vacation, as they expected the government could issue guidelines for summer vacation in private schools as well. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “Usually, our vacation begins around May 19-20, but we haven’t decided upon the exact dates for the vacation since we were waiting for a government advisory on it. We are in talks with other principals as well and are likely to come out with the dates this week.” She added that her school would like to continue the online classes for students who will take board exams till May-end, at the least.Bharat Arora, general secretary of the Action Committee of unaided recognised private schools, said, “We have issued an advisory to continue online classes, in the interest of students, till May 22 in a phased manner. The vacation for preschool and nursery students could begin on May 11. For senior classes, online classes should continue till May 30. As far as reopening schools is concerned, it will be dependent on the prevailing condition during that time. Generally, classes resume in the last week of June or first week of July.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/summer-break-for-govt-schools-from-may-11-to-june-30/story-bhBzxZ2VWrTcE87zVSYnfN.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Tokens, marshals to smoothen liquor sales in Delhi||In order to curb violations of social distancing norms, crowding and law and order issues during sale of liquor in the city, both the Delhi government and Delhi police enunciated several measures on Wednesday, including issuing tokens/coupons to the buyers and maintaining order in the queue with the help of barricades and marshals. As per the order issued on Wednesday, which HT has seen, the Delhi government has directed the departments incharge of government-owned liquor shops to take all measures to ensure people coming to buy booze do not violate rules in force to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Delhi Police, on the other hand, has suggested to the government to extend the timings of the sale, hiring of private volunteers for crowd control, if needed, and opening of private liquor shops – except those located in markets, malls and commercial complexes. Currently, the shops are allowed to open from 9 am to 6.30 pm.Thousands have lined up in serpentine queues since Monday when the government allowed sale of liquor in the city in conformity with the Centre’s guidelines relaxing the national lockdown. Only 172 government-owned shops have been allowed to operate. There are a total of 864 liquor shops in the capital. Police officials said on Wednesday only 80-90 shops were open and there were huge queues of buyers jostling for their turn. A senior police official said, “In the first two days, almost half the shops did not open or were shut within hours because of different reasons such as shortage of stock, fears of security or the possibility of a riot-like situation.”On Tuesday, the government recorded the sale of alcohol worth Rs 4.50 crore, excluding Rs 3.15 crore in special corona cess, a senior excise department official said. To beat the huge crowd at liquor shops, the Delhi government officials are also deliberating on the idea of home delivery – especially after several states including Punjab, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal launched web portals to enable home delivery. However, the police are yet to officially send any recommendations on the idea. “Currently, the Delhi Excise Act prohibits online sale of liquor, which effectively means that home delivery cannot be started unless the law is amended. However, these are extraordinary circumstances and laws like the Disaster Management Act can be invoked to make temporary provisions. The government has taken no call on the issue so far,” said a senior government official.Delhi has 864 liquor shops – of which, 475 are owned by government departments ranging from tourism to industrial and infrastructure development. The other 389 are owned by private individuals and enterprises.THE NEXT STEPSAnother senior government official said on Wednesday that the Delhi government has already asked the municipal corporations in the city to conduct a survey of “standalone” private liquor shops in areas under their jurisdiction. “Further call on allowing such shops would be taken only after the survey is over. A decision is likely to be taken soon,” said the official.“The police have given a go-ahead to the idea now,” said a senior police official.“The situation is improving with time but it will be better if private shops are also opened. This is one of the suggestions we have made to the district magistrates. The crowds have thinned after the special corona fee at 79% of MRP was imposed on liquor but people are still standing in queues that are several hundred meters long in several places,” the senior police officer said.Delhi police officers said that the local police have asked the management of the government-run liquor shops to hire private volunteers who will help them in maintaining social distancing.At places such as Ghazipur, Govindpuri and Uttam Nagar, volunteers have already been engaged to help manage the crowd. “Our message is clear. If people do not maintain social distancing, we will ask the district management to close the shops,” another Delhi police officer said.HOME DELIVERY OF LIQUOR: EXPERT SPEAKExperts say home delivery of liquor could help ease crowding at vends across Delhi.A former senior excise officer in Delhi told HT about how protocols for provision regarding home delivery of liquor in Delhi were first drafted by the excise department in 2002 but never materialised and it was in 2009 the excise rules rather prohibited any internet-based delivery system.“Currently, home delivery of liquor looks like the only and best way to ensure social distancing in liquor shops. Under the several drafts that were prepared between 2002 and 2009, the excise department had proposed engaging third-party agencies for the delivery service and also listed detailed plans pertaining to delivery services,” said the former official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tokens-extended-timings-marshals-among-measures-suggested-to-handle-crowd-at-liquor-shops/story-l23wEHa46IP5FIlZeCSuDN.html
07-05-2020||Delhi||Cop dies of coronavirus, first death in Delhi Police||A 31-year-old constable posted at the Bharat Nagar police station in north-west Delhi died of Covid-19 on Tuesday evening. This is the first coronavirus death among city police personnel. So far, at least three dozen personnel have tested positive for Covid-19.He had tested positive at a private lab, prior to his death and a sample from the corpse has been sent to a government lab for confirmation.“He was tested for Covid-19 by a private lab on Tuesday, before his death. The test result that arrived on Wednesday revealed that he was Covid-19 positive. We are awaiting the results from RML Hospital, which carried out a test after his death,” said a senior police officer.The constable was from Sonepat of Haryana, where his wife and three-year-old son live. He was posted at the Bharat Nagar police station and primarily worked with the crime records unit.“He lived with a friend in a rented flat on the fifth floor of a building in Gandhi Nagar, a neighbourhood close to Bharat Nagar. His duty did not involve active interaction with his colleagues or frequent visits to the police station. He did not live in the police barracks or eat in the common mess,” the senior officer said.Around 2am on Tuesday, he woke up from sleep and complained of breathing trouble. “His friend got him warm water to drink and inhale. When his condition did not improve, we took him to Dr Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini in the morning. He waited there for nearly three hours, but was neither admitted nor examined for Covid-19,” one of his colleagues, who did not wish to be named, said.A senior administrator of Ambedkar Hospital said that the question of Kumar’s admission to the hospital did not arise as it is a non-Covid hospital. He was then taken to the Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital by his colleagues. “Here, he was examined by doctors and given medication,” stated a brief statement released by the police before his test result arrived.He was taken to a testing centre in Ashok Vihar, where his sample was collected, and returned home. “In the evening, he again complained of discomfort upon which he was immediately sent to Lok Nayak Hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” the police statement said.On Wednesday, an audio clip, of a purported conversation among two personnel of the Bharat Nagar station, was circulated on WhatsApp. In the recording, one of the persons was heard saying that the police, despite leaving behind their families to do their duty, were not being cared for.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip.Manish Agarwal, the joint commissioner of police (northern range), said that the Bharat Nagar police station in-charge had acted promptly on getting to know of the constable’s poor health. Agrawal said that the station house officer had decided he should be rushed to RML Hospital and had called up the hospital authorities, requesting that he is attended to.At the Bharat Nagar police station, meanwhile, the personnel have begun the process of tracing his contacts to get them tested and quarantine them. “While we believe he interacted with few staff members, we are following the standard operating procedure to trace his contacts,” said another officer.Delhi Police commissioner, SN Shrivastava, on Wednesday evening tweeted his condolences. “The sudden demise of late Constable Amit Kumar from PS Bharat Nagar has saddened the police fraternity. We stand by his family in this hour of grief and pray to the almighty to provide strength to bear this loss. All assistance to his family will be provided,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cop-dies-of-coronavirus-first-death-in-delhi-police/story-f7pJDGr7426bwbHEZk7MFM.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 ADGPs among 51 cops home quarantined||At least 51 cops posted with the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), Mohali, have been put under home quarantine as they had come in close contact with gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was tested positive for Covid-19 in Batala.The SSOC had brought the gangster for interrogation on May 3 and 4 to Mohali in connection with a high-profile robbery case and was interrogated by senior officials.Those quarantined at home include ADGP (internal security) RN Dhoke, ADGP (jails) Praveen Sinha, AIG (SSOC) Varinder Paul, AIG (counter intelligence) Gulneet Khurana, AIG (OCCU) Gurmeet Chauhan, DSP Gurcharan Singh and SHO (SSOC) Bhupinder Singh.“These officials have been home quarantined for 14 days as per the health department procedure. Another 32 cops, who were present in the building when Bhagwanpuria was interrogated, have also been home quarantined,” reads the orders by ADGP (intelligence) of Punjab Police.Bhagwanpuria, who was taken to Batala on production warrant from Patiala Central Jail in connection with a murder case, tested positive for the virus on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-adgps-among-51-cops-home-quarantined-in-punjab/story-o4w3FjlZFSB2nIoYKohDvI.html
07-05-2020||City||Mismanagement to the fore as 60 migrants in Ludhiana narrowly miss train to Bareilly||Caught up in mistimed procedures, 60 migrants narrowly missed the Shramik Special train to Bareilly, which departed from the Ludhiana railway station at 10.58am on Wednesday, after a delay of three hours. What followed was a war of words between the district administration and the railways, as officials blamed each other for the lapse.The Ludhiana-Bareilly Shramik Special Express was to depart at 8am. For this, the administration had sent text messages to the shortlisted passengers around 10.30pm on Tuesday, asking them to report at their nearest pick-up points by 4am on Wednesday. As many as 1,200 migrants turned up at 28 pick-up points across the city, following which 50 buses ferried them to the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal for medical screening before taking them to the railway station.However, amid sheer mismanagement, the screening took more than the anticipated time, not allowing buses to leave for the railway station in time. Consequently, the train was halted for hours till all migrants reached the station.The administration arranged medical screening at the railway station’s entry point as well to speed up the process. But, the train was suddenly signalled to leave at 10.55am, with three buses ferrying 60 migrants still waiting outside.An official from the administration deployed at the station intervened and contacted a railway official over the phone, questioning him why he was not intimated about the departure of the train, causing harassment to the passengers still in line. In return, the railway official blamed the administration for delaying the train’s departure by nearly three hours. Eventually, it was decided to accommodate the migrants left behind whenever the next train is planned to Bareilly.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the passengers will be contacted for the next train.TRAIN TO JHARKHAND ALSO DELAYED BY TWO HOURSAnxious moments were also palpable ahead of the departure of another train to Daltonganj in Jharkhand at 12pm, which was also delayed by over two hours.Waiting outside the railway station in their respective buses for hours, the passengers were allowed to walk in only around 11.30am.According to railways, 1,188 passengers left for Daltonganj in the train.With this, five special trains have left from Ludhiana and Jalandhar on Tuesday and Wednesday with 5,426 passengers in all.More such trains will run from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Bathinda in the coming days.So far, over 10 lakh migrants stranded in the state have enrolled themselves on the Punjab helpline portal to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-migrants-in-ludhiana-narrowly-miss-train-to-bareilly-amid-mismanagement/story-XZw4VUotSql2fHtiV9UhKI.html
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mismanagement to the fore as migrants miss train to Bareilly in Ludhiana||Caught up in mistimed procedures, 60 migrants narrowly missed the Shramik Special train to Bareilly, which departed at 10.58am on Wednesday after a delay of three hours.What followed was a war of words between the district administration and the railways, as officials blamed each other for the lapse.The Ludhiana-Bareilly Shramik Special Express was to depart at 8am. For this, the administration had sent text messages to the shortlisted passengers around 10.30pm on Tuesday, asking them to report at their nearest pick-up points by 4am on Wednesday.As many as 1,200 migrants turned up at 28 pick-up points across the city, following which 50 buses ferried them to the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal for medical screening before taking them to the railway station.However, amid sheer mismanagement, the screening took more than the anticipated time, not allowing buses to leave for the railway station in time. Consequently, the train was halted for hours till all migrants reached the station.The administration arranged medical screening at the railway station’s entry point as well to speed up the process.But, the train was suddenly signalled to leave at 10.55am, with three buses ferrying 60 migrants still waiting outside.An official from the administration deployed at the station intervened and contacted a railway official over the phone, questioning him why he was not intimated about the departure of the train, causing harassment to the passengers still in line.In return, the railway official blamed the administration for delaying the train’s departure by nearly three hours.Eventually, it was decided to accommodate the migrants left behind whenever the next train is planned to Bareilly.TRAIN TO JHARKHAND ALSO DELAYED BY TWO HOURSAnxious moments were also palpable ahead of the departure of another train to Daltonganj in Jharkhand at 12pm, which was also delayed by over two hours. Waiting outside the railway station in their respective buses for hours, the passengers were allowed to walk in only around 11.30am. According to railways, 1,188 passengers left for Daltonganj in the train.With this, five special trains have left from Ludhiana and Jalandhar on Tuesday and Wednesday with 5,426 passengers in all.SIX HRS OF OVERNIGHT PLANNING FOR TRAIN’S DEPARTURE After the first Shramik Special train left Ludhiana for Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, at 10.15pm on Tuesday, the government machinery had just six hours to ensure arrangements for the train scheduled to leave for Bareilly at 8am on Wednesday.From arranging transportation, food, medical screening and boarding, the various departments spent a sleepless night to ensure the migrants successfully boarded the train.Over 1,200 persons, including 900 police personnel, 150 railway employees and others from the district administration, municipal corporation, health department and roadways, put in concerted efforts.Catching just a few hours of shut-eye, police personnel from different stations were deployed at 28 pick-up points at 3am to help migrants board the buses while ensuring social distancing. Apart from this, police force, along with around 100 Anti-Riot Police personnel, were deployed near the railway station to maintain law and order.Employees of the MC, roadways and health department were tasked with conducting medical screening and transporting the passengers from pick-up points to ISBT to railway station starting 5am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mismanagement-to-the-fore-as-migrants-miss-train-to-bareilly-in-ludhiana/story-uTsVyi5B5Zo62iceU4N77O.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Man bludgeons father to death, confesses to crime at Paud police station||A man bludgeoned his father to death, set his body on fire and later confessed to the crime at the Paud police station on Tuesday night. The deceased has been identified as Namdev Nathu Surve, 70, while his son has been identified as Maruti Namdev Surve, in his 30s, according to the police. The arrested man allegedly bludgeoned his father to death with the help of a bat his son used for playing cricket. The accused wrapped his father’s body in a blanket and dragged it to a dried canal near their house. Once the body was thrown in the shallow dried canal, he allegedly doused it in petrol from his motorbike and set him on fire, according to a police official. The accused, Maruti Namdev Surve, has now been arrested by police.As per an official involved in the investigation, the accused sought his father’s help in taking care of his young son. The accused also claims that his wife has left him; police are investigating his claims. The son of the accused was present during the incident and has narrated it to the police. According to his statement, the child ran and hid in a nearby poultry farm after the incident.Around a year ago, the man had beaten up his father and broken his leg, leaving him with a limp in the leg. The deceased man, therefore, was a handicap in one of his leg.A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Maruti Surve at the Paud police station. The police recovered a bloodied piece of cloth, the deceased man’s bloodied walking stick in the canal next to his half burnt body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-bludgeons-father-to-death-confesses-to-crime-at-paud-police-station/story-GDGJYNSNcYetLOU3KCXNbM.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Seven deaths, 86 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Pune city on May 6||The city on Wednesday reported seven deaths and 86 fresh cases of the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus.The death toll now stands at 118 and the Covid-19 positive cases are 2,029 in the city as of Wednesday.According to officials, 52 patients were also discharged after being cured of Covid-19 and the total number of recoveries now stand at 587.Out of the seven deaths, one was brought dead to the hospital on May 5, but was reported on Wednesday, while all the six deaths had reported comorbid conditions. The deaths include a 67-year-old male living in Padmavati reported from Bharati hospital. He was admitted on April 27 and was declared dead on Tuesday at 10.25 pm and suffered from ARDS refractory shock with Covid-19, pneumonia and Parkinson’s disease.Another 75-year-old female residing at Shivajinagar was reported dead at YCM hospital at Pimpri. She was admitted on May 3 and reported dead on May 5 at 10:30 pm. She was reportedly also suffering from acute respiratory failure due to bilateral pneumonia with ARDS and hypertension.Third death reported on Tuesday was also of a 58-year-old female residing at Tadiwala road reported from Ruby Hall Clinic. She was admitted on April 3 and declared dead on Tuesday at 10:06pm. She was also suffering from hypertension, diabetes and asthma.The remaining three deaths reported on Wednesday include a 75-year-old female, a resident of Tadiwala road. She was admitted to Sassoon hospital on May 4. She was also suffering from carditis, AKI, diabetes, hypertension and obesity.Another deceased include a 69-year-old male, a resident of Yerawada who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. He was admitted on April 30 to Sahyadri hospital.The sixth death was reported from KEM hospital of an 80-year-old male resident of Bibvewadi. He was admitted on May 3. The patient also suffered from diabetes and hypertension.The seventh deceased included a 68-year-old male residing at Tadiwala road who was declared dead at Sassoon on May 5 and was reported on Wednesday. The person was brought dead.Out of the 1,324 patients still in hospital undergoing treatment for Covid-19, 79 are in critical condition, 18 are on ventilator and 61 are in serious condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-deaths-86-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-pune-city-on-may-6/story-EOQlfMApQpejQzN09je0pO.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Pool testing yet to start in Pune district; labs to increase testing capacity from 1k to 2k||Despite the state health minister declaring that the central health ministry has approved pool testing for Covid-19 samples, the district administration and the city labs are yet to take a call.Dr Anand Nandapurkar, nodal officer for Covid-19 for Pune district said, “We have not yet started pool testing for Pune. However, in a meeting with the administration and the laboratory representatives and virologists, it was suggested that if better equipment could be purchased for government labs like automated RNA extractor then the sample testing time could be reduced from six hours to one hour.”According to officials, although pool testing does increase the testing capacity by five times, it could also give false negatives if the viral load on the samples is low. To increase the testing capacity from the current 1,000 samples daily to about 2,000 samples per day, the district administration has instructed both private and government labs to increase their working capacity.With regards to pool testing, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) advisory states that pooling of more than five samples is not recommended to avoid the effect of dilution which may lead to false negatives, especially in areas or population with positivity rates of more than five per cent for Covid-19, considering the higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load, except in research mode.“The administration has also directed labs to increase their testing capacity marginally which cumulatively can double the testing rate for the city,” said Dr Nandapukar.Currently, on an average, about 1,000 samples are being tested daily which is the maximum capacity for the 10 labs which test samples for Pune. The district administration has now directed the labs, both government and private, to increase the capacity to double the testing rate of the city from current 1,000 to 2,000.The civic body recently started collection centres at the red zones to ease sample collection and test as many contacts as possible.18,097 samples tested in the districtTill date about 18,097 samples have been tested in the district May 5. While the district is also recording a decline in the number of cases coming up daily, Pune city has shown a drastic fall in the number of cases in the past four days. As per the PMC health department, on May 1, there were 93 cases, on May 2 as many as 107 cases were reported and on May 3 there were 99 cases. On May 4, 61 cases were reported and May 5 there were 65 positive cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pool-testing-yet-to-start-in-pune-district-labs-to-increase-testing-capacity-from-1k-to-2k/story-gMeoBxxYTv9Vypus11B8VK.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Pune doctors upset with sternly-worded notice from PMC asking clinics, hospitals to be kept open||A large number of private city doctors have registered their protest with the Indian Medical Association (IMA, Pune chapter) against a notice served to them by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) warning stern action if their clinics are found to be shut during regular hours.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued a notice to keep the hospital / dispensary open in the lockdown period asking for explanation as to why it was closed. To this many of the doctors have strongly condemned this and have written to the India Medical Association (IMA) Pune.The notice issued by Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that the civic body has observed that many private hospital and dispensaries were being kept closed. The commissioner ordered these hospitals and clinics to function normally failing which the PMC would be forced to file an FIR (first information report) under section 188 of Indian Penal Code, 1860.The notice stated that Maharashtra government under sections 2,3 and 4 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 had authorised the Municipal Commissioner “to take any prevention and containment measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus).”Dr Sanjay Patil, IMA (Pune) president , said, “PMC has sent a blanket notice to everyone without any verification, but internally, we are also verifying with our members. We will complete our verification by tonight (Wednesday night) and send in our findings to the PMC tomorrow. Meanwhile, we have verbally spoken to the commissioner about this.”“A number of doctors were angry with PMC for issuing the notice and raised the issue with the IMA apart from discussing it within their fraternity. A large number of the 4,800 members of the IMA had written to the association president,” Dr Patil said.They sought guidelines and protocols to be followed and also sought clarity on when they could resume elective surgery.Kataria Hospital wrote to the IMA stating that it was among the hospitals that was functioning throughout the lockdown with sanitisers, masks and social distancing measures.Dr Patil said that IMA had already followed all the rules and guidelines laid down by the government wherein doctors above the age of 60 years were exempted from working. “If we have husband and wife team of doctors, they have clarified that they have divided the clinic timings so as to manage their homes. Similarly, some doctors are following telemedicine queries hence their clinics are not open, while some have changed the timings of their clinic in accordance with the lockdown,” Dr Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-doctors-upset-with-sternly-worded-notice-from-pmc-asking-clinics-hospitals-to-be-kept-open/story-YGDHlaetwGb2fmqc6tSKwK.html
07-05-2020||City||64-year-old diabetic man latest Covid patient in Ludhiana, district count reaches 124||A 64-year-old man from Kabir Nagar was found positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday evening, taking the district count to 124. A patient of hypertension, diabetes and asthma, the man had first visited a private clinic a week ago with complaint of breathlessness, and was referred to the civil hospital. After he visited the civil hospital on Sunday, his sample was collected, which returned positive result on Wednesday. He has been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said so far 3,608 samples had been tested in the district, of which 3,124 were negative and 124 positive. Among the 124 patients, six patients have been discharged, while five have succumbed to the disease.On Tuesday, 14 new cases were confirmed in the district.Meanwhile, suspected Covid-19 patients who have tested negative are being shifted to their respective villages from the isolation centre set up at the Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students in Ludhiana.They have been directed to remain in home quarantine for 14 days.On Wednesday, five people were sent to Jugiana village in the presence of MC additional commissioner-cum-nodal officer Sanyam Aggarwal and Ludhiana (West) sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amrinder Singh Malhi.Aggarwal said 247 people, who were either asymptomatic or had few symptoms were isolated at the schools, of which 22 students, who had returned from Kota in Rajasthan, had been moved to the quarantine centre at Parker House on the Punjab Agricultural University campus.Another 40 people have been shifted to their villages.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had ordered that people returning from other states will remain quarantined in government isolation centres for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-news-after-steady-rise-no-fresh-case-in-ludhiana/story-LrqrJlrQmsaVoK555cfybO.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Pune’s crime rate falls, but control room flooded with calls for food, travel, medical help||Even though the crime rate in Pune city has fallen drastically, calls during the lockdown to the police control room have increased by over 100 per cent, according to Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham.From an average of 2,700 calls per month, calls to the Pune police control room during April rose to more than 6,880 with most of them for personal help.“Our control room is flooded with calls for inquiries about food, medicine, autorickshaw services and travel. We have been helping people in all possible ways while ensuring strict implementation of the lockdown,” said Venkatesham.With most people at home and streets deserted, crime in the city has come down sharply. According to statistics shared by the Pune police, 55 offences were registered in April pertaining to crime against women, body and property crimes. This is a drastic fall compared to 661 crimes recorded during January, 645 during February and 487 in March. The data, however, does not include cyber crimes which have remained steady during March and April, said senior police officials. In March alone, Pune police received 639 complaints while April data was not available.“Our dairy crime record has come down to one or two while there are some violations which are mostly related to lockdown order,” said Venkatesham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-crime-rate-falls-but-control-room-flooded-with-calls-for-food-travel-medical-help/story-o0q3Y4fLSrPJezKx3eKahM.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Non-essential shops to be open in Pune for 12 hours from 7am: PMC chief Gaikwad||After multiple orders leading to confusion, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued a fresh notification on Wednesday allowing non-essential standalone shops to open between 7am and 7 pm from Thursday in areas other than containment zones of the city. The PMC, as per the new order applicable till May 17, has categorised a list of shops to be open on each day in order to avoid sudden rush. The move comes after district collector Naval Kishore Ram allowed sale of petrol and diesel to everyone between 7am and 7 pm. The order stated five non-essential standalone shops on a particular road or lane within a distance of one kilometre will be allowed to remain open .In the earlier orders, PMC had allowed the shops selling non-essential commodities in the non-containment zones from 10am to 6pm though police on the ground did not allow stores to operate due to lack of clarity.In his order, Gaikwad has allowed shops involved in selling and repair of electronic gadgets, mobile phones to be opened on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while hardware, plumbing, construction and cloth stores along with vehicle garages will be allowed to open on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday. “Five shops selling non-essential commodities on a particular road or lane in the distance of one kilometre will be allowed to remain open on one particular day and on the next day, other five shops will be given permission to function,” said Gaikwad.As far as containment zones are concerned, no relaxations has been offered to any other shops other than essential commodities, vegetable and milk centres which will be allowed to remain open between 10am and 2pm.Gaikwad while using his powers vested in him by the state government has issued fresh guidelines to avoid confusion caused during the past two days. Gaikwad had earlier reduced Pune’s containment zones to three per cent out of total of 330 sqkm area of city limits. Meanwhile the district collector Naval Kishore Ram has said liquor shops within 500 metres of containment zones will not be allowed to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/non-essential-shops-to-be-open-in-pune-for-12-hours-from-7am-pmc-chief-gaikwad/story-hF7bgz42WeTiW8N3yKyZdP.html
07-05-2020||City||Ludhiana DSP who arranged food for the masses awarded DGP disc||Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, crime against women and child) Rashpal Singh has been awarded the Director General of Police (DGP) disc for his distinguished services during the Covid-19 lockdown. The DSP has been chosen for streamlining the food and ration distribution in Jagraon, Raikot, Sidhwan Bet, Mullanpur Dakha and surrounding areas, and arranging medical facilities for villagers.Since the curfew was imposed in Punjab on March 23, Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni had brought all NGOs working in Ludhiana Rural area under one banner, named “Jagraon Alliance”. DSP Rashpal was appointed its nodal officer.The DSP said after he identified the areas where people needed ration, these were distributed among NGOs, who had been distributing cooked food and ration among 9,000 people daily. “We also trained women to make masks. Over 15,000 masks have been distributed through the NGOs,” he added.Further, they took teams of doctors to villages for residents’ medical checkup.The DSP said no one had slept on an empty stomach in Ludhiana Rural areas, which was his biggest achievement.Rashpal had joined the police force in 1992 as assistant sub-inspector and has since served the force on different posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-rural-dsp-who-arranged-food-for-the-masses-gets-dgp-disc/story-hOs0iGeASWOr7qTpRtTIMM.html
07-05-2020||Pune||Sale of petrol, diesel now open for common public: Pune district collector||District collector Naval Kishore Ram on Wednesday issued yet another order - his third in 24 hours - allowing sale of petrol and diesel to common citizens without any pass. The order by Ram states that everyone from areas other than containment zones in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rest of the district will be given petrol and diesel by fuel stations between 7am and 7pm.Earlier on Tuesday evening, Ram had ordered that sale of petrol and diesel will only be to those involved in essential services. This was in contradiction to his previous order allowing supply of fuel to all. A copy of the latest order, issued on Wednesday afternoon, was sent to Pune police, Pimpri-Chinchwad police, and Pune rural police.The move was announced even though Pune city as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad police officials have prohibited use of private vehicles and vehicles plying on the streets will require movement pass.The fuel stations were considered as an essential service and were serving fuel only to those involved in essential services and those exempted in the collector’s previous orders. “Today (Wednesday), there is nothing. By tomorrow, people might consider going to work. Most of the employees of petrol pumps have gone to their native places. We have issued ID cards to whoever is coming to work. We have sufficient staff,” said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India Petroleum Dealers Association.The petrol pumps in containment zones declared in parts of the district will not be allowed to function. The containment zones were declared by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, Pune cantonment, Khadki cantonment, Dehu road cantonment, city councils, municipalities, and panchayats in the district.“We were continuously following up on our request to open up. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad was the first one to respond positively. Due credit goes to him,” said Daruwala.The decision has come a day after the cases in the district reached 2,201 with an increase of 79 cases on May 5.The order comes two days after the Pune police announced relaxation of lockdown for five shops per lane of non-essential products and construction sites with in-situ labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sale-of-petrol-diesel-now-open-for-common-public-pune-district-collector/story-ZneDmwhNFWhzc1R7qdbNCM.html
07-05-2020||Mumbai||HC directs Eros to pay ₹19.3 lakh to Bhansali Productions in 3 weeks||The Bombay high court on Monday directed Eros International to pay outstanding dues to Bhansali Productions of Rs 19.3 lakh for the film Goliyon Ki Rasleela Ram-Leela but refused to restrain two foreign companies from exploiting the rights of the film after a merger was announced between Eros and the foreign companies based in the United States and the United Kingdom. Bhansali Productions and Eros International Media Limited had co-produced and released the movie in 2013 and there was an understanding between the two with regards to rights of the film. However, after one of the foreign companies started using the poster of the movie to highlight the merger, Bhansali Productions invoked the arbitration and conciliation clauses which restrained Eros International from selling, exploiting, licensing, distributing and renewing rights over the film. Bhansali also sought dues to the tune of Rs 19.39 lakhs to be paid by Eros.A single bench of justice B P Colabawalla while hearing the petition filed by Bhansali Productions through video conferencing on Monday was informed by senior counsel Zal Andhyarujina and advocates Nausher Kohli, Parag Khandhar and Nachiket Yagnik that Eros International limited was likely to merge with its parent company Eros International PLC and Hollywood’s STX Filmworks by June 30.Advocates Akshay Patil and Vikrant Zunjarrao representing Eros International opposed the plea and said that there was no urgency to grant interim reliefs to Bhansali productions as Eros was to bound to pay the dues.After hearing the submissions, justice Colabawalla said that as the respondent companies were situated in the British Isles and California it would require a detailed hearing to decide on whether reliefs can be granted against entities lying beyond the court’s jurisdiction. He further said that as the Court was hearing only extremely urgent matters there was no case for ad-interim reliefs. The court, however, directed Eros International to pay dues of Rs 19,39,241 to Bhansali production related to co-production arrangement within three weeks and allowed Bhansali Productions to approach it for reliefs against the merger after regular court resumed post lockdown.Meanwhile, Eros India spokesperson said, “The Bombay high court has adjourned the case in our favour. Eros always sticks to best corporate governance and business practices and had already given the cheque in advance as per our agreement. We will take appropriate legal action against Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s production for this mala fide and unfounded action, which has also been duly noted by the court”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-eros-to-pay-19-3-lakh-to-bhansali-productions-in-3-weeks/story-sGKRZXSKdNb1yscbg43HEJ.html
07-05-2020||City||Melon growers worried about sale of crop amid corona crisis||Punjab farmers say traders from other states, who buy at least 70% produce of muskmelons and watermelons, are reluctant to turn up this time Amid the coronavirus crisis, growers of muskmelons and watermelons in Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts, which account for about 80% produce in Punjab, are worried about the sale of their crop, which usually picks up around May 15. The main concern of the growers this season is that the traders from other states who purchase at least 70% of their produce are reluctant to visit Punjab in view of the current situation. Traders from Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhaya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra come to Punjab every year to buy muskmelons and watermelons.The state government has announced 14-day mandatory quarantine for every person entering Punjab from other states.In Jalandhar district, muskmelons are grown over 6,700 acres and watermelons over 2375 acres. In Kapurthala, muskmelons and watermelons are grown over 4,200 and 1,000 acres, respectively. According to horticulture department officials, a melon farmer earns between ₹50,000 and ₹60,000 per acre on an average.Gurbhej Singh of Nihaluwal village of Jalandhar, who has grown muskmelons over 30 acres, said that due to several restrictions in the lockdown period, a majority of traders are avoiding inter-state visits.Resham Singh of Sheikhupura village in Kapurthala said these perishable crops can’t be stored for long and the government should make arrangements for timely sale of their produce. Kapurthala district potato growers association has submitted a memorandum to the horticulture department, urging the government to come forward to rescue melon growers. ASIA’S LARGEST MARKET Roopewal village in Shahkot subdivision of Jalandhar is considered Asia’s largest market of cucurbit crops, where traders from other states come to purchase musk melons and watermelons.Talking to HT over phone, Nadeem Khan, a trader from Rajasthan, said, “If I come to Punjab, I will end up spending major part of the season under quarantine period only.” Firoz Ahmed, a trader from Kashmir, said that they are still analysing the situation. Mishri Lal, a commission agent, at Rupewal market said various states must issue online passes to traders for inter-state travel so that they can buy the melon crop in Punjab.OFFICIALS FOR ONLINE TRADINGPunjab horticulture director Shailender Kaur said, “Traders have a long association with farmers. They can place online orders for melons which can be transported by farmers. Traders can transfer money in their bank accounts.”Kapurthala deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal also advocated online trading for muskmelons and watermelons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/melon-growers-worried-about-sale-of-crop-amid-corona-crisis/story-sd4EUQ6z0ANvQqt6zKkPNM.html
