08-05-2020||Mumbai||World Migratory Bird Day: Return rate of tagged birds highest in Mumbai: BNHS||More tagged or ringed migratory birds return to roosting and feeding sites in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai than any other region in India.Bird ringing is done by clipping a bird with a small metal ring to study and understand the routes they use to fly, their migration patterns and resting sites.Of 10,803 individuals of migratory shore-birds across 46 species ringed in the Mumbai region between 2014 and 2020 (majorly from 2018 onwards) with a recapture rate - recording a ringed bird from the same spot where it was tagged - of 4.6% (497 birds), according to Maharashtra’s nodal agency for bird ringing studies, the Bombay Natural History Society that released data ahead of the 15th World Migratory Bird Day on Saturday. The high rate of birds flocking back show that inter-tidal mudflats in the Mumbai region provide essential feeding grounds for thousands of migratory birds and need to be protected, said researchers.“The recapture rate is significantly higher than otherwise recorded for bird ringing studies in India. The high recapture data is attributed to very high site fidelity for these migratory birds and intensive efforts of bird ringing over a long period,” said Deepak Apte, director, BNHS.More recent data from November 2019 to January 2020 showed 3,453 birds ringed by BNHS across wetlands near Bhandup pumping station in Mumbai, the Thane creek and TS Chanakya wetlands in Navi Mumbai. Of these, 3,415 were small waders and 38 flamingos with 160 recaptures during the exercise. Most of these winged visitors descend to Mumbai after spending the summer in Arctic Russia, said BNHS.“This kind of data repository is not available along the west coast for any location so far, including the Gujarat, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala coast, which witnesses the highest bird numbers,” said Apte.According to BNHS, a shore-bird ringed on the west coast of India carries a metal ring in one leg and two-coloured flags (one with alphanumeric engraving and another blank) in the other leg. The position of ring and flag also changes according to the year they are tagged. The left leg carries the metal ring during the odd year and right leg carries coloured flags and vice-versa for even year.BNHS also collated 376 resighting records (tagged birds spotted rather than checked for details like alphanumeric engraving) from birders and wildlife photographers. “Mark-recapture studies with migratory shorebirds have always proven to give low recapture rate and hence resighting records are also considered as recapture,” said Rahul Khot, assistant director, BNHS. “Interestingly, 80% of the recaptures recorded by us were from the sites where the birds were tagged. For example, a bird ringed in 2014 at Panje wetland in Uran was recaptured in 2018 in Panje even after four years.”Apart from the Lesser and Greater flamingos, birds ringed by BNHS include a large number of waders such as Little Stint, Curlew sandpiper, Lesser Sandplover, Common Redshank, and Black-tailed Godwit whereas rare species included Red-necked Phalarope, Spotted Redshank, and Bar-tailed Godwit.Independent experts concurred with BNHS’ findings. “The global recapture rate is around 2-3%, and this indicates that these Mumbai wetlands need to be conserved. However, we must try to understand how the migratory birds use these mudflats, whether they are becoming their winter homes permanently or these are stopover points for their final destination,” said Dr Asad Rahmani, member, Wetlands International South Asia and former director, BNHS.Sunjoy Monga, ornithologist said, “The findings are accurate. A sizeable ringed population of birds frequenting key wetland sites annually makes it a clear case for protection of these wetlands.”World Migratory Bird DayIn 2006, the United Nations decided to celebrate the second weekend of May every year as World Migratory Bird Day in order to raise awareness about the migratory birds and their linkages between different regions across the globe. Every year a unique theme is chosen. This year’s theme is ‘Birds connect our World’, which was chosen to highlight the importance of conserving and restoring the ecological connectivity and integrity of ecosystems that support the natural cycles essential for the survival and well-being of migratory birds. During their annual cycle, flyways are used by birds for breeding, stopover, and wintering zones. Globally, nine migratory flyways have been identified under the Convention of Migratory Species (CMS). CAF is one of them covering migratory bird routes across 30 countries with maximum routes passing through India.SOME INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT THE MIGRATORY BIRDSThe highest flyer: Bar-headed Geese travel every year from their breeding grounds in China and Mongolia to India and while doing so they cross the Himalayas, flying above 29,000 feet. No other bird is able to do so.The longest non-stop flyer: Bar-tailed Godwits are able to fly non-stop from Alaska to New Zealand during which they cover a staggering 11,000 km within six days. Before embarking on this journey around 55% of their body weight is stored as fats to power this tiring journey.The all-time record holder: Arctic terns travel from the North Pole to South Pole and back. Studies indicate that on an average they travel up to 70,900 km annually. In their lifetime they would complete the distance equivalent to going to the Moon and back three times.(Source: Siddhesh Surve, assistant director (capacity building), Maharashtra Mangrove Foundation)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/world-migratory-bird-day-return-rate-of-tagged-birds-highest-in-mumbai-bnhs/story-nbK2p5ssix87jrRRdDAZLP.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi urges migrants not to walk, cycle home||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has appealed to migrant workers not to walk or travel by bicycle on their way home as doing so could put their health and safety at risk.The chief minister issued the appeal after reviewing the return of migrant workers, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference on Friday.His appeal came on a day 16 migrants were crushed under a goods train in Maharashtra when they were sleeping on rail tracks during their return home in Madhya Pradesh. They had fallen asleep on the tracks due to exhaustion after walking for several kilometres.The chief minister also said the state government was arranging for the safe return of every worker and labourer in coordination with all the state governments, the senior bureaucrat informed.On the chief minister’s instructions, Shramik Special trains were being operated regularly for Uttar Pradesh. Till Friday, 69 trains had either arrived or were en route to UP, the official said. These trains arrived at railway stations in 40 districts of the state. Around 76 trains will reach UP in the next two days.“When so many trains are coming, the CM said there is no need for anyone to walk to reach home and they should come back as per the proper arrangement made for them,” Awasthi said.“Today (Friday), 11 trains have arrived, and 16 more will reach by night. They will together bring about 30,000 people from different parts of the country in a day,” he said.The chief minister has ordered officials to keep UPSRTC buses available in every district. About 10,000 UPSRTC buses had been deployed during the Covid-19 crisis. It was a record that such a large number of people were being sent home on trains and buses, he said.Awasthi stressed that Uttar Pradesh was ready to bring back all those willing to return if the state they were currently staying provided a detailed list and health certificate of the migrants.The senior government official said the return of migrants from Sharjah by air on Saturday was also discussed during the meeting. An Air India flight with around 200 Indians from Sharjah is scheduled to arrive in Lucknow on Saturday. The Indian government on Monday had announced plans to begin a phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7.Awasthi said another flight that landed in Delhi on Friday carried 20 people from Ghaziabad and Noida. The chief minister had said those coming from abroad should be screened and kept in quarantine centres before they could be allowed to go home, the senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-urges-migrants-not-to-walk-cycle-home/story-GeJ53hkF2XUTvbJs3cUXyO.html
08-05-2020||City||City residents throng Bhiwandi villages for liquor||After the municipal corporations in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) refused to allow liquor shops to remain open, residents of Thane and Kalyan are thronging shops in Bhiwandi rural.Liquor shops opened in these villages on Monday. As the other municipal corporations did a U-turn on the decision, the gram panchayats have not passed any such order.But most shops are seeing a huge crowd of people from nearby cities who come to buy alcohol. Local villagers said that social distancing rule is not followed and suddenly their village has a lot of crowd.On Friday, some of the gram panchayats wrote to the tehsildar and the police complaining about the problem. They are worried about spread of Covid-19.“We have received complaints from gram panchayats in Bhiwandi. No rules are followed although we have special police protection in these spots and have asked shops to maintain social distancing. We have written to the excise department too. After taking their opinion, we will take a call on keeping liquor shops open,” said Shashikant Gaikwad, tehsildar, Bhiwandi rural.Villagers from areas such as Kalher, Dapoda and Shelar want the liquor shops in their areas to shut. “Our village does not have any coronavirus case so we don’t want so many people coming in just to buy liquor,” said Ravindra Gundolkar, sarpanch, Shelar village.The residents had initially tried to request the liquor shop owners to shut the shop but they did not. So, they complained to the local authorities.“People from other places come in their private vehicles and buy cartons of liquor. They do not follow social distancing and crowd the areas,” said Sanjay Dudhe, 43, a resident of Kalher, Bhiwandi rural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-residents-throng-bhiwandi-villages-for-liquor/story-JUOylQfqPcp2nuSJdliwEK.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||10 foreigners who attended Tablighi Jamaat event get bail||The sessions court on Friday granted bail to 10 Indonesian nationals who had been arrested in April for allegedly failing to disclose the details of their participation at the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Nizamuddin Markaz, Delhi.The 10 accused had earlier been denied bail by the metropolitan magistrate court on Monday, following which they had approached the sessions court.Their lawyer, Ishrat Khan, pleaded that the charges of attempt to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder do not apply to the case. It was also submitted that the 10 were tested negative for Covid-19.Public prosecutor Ramesh Shiroya had objected their bail plea on the ground that the accused did not abide by the orders of the authorities and did not come forward to admit that they had attended the event. The prosecution also argued that the accused knew about the spread of virus in their country, despite which they entered India, and two other group members were found infected.The court however, accepted the argument of the defence lawyer and granted bail to the 10 accused.According to the case registered by Bandra police, 12 people including the 10 arrested, had visited Delhi from Indonesia in March for the religious meet. After attending the event, they came to Mumbai on March 7 and were staying at an apartment in Bandra.Two members of this group were kept in quarantine, after they were tested positive for Covid-19. Khan had approached the court for their pre-arrest bail before the quarantine period ended. The two now are granted interim protection from arrest and their plea is scheduled for hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/10-foreigners-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-get-bail/story-ynT3pXKtgVD2fSusWfG9ZP.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Local panels to watch migrants in home quarantine||Surveillance committees in villages and localities will have an important role in the management of migrants arriving in Uttar Pradesh from various states, according to senior state government officials.The state government has directed these surveillance committees to maintain regular watch on migrants staying in home quarantine, they added.Speaking at a joint press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said health teams were screening migrant workers at railway stations before they were transported to their home districts by bus.Once they arrived in home districts, they would be screened again and then sent to 21 days’ home quarantine, the officials added. The district administration officers have been directed to hand over a kit of edible items and sustenance money to migrants.If migrant workers were found infected with coronavirus, they would be admitted in isolation wards of Covid hospitals established by the state government in various districts, the officials said.A village surveillance committee headed by the gram pradhan will monitor migrants during 21 days’ home quarantine. Asha (accredited social health activists), anganwadi workers, and volunteers of Yuvak Mangal Dal will be the committee members.In urban areas, the ward councilor will head the surveillance committee. Asha workers, civil defence members and representatives of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) will be members of this committee there.The surveillance committee will alert the district administration and health teams if they detect the Covid symptoms among migrants or if the migrants violate Covid guidelines during home quarantine, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-local-panels-to-watch-migrants-in-home-quarantine/story-kXUe09JFJBobYOvJitIAeP.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Tribal village of SGNP declared containment zone after guard tests positive||A tribal village inside the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), Borivli has been sealed by the civic body after a Covid-19 positive case was detected.Dam pada with 40 families, located close to SGNP’s boating area, and 4 km from the park’s main office was sealed on Thursday after a security guard, who was tested positive for Covid-19 at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital in Parel, died.N Patil, medical officer (R central ward), BMC, said, “We identified 10 high-risk persons who came in contact with the positive patient, and 85 low-risk persons comprising adivasi and forest staff residents. High-risk persons have been shifted to a quarantine facility in Charkop.”Patil added the forest guard (security staff) had been admitted to a local Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) hospital for a few days, during the first week of April, owing to a paralysis triggered by a brain haemorrhage. “He was transferred to Sir JJ Hospital where he was admitted for almost a month. After complications with his treatment, he was shifted to KEM. His condition deteriorated earlier this week, and he passed away on Wednesday. Blood samples collected before his death were retested and detected to be positive for the virus,” said Patil.High risk contacts include his family and neighbours regularly visiting him at the hospital. “We will be daily visiting the hamlet to check their health since the mobile network is not available at the pada,” said Patil.SGNP has close to 35,000 tribal residents living across 56 hamlets.Naresh Zarmure, chief conservator of forest (additional charge), SGNP said, “This is the first quarantined zone inside SGNP, though several areas have been sealed along the periphery outside the park.”Zarmure added that the park has been shut for visitors for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tribal-village-of-sgnp-declared-containment-zone-after-guard-tests-positive/story-Tt08J34Gpjr8iaaLANTjWP.html
08-05-2020||City||Panvel records three Covid deaths||Three Covid deaths were reported in Panvel on Friday as the city’s total cases touched 138 with eight new cases on Friday. A 54-year-old woman from Kamothe, who was suffering from blood pressure and liver problems, died. Her daughter-in-law works in a clinic in Kamothe.The other two deaths were of a 70-year-old man and a 52-year-old resident of Khanda Colony.Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has declared Kamothe node a containment zone as it has recorded 50 cases.Municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “We have sealed 23 buildings in the node. Only those residents working in essential and emergency service can go out after their identity cards are verified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-three-covid-deaths/story-oKpyUAmdP99t6GDDnkhiyJ.html
08-05-2020||City||KDMC to appoint social workers for each ward||The increasing cases of Covid-19 in Kalyan and Dombivli city have prompted the civic body to put more measures in place.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi announced on Friday that they will rope in social groups, corporators and individuals from every ward and appoint them as ‘Covid warriors’.The volunteers will work under the guidance of KDMC employees and help out with awareness programmes, give Covid information to residents and help residents with home delivery of essential.They will also keep a track on senior citizens, pregnant women and differently abled people and help them with essentials.“The volunteers will set up hand wash stations at slum areas and ensure cleanliness in public toilets in slum areas. They will also acquire details of residents with severe respiratory disorders and inform KDMC health department,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.They will also ensure there is no crowding of people anywhere and social distancing is followed in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-to-appoint-social-workers-for-each-ward/story-M83fvMkWkiOxuV4vGZdRBJ.html
08-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka records biggest single-day spike of 48 cases||Karnataka witnessed its biggest single biggest spike of Covid-19 positive cases on Friday with 48 new patients being reported from the state, taking its tally to 753 cases. This includes 30 deaths from coronavirus disease and 376 discharges.However, the government said that while there was a spike in cases, the number of treated and discharged Covid-19 patients were still more than the active cases in the state.Data shows that it has been the deep interior districts like Davangere and Belgavi which have seen a huge increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.Meanwhile, after a three-day stoppage and confusion about logistics, the South Western Railway on Friday ran three Shramik Special trains from the state- two to Lucknow and one to Patna – ferrying 3,500 stranded workers back to their states.“Today, the Shramik Special to Lucknow departed at 4.25 pm from Chikkabanavara station with 1,200 passengers on board, second one left Malur at 5.45 pm carrying 1,200 adults and seven children to Danapur (Bihar) and the third train to Lucknow departed from Malur at 7.55 pm with 1,198 passengers on board,” the SWR said in a statement, reports PTI.Till now, the South Western Railways has run 10 Shramik trains from Karnataka to different parts of India.State government officials claimed that the confusion was because a number of other states like West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and a few others were yet to give consent to receiving migrants who hail from their states.However, even on Friday migrants looking to return had to pay a ticket charge of Rs 1,050 despite the earlier claims of the state government that the journey would be free of charge.When asked about this, Karnataka primary and secondary education minister speaking at a media interaction, said “Our intention is not to collect the charges, let me find out (why) it is being done.”A delegation of opposition leaders including the leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah, leader of opposition in council SR Patil, KPCC president DK Shivakumar, JD(S) state president HK Kumaraswamy, former minister HD Revanna and others met with chief minister BS Yediyurappa and submitted a list of demands and suggestions about what the government could do better to tackle the current Covid-19 situation.Speaking to the media later, Congress leader DK Shivakumar criticised the economic stimulus package announced by the chief minister as ‘too little and not encompassing all sections of the society.’ Stating that some of the BJP legislators were playing politics by displaying their photos and party symbol on government relief material, Shivakumar said that this was “unbecoming” (of them).Former chief minister Siddaramiah too criticised the actions of the Yediyurappa government, saying that the Centre should release at least Rs 50,000 crore as a special package for the state. He added that the government should step in and either purchase or announce support prices for vegetables, flowers and fruits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-records-biggest-single-day-spike-of-48-cases/story-9igIOg6JY1hFNenUIPAGyO.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects Covid-positive PNB accused’s temporary bail plea||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday rejected plea for temporary bail by Hemant Bhatt, one of the accused in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud, after the 66-year-old tested positive for Covid-19.Justice Bharati Dangre rejected Bhatt’s plea in view of the fact that a Covid-19 patient can’t be allowed to be freed on temporary bail, and said that Bhatt will be required to be treated at a government hospital.Acting on Bhatt’s plea, justice Dangre had on May 6 directed a public prosecutor to make a statement about the situation with regards to Covid-19 infection in Arthur Road jail.Bhatt, in his plea filed through advocate Kiran Padalkar, said, “The applicant is aged 66 years and is a chronic heart patient who has undergone by-pass surgery, has been diagnosed with coronary artery disease and is also suffering from hypertension.” Bhatt had sought interim bail citing the Supreme Court’s directives to states and Union Territories to decongest prisons in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, counsel for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Hiten Venegaonkar, opposed the plea stating that pursuant to the directives of the apex Court, a high-power committee constituted by the state government has decided to grant temporary bail only to the prisoners charged with offences punishable with not more than seven years imprisonment, and Bhatt’s case did not fall under the purview of the same.Justice Dangre had, however, noted the apprehension expressed by the accused because of his health condition along with the ongoing pandemic, and directed the public prosecutor to make the statement on Friday.Accordingly, additional public prosecutor Shahaji Shinde on Friday informed the court that a number of inmates and some staff members of Arthur Road jail have tested positive for the infection and Bhatt was among the inmates who tested positive.Bhatt has been arrested in connection the PNB fraud allegedly perpetuated by fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi. CBI has booked Bhatt and other accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The accused have also been booked by the Enforcement Directorate under relevant provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-covid-positive-pnb-accused-s-temporary-bail-plea/story-Vi6AiUvkxcSFJMpMw7u39N.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: NIA court extends judicial custody of Dr Anand Teltumbde till May 22||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday extended judicial custody of activist Dr Anand Teltumbde, who was arrested in connection with Elgar Parishad case, till May 22. The court has also asked the prison authorities to submit a report on the medical treatment given to him by May 15.Teltumbde was arrested by NIA on April 14 after he surrendered before the agency in Mumbai and was remanded in judicial custody by the special court on April 25. However, after the NIA officer who questioned him was found infected with Covid-19, Teltumbde was put under quarantine for 14 days, which ends on Saturday.Meanwhile, the defence urged the court to grant him proper medical aid as he suffers from several ailments. On Friday, when the case came up for the hearing, the court was informed that Teltumbde has been kept under quarantine in a hospital. After hearing the concerns, the court has asked the prison authority to respond to the plea and file a detailed reply by May 15.NIA has claimed that Teltumbde had links with banned outfit the Communist Party of India (Maoist) and is also suspected to have received funds from the organisation. The central agency has contended that the activist gave “provocative presentation and speeches on December 31, 2017, during an event at Shaniwarwada, Pune, which led to violence resulting in loss of life and state-wide agitation”.The agency has further claimed that Teltumbde was the convener of the program and that his call data records show he was in touch with the other arrested accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-court-extends-judicial-custody-of-dr-anand-teltumbde-till-may-22/story-xYeQGyCwrcxvFoOqVcYq4L.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Publicise free medical screening scheme for migrants: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to publicise its scheme for free medical screening of migrant workers, who want to return to their hometowns, at the point of boarding. The HC’s directive came while it was hearing public interest litigations (PILs) wherein petitioners said the initiative of the government was not known to many. The court has also directed the state to take appropriate decision on bearing the travel expenses of the migrants. A single-judge bench of justice SC Gupte while hearing the PILs filed by several non-government organisations was informed that the homeless, migrants and slum-dwellers needed state support to tide over the lockdown. The plea claimed that as per the procedure laid down by the state, migrants wanting to return home had to have a medical clearance certificate to be allowed to board the transportation facility. The said the additional cost could not be borne by all migrants and urged that the state pay for it too. While answering the concerns of the petitioners regarding medical certificates, the state lawyer submitted that since May 7, the state government had discontinued the need to submit a medical certificate while seeking permission to travel. The advocate said as per the order signed by Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, screening of migrants would be done by government medical staff at the time of start of the journey, free of cost. Thereafter, the medical officer in-charge will issue a list of passengers who have been screened and have not displayed any influenza-like illness.However, the counsel for a petitioner submitted that this new initiative was not known to the migrants and hence, needed to be adequately publicised. Friday’s incident at Aurangabad wherein 16 migrants were run over by a goods train was also cited as a point of reference to emphasise the need to publicise the initiative.In light of the submissions, the court directed the government to give adequate publicity to free medical screenings of migrant workers and also inform the court as to who would be bearing the travel expenses of the migrants, and posted the matter for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/publicise-free-medical-screening-scheme-for-migrants-hc-to-state/story-5SzPZ7ekvsEB7260BPR8CK.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||City’s first special train for migrants leaves for UP||The first Shramik special train for migrant workers from the city set off for Uttar Pradesh on Friday evening. The train, with around 1,200 migrant workers stranded in the city, started from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) in the city to Basti railway station in Uttar Pradesh. However, the train which was supposed to depart at 4pm finally left at 6.12pm.A senior Central Railway (CR) official said, “The state government was bringing the workers to LTT in buses. After inspection, they were allocated seats on the train.” The state government on Thursday relaxed the rule that made certificate from doctors mandatory to get permission to travel, and said the travellers would be checked for symptoms at the start of the journey. While similar trains were being operated from Nasik, Nagpur, Shirdi, Bhiwandi towards Uttar Pradesh, Rajashtan and Madhya Pradesh, there were no such services from Mumbai before this since the city is a red zone owing to high number of Covid-19 cases. On Friday, CR also operated special trains between Kalyan railway station and Arariya Court railway station in Bihar. Another train was operated between Shirdi and Sitapur railway station in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-s-first-special-train-for-migrants-leaves-for-up/story-TT5LcxbWd4X4WaG1Jq5bmL.html
08-05-2020||City||Amritsar cloth traders say peak season for biz passing them by||Cloth traders in the city, known for its wholesale trade that generates Rs 15,000 crore of business every summer season, are worried that peak business season that starts after wheat harvest is passing them by. With the covid-19 pandemic forcing a long lockdown and relaxation for business not coming through from the government, they say they are staring at financial ruin. Amritsar district, though, has been in a red zone and has the highest number of cases in the state. As for the cloth trade, over 5,000 wholesalers are dependent on it across 50 markets in the city. The markets around the Golden Temple, such as Katra Ahluwalia Bazaar, Tahli Sahib Bazaar, Shastri Market and Katra Jaimal Singh Bazaar are the hub for cloth trading in the state, with retailers also picking up stock.Amritsar Federation of Cloth Wholesalers chairman Jatinder Singh Bhatia says, “We are an agro-based economy. Farmers usually buy clothes after selling their produce. This has happened, but we are unable to open. We have stocked summer clothes. If we are not allowed to open our shops and outlets, we will have to bear huge losses.”He added that by June, they usually sell their summer stock, but this seemed a remote possibility this year. “Agriculture is main occupation of people in villages, but the economy of Amritsar city is based on industry and cloth trade. Agriculture has been allowed, but those living in the city have been denied relaxation,” Bhatia added. “Five percent of traders are indulging in running their businesses illegally by opening half-shutters of their shop etc. There are videos of this illicit practice, which is also hurting us. The government must allow this to function,” claimed a trader Kanwaljit Singh. Another trader Lucky Bhatia claimed, “The government expects full taxes from us, but deprives us of running our business.” Traders also claimed that the administration had demarcated shops in a single lane by labeling these A, B and C with only the shops named the same alphabet to be allowed to open twice a week. “Implementation of the system is pending,” said a trader, adding that if the situation did not improve, they would even stage protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-cloth-traders-say-peak-season-for-biz-passing-them-by/story-yqiqA5Wp8xdntluKhnDjiK.html
08-05-2020||City||Migrants prioritise who gets a ticket first||A number of migrant workers stuck at Panvel, Kamothe and adjoining areas have come up with a plan to get their passes to travel back to their hometowns amicably and based on need. The migrants have voluntarily decided to prioritise their return based on the traveller’s age and family conditions. They are also expecting that the ones who reach earlier would help them with money till they secure a place for themselves on special trains.While the workers are relieved that they will not require a medical certificate to get travel pass, they are also aware that not all of them can board the train together as each of these special trains can accommodate around 1,200 migrants at a time.“We know it very well that all of us cannot secure place in one go, hence only one person from a family or a group fills the form. This way, we also avoid crowding at police station,” said Dhumal Rao, 40, who hails from West Bengal.“We are a group of 50 people from West Bengal. We know there are many people who are trying to get travel passes like us hence, only one of us is approaching the police station for form instead of all of us. The one who reaches first will help us with money till we secure a ticket for ourselves,” said Rao.Another migrant, 37-year-old Bhupinder Singh from Bihar said, “It is not only that the one who reaches first will help us with money. Some of us are in a better position and are getting regular help, whereas others are not so fortunate. Hence, we are letting them fill the forms first.” He added that priority is also being given to families with kids as kids are at a higher risk.Babasaheb J Tupe, senior inspector, Kamothe police station, said, “The shramik special train can ferry only 1,200 passengers. We are getting applications from more and more people, but can allow only 1,200 of them as per the directive.” He added, “If they decide to prioritise among themselves, then there’s nothing better. Everyone will get a seat; they just need to be patient.” Suhash Jha, a city-based activist, said, “We are in regular contact with the migrants and are helping them with the process of securing a ticket. Larger groups have mutually decided as to who should go first. They are giving preference to each other, which is commendable.”Shramik special from Kalyan to BiharA Shramik special train was operated from Kalyan to Araria Court station in Bihar on Friday with around 1,200 migrants aboard. “Travellers were made to maintain social distancing norms, and it was ensured that all of them use masks and take all necessary precautions,” said an official from Central Railway (CR).“It was the fourth special train to be operated from Mumbai division of Central Railway. Before this, trains were operated from Bhiwandi, Panvel and Thane,” the official said.KDMC, doctors give medical certificates to 30,000 migrantsThe Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), along with its teams of doctors, has managed to provide around 30,000 migrant workers with medical certificates till Thursday.“Till Thursday we have provided around 30,000 medical certificates to the migrant workers in KDMC vicinity. This work was carried out in last four days with the team of doctors at different centres,” said SK Ubale, nodal officer from migrant workers project, KDMC.The civic body had set up around 15 centres across its 10 wards to carry out medical check-up of the migrants to ensure the workers are not infected with Covid-19 before they travel back their hometowns.“In some wards we had to set up two centres considering the number of migrants. We are ensuring that social distancing norms are followed at all centres,” said Ubale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-prioritise-who-gets-a-ticket-first/story-1YZuo5rv3X69777YnvQL8N.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Won’t deploy Army in city, may just take help to give cops rest: Uddhav||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday dismissed rumours that the Indian Army would be deployed in Mumbai. However, he said the state may request the Centre to deploy forces to allow police personnel to take rest in phases. Thackeray admitted that although the lockdown has helped keep the spread of the virus in check, it has “not been successful in breaking the chain”.“For the past few days, rumours that ‘the Army would be deployed, a lockdown would be imposed and all shops will be shut’ have been doing the rounds. Why do we need the Army? Till date, I have done everything after taking you into confidence, and will continue to do so. We went into lockdown gradually, so we do not need the Army. We are the jawans [soldiers] in this fight. The Army will not come to Mumbai,” Thackeray said in his address on Friday evening. “The police are tired, but they are still working. Some have unfortunately died. To give them a break only when they burn out would be cruel; they also require rest in between. I want to ask the Centre if there is any way we can get additional manpower, so our police force can take breaks in phases. They can then get back to their job…Please don’t equate it to calling the Army.”Thackeray appealed to people to strictly adhere to the norms to wipe out the disease. “There are [Covid-19] cases being reported in the red zones and containment zones of Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, Malegaon and Nagpur. There can be no relaxation there. The lockdown is like a speed-breaker. It has helped us reduce the speed at which the disease spreads. But we have not been successful in breaking the chain of the virus. We have to break it anyhow. How long can this lockdown go on? Now we should prepare so that the transmission and spread of this virus ends once and for all,” the CM said.The chief minister said the state was preparing for an eventuality where more hospital beds, doctors, nursing staff are required. He said the government has sought military hospital and repurposed railway coaches, along with Covid Care facilities at NSCI Dome in Worli, MMRDA Grounds in Bandra-Kurla Complex, NESCO exhibition centre in Goregaon, and Mahalaxmi Race Course. “We may double the capacity at BKC and erect such centres at other locations. We are preparing in case we need to accommodate some asymptomatic patients at these centres. We have to take into account the onset of monsoon. I had written to Centre, which has been accepted, that, if required, we should be allowed to use the services of doctors and hospital facilities of central agencies, including railways, army, Mumbai Port Trust,” Thackeray said.Thackeray also expressed pain over the accident of migrant labourers in Aurangabad. “I am pained today due to the railway accident in Jalna. We have started making arrangements for special trains to transport the migrants to their states. Don’t believe any rumour. I request you stay where you are and don’t panic,” he said.He added that the Centre, Maharashtra government and the state governments where the migrants intend to go are in touch. Speaking on the incident at Sion Hospital in Mumbai that came to light through a video, Thackeray said negligence will not be tolerated. A video went viral on Thursday where two wrapped bodies of Covid victims were kept in the ward where patients were being treated. “I can’t tolerate such negligence. I always say that the police and doctors are God for us. Nobody should fight with them and there shouldn’t be any attacks on them. Similarly, I want to tell doctors that there shouldn’t be any negligence in hospitals. When everything is going fine, don’t put us in a situation where we are forced to take action against you.”The CM also said that although the number is rising daily, the number of recovered patients is also substantial. He appealed to people to come forward in case of symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/won-t-deploy-army-in-city-may-just-take-help-to-give-cops-rest-uddhav/story-yX1mUCGojAa3NPxpr0q6yO.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Eight test Covid-19 positive; total count at 125||Two health workers from a private hospital and a vegetable seller from Khandsa Mandi were among the eight new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) confirmed in the city on Friday. The new cases were reported from Sector 107, Sirhaul, Shivaji Park and DLF-Phase 1. With these new cases, the total count of persons infected with SARS-Cov-2 virus reached 125, of which 75 are hospitalised and 51 have recovered.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer(CMO), said, “Eight new cases have been confirmed positive for Covid-19. It includes two health care workers from a private hospital where a Covid-19 patient, an ambulance driver who worked in Delhi, had visited.” On Wednesday, three health care workers from the same hospital were confirmed Covid-19 positive.Punia said, “Another vegetable seller from Khandsa has been confirmed positive. A woman, a resident of Sector 107, who voluntarily approached our team after she visited the mandi the last time before it was closed on May 4, has also been tested positive.” Till now, 21 vegetable sellers and traders in Khandsa, Gurugram’s wholesale fruit and vegetable market, have tested coronavirus positive. The district administration on Friday declared it as a containment zone.A man from Sirhaul, Sector 18, tested positive after he came in contact with other Covid-19 patients, who were his close contacts. At least five cases have been reported from the area. Another man who distributed ration in different areas also tested positive for Covid-19. The health team, however, did not disclose the area or how he contracted the virus. Also, a resident of Shivaji Park, who was a suspected case got himself admitted in PGIMS, Rohtak. A security guard from DLF Phase-1 got infected after he came in contact with a man who worked at a mess in Rajiv Chowk Air Force station. On Friday, the district health bulletin mentioned that a Gurugram policeman was also Covid-19 positive, which was later denied by the health department. Punia cited that his second test report was negative. According to him, man’s report came later in which he was confirmed negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/eight-test-covid-19-positive-total-count-at-125/story-ybjyTW5ZfQXN3ISYHKBLBM.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||CBSE EXAMINATION: 1,000 evaluators to check answer sheets at home||Approximately 1,000 evaluators in Chandigarh will check the answer sheets of the board classes from their home, as per Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) guidelines. CBSE has instructed that a bag of 200 answer sheets will be prepared, which would be provided to each examiner. The stipulated time to check those sheets will be a week. Keeping the secrecy factor in mind, the students’ identities will be kept hidden from the evaluator. Another bag can be provided after a week, as per the requirement. The whole task will be completed in Chandigarh with the help of UT regional officers and CBSE coordinators.Apart from the regular teachers who will check the answer sheets, the head examiner (HE) and assistant head examiner (AHE) will be responsible for the evaluation work in the city schools. To distribute the sheets, the chief nodal supervisor (CNS) will form a route plan and arrange the vehicles to transport them to the examiner’s house. The aim will be cover more routes by one vehicle to reduce the number of staff required for the work.Earlier, evaluation was done in the examination centres in the presence of the head examiner and assistant head examiner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cbse-examination-1-000-evaluators-to-check-answer-sheets-at-home/story-mwcEG4KFqtBWKGwgKd2dDP.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Sanitiser bottles overpriced: Lucknow mayor to top LMC official||Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia has written to municipal commissioner Indramani Trpathi, alleging that Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has bought overpriced sanitiser bottles.She has alleged that bottles for storing sanitisers, which are available at Rs 2 per piece, have been sold to LMC by a company at Rs 10 per piece. She also alleged sanitiser was bought by LMC at higher rates. The municipal commissioner has rubbished the allegations and said , “ All the bottles, which the mayor has referred to in her letter are donated to LMC by a company through its CSR (corporate social responsibility) fund. There has been some misunderstanding.”“LMC has not purchased even a single bottle. Anyone can come and check the papers. The mayor has every right to ask for papers and she should have exercised her right and asked for all the documents regarding the bottles. Now, after this letter, companies would be afraid of donating things to LMC to avoid unnecessary mudslinging,” said Tripathi.“All these bottles were given to sanitation workers and class IV workers performing their duties in hot spots where no one dares to enter. The municipal staff is in the field for 18 to 20 hours a day. Instead of appreciating this fact, such accusations will only lower their morale,” he said.However, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “I have only written for a probe into the matter. The letter was not meant to hurt anyone. The aim is to bring out the truth. If things are not clear, I will keep on asking questions and officials will have to answer them. People have elected me to check misuse of funds and I only need clarity over the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sanitiser-bottles-overpriced-lucknow-mayor-to-top-lmc-official/story-EHWNjvqESuUzkwRKEoahdM.html
08-05-2020||City||Eight new containment zones in the city||archana.mishra@hindustantimes.comGurugram: The Gurugram administration on Friday increased the number of containment zones to 32 from 24 after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. Despite being an orange zone, the district has the highest number of 125 Covid-19 cases in the state. The surge in positive cases has been seen since Monday (May 4). Over 48 people have tested positive in the district in the last five days. At least 21 vegetable sellers at Khandsa Mandi had tested positive for coronavirus so far, and some new cases surfaced from high population density areas. Now, the number of affected areas in Gurugram block has increased to 21 from 13, while there has been no change in the containment zones of Sohna and Pataudi blocks. As per the new list issued by deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Friday, containment zones in Gurugram are -- Fazilpur Jharsa village, Jharsa village (Sector 39), Sirhaul village (Lane 1, 7, 6B), Tyagiwara, Meghdoot Apartment Sector 10A, Om Nagar, Prem Nagar Sector 12, Dundahera, Ardee City Society (Block A,B,C), Chandan Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Godrej Frontier Society (Tower K), Islampur village, Kadipur Enclave (Lane no. 4), Surat Nagar Phase II (Lane no. 23), Khandsa mandi, Shakti Nagar (Lane no. 2), Anand Garden (Lane no. 3), Krishna Nagar (Lane no. 2), Jyoti Park (Lane numbers 7, 9 and 14) and areas of Sector 12 (near Flying Bird School, Ramlila Ground, Lal Nursing Home and backside of Kharbanda hospital).In Sohna, the containment zones are Gehlot Vihar, Javed Colony, Pahar Colony, Nut Colony, ITI Colony, Raipur village, Shiv Kund, Bhagat Wada and Thakur Wada, while ward numbers 11 and 14 are included in the Pataudi block. All these areas will be sealed till at least June if no case is reported in 28 days after the last Covid -19 case gets discharged.The list of affected areas was last revised by the administration on May 5.Since Gurugram is an orange zone, the new guidelines by the Union ministry of home affairs clearly state that containment zones within orange and red zones will require maximum precautions with strict perimeter control, ensuring no movement in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies or for maintaining the supply of essential goods and services. A containment zone comprises a perimeter of three kilometres around an area where a case has been reported. Also, the administration has already restricted the movement of people between 7pm and 7am for non-essential services. Also, a gathering of five or more persons in a public place is not allowed. This will be in effect till May 17, when the third phase of the lockdown ends.Meanwhile, health officials said that their teams will continue surveillance and collecting samples in containment zones to trace symptomatic cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-new-containment-zones-in-the-city/story-up3aYacLRHQ0MReV4oFx2M.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||With Kapashera, Sirhaul out of bounds, labour shortage hits Udyog Vihar||Hit by a shortage of labourers, industries in Udyog Vihar are finding it hard to resume operations even after being given the nod to open their shop floors for production. Industry owners say that many units have been forced to put their plans on resuming production on hold.Owners said that besides many workers choosing to return home, one of the prime reasons behind a shortage of workers at the factory units is that a large number of workers live in Kapashera in Delhi, and are not able to reach Gurguram for work. With the Haryana government not allowing movement across the Gurugram border, except for those engaged in essential services, over 30,000 to 35,000 labourers who work in garment factories, auto ancillaries, and other industries in Udyog Vihar are stuck in Kapashera, said industry owners.Many workers who are Gurugram but live in areas that are under containment zones are also unable to reach factories for work. Movement of around 20,000 to 25,000 workers who live in Sirhaul, a containment zone, has been restricted as well, industrialists said.“Around 500 factories in Udyog Vihar have been allowed to resume operations with 33 percent workforce. But we are not able to start functioning as most of the workers are stuck in Kapashera, Sirhaul, and Dundahera,” Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries, Udyog Vihar, said.Dundahera village, home to around 15,000 workers, is also a containment zone. “We have permission to start the unit with around 500 workers, but 50 percent of the workers live in Kapashera and they can’t come to Udyog Vihar. It is difficult to set up lodging facilities for them in an industrial unit, so we can do much other than to wait and watch,” said Amarjeet Dagar, vice president, Richa and Company, a garment exporter.Garment exporters in Udyog Vihar also said that unrest was brewing among workers, who are not being allowed to reach industrial areas in Gurugram, as they need to get their salaries, and want to work. “A large number of people had reached the Delhi-Gurugram border, but they were not allowed to enter the district. If such a situation persists then the workers might go back to their hometowns, and there would be more trouble for us,” said Satyendra Singh, general manager, East West Traders, a garment manufacturer and exporter.Many senior executives of Gurugram-based industries who live in Delhi are not able to join work. “We have sent a list of senior officials to the government, and hope weekly passes will be issued to them soon,” said Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-kapashera-sirhaul-out-of-bounds-labour-shortage-hits-udyog-vihar/story-AEwOktcOEUVUG26gU1ZHEK.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Kashmir police IG stirs controversy with comments against CRPF||A comment made by Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar on the CRPF’s role in counter-terrorism operations has stirred a controversy among the forces deployed in the valley, officials said on Friday.They said IGP Kumar, during a meeting of joint forces at the district police lines in Baramulla on April 29 chaired by DGP Dilbag Singh, reportedly commented that the paramilitary force is a showpiece and the actual operations are conducted by the Army, its elite unit Rashtriya Rifles (RR) with the help of intelligence generated by the state police.Kumar, a 1997-batch Indian Police Service officer, is stated to have said that the work of CRPF in Kashmir operations has not been good and he knows it better as he himself had served in the paramilitary force on deputation earlier.Officials said senior CRPF officers present in the meeting did not take the comments kindly and they later confronted Kumar about his “unpleasant” utterances against their force.Senior state police officials said the issue has created controversy after a section of security forces commanders said the comment was aimed to create a rift among sister forces working against militancy and terrorism in Kashmir Valley.As the issue refused to die down and senior CRPF commanders sought high-level intervention, the Kashmir zone of the J&K Police issued a tweet on Friday specifically praising the role of the country’s largest paramilitary force.“#DGP J&K Shri Dilbagh Singh complimented role of #BSF, #CRPF, @SSB, #ITBP & #CISF deployed on the various assignment in J&K. Specially #CRPF has played a significant role both in maintaining #L&O (law and order) and #CI (counter insurgency) grids,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kashmir-police-ig-stirs-controversy-with-comments-against-crpf/story-oUwTq5vllmlLnG8yK3UwAP.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Oil firms warn people against fraudulent mails||Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) had received information that some unknown persons are sending fraudulent letters and e-mails on their behalf. These letters are offering LPG distributorship, retail-outlet dealerships and demanding money in the process. The entities are sending letters allegedly from Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd, and duping people. The OMCs have advised that in case anyone receives such mails or letter, they should immediately contact the nearest bonafide office of the related oil company, before taking any action such as sharing personal information or remitting any money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/oil-firms-warn-people-against-fraudulent-mails/story-u4wxShYRrAyzEJOmUeOhuK.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Khandsa mandi reopens today with restrictions and social distancing in place||The Khandsa mandi, the city’s biggest wholesale vegetable and fruits market, will reopen on Saturday with some changes in its operations to minimise human interaction and reduce the chances of transmitting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) officials. The market was shut down on May 5 for four days to sanitise its premises after nine vegetable vendors tested positive for Covid-19.Vinay Yadav, secretary of HSAMB, said on Friday, the mandi will now open for six hours instead of four, between midnight and 6am. Earlier, the mandi used to open from 11pm to 3am. Yadav said that the sale of green vegetables, however, will take place at the open ground of DAV school, located less than 200 metres from the mandi to reduce the concentration of vendors and retailers at one space.“Henceforth, guards will allow the entry of only 100 people per hour into the market. In addition, only 200 street vendors at Khandsa mandi will be allowed to carry out unloading and loading of fruits and vegetables, while only 100 street vendors would be allowed to do the same for green vegetables at the DAV school ground,” said Yadav. Yadav further said that it will be mandatory for any person entering or carrying out operations in the market to wear hand gloves and that barricades would be put up before the counters of green vegetables.“We noticed that vegetable vendors and retailers have the habit of sifting, especially through green vegetables before purchasing. Hence to minimise contact and spread of infection, we have placed barricades five feet before each counter where green vegetables are sold to ensure that human interaction is limited,” said Yadav.HSAMB officials said that they will closely follow the developments on Saturday and accordingly issue remedial measures if needed.They further said that no retailer or vendor below the age of 18 and above the age of 60 will be permitted to enter the market and reiterated the direction that no stock from Azadpur Mandi in Delhi, where coronavirus cases have been reported, will be allowed into the market. The situation will be closely monitored, said officials.The four-day closure of the market had affected the supply of vegetables, especially at roadside vendors and local grocery stores, which procured their stock directly from the market leading to a major shortage and rise in vegetable prices and inferior quality of produce being sold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khandsa-mandi-reopens-today-with-restrictions-and-social-distancing-in-place/story-IEeGgFhu6bZjOfzYpmHiyN.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||44,000 households surveyed for relief in Gurugram||Around 44,000 houses have been covered so far in the booth-wise household survey being conducted in the district in 203 panchayats and 35 wards of Gurugram to collect information on impoverished households, people with special needs, and those in need of dry rations and other relief in light of the national lockdown.The survey was started around mid-April. Officials said all households in Gurugram district would be covered in the next 15 days. Nearly 1,000 teams comprising six to seven members each are undertaking the survey across villages and urban areas to gather data to ensure better targeting of the relief measures to people affected by the lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.“Teams have been tasked to list households in their jurisdictions; impoverished households and those in need of assistance are being identified. Besides, requirements of households, people with ration cards and those without them are also being identified. This information will help us to know who genuinely requires financial assistance, dry rations and other essential items,” said Kulbir Singh Dhaka, chief executive officer, zila parishad, and the nodal officer for the survey.“This data is being compiled by government officials; officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and social workers have also been roped in to make this initiative successful. The data will be used to target relief towards those who are in need of assistance due to lockdown,” said Dhaka.Across the state, the Haryana government has been distributing rations free of cost for the month of April, May and June to the needy. Financial assistance is also being given to those who need it. A government spokesperson said that 27 lakh families were given wheat, mustard oil, sugar, salt and pulses worth Rs 154 crore in April and this process will continue in May and June. Below-poverty-line and Antyodaya Anna Yojana families have been given rations at a very cheap rate, he said.To facilitate the efforts, the government had formed committees at various levels including sectoral, zonal and district committees. These committees have been tasked to ensure that impoverished and underprivileged households are identified and rations, financial assistance and other facilities made available to them.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that relief in terms of cooked food, dry rations and other materials is being given to around 2 lakh people every day since the first week of the lockdown.In Gurugram, the district administration is running 24 relief camps and it has sheltered around 29,000 people, around 60 lakh meals have been provided in collaboration with NGOs and dry ration has been given to people who have registered, a district administration spokesperson said.Madhu Azad, city mayor, who is involved with the initiative, said that the survey also includes social workers who have been roped in make this a collaborative effort. “A lot of information and data has been gathered and work is on to collect more information which will help in better relief outreach,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/44-000-households-surveyed-for-relief-in-gurugram/story-8uo7sGxdBSHlhuqiHS0buN.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||5 held for assault in Chandigarh’s hotspot colony||Police have arrested five men for assaulting a youth and his brother in Bapu Dham Colony on Wednesday night. The accused — Sanjay, James, Gulu, Mariyapa and Naveen — also hurled empty beer bottles and stones at the house of the complainant, Sunil Nayar, 32.Police said on Wednesday around 9pm, Nayar heard loud noises outside his house and found the accused throwing stones and bottles at his house. When he objected, they attacked him with stones, leaving him injured on the head, and also assaulted his brother Rakesh. The neighbours called the police, who arrested the five. Nayar was taken to the Manimajra civil hospital where his condition was said to be stable.A case under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 26 police station against the accused. Police sources said James had to be admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, as he was found to be mentally unstable. Earlier a video of James hurling stones at people in Bapu Dham Colony had gone viral on social media a few days back. The residents alleged that they had approached officials of the police post in the colony, but they had misbehaved with them and refused to take their complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-held-for-assault-in-chandigarh-s-hotspot-colony/story-srECa2qp2LbPzyZAlnwI3H.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Landline users can now avail of services of Aarogya Setu app||Citizens using only landlines and feature phones will be able to avail of the facilities under the Centre’s Aarogya Setu app, the district administration said in a statement on Friday. While the Aarogya Setu app was previously available only to iOS and Android-enabled smartphones, its Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) version was rolled out by the Centre on Thursday and will be implemented nationwide at a district-level.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said in a statement, “People who wish to avail of the benefits of the Aarogya Setu app can dial the toll-free number, 1921. Your call will be cut and will be followed by a callback to the same number. A series of health-related questions that are asked on the app will be asked over the phone, and the answers of the respondent will be recorded. Based on their answers, they will receive an SMS regarding their health status, as well as future health updates and follow-ups.”Feature phone and landline users who choose to avail of the IVRS version of Aarogya Setu will also be eligible to utilise services on the Aarogya Setu Mitr portal, which provides free consultancy from doctors on Covid-19 -related health queries, in addition to ancillary services, such as the home collection of samples for diagnostics and delivery of medicines. The service is already integrated in the Aarogya Setu app for smartphone users and will allow IVRS users to do the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/landline-users-can-now-avail-of-services-of-aarogya-setu-app/story-EAFqk1AjYRW7bOnQkSv1xN.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lad shines in math contest||Raahil Rai, a Class 12 student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, bought laurels to the school by winning the American Mathematics Competition (AMC), 2020. The test was held in the first week of February and its result was declared on Friday. The Mathematical Association of America is a community of mathematicians, students, and enthusiasts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-shines-in-math-contest/story-KoLyGMZmujV3xgO0EvwQPI.html
08-05-2020||City||Now, NHAI projects hit due to labour shortage||Gurugram: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, several ongoing projects of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in the city might face a further delay in completion due to unavailability of workers, NHAI contractors said on Friday. Projects such as Ambience Mall underpass, Shankar Chowk elevated U-turn and Badshahpur-Sohna road, which were nearing completion before the lockdown set in, are now likely to miss their deadlines by several months, said the contractors.On April 20, NHAI contractors had applied for permission on the SARAL portal for the movement of workers. On April 24, almost a month after the construction work had stopped due to the lockdown, the district administration gave them permission to resume work. Krishan Kumar, an official of RK Contractor, which has the contract for Ambience Mall underpass and Shankar Chowk elevated U-turn, said, “We had received permission for 20 labourers on both the sites, but now only 10 are left. It’s hard to manage work with half the strength of workers at the sites.”As per Kumar, around 80% of the work on the elevated U-turn at Shankar Chowk is complete, while 70% work on the Ambience Mall underpass has been completed. The Shankar Chowk U-turn was expected to open in April, while the Ambience Mall was expected to open two months later. Kunal Garg, project manager, RK Contractor, said, “With full workforce, the Shankar Chowk U-turn will be completed in one-and-a-half months while it will take another three months for the Ambience Mall underpass project to be thrown open for commuters.”Thousands of migrant workers, who were employed at construction sites and industries in the city, had left the city on foot for their home states in late March after the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 spread was announced. According to government officials, at least 1.9 lakh workers in Gurugram are still waiting to return to their native places and have registered on its online portal for travel assistance.The scenario is the same at Badshahpur-Sohna road project where most of the workers have left the site. This project is divided into two packages. Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt Ltd (OSEPL) is responsible for the first stretch (6 km), while HG Infrastructure is carrying out construction on the second stretch (12.72 km). The first package involves the construction of an underpass at Subhash Chowk and a 5-km elevated section between Subhash Chowk and Badshahpur.Sailesh Kumar, assistant general manager, OSEPL, which is the NHAI contractor, said, “I can’t say anything about the delay, but we had 175 labourers and now only 100 are left.”The second package of the project comprises flyovers and underpasses at important crossings up to Sohna, including a toll plaza at Ghamroj. The total cost of the project is ₹1,313 crore. Kuldeep Rajvanshi, project director, HG Infrastructure, said, “This project was scheduled to be completed by July 2021. But now with workers leaving, it will be delayed. Till now, we completed 55% of the work which also includes constructing the toll plaza building at Ghamroj.”When asked about the matter, NHAI officials in Gurugram said they are aware that the current projects in the city will be delayed due to the shortage of workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-nhai-projects-hit-due-to-labour-shortage/story-2LkP1LYK1kDGU7H0zqOm5J.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||School education department writes to FFRC, asks it to look into the grievances of parents||The principal secretary of the school education department, on Friday, wrote to the chairpersons of the Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee (FFRC) of six districts, including Gurugram, and asked them to address the grievances of parents with respect to the payment of school fees during the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The secretary said that some private schools were violating the directions of the education department issued in the matter and forcing parents to pay the school fees of their children. In a letter shared with the divisional commissioner-cum-chairman, FFRC, of Gurugram, Faridabad, Ambala, Karnal, Hisar and Rohtak, the secretary wrote that economic activities across various sectors in the state have been disrupted in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, due to which some parents have been left under acute financial stress. “All business/professional/non-essential activities have ceased to function due to which, some parents, are not in a position to pay the school fee of their wards,” stated the letter. It also mentioned that due to the early closure of schools in view of the lockdown, the expenditure on co-curricular activities, sports activities, transportation and other development-related activities was not incurred. The secretary reiterated that the department had issued orders regarding the payment of fees on April 23, according to which only monthly tuition fee could be sought during the lockdown. The FFRC chairman was asked to ensure that the orders issued by the government are followed and action is taken against private schools if they are found to be violating the directions. The FFRC has also been asked to submit an action-taken report to the department.Last week, the Haryana Progressive School Conference, a consortium of private schools, wrote to the chief minister, demanding that the government clarify as to whether fee exemption has been directed or only deferment of the payment of certain fee components other than tuition fee has been granted for the duration of the lockdown. Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, has demanded that the word “deferred” from the April 23 order is removed and that the new orders give them a “waiver” instead. Colonel (retired) KR Pratap Singh, president of the Haryana Progressive School Conference, said that schools were under financial stress since not many parents were coming forward to pay the tuition fees. “Apart from the salaries of teachers, schools need to pay for the transport staff, EMI of buses, and fulfil other financial commitments. Deferment of fees cannot continue for too long,” said Singh. Kailash Sharma, general secretary of Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said that schools would charge exorbitant fees after the lockdown. Therefore, given the financial strain on parents, a fee waiver was needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/school-education-department-writes-to-ffrc-asks-it-to-look-into-the-grievances-of-parents/story-G1dJKSquf6BnRhynzfagDL.html
08-05-2020||City||2 more held for links with Hizbul Mujahideen||Police arrested two more persons for having links with Hilal Ahmed Wagay, an associate of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander, Riaz Ahmed Naikoo, on Friday. Over 1kg heroin and Rs 3 lakh have also been recovered from the duo. Those arrested on Friday are Jaswant Singh and Ranjit Singh of Gurdaspur, after the police found their phone numbers in the phones of Wagay and two Amritsar Vikram Singh and Maninder Singh. Vikram and Maninder had been arrested on Thursday; Wagay had been arrested on April 25. A local court remanded the four accused, arrested on Thursday and Friday, to four-day police remand on Friday. Hilal is already in 14-day judicial remand. Security forces had gunned down Naikoo in South Kashmir on Wednesday.Given the gravity of the offences and the cross-border ramifications of the case beyond Punjab, the Centre has directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-more-held-for-links-with-hizbul-mujahideen/story-quEJwt8yWt9g3ezc6LsG2H.html
08-05-2020||City||Kidnapping case: Ex-DGP Saini files anticipatory bail, court seeks police records||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, 61, on Friday moved an application in a Mohali court, seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered against him on Wednesday in connection with the disappearance of one Balwant Singh Multani in 1991.Refusing to hear the arguments or staying the arrest, the court summoned records from the Punjab Police. In response to the court’s notice, Punjab Police will file a reply to the application seeking anticipatory bail on Saturday. A case was registered against Saini and 7 others under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.“Since the Congress came to power, they are continuously harassing me. The Congress government has revengeful attitude,” said the 28-page application in which Saini projected himself as a victim of vendetta, citing registration of cases against current chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on the basis of investigations done by the vigilance bureau when he headed the agency. Referring to Ludhiana City Centre, and Amritsar Improvement Trust cases, Saini said, “I performed my duties without fear or favour and cases involving loss to state exchequer of over ₹1,500 crore, abuse of official positions to give pecuniary advantage to favoured persons and tampering of Vidhan Sabha records, amassing assets disproportionate to known income and routing ill gotten wealth through private companies, shell companies were registered against the then and present CM Captain Amarinder Singh.”Saini said after he reliquished the charge as head of vigilance bureau, cancellation reports were presented in Amritsar Improvement Trust, and Ludhiana City Centre cases, registered in 2007 and 2008, respectively.“When the illegal design of the state government and police miserably failed to falsely implicate me, now they have started digging the earth to bring old cases which have attained finality uptill apex court,” reads the application.The application says that Multani was arrested and presented before a court, while requesting court to stay his arrest. A police team from Mohali was in Delhi on Friday to arrest Saini. Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by the police after a terrorist attack on Saini in which four cops in his security were killed. The police later claimed Multani escaped from the custody of Qadian police. Saini, was posted as the Chandigarh senior superintendent of police in 1991.Counsel withdrawsHours after moving application for Saini’s anticipatory bail, his counsel Satnam Singh Kaler withdrew from the case. “I am a Sikh and for me religion is more important. I have always remained away from controversy. I was personally hurt and decided to withdrew from the case.” Kaler had faced a lot of flak on the social media for representing Saini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kidnapping-caseex-dgp-saini-files-anticipatory-bail-court-seeks-police-records/story-iW4Gz9hVQGoCGeYlxc8OHO.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Lockdown eased, Ggm RWAs arrange mechanics to jump-start stalled cars||The demand for car batteries and technicians who can jump-start vehicles has witnessed an exponential growth over the past week, as residents start venturing out in their four-wheelers amid the lockdown restrictions being slightly eased in the city. After being confined to their homes for more than a month due to lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19, many residents said they turned the keys to power up the engines of their cars this week, only to find their batteries dead.While some residents were left to figure out a solution on their own, for several others, their RWAs came to the rescue arranging for vehicle mechanics who could jump-start cars.Aashish Sharma, a resident of Tulip Orange in sector 70 said that after restrictions were eased on May 4, many residents, like him, stepped into their vehicles to visit markets, they discovered that the car wouldn’t start. “Medical stores, milk booth, ATMs, vegetable shops are all located in close vicinity of our society. So residents had little reason to use their vehicles and travel to far-off places during the lockdown. Once people started realising that the problem of starting their vehicles was affecting many, the RWA on Wednesday circulated a message on the society Whatsapp group asking residents to check if their vehicles were functioning or else they could make arrangements for a mechanic who could help jump-start their cars,” said Sharma.As part of the arrangement, on Friday, about 75 vehicles at Tulip Orange were given a jump-start by the staff of an automotive battery manufacturer.Pradeep Kumar, branch manager of Amaron Automobiles in Haryana, said that the problem was not unique to Tulip Orange. On May 5, when his company resumed operations, they received more than 450 calls for jump-starting vehicles across the city.“We anticipated such a situation could occur as people would have little reason to start their vehicles or move around during the lockdown period, due to which car batteries would die. On April 29, through various media platforms, we started circulating messages to inform residents that, in case their cars are not starting, they can avail our services whenever the lockdown is eased,” said Kumar.The problem of was so widespread and chronic that the RWAs of some gated societies themselves made arrangements to come to the aid of their residents. RWAs of residential societies — such as Mapsko Casabella in sector 82 and Sare Homes in sector 92— themselves procured jump-start machines to get the cars going.Praveen Malik, president of Sare Homes residents’ welfare association (RWA), Sector 92, said that the RWA had anticipated car-battery related issues to occur during the lockdown period and had made prior arrangements to procure a jumpstart machine.“We had anticipated that due to the lockdown, the condition of car batteries will be affected and late last month purchased a jump-starter as a precautionary measure. At the same time, we also told residents to start their vehicles frequently to ensure that their cars remain in a good state. Till now, around 10 cases of batteries being dead have been reported and the RWA has subsequently helped them out.” he said.Dharamveer Singh, the president of Mapsko Casabella, Sector 82, RWA, said that the RWA has placed an order for a jump-starter and are expecting delivery by the weekend.“We have received many complaints from residents about their cars not starting. Residents might need their vehicles in case of an emergencies. So, we have placed an order for a jump-starter that will be kept at the society gate and can be used by anyone who needs it,” He said.Besides the jump-start service, even battery dealers are in high demand in the city.Sumit Bhalla, owner of Bhalla Batteries in Sikanderpur, said in the last three days he has received over 40 calls from residents across the city looking for battery replacement. “People usually prefer to jump-start their vehicles and continue to use their existing batteries until it completely gives way. However, I have been receiving at least 10-15 calls since May 4 from residents looking to replace their batteries altogether,” said Bhalla, adding that he has only been able to attend to around 20 such requests from residents, as most of his staff are stuck in their respective hometowns.The cost for buying a new battery can range between Rs 2500-9,000 depending on its quality. For jump-start, a mechanic can tacharge anything between Rs 500-1200. Deepak Kumar, a local mechanic and battery supplier on Sohna Road, said that in the four days since reopening his shop, he has sold and fitted batteries at residential areas in sectors 33, 38, 47, and 48. “A majority of my customers were those whose car batteries had died late last month and were waiting for restrictions to be eased so that they could get it changed. I received more than 20 calls on Monday morning from residents for my services, and have spent three days attending to them. I still have around 10 more pending requests,” said Kumar. BOX: How to keep car batteries in good condition during lockdown*Start your car at least twice a week and keep it running for more than 15 minutes each time*Drive your vehicle at least 500 metres on each occasion*If safe, discharge your GPS trackers and car alarms as they consume a lot of battery* Ensure your interior lights, music system, and headlights are turned off when you leave the car*If your vehicle is not starting in two or three attempts, stop right away to make sure the battery has enough power left to jumpstart later or else you may have to replace your battery altogether||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/lockdown-eased-ggm-rwas-arrange-mechanics-to-jump-start-stalled-cars/story-cGGmTodCnvrwNLigntu41H.html
08-05-2020||City||Punjab health minister distributes homeopathic medicine in Mohali||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu handed over 100 packets of homeopathic medicine to JR Chaudhary, president of Mohali Senior Citizen Council, on Friday.The packets consisted doses of homeopathic medicine Arsenium Album 30, recommended by the National Advisor Indian Institute of Homeopathic Physicians (IIHP).Last week, Punjab government had issued an advisory which recommended using Arsenium Album 30 for three days to boost the immunity amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It had also directed all the Government Homeopathic Dispensaries in the state to distribute the medicine among the public. Sidhu said, “Providing best healthcare to the senior citizens is our priority. Also, the IIHP had distributed over 3.5 lakh bottles in a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-health-minister-distributes-homeopathic-medicine-in-mohali/story-is9LNOkkqHsbQyT6RIaTCP.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||AMU students leave for Bihar by special train after screening||Around 1300 students from different parts of Bihar have left for their homes by a special train, arranged by Aligarh Muslim University (AMU).The special train, up to Purnia in Bihar, was arranged after AMU vice chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor talked to railway authorities as there were no examinations scheduled in May and June and students also wanted to go to their homes for Ramzan and Eid. “Students were screened and medical check up was arranged at the proctor office,” informed proctor Prof M Wasim Ali.The DSW Prof Mujahid Beg, who happens to be the chairman, department of medicine, deputed doctors for screening students for fever and other symptoms, related to coronavirus. GRP personnel are also accompanying students for the security purpose.Earlier, vice chancellor Prof Mansoor directed all the provosts of the university residential halls to make adequate arrangements for Iftar, dinner and Sehri of the students, proceeding by special trains to various districts of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amu-students-leave-for-bihar-by-special-train-after-screening/story-lAr3eby3vjtoVoyCdCpntL.html
08-05-2020||City||Delhi paid complete ticket fare for 1,200 migrants going to Bihar: Gopal Rai||New Delhi: Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai on Friday said the city government paid for the tickets of around 1,200 migrants who left for Bihar in a special train earlier in the day.Under the central government’s guidelines, either the destination or the origin state of the concerned train has to bear 15% of the ticket cost – the remaining 85% is taken care of by the Centre. The tickets are to be charged by the railways at sleeper class rates, and an additional ₹50.The first such special train had left Delhi on Thursday evening for Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh. In that event, 15% of the ticket price was paid by Madhya Pradesh. “The Delhi government is working around the clock to ensure safe travel for all the stranded workers. The government has made lists of these stranded people and already shared with their home states. There are many states who have not yet responded on the matter of bearing costs. Therefore, the Delhi government has decided that if the home states do not respond the Delhi government will bear the travel cost of these stranded workers,” said a statement issued by Rai’s office.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday had clarified that students returning to the state by special trains won’t have to pay rail fare, while migrant workers will get an additional ₹500 over and above the reimbursement of the expense incurred on the travel, on completion of the mandatory 21-day quarantine period. The CM, in the midst of a raging debate over the footing of train fare that was kicked off by Opposition RJD and Congress and also brought the ruling alliance partners BJP and JD (U) face-to-face, the Kumar in a video message said that it was imperative on his part to dispel doubts and confusion about the government stand on the issue. “There is no need to worry, neither the students nor the migrant workers will pay for their return to home.”“Once these migrant workers or eligible people, arriving from outside the state, complete their 21-day isolation at designated quarantine centres, the expenses incurred for boarding special trains will be reimbursed. Thus, each worker will be getting a minimum of ₹1,000,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-paid-complete-ticket-fare-for-1-200-migrants-going-to-bihar-gopal-rai/story-0slDX1fqHicwlPI94iQeIJ.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Five-star quarantine on offer at Hotel Mountview in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) will offer five-star quarantine facilities to NRIs returning to Chandigarh at Hotel Mountview in Sector 10. This comes as the UT administration has coordinated with the Central government for return of around 5,000 NRIs to Chandigarh. An order put out by the administration on Friday mentioned that priority will be given to Hotel Mountview for their quarantine.The proposed hotel packages include four room categories — business, superior, deluxe executive and royal suite — on a single/dual sharing basis (see box). The hotel will work with minimum staff and social distancing measures. Each guest will be provided with a complimentary hand sanitiser, gloves, and face masks as per the length of the stay.Each package will come with a complimentary breakfast, and 33% discount will be offered on lunch and dinner as per hotel industry norms. All meals will be served in the room with disposable plates and spoons.RECOVERING LOSSESSources in the CITCO said that the move comes as the corporation looks to recover the losses due to the lockdown.Calling it a great marketing strategy, Ankit Gupta, president of the City Chandigarh Hospitality Association, said CITCO should follow proper safety measures while quarantining the NRI guests.CITCO union president Kashmir Chand added, “The move will help in generating some revenue, but the facility should be provided keeping the health of corporation employees in mind.”Presently, CITCO is accommodating health workers in Hotel Parkview in Sector 24 for quarantine and rest as a complimentary gesture by the Chandigarh administration.Recently, CITCO had sought around ₹33 crore from the UT administration to pay the salaries of staff and other utility bills.With yearly turnover of around ₹500 crore, CITCO owns and operates some prime properties in Chandigarh including five-star hotels, restaurants bars, sales depots, lakes, gardens and a petrol pump. The pandemic has, however, hit the corporation’s business hard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-star-quarantine-on-offer-at-hotel-mountview-in-chandigarh/story-yiwP6NTYBwJU7ncVodzELK.html
08-05-2020||City||Jalandhar Rural police bust gang of drug smugglers with arrest of two||The rural police have busted a gang of inter-state drug smugglers with the arrest of two, on Friday, and recovered 18kg opium from them.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said that police received a tip-off that an inter-state gang was involved in smuggling opium in Punjab.A police team laid a trap near Bidhipur on national highway-1 and intercepted a truck, bearing the registration number PB 06 V 9692. During checking, police recovered 2kg opium tied to the waist of the truck driver identified as Lakhvir Singh, in a special broad belt. A similar belt was tied on the waist of Angrej Singh, who was accompanying the driver and 2kg opium was recovered from him as well.The SSP said that they also recovered 2kg opium hidden among jiggery in the truck. During investigation, it came to fore that the accused used to smuggle opium from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab.“On the basis of suspicion, police opened the spare tyre of the truck and recovered 12 packets containing one-kilogram opium each. A total of 18kg opium was recovered from the accused,” the SSP said. Lakhvir and Angrej were arrested and booked under Sections 18/61/85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The truck has been impounded and further probe is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-rural-police-bust-gang-of-drug-smugglers-with-arrest-of-two/story-AUWjH5c9LKyF7m4k0dGnKP.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Munna Bajrangi murder case: CBI may bring key accused Sunil Rathi to Sitapur jail from Tihar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Lucknow unit is likely to bring dreaded gangster Sunil Rathi to Sitapur district jail from Tihar, to interrogate him in connection with the murder of another gangster Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi. Rathi is key accused in the murder of Bajrangi, who was shot dead inside Baghpat jail on July 9, 2018.A senior CBI official revealed that the CBI had written a letter to the authorities concerned to shift him to Sitapur district jail, which is closer to Lucknow, so that he could be interrogated thoroughly and cross-questioned if required. He said the shifting of Rathi was required as Bajrangi’s family was in Lucknow and it would be tough for the investigating team to record statements of both (Rathi as well as Bajrangi’s family members) and cross-question him accordingly.“We need to cross-question Rathi many times to know the truth behind Bajrangi’s murder inside the jail,” He said.He said Rathi earlier was shifted to Fatehpur jail from Baghpat jail after his involvement surfaced in Bajrangi’s murder. He said the CBI team had also sought details of people who met him in Fatehpur jail and was cross-checking their links to him. The CBI team had earlier questioned the officials and personnel of Jhansi and Baghpat district jails for two consecutive days on March 17 and 18 in connection with the murder. Sources privy to the investigation said the CBI officials suspected the involvement of some personnel of Jhansi district jail where Bajrangi was lodged for over three years before being shifted to Baghpat district jail on the night of July 8, 2018. He was murdered within a few hours after being shifted and photographs of his bullet-riddled body had gone viral early morning on July 9, 2018.The CBI had registered an FIR in the matter on March 7, 2018, in compliance with the Allahabad high court order dated February 25, 2018 on a petition filed by Bajrangi’s wife Seema Singh. The petitioner’s contention was that there might be involvement of some mafia in the murder. The petitioner had demanded that the role of jail officials was doubtful and therefore, the investigation must be transferred to the CBI.Bajrangi, a gangster from eastern Uttar Pradesh, was lodged in jail since 2009 in connection for the murder of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai in Mohamadabad in Ghazipur district on November 29, 2005, and another BJP leader Ramchandra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/munna-bajrangi-murder-case-cbi-may-bring-key-accused-sunil-rathi-to-sitapur-jail-from-tihar/story-wAUEdwfhUsFuNQpIo3rFGP.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||5,000 NRIs from Chandigarh to return home||The UT administration has coordinated with the central government for the return of around 5,000 non-resident Indians (NRI) to Chandigarh.The administration has also contacted Delhi and Haryana governments to ensure that the returnees are put under 14-day quarantine.The central government had put restrictions on foreign travellers in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. In March too, around 2,200 NRIs and city residents travelling abroad had returned to the city. Notably the first positive case in the city was that of a foreign-returnees.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said, “As per our request, the Delhi and Haryana governments have agreed to keep them in hotels in Delhi and Gurugram.”When asked whether the administration had any arrangements in place if an NRI does not want to avail the facilities by the Delhi and Haryana governments, and prefers to return to Chandigarh, Parida replied in the negative. “The returnee cannot chose his place of quarantine. All returnees will have to stay in the quarantine facilities provided to them in Delhi and Gurugram,” said Parida.He said the NRIs belonging to Chandigarh, who land in airports like Amritsar or Mohali directly from abroad, will be quarantined in Chandigarh hotels on payment ranging tentatively from ₹3,000 to ₹6,000 per day. Arrangements for the same have been made at the public sector hotels — Mountview in Sector 10 and Shivalikview in Sector 17. A final call on the issue will be taken by the UT administrator VPS Badnore on Saturday.The administration is also trying to rope in private sector hotels to provide quarantine/accommodation facility to NRIs from Chandigarh landing in Mohali or Amritsar.Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, home, said he will hold a meeting with private sector hotels on Saturday in this regard.” The hotels will have the option to provide accommodation as per the central government guidelines.Parida, said, “We will mostly be getting students, or those whose visa has expired, or those who want to meet their old parents here. How many actually come depends on the number of flights allowed by foreign countries. The 14-day quarantine may dissuade them. Indian embassies abroad are coordinating.”UT deputy inspector general (DIG) Shashank Anand has been designated as the nodal officer to coordinate with airport authorities and hotels for travel and quarantine of the NRIs.UT administrator VPS Badnore directed that necessary care be taken for screening the foreign returnees, with complete health check during their stay in Chandigarh hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-000-nris-from-chandigarh-to-return-home/story-ErI9VqDEbMtmt4Kj5hdMpK.html
08-05-2020||City||Ludhiana MC staff oppose duty to cremate Covid-19 patients if relatives are present||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) employees, deployed to cremate bodies of Covid-19 victims, have raised objections against the assignment when the relatives are present at the cremation ground. The employees met MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar on Friday and demanded that they should not be asked to cremate such coronavirus victims.Brar has now written a letter to deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal to take a decision.The MC on April 10 had selected the Ramgarhia cremation ground to cremate Covid-19 patients. A committee, comprising employees of the civic body, was given the responsibility to cremate unclaimed bodies with full precautions.However, in two recent cases, the MC employees were also asked to make arrangements even when the deceased’s family members were present.“The MC staff have demanded that they be asked to cremate only unclaimed bodies as was decided and not of those whose family members are present at the cremation ground,” said an MC employee, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-staff-oppose-duty-to-cremate-covid-19-patients-if-relatives-are-present/story-hWRyBlo2yWZ37TSKQruUwM.html
08-05-2020||City||100 health officials boycott covid duty||Over 100 Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) staff in the state, employed on contract, boycotted their covid-19 duties on Friday, claiming that the state had failed to provide them due increment. On April 23, the state government had ordered hike in salaries of around 100 IDSP employees on covid-19 duty by giving them an increment. This order, however, was withdrawn after other employees, also under the National Health Mission (NHM) demanded a similar hike; the IDSP is under the NHM. IDSP workers stay on the field to collect data on diseases, conduct surveys and maintain surveillance. They are part of health department teams dealing with daily covid-19 data.Professionals like epidemiologists, microbiologists, entomologists, finance consultants, data managers and entry operators work under the IDSP. “We are working round the clock on covid-19 duty and oversee 12 other programmes. We are not going to work until the state government issues an order to give us the increment announced last month,” said Dr Anita Chauhan, an epidemiologist from Faridkot.Dr Naresh Amla, covid-19 nodal officer Moga said, “We collect samples and data of suspected patients, put ourselves at risk, and yet get nothing in return.” Punjab NHM director Kumar Rahul could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100-health-officials-boycott-covid-duty/story-i6q25ueWs1gt7atEYGFI0M.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to promote PSEB Class-10 students on basis of pre-boards||The Punjab government on Friday decided to promote all PSEB students of Class 10 to the next class on the basis of their performance in the pre-board examinations.Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh made an announcement on Twitter after a video conference with officials of the education department. “Have decided to promote students of Class 5 and 8 to next classes as well as to promote Class 10 students to next class on the basis of pre-board results. For Class 12 examinations, we will follow Government of India’s decision,” Captain tweeted.Punjab had already decided to promote PSEB students of classes 5 and 8 and the decision on students of classes 10 and 12 were awaited. The decision came on a day when the Union human resource development ministry announced to hold the pending CBSE exams for 29 subjects for students of class 10 and 12 boards exams from July 1.The state’s decision to promote PSEB Class 10 students on the basis of pre-board results is based on the recommendations of a task force constituted under former chief secretary KR Lakhanpal to formulate lockdown exit strategy.PSEB had conducted Class 10 board examinations for only one subject when curfew was imposed in the state on March 23. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said that the department endorsed the recommendation of the task force and submitted a proposal in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-to-promote-pseb-class-10-students-on-basis-of-pre-boards/story-2jeyhGIoFomgmsAMqPhDBO.html
08-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s Howrah Bridge lit up to mark Tagore’s birthday, honour Covid-19 warriors||Kolkata’s iconic Howrah Bridge was lit up on Friday using special light and sound system to mark the 159th birth anniversary of Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore and to honour the frontline Covid warriors.While the bridge was first lit up in tri-colour to mark the birth anniversary of Tagore, Asia’s first Nobel laureate, the colours later changed to white to honour the frontline Covid-19 warriors including medical and police personnel. Three colours – red, orange and green – were then used to portray the three zones demarcated for the coronavirus pandemic. The entire bridge was finally lit up with green lights, indicating victory over the disease.“In these troubled times we planned to send a symbolic message – Message of Hope – to all people through the special lighting installed on the bridge,” said Sanjoy Kumar Mukherjee, senior public relations officer of Kolkata Port Trust, which maintains the bridge.This is the same interactive light and sound system that was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2020 during his visit to Kolkata.Rabindra Setu, popularly known as Howrah Bridge, was commissioned in 1943 and is considered to be an engineering marvel as it does not have nuts and bolts, but was formed by riveting the whole structure.There have been similar displays of the country’s gratitude to the Covid-19 warriors in the last few weeks. In end March, PM Modi had asked people to clap for them during the one-day Janata Curfew followed by lighting of candles and diyas in April. Last week, the armed forces showed their appreciation towards the Corona Warriors by organising fly-pasts, lighting up warships and other displays including playing the army bands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-s-howrah-bridge-lit-up-to-mark-tagore-s-birthday-honour-covid-19-warriors/story-PFlwoqS7sdAbhisi19iH2K.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet to change excise policy, labour laws||The Punjab government will change the excise policy and labour laws in the state in light of the covid-19 pandemic, it announced on Friday. After a videoconference meeting that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh presided over, the cabinet sought details about the impact of covid-19 on excise policy from officials. A detailed proposal on this is to be brought up on Saturday, when the cabinet, which described the prevailing situation as extraordinary, will discuss the issue again. A statement said all possible options must be explored to put the excise industry back on its feet, especially given its importance to the state’s revenue model.During the meeting, the CM also directed industries minister Sunder Sham Arora to take all possible welfare measures to prevent migrant workers from leaving Punjab. The cabinet welcomed the opening of another 9,500 industrial units due to the easing of lockdown restrictions.“It is good sign that with the industry opening, 35% of those who had registered to return home decided to stay back in Punjab for now,” said Amarinder, while directing the department to aggressive pursue the development of the four industrial parks already announced by the state government in the budget for this fiscal.The cabinet also agreed on staggering paddy cultivation operations in view of shortage of migrant labourers. Amid concerns over women with children under five years deployed on covid-19 frontline duties, the CM asked the chief secretary to formulate guidelines.Transfer policy for non-teaching staff gets nodThe cabinet also approved the transfer policy for non-teaching staff of the school education department, to be effective from the academic session that started on April 1. Under the policy, schools/offices have been categorised in five zones and transfers would be carried out only once a year, in an objective manner.The criteria for merit would be: 95 points for length of service; 55 marks for special category employees and 90 marks for performance, etc. A person will not be transferred unless he or she completes five years of service at the station, where he/she is serving. In case such an employee has completed five years, he or she will be compulsorily transferred as per his/her choice. In case, the employee does not give a choice, the department can transfer on its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cabinet-to-change-excise-policy-labour-laws/story-cLkMSfdkYgAwS7aVEwb0lL.html
08-05-2020||City||BJP leader demands health cover for Ludhiana MC’s contractual sanitation staff||Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Praveen Bansal has demanded that the state government provide health insurance to all contractual sanitation staff working with the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) during the Covid-19 crisis. “The government should regularise and provide adequate protective gear, including masks and gloves, to the contractual sanitation staff who are given extra work by the permanent staff,” Bansal said.Meanwhile, Congress leader Parminder Mehta criticised the civic body for not providing protective gear to the sewermen. “I have written a letter to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra regarding this,” Mehta said.On her part, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said gloves, masks and sanitisers were regularly being provided to all staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-leader-demands-health-cover-for-ludhiana-mc-s-contractual-sanitation-staff/story-THxgrNK7JrxVNBHqWQP7ZO.html
08-05-2020||City||Punjab-origin father-daughter doc duo die of Covid-19 in US||New YorkAn Indian-American father and daughter, both doctors in New Jersey, have died due to the Covid-19, with Governor Phil Murphy describing their demise as “particularly tough” and hailed them for dedicating their lives for others.Satyender Dev Khanna, 78, was a surgeon who served both on staff and as the head of the surgical departments for multiple hospitals across New Jersey for decades.Priya Khanna, 43, was a double board certified in both internal medicine and nephrology. She was Chief of Residents at Union Hospital, now part of RWJ Barnabas Health.“Dr. Satyender Dev Khanna and Dr. Priya Khanna were father and daughter. They both dedicated their lives to helping others. This is a family dedicated to health and medicine. Our words cannot amply express our condolences,” New Jersey Governor Murphy tweeted on Thursday. “Both dedicated their lives to helping others and we lost both of them to Covid-19,” Murphy said during a press conference on Thursday, saying their demise is a “particularly tough one.” Satyender passed away at the Clara Maass Medical Center where he had worked for more than 35 years.Murphy described him as a “pioneering doctor” who was one of the first surgeons to perform laparoscopic surgery in the state. He is being remembered by colleagues as a “gentle and caring physician.” “And for a doctor, I’m not one, but I would bet, I don’t think there could be a more fitting way to be remembered, or a nurse or a healthcare worker of any kind,” Murphy said, adding that the doctor had a passion for bicycling, and he often found peace from the hustle of the hospital in biking along the Jersey Shore.Priya did all of her medical training in New Jersey and then did her fellowship in nephrology in South Jersey with the Cooper Health System.Like her father, she too worked at Clara Maass, where she died.She was also Medical Director at two dialysis centers in Essex County and “took pride” in teaching the next generation of doctors, Murphy said, adding that the ICU physician who cared for Priya Khanna was trained and taught by her as well.“Priya will be remembered as a caring and selfless person who put others first. And even while in the hospital, fighting her own battle, she continued to check up on her mom and dad and her family,” Murphy said.“This is a family, by the way, dedicated to health and medicine,” he said.The governor spoke with Satyender’s wife Komlish Khanna, who is a pediatrician. The couple has two more daughters - Sugandha Khanna, an emergency medicine physician and Anisha Khanna, a pediatrician.“Unbelievable. Our words cannot amply express our condolences nor, I am sure, can they express the pain that the Khanna family is feeling. But I hope that the fact that our entire state mourns with them is some small comfort. And we mourn everyone we have lost. We commit in their memory to saving as many lives as we can,” Murphy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-father-daughter-doc-duo-die-of-covid-19-in-us/story-OiNZaFnG8UTP9pHGbo66xN.html
08-05-2020||City||Jagraon dera head, three followers held with 290gm heroin||In a joint operation, the special task forces (STFs) of Ludhiana and Jalandhar police on Thursday nabbed a dera head and his three followers after recovering 290gm heroin from their possession.STF officials said a homeguard jawan, who was deployed in Ludhiana, used to supply drugs to the self-styled godman, identified as Bhagwan Singh Baba, 34, and his followers, Shani, 33, and Gaurav Kumar, 27, of Tibba Road, and Dharminder Singh, 35, of Kaunke Khosa village, Ludhiana. Bhagwan is the dera head of Rishi Ashram Nirmal Kutiya in Jagraon.Sub-inspector Harjit Singh said the accused were nabbed from near Circuit House while they were waiting for their customers in a Hyundai i10 car. A search of their car revealed 285gm heroin in the dashboard. After interrogating the accused, the STF recovered 5gm heroin hidden inside a toy kept in another i10 car parked on Tibba Road. Both cars, owned by Bhagwan, were seized.THREE OTHERS BOOKEDThe sub-inspector said the accused dera head used to wear saffron garments to avoid checking at police checkposts. All four accused are addicts and into drug peddling for the past two years, the cop said, adding that they had confessed to procuring the drug from a Delhi-based Nigerian, Punjab homeguard jawan Jatinder Kumar and Bharti Bawa of Janta Colony, Jodhewal. The three suppliers and the other four accused have been booked under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act at the STF police station in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagraon-dera-head-three-followers-held-with-290gm-heroin/story-yFilIvgNYdqwwg7EtT3DDJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Bihar: Polls looming, parties scramble to woo returning migrants||PATNAThe homecoming of thousands of migrant workers since the Covid-19 lockdown began on March 24 and realisation that they may not be in a hurry this time to return to big cities outside the state for work has woken up political parties in poll-bound Bihar to the need of wooing them aggressively.After initial reluctance to facilitate the return of these migrants citing fear of spread of the pandemic, the NDA government led by Nitish Kumar is now scrambling to find ways for their employment back home. More than 82,544 people, majority of them migrant labourers, have returned to Bihar during the lockdown 3, after central government started running special trains for ferry people stuck at different places and willing to go back home. Before that, as per government records, 1.80 lakh had come after lockdown was announced for the first time.“The CM has made it clear that this is the time to convert challenges into opportunities. The idea of skill mapping of returning migrants is to ensure better utilization of their services,” said JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan, who attended a meeting of office-bearers of his party that was chaired the chief minister on Thursday. Ranjan conceded that these workers would play a crucial role in elections.“Those who had returned or are returning are here to stay. They are not returning to their workplace for at least two years as they do not want to go back,” said BJP MLC and former union minister Sanjay Paswan. The BJP leader, who is on lien professor of labour and social welfare at Patna University, feels their return is good for the ruling alliance. “A majority of them, about 75%, are from extremely backward castes, 20% are SCs/STs and barely 5% are from upper caste. The caste profile of the migrants suits us, even though they are a bit against us as on today due to vacillation of the state government over their return,” Paswan says. “All we need to do is to accommodate them, think about their re-employment so that there is no social unrest.” Opposition Congress was quick to claim credit for the return of migrants. “From the very beginning. Congress has been demanding that the central and state governments facilitate return journey of migrant labourers to Bihar and to their respective states. But neither paid any heed,” state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said.Experts believe a meaningful utilisation of migrants’ skills can bring benefits. “They are skilled to perform in primary as well as service sectors. If the government meaningfully links them with the help of financial institutions, they will make Bihar shine,” says D M Diwakar, formery with AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.Shefali Roy, head of department (political science) at Patna University, says, “Elitist democracy thrives on votes of the poor and wealth of the rich. Initially, the Bihar government was reluctant in giving any respite to them. It suddenly became active realising potential of labourers as voters. The announcement of government to give Rs 1500 (500+1000) to each of them after 21 days of quarantine period is a strategy to woo the future voters. Memory is short so the troubles will soon be forgotten by labourers and cash will definitely soften their opinion towards government.” BJP’s state president Sanjay Jaiswal is of the opinion that the returning migrants would be a big asset in turning around fortunes of the state. “They have been instrumental in development of Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Gujarat and several states. We welcome them. They are good omen for us,” said state BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-polls-looming-parties-scramble-to-woo-returning-migrants/story-auG8gKDf8qEOwlRqrQzNMP.html
08-05-2020||City||Migrants ‘homing’ in, Bihar plans 12.32 lakh new houses for rural poor to create jobs||PATNAAmid massive reverse migration of workers, the Bihar government, in a bid to generate more employment for the rural poor, has begun the process of sanctioning 12.32 lakh new housing units under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana( PMAY-Grameen) and set completion deadlines for them by end of 2020-21.The ambitious target has been set in an effort to engage as many job card holders under MGNREGS ( Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guaranntee Scheme) and also give a boost to rural economy post-lockdown as construction activity is major source of livelihood for rural poor.At present, Bihar has 32 lakh families from the economically weaker section (EWS) eligible for housing units under permanent waiting list (PWL), of which 20 lakh have been sanctioned houses from 2015-16 to 2019-20 under the centrally sponsored scheme.“We expect to generate huge employment opportunities for job card holders under MGNREGA by speeding up construction work on housing units under PMAY-G. We have already started work in several districts and respective district magistrates (DMs) are monitoring it closely by ensuring safety guidelines,” said principal secretary, rural development department (RDD), Arvind Kumar Chaudhary.“This year, we have set a target of creating 18 crore mandays under MGNREGA in rural areas due to inflow of migrants,” he said.RDD officials said emphasis is on completing PMAY units as it is safe option in present circumstances when social distancing norms have to be followed at work sites. “Each dwelling unit, spread over 25 square metres, requires three to four labourers, which is quite a safe option of employment keeping social distancing in mind,” said an RDD official.As per official data, around 1.80 lakh migrants have returned from other states since the lockdown began 43 days ago. A few lakh more are expected to return in next one month.The RDD has asked all DMs to update the list of pending houses of those living outside the state so that EWS families or their heads, having returned home, could complete the work on priority. As per latest data, there are 28,672 units where work is pending because the family or its head resides outside the state. “Our focus now is to encourage all those beneficiaries coming home to finish construction of their houses in the next few months,” said Rajesh Parimal, deputy secretary, RDD.However, the task of completing 12.32 lakh housing units in rural Bihar in next one year looks a tall order, with many challenges like non-availability of land, lack of skilled labour force and shortage of construction material due to disrupted supply chain of sand, stone chips and cement post-lockdown. Data suggests the completion rate of old sanctioned housing units has not been very high in the last few years.To date, 9.50 lakh housing units, against the target of 20 lakh units, are nearing completion or have been completed whereas work is pending or in progress in 11 lakh units. Non-timely allocation of funds to beneficiaries is another obstacle, sources said. RDD officials though claim the progress has been fast and 2.90 lakh new units were allotted by the Centre last year because of better completion rate of housing units.“We will be asking beneficiaries to complete works within next three months after sanction as labour force is not going to be problem this year. The target is well achievable,” said a senior RDD official. Beneficiaries are selected as per the socio-economic caste census in 2011 to provide houses to homeless and those living in decrepit houses to assist them in constructing pucca houses. An assistance of 1.50 lakh is provided to beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-homing-in-bihar-plans-12-32-lakh-new-houses-for-rural-poor-to-create-jobs/story-obDVcdDXAMYxbJNqcjaTtL.html
08-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai crosses 500 mark with 43 new cases||Navi Mumbai crossed 400 and 500 mark of Covid positive cases in just three days. The city reported 43 new cases on Friday, taking the tally in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) jurisdiction to 527. Out of 43 positive cases, 12 are from Ghansoli, six from Belapur, seven from Vashi, six from Kopar Khairane, five from Airoli, four from Nerul and three from Digha. There are 109 containment zones in the city.An NMMC official said, “Of the 43 positive cases, 25 are related to APMC market. A total of 200 cases are of APMC traders, workers or their families. The decision to shut down APMC market will help curb the spread of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-crosses-500-mark-with-43-new-cases/story-epH4C7JFYrx3o25QGpsBUL.html
08-05-2020||Patna||2,075 Indians stranded abroad register to return to Bihar||Around 2,075 people stranded abroad have registered at Indian missions in foreign countries to return to Bihar, as per a message the state government had received from the ministry of external affairs (MEA), said officials.Of those stranded, 632 are in Ukraine, 480 in Bangladesh and 360 in Oman, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department (IPRD). There were some from other countries as well, he added.He said that the MEA was yet to intimate the dates about when the flights carrying stranded Indians to Bihar will operate.”These passengers will arrive at the Gaya international airport. We have made arrangements for their quarantine at hotels in Gaya itself,” Kumar said.“After scrutiny, they will be quarantined for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional quarantine on payment-basis, by the concerned state government,” a statement by the MEA had said on Monday.After the quarantine, they will be tested again for coronavirus before being allowed to go home.The 2,075 people for Bihar are among the 200,000 stranded Indians desirous to return to their respective home states. Around 15,000 (approx.) Indians stranded across the world are expected to be flown back to India in the next few days under the government’s Vande Bharat mission to bring back its citizens stranded abroad due to coronavirus. The repatriation exercise, using commercial flights and naval warships in phases, began May 7.Around 15,000 Indians are expected to be evacuated from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the UK, Malaysia, the US, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Singapore, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Oman in 64 scheduled flights over a week beginning May 7.Rescue flights from London to India will cost ₹50,000 while flights from the United States to India have been priced at ₹1,00,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/2-075-indians-stranded-abroad-register-to-return-to-bihar/story-K8da6BFpuq1XIY2wbGdbVI.html
08-05-2020||City||‘Free bus service’ offers take migrants for a ride, Bihar minister vows action||PATNAHours after the Noida police Friday arrested two persons and impounded two privately-run buses for duping migrants returning to their homes in Bihar, the state government said it would take up the issue at an “appropriate level” and made it clear it was running no such buses of its own.One such racket was busted in Noida on Friday, wherein migrants were lured in the name of free bus service organized by the Bihar government for migrant workers stranded in Delhi-NCR (national capital region) during the lockdown but were charged Rs 3000 per person.Bihar’s information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar said the government had resisted bringing its own people by buses, as it could lead to serious trouble in the absence of total disregard to social distancing, and waited till special train services were started by the Centre at the government’s request.“Strong action should be taken against the bus owners and operators. It is not as simple as it looks. There could be some hidden agenda behind it. How do these unscrupulous elements inform prospective passengers about such buses operating around midnight? Our government will certainly take cognizance of such things and take it up at the appropriate level,” he said.Earlier also, there had been reports of private bus services charging three times the normal fare from already harassed migrants in other states. Many passengers had complained about it when they were dropped at Bihar borders a couple of weeks ago from different places.Meanwhile, stranded migrant workers also complained about of lack of information. Vikas Ram, Md Qudus Ansari and around 20 others are desperate to head home in Bihar and Jharkhand from Aurangabad in Maharasthra, but don’t know how. They are making frantic calls to whatever number they get in the hope of help.“We worked at a welding work in a factory here, but everything is closed now. There is no point staying here, as we cannot sustain,” Ansari, not sure how he would reach Banka district in Bihar, said on phone.“We got ourselves medically examined and we have certificates. We went to the local police station, but they said we should get registered online. We don’t know how to do it online. There is nobody helping us,” he said.Ram form Jharkhand said they would take a bus about which someone informed them. “Regarding train, we are not aware. Which bus service we would take, we still don’t know.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/free-bus-service-offers-take-migrants-for-a-ride-bihar-minister-vows-action/story-2IAyoREdkg8VYuz36QhGAL.html
08-05-2020||Patna||Five BMP jawans among 29 test Covid positive; Bihar’s tally reaches 579||Five jawans of the Bihar Military Police (BMP) tested positive for Covid late on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 579.This is the first reported case of police personnel testing positive for the virus in the state. The BMP jawans were among 29 people who contracted Covid-19 in the state on Friday.All the infected jawans are from Patna’s Khajpura locality, which is among the 15 containment zones in the state capital. The jawans are aged 30, 36, 50, 52 and 57 years.“We are ascertaining their infection trail,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar in a late evening tweet at around 10.25pm on Friday. Further details are awaited.Meanwhile, six other cases have been reported from Samastipur, four cases each from Darbhanga and Khagaria, two from Saharsa and one each from Supaul, Katihar, East Champaran, Bhagalpur, Banka, Nalanda, Nawada and Begusarai districts. The virus had now spread to 36 of Bihar’s 38 districts as the virus spread its footprints to Saharsa, Supaul and Khagaria districts on Friday.There was a spike on Friday after 11 cases were reported on May 4, seven each on May 5 and 6 and eight on May 7. Sixteen people to have tested positive — of which six were from Samastipur and four from Khagaria — had come from outside the state, and were in quarantine since their arrival, said Kumar in a tweet. The 16 Covid-19 cases are believed to be migrant workers who were stranded in different parts of the country and returned to Bihar between May 1 and 7.Around, 62,274 migrant workers have returned to Bihar in 53 special trains during this period, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department.Meanwhile, 23 Covid-19 patients, undergoing treatment at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital in Patna and different facilities at Rohtas, recovered on Friday.“A total of 49 Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged within last 24 hours from different health facilities across the state, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to have recovered to 267. Bihar’s case recovery rate is 47%,” said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.Buxar accounted for 26 recoveries, followed by Rohtas (12), Nalanda (5), Munger (4) and Patna (2), he added.Madhepura, Gaya and Vaishali were Bihar’s three districts where all Covid-19 patients had been cured, added Singh. Meanwhile, the door-to-door survey was completed in 20 districts — Araria, Arwal, Banka, Begusarai, Bhojpur, Buxar, Gaya, Gopalganj, Jamui, Khagaria, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Nalanda, Nawada, Rohtas, Saharsa, Saran, Sheikhpura, Siwan and Vaishali — claimed Kumar through a tweet.Of the 1.86 crore houses surveyed, the government claimed it reached out to over 10.34 crore people to ask them about influenza-like illness or respiratory distress, which were associated with coronavirus symptoms.Munger topped with 102 of Bihar’s 579 Covid-19 cases across 36 districts. It was followed by Buxar (56), Rohtas (54), Patna (52), Nalanda (37), Siwan (32), Kaimur (31), Madhubani (24), Gopalganj, Bhojpur (18 each), Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Begusarai (14 each), Katihar (12), West Champaran (11), East Champaran (10), Darbhanga (9), Saran (8), Samastipur (7), Gaya, Sitamarhi (6 each), Arwal, Jehanabad, Nawada (5 each), Lakhisarai, Banka (4 each), Vaishali, Sheohar (3 each), Madhepura, Araria, Purnea, Saharsa (2 each), Sheikhpura, Kishanganj, Supaul, Khagaria (1 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/24-new-cases-pushes-bihar-s-tally-to-574/story-U7y4t2WHuPaUqZWHyHtYrM.html
08-05-2020||City||Bihar spends ₹78 lakh on evacuation of students from Kota||PATNA: Bihar incurred an expenditure of Rs 78 lakh (approx.) in ferrying its students stranded in Kota during lockdown because of coronavirus, as the last of the 11 special trains carrying them reached Ara Friday evening.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said a total 13,473 students from Kota had reached Bihar in 11 trains, which operated this month on special request of the state government to the Centre.Of the stranded students in Kota, 1,250 were from Patna, 952 Nalanda, 750 West Champaran, 600 each from Madhubani and Darbhanga, 572 Madhepura and 553 from Gaya, said Agarwal.“In order to ensure that the students reach as close as possible to their preferred destinations, two trains from Kota reached Barauni (Begusarai district) and one each to Gaya, Darbhanga, Danapur (Patna), Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Motihari (East Champaran), Biharsharif (Nalanda), Saharsa and Ara (Bhojpur),” he added.The transport secretary said the children didn’t have to pay for their travel and the state government made all arrangements to reach them as close as possible to their respective residences.“We not only ensured that they reach their home district from the terminating station, but also made arrangements to drop them to the closest police station to their residence, where their parents came and picked them up,” said Agarwal.He said the state government paid Rs 7-8 lakh (approx.) per train for their advance booking.“Besides arranging for screening and food for students at respective railway stations, we also sanitised our buses to ferry them to their hometown without the children having to pay anything,” he added.Agarwal said the students were happy that special trains had been arranged for them from Kota because bus journey otherwise would have been uncomfortable and cumbersome, especially with hotels and restaurants along highways closed due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-spends-78-lakh-on-evacuation-of-students-from-kota/story-SwzLJIb2GlGpBWWEJD3DMJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Thane’s Covid cases cross 600||The number of Covid positive cases in Thane crossed 600 with 51 new cases reported on Friday.The total tally is 611. The increase in cases at Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar, Wagale Estate and Diva wards continue. Mumbra’s case count has slowed down.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), said, “The city registered 51 new cases on Friday, taking the total number to 611. No death was reported. Fifteen cases were reported from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward, followed by Wagale Estate (14) and Diva (12).”He said 114 people have recovered so far.TMC claimed to have imposed stringent norms in Mumbra in the past few days. Malvi said, “We have taken action against 20 non-essential shops which were operating in Mumbra along with the essential shops. A case of obstructing government work has been registered against four people who tried to stop the survey by medical teams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-s-covid-cases-cross-600/story-a5GjCnDoA4MfAL5vQidEXJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Bihar: 70 trains in so far, 51 more coming||PATNAEven as 17 special trains with 20,629 migrants and students pulled over in different parts of the state, the Bihar government reacted strongly to the controversy over denial of permission to the Karnataka government to run special trains to Bihar.“This is absolutely wrong. Nobody has stopped people from coming from Karnataka. In fact, two trains, one on May 3 and other on May 6, have already arrived here. State government has also given consent to run eight more trains. Opposition is unnecessary propagating such rumours,” said Bihar’s deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi.Disaster management department’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said that as per the protocol laid down by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the originating states send a request for no-objection certificate (NOC) to destination state. “States making request are given in-principle permission and are asked to send a passengers’ list. With regard to Karnataka, two trains had already arrived while eight others are lined up between May 8 and May 15,” said Amrit. “If the trains did not run, it might be due to their own problems,” he said.The principal secretary said that state had issued NOC to run 121 trains, including those from the states like Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Delhi, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat.“What we have definitely done is to have asked each state to send us passengers’ list as it helps in proper routing, selection of stations, earmarking buses, quarantine centres etc. We have also ensured that 15-18 trains reach different destinations per day,” said the principal secretary. “This is one of the biggest evacuation drive taken by the state,” he said.Secretary IPRD Anupam Kumar said that between May 1 and 8, 70 trains have been operated and a total of 82,544 migrants and students have reached different places in state. Kumar said that on Saturday (May 9), 15 more trains would be reaching state with 18,115 people. The secretary said that with regard to reverse migration, the respective district magistrates have been authorized to issue e-passes of vehicles to all those who want to return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-70-trains-in-so-far-51-more-coming/story-aCIe7m3sLp4L6kDlMz9hUJ.html
08-05-2020||City||63 more Covid cases take Punjab tally to 1,766||Sixty-three more persons, including 47 who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded recently, tested positive for the coronavirus on Friday, taking the state’s tally of those infected by the disease to 1,766. Eighteen fresh cases, with 10 of them having Nanded link, were detected in SBS Nagar. The district now has a total of 103 positive cases. The pilgrims, including three women, are aged between 29 and 54. The rest are migrants in the age group of 19 and 40. In Jalandhar, 7 persons, including three Ganna Chak village women residents who returned from Nanded, tested positive on Friday, with the district so far witnessing 155 cases, including 5 deaths. One of those infected is a 4-year-old boy of Basti Guzzan in Jalandhar city, who is a close contact of 48-year-old Sehdev, who died due to Covid-19. 12 cases in Amritsar, four in Tarn TaranTwelve more people, who returned from Nanded, were tested positive in Amritsar on Friday. “One of the patients is admitted in Patiala. The number of total patients in Amritsar is 286 of which 267 are Nanded-returnees,” civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said.Also, four more Nanded-returnees were tested positive in Tarn Taran, taking the district’s total to 161. In Gurdaspur, 8 cases with Nanded link were detected. The district now has 117 cases, including 107 Hazur Sahib-returnees, so far. In Kapurthala district’s Phagwara sub-division, five pilgrims, including a teenager and a 66-year-old woman, tested positive for Covid-19. Others are three men aged 50, 66 and 67. All of them were in quarantine.So far, the district has recorded a total of 23 cases, including two deaths. 2 found infected in SangrurTwo fresh cases were reported in Sangrur. The district’s count now is 97.Civil surgeon Dr Raj Kumar said the patients are a 56-year-old woman, who returned from Nanded while the other, a 25-year-old, was a contact of a Covid-19 victim.2 cases in Bathinda, one in Mansa Two persons, including a Rajasthan-returned labourer and a 70-year-old woman from Udham Singh Nagar, tested positive in Bathinda district while an 18-year-old youth was found infected in Mansa district.In Bathinda now there are a total 41 Covid-19 patients while Mansa has 15 active cases of five have got cured. The infected woman was shifted to the isolation ward of a hospital. The administration has sealed two streets of her locality. Civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh said samples of 18 of her contacts were collected. The 18-year-old Mansa boy came back to his native village Burj Rathi from Gurugram in Haryana. He is second resident of the village to be found positive for the disease. Patiala crosses 100-mark Patiala district on Friday crossed the mark of 100-positive cases with two fresh cases of coronavirus. A 50-year-old Hazur Sahib-returnee, who earlier tested negative, has now contracted infection after he showed symptoms of virus at a quarantine centre. Also, a 22-year-old woman, a contact of an earlier infected woman from Rajpura’s Gulab nagar area, also tested positive. Of a total of 101 cases in the district, 47 have been reported from Rajpura town. Also, the reports of two Hazur Sahib-returnees were found positive inPathankot. Deputy commissioner GS Khaira said 21 prilgrims reached the district from Nanded Sahib and all were quarantined at the Chintpurni Medical College. Besides, a 28- year- old man from Machhiwara locality of Ludhiana was tested positive.(Inputs from Jalandhar, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Patiala and Sangrur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/63-more-covid-cases-take-punjab-tally-to-1-766/story-4tEB7rAo73PbB3iYliDl6L.html
08-05-2020||City||On World Thalassaemia Day, Ludhiana hospital appeals for blood donation||On the occasion of World Thalassaemia Day, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) has appealed to various organisations to come forward and donate blood to the hospital that is facing shortage of blood due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The department of paediatrics along with department of immunohematology and transfusion medicine jointly observed the day at DMCH.Realising the gravity of the situation, the Punjab ministry of health had also recently issued a circular to the hospitals to make adequate arrangement of blood units as no blood donations camps were being organised due to curfew in the state.Thalassaemia is a genetic blood disorder, caused due to fewer red blood cells and less haemoglobin in the body.Dr Amarjit Kaur, professor and head of transfusion medicine, said that the patients of thalassaemia, oncology and other emergencies in the hospital still required blood and blood components and the hospital was running short on blood reserves.Dr M Joseph John, head of department, clinical hematology, Christian Medical College and Hospital, also admitted that there were initial hiccups in blood donation due to the lockdown, but things were gradually being streamlined.As many as 270 thalassaemia patients are enrolled with DMCH and 60 with Christian Medical College and Hospital, where 73 have recently undergone bone marrow transplants. On May 7 and 8, Shah Satnam Ji Green S Welfare Force Wing of Dera Sacha Sauda, Sirsa, and Waheguru Blood Sewa Society donated 84 and 34 units, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-world-thalassaemia-day-ludhiana-hospital-appeals-for-blood-donation/story-2s0NvU3A1uvgzAMqDjzROK.html
08-05-2020||Noida||Traffic jam at DND Flyway as workers flock to Noida-Delhi border||Vehicular movement remained slow at the DND Flyway and the Kalindi Kunj Road connecting Noida and Delhi on Friday as several people wanting to cross over to Delhi are flocking to the interstate borders to attend their offices. Some of these people live in Delhi and work in Noida, while others live in Noida and work in Delhi. However, the Noida traffic police are strictly enforcing lockdown norms and allowing only people with passes through.Shambhu Kumar, a resident of Okhla Tank in Delhi, was stopped at the DND Flyway. “I work for a private cable firm and I travel around Delhi and Noida for work. I received a call to fix a cable connection in Sector 12-22. I reached the Delhi-Noida border but the police personnel are not allowing me to enter Noida,” he said.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida (traffic) said that the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has not relaxed the restrictions for interstate commuting. “The administration has recently issued detailed guidelines on the relaxation of some services. The factories and companies have been given passes to ferry employees on their buses. Employers are also expected to engage only those workers who live in Noida and Greater Noida,” he said.The Noida Entrepreneurs’ Association (NEA) said that the district administrations of Noida, Delhi and Ghaziabad need to make a coordinated effort and ease the commuting of employees and employers at interstate borders. “A number of the workforce and employers live in Ghaziabad and Delhi and work in Noida. There is no clarity on how they are to commute. In addition to this, factories will face problems in terms of supplies for production. It is not necessary that all of Noida’s production will be consumed in Noida. We need relaxation in norms to supply goods across the NCR and other parts of the country. We will also face problems in getting raw materials from different cities,” Sudhir Shrivastava, vice present, NEA, said. The NEA has over 1,800 members who are involved in manufacturing products in the electric, electronic, mechanical, cable as well as other fields. Shrivastava said that the factories and companies have started reopening and sanitising their premises, and are expecting most employees back from Monday.The district administration has so far permitted 210 buses of these private companies and factories to ferry employees. People engaged in essential services, including medical practitioners, media persons, etc. are allowed entry after producing passes issued to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-jam-at-dnd-flyway-as-workers-flock-to-noida-delhi-border/story-6BIkFnAYxOYIUoILVNyd6H.html
08-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar administration issues guidelines for school fee||The Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration, on late Thursday evening, said no schools in the district will be allowed to increase their fees for the academic calendar, 2020-21.Referring to various orders issued by the Uttar Pradesh government, the district magistrate, in the guidelines issued for the private schools of the district, also said that no school can charge transport fees as it has been waved off for the period for which the schools are closed. “No schools shall increase their fees for academic year, 2020-21. If any parent has deposited the increased fees, then it would be adjusted in subsequent months. As per the government order, dated April 7, 2020, all the schools have been directed not to demand quarterly fees. Instead of quarterly fees, schools will take fees on monthly basis,” the guidelines stated.GB Nagar district inspector of schools (DIOS), Neeraj Kumar Pandey said that all the schools have been directed not to force any student to deposit their fees and further said that no students will be disenrolled because of their inability to pay the fees.“If the schools violate these orders, complaints can be made to the district fee regulation committee (DFRC). The case will be heard under the provisions of UP Self-Financed Independent Schools (fee regulations) Act, 2018,” he said.Pandey further said that after making enquiry as per Section 8(4)(b) of the Act and hearing the school authorities for the non compliance of the order, the DFRC may impose a financial punishment of up to ₹1lakh, along with an order to refund the excess fee levied on the student for the first-time violation of the law. In case of violating the order twice, the fine will be of ₹5lakh, while for the third violation, the DFRC may even recommend for the withdrawal of the recognition or the affiliation of the school to the board concerned,” he said.Meanwhile, criticising the district administration’s guidelines for not waiving off the monthly fees, Noida estate flat owners’ main association (NEFOMA) said that the recent guidelines have not taken account of parents’ woes. NEFOMA general secretary Rashmi Pandey said despite repeated demands of waiving off the monthly fees being made by the parents, the district administration couldn’t give them any respite. “Many of the parents have lost their jobs or their businesses have been stalled. How can they pay the fees of their children? They have been demanding that fees imposed for the lockdown period should be either waived off or at least reduced to 25% like other states. However, the government has failed to give them any relief,” she said.Pandey further said that despite facing problems with network and systems, the parents are being compelled to pay around ₹10,000 as tuition fees for online classes. “We’ll remain requesting the chief minister to take cognisance of the distress faced by the parents of GB Nagar district and give them proper relief at this time of crisis,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-administration-issues-guidelines-for-school-fee/story-c8p0UGPCKdAsMQXegBkSkJ.html
08-05-2020||City||KDMC records 27 new cases; total count touches 280||A 69-year-old doctor from Dombivli (East) is among the 27 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Friday.After Thursday’s 20 cases, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded the highest single-day spike of Covid cases on Friday.The twin cities have a total of 280 cases.“A doctor, who has his own clinic in Dombivli (East), has tested positive. We have traced 40 patients who visited him recently and have asked them to be home quarantined. We have appealed to people who visited the doctor since May 1 to approach us and self-quarantine themselves,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Out of the 27 new cases, 21 of them, including two police personnel, travel to other cities for work.“We have at least 10 such cases who work at APMC market. Most of the case reported is from those who travel for work,” said Patil. The city has reported three deaths so far.“It’s our appeal to those travelling to other cities for work to self-isolate themselves as part of precautionary measures so that their family is safe,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-27-new-cases-total-count-touches-280/story-K1Inoppv9XcOCZjU22TykM.html
08-05-2020||Noida||Seven arrested for running a fake call centre||Seven persons were arrested by the Sector 39 police on Thursday night for allegedly running a fake call centre in Sector 105 and duping Americans on the pretext of helping them with security issues.The police received a tip that a fake call centre was being run from a house in Sector 105. Based on that information, they informed an assistant manager with MTNL and raided the premises.“All of them were nabbed from the spot. They had rented the house and were staying together. Even though they said that the operation had been going on for only three months, we suspect that it is much older,” Shailesh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station, said.The police said that the suspects would obtain the victims’ contact information through online portals and would use VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) technology to make calls over the Internet. They would tell the victims that their social security numbers had been used in crimes like drugs trafficking, money laundering or vehicle thefts. The suspects would pretend to be from law enforcement agencies and ask their victims to pay a fine and also take their account or card information.“We are still trying to determine how many people they duped and how much money they earned this way. Five persons associated with the operation are still on the run. The suspects told us that the mastermind is one of the missing persons and we are investigating all aspects,” the SHO said.He said that the arrested men are in their early twenties, graduates and speak English well. Six of them are from Mumbai while one is from Gujarat.The suspects were booked under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the IT Act and Indian Telegraph Act, 1855.The police recovered 25 desktops, 23 CPUs, keyboards, mouse, headphones, WiFi routers, cables, Aadhaar cards, passports, passbooks, motorcycles and an employee identity card of a bank in Kuwait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/seven-arrested-for-running-a-fake-call-centre/story-Mr0q4o4KEFhc4gQRVoSCkP.html
08-05-2020||City||FIR against Bandra Gymkhana president, 15 others, for allegedly violating lockdown rules||An FIR has been filed against the Bandra Gymkhana president Dr Cheryl Misquitta and 15 other members for allegedly violating lockdown rules on Friday. The FIR was registered after Bandra resident and advocate Adil Khatri filed complaint against the club on Wednesday.According to Khatri, while surfing on YouTube he saw a video, which was later deleted, related to Bandra Gymkhana wherein people and dancing on a song.Khatri said, “The four minute long video shows over 15 people dancing, many without wearing mask on the 85th anniversary of their club. Bandra Gymkhana violated the lockdown and state government’s order. They have endangered the life and safety of others by their irresponsible behaviour.”Manoj Kumar Sharma additional commissioner of police (West) region said, “We have registered the case and are investigating the matter.” However, Dr Cheryl Misquitta, president of the gymkhana said, “This video was recorded in bits and pieces in the month of March. There was no celebration on our 85th Founders Day. For this day we planned and prepared a virtual presentation. In video, staff are performing our anthem song, including our watchmen, as well as a few elected committee members. We uploaded the video on the night of May 3, along with messages from our trustees. We haven’t violated the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-bandra-gymkhana-president-15-others-for-allegedly-violating-lockdown-rules/story-PZV9dABEz4YO33l9DfZe3M.html
08-05-2020||Noida||Two held for transporting migrants during lockdown, 5,182 arrested until now||The Phase 2 police arrested two men early Friday morning for allegedly transporting migrants to Bihar. The Gautam Budh Nagar police has so far arrested 5,182 people for the offence since the beginning of the lockdown.The suspects were identified as Wakil Khan and Rashid, residents of Ghaziabad and Meerut, respectively. According to the police, they were driving two buses with banners stating ‘By Bihar government, free service for migrants of Delhi, UP, Gautam Budh Nagar’.“We found the buses around 1.30am at the Bhangel-Dadri-Surajpur Road with people on and around them. Upon questioning, we found that the suspects were charging ₹3,000 to take these people to Bihar. When we asked for permission documents, a third person showed us an e-pass issued by the Siwan district magistrate. We asked him for a physical copy, to which he said that it was on the bus and fled, leaving his phone behind. The drivers identified him as the owner of the buses,” Farmood Ali Pundir, station house officer, Phase 2 police station, said.The police said that upon verification, they found that the Siwan DM had issued no such pass, after which they booked the suspects under sections 420, 468, 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Both the buses were also seized.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for a three-week nationwide lockdown from March 25, which was later extended till May 3 and then further until May 17. However, the Uttar Pradesh government had already announced the imposition of a three-day lockdown from March 23, which was subsequently merged with the nationwide lockdown. Ever since then, the district police has registered 1,430 cases for violations of the lockdown and booked 5,974 people and arrested more than 112 per day on an average, according to data obtained till 7pm on May 7.The police department is carrying out daily checks at 200 barricaded posts in the district, including border areas, and has checked 92,548 vehicles during the lockdown period so far. Of these, they have fined the owners of 21,245 vehicles for various violations and seized 1,102 vehicles. The department has also collected almost ₹2.35 lakh in fines.A police spokesperson said that the police have also registered five cases under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, in which they booked five people and arrested three.During the lockdown, the police have permitted 3,521 essential service vehicles to move in and out of the district. However, the district borders continue to remain sealed for other vehicles.Meanwhile, the commissionerate is also prepared to take stringent action against any person found misbehaving with corona warriors.“Under the new law (UP public health and epidemic disease control ordinance 2020 which protects doctors, paramedical staff, sanitary workers, police personnel) an offender might be imprisoned for a period of six months up to seven years and fined between ₹50,000- ₹5 lakh depending on the severity of the action,” commissioner of police Alok Singh said.Violating the quarantine, running away from hospitals, obscene or indecent conduct towards corona warriors, spitting or throwing garbage on them or not disclosing the disease or knowingly travelling by public transport while being infected are all punishable by law and can lead to heavy penalty and prison time, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-held-for-transporting-migrants-during-lockdown-5-182-arrested-until-now/story-INcnlkBY2dAzHCnxJtpNOM.html
08-05-2020||Noida||Retail sale at Sector 88 mandi banned; administration to regulate traders’ entry||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decided to stop the retail sale of fruits and vegetables at Noida’s Sector 88 mandi following large gatherings at the wholesale market on Thursday and Friday.Social distancing norms at the market had gone for a toss at Navin Mandi, Sector 88 the past two days as many vegetable vendors and local residents thronged the wholesale market to buy vegetables and fruits.The district administration said it will only allow wholesale trade at the market from now and will also regulate the entry of visitors. “Barricades have been put up at all the three major roads leading to the market. We will start issuing passes to vendors and traders, and only those with passes will be allowed to enter the mandi. The pass will mention the dates and time slots when a vendor can visit and engage in trade at the mandi,” Santosh Kumar Yadav, secretary, Noida Mandi Board, said. “Every day only 100 rickshaws will be allowed to enter the market.”“Only wholesale trade is allowed at the mandi now. Farmers and vegetable traders will also have to pass through sanitisation tunnel at gate number 1. Shop owners have also been directed to get themselves and their staff tested for coronavirus. Shop licenses will be canceled for violating the guidelines,” Yadav added.The administration also appealed to the vegetable vendors and traders to wear masks at all times and adhere to physical distancing norms. Noida city Magistrate Umesh Kumar said, “We are taking a practical approach to ensure that the supply of vegetables to residents is not affected while making sure that physical distance norms are followed properly at the market. We appeal to shop owners and buyers to wear masks and maintain physical distance.”Vegetable traders said that maintaining adequate physical distance at the wholesale market is important and they support the district administration’s decision to regulate entry. “We will help the mandi board in maintaining physical distancing as far as possible. We have also suggested to the board that entry inside the mandi should be allowed for two hours and the gates should only open after three hours. Entry should be allowed between 10pm and midnight after which the entry gates should be shut. Entry gates should be opened again at 3am, and we will ensure that visitors already inside leave the mandi. This will help in maintaining social distance,” Mange Ram Sharma, president, Navin Mandi welfare association. “Over 6,000 buyers and sellers visit the mandi every day, besides some 1,000 people who work at the shops here ”“The mandi board has been trying to ensure that safety measures are implemented properly at the market. They have also installed a sanitisation tunnel outside the mandi. The problem is that a large number of vendors and residents are coming inside to buy vegetables, and managing the crowd is very difficult. The mandi board has planned to regulate the entry which should help in maintaining physical distance,” Raj Singh, secretary of the association said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/retail-sale-at-sector-88-mandi-banned-administration-to-regulate-traders-entry/story-AdaRvhNfrOfoCYIOs10EtL.html
08-05-2020||Noida||35 persons evacuated from Singapore lodged in Noida quarantine facility||The Gautam BUdh Nagar district administration Friday picked up from the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi 35 persons who were evacuated from Singapore by the central government. These persons are from Uttar Pradesh and were taken to the community health centre in Noida’s Bhangel for a health check-up as per the Covid-19 protocol and thereafter shifted to a paid quarantine facility in Greater Noida. They have been screened for symptoms at the airport and their details were noted before being handed over to the officials of Gautam Budh Nagar. “Of the 35, six are from Gautam Budh Nagar and the remaining are from Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Agra, Deoria, Lucknow and Deoria. All are currently in 14-day quarantine at the Savoy Suites at Pari Chowk which has been developed into a paid quarantine facility by the district administration. At the end of the quarantine period, they will be tested again,” said Anwar Sheikh, district development officer, GB Nagar.The Gautam Budh Nagar health department also identified 12 new Covid-19 cases on Friday afternoon, taking the total number of cases from the district to 214. Multiple officials, who did not wish to be named, said they were in the process of identifying the source of infection from over half the total cases. With the death of a 60-year-old on Friday, the district suffered its first fatality due to the virus.Among the new cases are four from slums of Sector 9. They include an 18-year-old and 30-year-old woman, and a 50-year-old and 26-year-old man. The district administration is conducting medical camps in the slums of sectors 5, 8, 9 and 10. Around 38 people have been found positive for the infection from the slums of these sectors till date.One elderly couple aging 59-year-old woman and 60-year-old man from sector 19 were also found positive for the coronavirus. The couple was symptomatic after which they got themselves checked. A 42-year-old woman from sector 150 was also identified and she contracted the infection from her father-in-law. A 20-year-old man from Jalvayu Vihar in PI 3 area of Greater Noida was also found positive, and he got infected through a known person who was earlier found positive.A 25-year-old factory worker from Greater Noida’s Yakubpur village was also found COVID-19 positive after his employer got him checked following few symptoms. A 42-year-old man from the CHI 2 area of Greater Noida was also tested and found positive for Covid-19 in Delhi.In another development, 10 patients were discharged after completing the Covid-19 treatment successfully. Eight patients were discharged from the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in sector 30 and two from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences. By Friday night, the health department collected a total of 3898 samples. A total of 214 cases have come out positive while 118 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 95 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Around 332 persons are under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/35-persons-evacuated-from-singapore-lodged-in-noida-quarantine-facility/story-2Rxa6O9PbVMdV4U8YVGhbJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Seeking compensation for losses, Ludhiana contractors keep liquor vends closed for Day 2||With the Punjab cabinet keeping the review of the 2020-21 Excise Policy pending till Saturday, liquor contractors and vendors in the district have decided to keep the vends closed till their demands are met. Though allowed to operate starting Thursday, liquor vends in the district remained shut for the second day on Friday, and contractors held a meeting with Punjab excise and taxation commissioner (ETC) Vivek Pratap Singh on their demands. The wine contractors are demanding compensation for the losses incurred during the last financial year and review of the 2020-21 Excise Policy, besides withdrawal of the quota condition. The contractors were expecting some relief after the cabinet meeting on Friday.Leading the group of contractors, Varinder Sharma Bobby said, “We cannot open the vends till the government announces the changes we have demanded in the Excise Policy. The commissioner gave a positive response to our demands. The decision on whether to open the vends will be taken after the cabinet meeting on Saturday.”There are around 750 liquor vends in 150 groups in the district. The government earns annual revenue of around Rs 1,100 crore from the liquor vends, over Rs 3 crore every day.Working on the directions issued by the state government, the administration had, on Wednesday, allowed wine contractors to open vends from Thursday for counter sales from 9am to 3pm and home delivery till 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seeking-compensation-for-losses-ludhiana-contractors-keep-liquor-vends-closed-for-day-2/story-q43AUdLBGWPtq5gEcPyGxL.html
08-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar see its first Covid-19 death as 60-year-old man dies at GIMS||A 60-year-old man, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease(Covid-19), died after he developed pneumonia at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida on Friday.According to the director of GIMS, the man died of respiratory failure at 3.45am on Friday. He was the first resident of Gautam Buddh Nagar district to succumb to the disease after testing positive for it.A resident of Sector 22, Noida, the man was admitted to Metro Hospital in Sector 11 on May 4 for the treatment of certain comorbidities and tested positive for Covid-19 on late Thursday evening.The man was then transferred to GIMS. “The patient was brought to us by 3.30am on Friday and he died at 3.45am due to respiratory failure as he was suffering from pneumonia because of the Covid-19 infection,” said GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta. Authorities at the Metro Hospital said all information about the man has been provided to the chief medical officer(CMO) of Gautam Buddh Nagar and only the health department is allowed speak on the matter. The patient’s Covid-19 report was awaited till Thursday evening while he was being treated at Metro Hospital for respiratory distress.Health officials from the district health department said the man was moved to GIMS after his condition deteriorated. His report of Covid-19 infection came a few hours before his death. “The deceased was undergoing treatment for pulmonary disease at the Metro Hospital. The Metro Hospital’s officials decided to shift the patient to GIMS after his condition continued to deteriorate despite being put on a ventilator,” said a senior health official.The health department has informed that the person was suffering from respiratory problems but the Metro Hospital continued treating him and didn’t inform the health department until his reports confirmed him being positive for the infection on Thursday evening. It took a few hours to complete the formalities before the patient was shifted to GIMS. Authorities at GIMS handed over the body of the deceased to two of his family members after properly sanitising it and putting it in a treated body bag. Police, health officials and the two family members carried the body in an ambulance provided by GIMS to the electronic crematorium in Sector 94 of Noida.“The body was taken to the electronic crematorium as it is the safest way to dispose of Covid-19 dead bodies. We followed all the protocols like removing the cannula, covering nostrils and sanitising the body and the body bags properly before handing it over to family members. The last rites were performed in the presence of police and health officials. No postmortem examination was performed on the body. Nobody was allowed to touch the body without following the protocol,” said Dr Gupta. The health department has put under quarantine the medical staff of Metro Hospital who came in contact with the man.On May 4, a 47-year-old man from Ghaziabad, who was being treated at Felix Hospital in Sector 137, died of Covid-19. The man was from Khoda Colony. As per health officials of Gautam Buddh Nagar, this death will be counted in Ghaziabad’s records. According to the officials, this man too was being treated for a respiratory problem. He first went to ESIC Model Hospital in Noida, from where he was referred to Felix Hospital on last Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-see-its-first-covid-19-death-as-60-year-old-man-dies-at-gims/story-g6fml1FbWNTFHk44zNVWKI.html
08-05-2020||City||After outrage, Ghaziabad high-rise withdraws notice to stop entry of doctors, health workers||The owners’ association of a high-rise in Vaishali withdrew a notice asking doctors and health care workers living in the complex to stay put in Delhi until the end of the Covid-19 lockdown after the move drew widespread criticism on social media. The district administration, residents’ welfare associations and office bearers of the Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad, also held a meeting on Friday afternoon and clarified that all issues regarding the matter have been resolved.The Neelpadam Kunj Apartment Owners Association, on May 7, issued a communication for stopping the entry and exit of doctors and health care workers from May 10, and asked them to make temporary arrangements for staying in Delhi till the nationwide lockdown -- imposed on March 25 to control the Covid-19 spread -- is in force.The association withdrew the notice within hours after it came in for heavy criticism on social media Thursday night. It issued another communication in which it said its “advisory notice was issued on the evening of May 7, 2020, by mistake and has been withdrawn in the night of May 7, 2020”.The association’s office-bearers said their communication to residents was based on a notification issued by Ghaziabad’s municipal commissioner to his zonal in-charges on May 5.The municipal commissioner’s notification had said the zonal in-charges should get in touch with RWAs and local councillors and request doctors and health care workers, who live in Ghaziabad but work in Delhi, to make arrangements for their stay in the national capital for the remaining duration of the lockdown.“We had issued a notice Thursday evening on the basis of the letter issued by the municipal commissioner. But our letter was withdrawn on Thursday night and another letter was issued about the withdrawal of our first letter. We didn’t have clarity about the letter from the municipal commissioner, which was in the form of an appeal and non-binding,” said Ram Tiwari, president of the board of managers of the association.He said about 35 families live in Neelpadam Kunj, one of the oldest high-rises in Ghaziabad having 568 flats.The controversy started after Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer NK Gupta wrote a letter on April 30, titled “appeal”, to municipal commissioner Dinesh Chandra. Gupta’s letter came in the wake of a number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad being linked to health care wrkers employed in Delhi. On May 5, Chandra forwarded Gupta’s letter to his zonal in-charges. He maintained his letter was an appeal and RWAs and councillors were to make “humble appeals” to doctors and health care workers. He told HT on Thursday the letter was issued in public interest and wasn’t binding.“We have also reiterated this to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Ghaziabad. The appeal is non-binding. But it was issued with an intention to prevent people in high-rises from getting infected,” Gupta said, adding 25% of cases in the district are linked to health care workers and hospitals.The IMA office-bearers held a meeting with the Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Friday to discuss the issue. “The matter is over and everyone is certain that there is no confusion. The issue of the appeal (by the CMO) no longer exists,” Pandey said.He however did not reply when asked about the issue of April 30 letter of appeal issued by CMO and subsequent letter issues by Ghaziabad municipal commissioner of May 5.Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, chairman of the flat owners’ federation, who was present during the meeting, said, “There was no talk about dismissing the April 30 appeal. But everyone reached a consensus to fight the pandemic together. The RWAs should not stop anyone from coming in or going out.”Dr VB Jindal, president, IMA, Ghaziabad, said, “We give full support to the district administration. The issues have been resolved. We were told that the letters were in the form of appeal and non-binding. It is also acceptable to us that those attached to Covid duties should remain in active and passive quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-outrage-ghaziabad-high-rise-withdraws-notice-to-stop-entry-of-doctors-health-workers/story-yPZK6dMsgx3Hr51wfJfQWK.html
08-05-2020||Noida||As commercial activities resume in Noida, 87,000 to get jobs||As the work at around 850 industries and 50 construction sites has resumed in Noida after the government allowed some relaxations in the lockdown, about 87,000 people, including 30,000 migrant workers, will be engaged in these commercial activities in the city. The industrial units alone will employ about 57,000, officials said. Among the 50 constriction sites are at least 20 group housing projects and Noida authority’s 30 infrastructure projects. Besides, work on the development of 50 new industrial units and commercial projects has also been started in the city, the officials said, adding that the resumption of commercial activities will help revive the local economy. At present, there are about 125,000 migrant construction workers in the city, the officials said.All these industrial units, group housing projects and other sites were shut completely after March 25, when the Centre announced nationwide lockdown with an aim to contain the Covid-19 spread. The lockdown has since been extended twice, the latest being up to May 17, but the Union government allowed some relaxations in lockdown rules from May 3 (only in non-containment zones) to help businesses get back on their feet.“We are issuing permissions to industries, construction sites and infrastructure projects as per the guidelines, provided the owners submit all requisite documents,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida authority.According to the authority, there are at least 57,000 employees who will resume work at these 850 industrial units in the city. Also, at least 30,000 migrant construction labourers will get employment at construction sites and the infrastructure projects being developed by the authority. Besides its civic works, the Noida authority has resumed construction work at Sector 71/51 underpass, Chilla elevated road, underpasses on the Noida expressway, and Biodiversity Park. The authority CEO has directed the staff to finish formalities related with different civil works across the city in May and finish the work by June, before the monsoon sets in.“The authority will complete tendering process in May and try to finish repair of roads, drains, parks, footpaths and other civic works in June. Many works were disrupted and delayed due to the lockdown,” said a Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.However, industry owners and developers will have to follow all protocols, standard operating procedures and social distancing norms at their respective sites. On violation of norms, the permission will stand cancelled and legal action will follow, said the officials.Industry owners said that they have started operations as per new guidelines. “We have resumed our operations with reduced staff. Around 60,000 staff may start work in different units. But without a much needed relief package including interest free loan from the government, the industry will face huge financial issues,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneurs Association. Meanwhile, leading mobile manufacturing company Samsung has started its limited operations at its plant in Noida Phase -2 area from Thursday. The company, which employs about 10,000 people, has permission to resume work with 3,000 workers. Partha Ghosh, head of corporate communications (Southwest Asia), Samsung, said that the company had obtained requisite permissions to restart production at its Noida factory. “We hope to scale up our operation over a period of time. We are taking adequate care of our employees’ safety and security, following all the social distancing and hygiene norms as per the guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government after the Covid-19 outbreak,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/as-commercial-activities-resume-in-noida-87-000-to-get-jobs/story-WafRKil1yjkaANOvgiFAVL.html
08-05-2020||City||Bathinda woman booked for duping in-laws of ₹22 lakh||The Jagraon police on Friday booked a Bathinda woman on the complaint of her father-in-law for not taking her husband to Canada and duping them of ₹22.34 lakh . According to complainant Inderjit Singh of Agwad Lopo village, Jagraon, his son Jatinder Singh married Manpreet Kaur, 28, of Kothey Guru Ka, Bathinda, in 2017.While he had agreed to bear all expenses for her student visa and stay in Canada, she was to take her husband abroad with her.Inderjit alleged that he spent ₹22.34 lakh on various expenses, including Kaur’s college fees, since 2017.But she did not take his son along and also showed herself unmarried in her documents.Inderjit had filed a complaint in this regard in November last year and the police booked the woman on Friday.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Kumar said that the FIR was lodged following a detailed investigation. “The police will arrest the woman as soon as she returns from Canada. A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the woman,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-woman-booked-for-duping-in-laws-of-22-lakh/story-Az55sSIDxFJL8uFeKm941H.html
08-05-2020||City||15,500 faced the music for curfew violations in Ludhiana||As many as 15,507 people have faced the music for violating curfew in Ludhiana city since it was imposed on March 23, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said on Friday.Out of the total violators, 719 were arrested under 418 first information reports (FIRs), while 14,788 were taken to open jails established across the city. Among the 418 FIRs, 94 were lodged for opening shops during curfew, 55 for crowding, 32 for not wearing face mask, and 231 people were arrested for roaming around in the open.Agrawal said 6,854 traffic challans were issued and 1,253 vehicles had been seized so far.55 LAKH PEOPLE SERVED FOODThe police chief said they were also fulfilling their social responsibility during the lockdown. “We have served cooked food to 55.72 lakh people and distributed 39,837 ration kits among the needy,” he said. Besides, 2,020 volunteers, including women, are helping the police personnel to maintain law and order situation in the district. Policemen deployed in Punjab Agricultural University, Division Numbers 1 and 5, Dehlon and Sarabha Nagar also made surprise visits to the houses of different residents and celebrated their birthdays/anniversaries, Agrawal said.He said 12 quarantine centres with a capacity of 478 beds had been established exclusively for the police personnel at different locations under the Ludhiana police commissionerate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-500-faced-the-music-for-curfew-violations-in-ludhiana/story-KdOe5mj2p6q8h23SztHWaJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Acting as police volunteers, Ludhiana women show the way to serve society amid lockdown||At a time when venturing out of homes during the Covid-19 outbreak is risky, several city women have set an example to serve society during the lockdown by choosing to help out police in implementing curfew in the city as volunteers.These women volunteers, working from morning to evening with the police personnel in performing various duties, said their parents proudly allowed them to help the police during curfew.Meenu, 18, probably the youngest woman volunteer, wishes to join the police force as an officer in future. A resident of Kundanpuri, Meenu had appeared in Class 12 examinations, but the result was delayed due to the coronavirus outbreak.She said in this difficult time, she did not want to lose an opportunity to serve society. “When I talked to my parents about my wish to join the police as a volunteer, they did not think twice and gave their consent. I enrolled myself on the online portal of the police department. After being selected, I have been working from 8am to 6pm daily with the police,” said Meenu, whose father sells street food.“My duty is to ask commuters their reason to step out of home. I check their curfew passes. In case they don’t possess valid passes, I inform the police personnel on duty,” she said, adding that this has been a great learning experience for her.A total of eight women are working as volunteers with the Division Number 8 police station.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at the police station, said the women volunteers, aged 18 to 40, were working hard to maintain law and order in the area.Volunteer Rama Sharma, 36, a teacher at a private school, said, “I could have chosen to stay home during the lockdown, but I decided to volunteer. I work from 8am to 10pm. Later, I go home and send online lessons to my students.”Shilpa, 33, mother of two children, said, “We are not facing any problem. We get food, water and other necessary articles while on duty. People are also polite to volunteers. Residents of my colony appreciate my initiative.”“After I decided to be a volunteer, I asked my family members, who proudly gave their consent to my decision. I have also worked as a traffic marshal with the traffic police,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/acting-as-police-volunteers-ludhiana-women-show-the-way-to-serve-society-amid-lockdown/story-eca5bYxCBCZ2vym1XHrNlM.html
08-05-2020||City||Currae Hospital in Thane to treat Covid patients||The Thane Municipal Corporation has dedicated another private hospital to treat Covid positive cases. Currae Hospital at Waghbil on Ghodbunder Road will provide 27 beds for Covid patients.The city has a total of 650 beds for Covid patients. Apart from this, a 1,000-bed facility is also being set up at the Global Impact Hub at Saket, Balkum, in Thane (West).Covid patients are treated in Thane Civil Hospital (250 beds), Horizon Hospital (60 beds), Kaushalya Hospital (60 beds), Kalsekar Hospital (100 bed), Thane Health Care (53 beds), Vedant Hospital (100 bed) and 20-bed isolation ward at Kalwa Hospital. Apart from this, 34 beds at Bethany Hospital are for patients suspected to be infected with the virus and have comorbidities. A civic official said, “With the increasing number of cases in the city, we will need additional facilities. We are categorising them as symptomatic and asymptomatic and sending them to centres accordingly. The number of Covid asymptomatic cases is high. These patients along with those who are more than 50 years will be kept under medical supervision at Currae Hospital.”Thane’s Guardian minister Eknath Shinde said the Global Impact hub building will be ready soon.Shinde said, “The1,000-bed Covid hospital in Global Impact Hub building will have dialysis, testing lab and X-Ray to ensure patients do not suffer any inconvenience. The work is in progress to set up the facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/currae-hospital-in-thane-to-treat-covid-patients/story-syk4HZymwDOh7HEzGHAEMN.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Private doctors to serve Covid-19 patients in containment zones||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought the services of private medical practitioners to tackle the spread of Covid-19. In order to help the civic body, private medical practitioners will now attend to patients in containment zones and slums. The services will be free and will ease the patient burden on civic-run facilities, said officials.PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal along with Ramchandra Hankare, head of PMC health department and Anjali Sabne, additional health chief took a meeting with the General Practitioners Association on Thursday in this regard.Private medical practitioners had stopped practice due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The doctors shut the clinics despite repeated requests to keep them open from the civic body, said officials.Hankare said, “Private doctors have assured the civic administration that they will help the civic body and will visit containment zones for the check up of general patients. They also assured that the service will be free.”The PMC on Friday, started to give necessary equipment and safety kits to the private doctors practicing in Bhavani peth, Shivajinagar, Dhole Patil and Yerawada ward office areas.On Thursday, sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao who has been appointed as incharge to take care of the Covid-19 situation visited the Tadiwala road slum to assess the on ground situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-doctors-to-serve-covid-19-patients-in-containment-zones/story-AwIvCkUIgGhj4KIDjiz6YO.html
08-05-2020||City||35 schools set up as PSEB exam centres proposed as Covid quarantine centres in Ludhiana||Out of the 216 schools set up as examination centres for the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Class 12 board examinations in the district, 35 can be turned into quarantine centres, the district education department has conveyed to the education board.The department sent a list of these schools to PSEB following the decision to conduct the board examinations after the lockdown is lifted. The board has also been told that though Ludhiana is a red zone, it has no containment zone.MERITORIOUS SCHOOL HOSTELS ALREADY A QUARANTINE FACILITYGirls’ as well as boys’ hostels of Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students, that was also an examination centre for Class 12 board examinations, have already been turned into Covid-19 isolation centres to treat patients with mild symptoms. On May 4, PSEB had asked the district education officers (DEO, secondary) of Punjab to send them information regarding the number of quarantine centres in their areas.As per sources, the board will now have to set up new centres to accommodate over 6,150 students of Class 12 during the examinations proposed to be held in July. As the authorities have to follow the guidelines under national directives for Covid-19 management, the number of centres will have to be increased, ensuring optimum social distance between the candidates.‘NEED TO COME UP WITH MORE CENTRES’DEO (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said, “We have sent the details to the board and informed them that our district is listed in the red zones and 35 schools have been proposed as quarantine centres. To maintain social distancing during the upcoming board examinations, the higher authorities will come up with more centres.”Principal of Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, Sanjeev Thapar, said, “Officials of the district administration have inspected one building of our school and asked us to vacate the rooms.”GOVT SCHOOLS PROPOSED AS QUARANTINE FACILITIESGSSS (Girls), SamralaGSSS, Samrala (2 blocks)GSSS (Girls), SahnewalGSSS (Boys), Sowaddi KalanGSSS, HalwaraGSSS, KaramsarGSSS, KotalaGSSS, Kila RaipurShri Guru Gobind Singh Senior Secondary School, KhannaHimalaya Senior Secondary Public School, KhannaDAV Model Senior Secondary School, KhannaGSSS, Ghungrali SikhanShaheed Sukhchaindeep Singh Senior Secondary School, Ghudani KalanGSSS, Jagraon BridgeGSSS, DorahaGSSS, PayalShaheed Sipahi Surinder Singh GSSS, MalaudhSSD GSSS, MacchiwaraGSSS, ManupurBM GSSS, Raikot (2 centres)GSSS, Lalton KalanRamgarhia Senior Secondary School (Girls), Millerganj (2 centres)Ramgarhia Senior Secondary School (Boys), MillerganjGSSS (Boys), Jawahar Nahar GMSSS, DholewalGSSS, Model TownGSSS, Jaspal BangarMaster Tara Singh Memorial Collegiate Senior Secondary Public SchoolGSSS, KaddonBhartiya Vidya Mandir School, Sector 39GMSSS, PAU (2 centres)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-schools-set-up-as-pseb-exam-centres-proposed-as-covid-quarantine-centres-in-ludhiana/story-a98jxPCjOnlbnFdrdlNzbJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Pearl City: GMADA prepares ₹105 crore estimates for development works in Mohali’s Sectors 100 and 104||Acting on the Supreme Court directions, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has prepared estimates of around ₹105 crore for internal development works in Mohali’s Sectors 100 and 104, which comprise the Pearl City project.The fate of around 1,300 allottees of Pearl City has been hanging in balance since 2014 after its chairman-cum-managing director Nirmal Singh Bhangoo was booked by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a ₹45,000-crore Ponzi scam. The central agency had also attached all properties of Pearls Agrotech Corporation Limited (PACL), including the mega project launched in 2006.Around 160 families reside in both sectors, spread over 450 acres, where people have invested around ₹600 crore. Yet the sectors do not have a sewerage system, proper roads and streetlights.On March 4 this year, acting on the petition filed by the Pearl City Mohali Residents’ Welfare Association, the apex court had directed GMADA to prepare a detailed estimate plan for internal development works in the two sectors . During the hearing, the court also asked the association to submit the details of members with pending payments and other related documents.Internal development comprises construction of internal roads, laying of sewerage lines, landscaping, electrification, construction of sewage treatment plant and water supply lines.A senior GMADA official, who did not wish to be named, said: “Around ₹26 crore will be spent on roads, ₹21 crore on electrification and ₹55 crore on public health. We will submit the estimates during the next hearing, and the court will decide from where to get the funds. One option is collection of balance amount from the allottees.”Association president Kulbir Singh Sidhu said: “It’s high time GMADA intervenes to help the allottees, who spent their hard-earned money around a decade back, but have got nothing yet. We have full faith in the judiciary and hope we will get justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pearl-city-gmada-prepares-105-crore-estimates-for-development-works-in-mohali-s-sectors-100-and-104/story-CUJLhueeU4V6ShHovNaN4L.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Police cannot infringe human dignity while implementing lockdown: HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court while appreciating the efforts of the police for ensuring proper observation of lockdown norms by the general public, has also chided them for being overzealous in their duty and has asked the commissioner of police to rein in such officers. The observations were prompted in a PIL which complained of police subjecting senior citizens and known personalities to humiliation by making photographs of these persons holding placards saying they are violators of lockdown, viral. The PIL prays for curbing of such high handedness of the police.A single bench of justice Rohit Deo while hearing public interest litigation through video conferencing filed by Sandip Nair was informed that in anxiety to strictly enforce the lockdown directives issued to combat the Covid Virus, certain personnel of the police force are guilty of gross violation of human rights. Advocate Anil Kamble submitted instances of senior citizens on morning walks, being subjected to inhuman indignities by the police in the form of alleged violators being photographed holding placards declaring that there are enemies of the nation, the society, the family and humanity as they are breaking the law.This Kamble submitted was published in prominent newspapers and have gone viral on social media. He said that making a humiliating spectacle of the violators is a serious infringement of human rights and the constitutional right guaranteed under Article 21 and hence sought directions to curb such high handedness of the police.The additional government pleader K S Joshi admitted that while some instances were true, others were uncorroborated and sought time to confirm whether the photographs were taken by the police.After hearing the submissions the court observed, “The police personnel who have indulged in a blatant violation of human dignity were expected to be alive to our society being a civilized society governed by the rule of law. While extraordinary situations may call for extraordinary measures, the measures must have the sanction of law. Human dignity and rights cannot be sacrificed at the altar of extraordinary situations nor can the constitutional right to a dignified life be hostage to supposed intentions. This Court would request the Police Commissioner to sensitise the personnel under his command to ensure that such sordid incidents do not occur.” The matter has been posted for hearing after May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-cannot-infringe-human-dignity-while-implementing-lockdown-hc/story-HpFQB0u27wW12dunslvC0I.html
08-05-2020||City||Ill man near Thane hospital spreads panic||A 25-year-old man lying on the pavement near Wadia Hospital in Tembi Naka, Thane, on Thursday spread panic among residents and passers-by as he was coughing.Some residents contacted the regional disaster management cell (RDMC) and the local corporator to seek help.The RDMC team saw that the man was unable to move and took him to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa where he underwent test for Covid-19.Sudhir Kokate, local BJP corporator of Tembi Naka, said, “I got a call from a woman who saw the man lying outside Wadia Hospital. He was coughing and in pain. We immediately contacted the RDMC.”The RDMC personnel reached wearing personal protective equipment. Santosh Kadam, chief of RDMC, said, “The man is a resident of Gokul Nagar. He had cough and other symptoms. He wanted to go to Wadia hospital’s fever OPD but it was closed for the day and he was unable to walk back home.”He was taken to Kalwa hospital where he is being treated.Kadam added, “We immediately disinfected the entire road and pavements although the man’s report is yet to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ill-man-near-thane-hospital-spreads-panic/story-1wpEelsweGnohdDtZ91sAL.html
08-05-2020||City||20-year-old shot dead in Mukundpur; gang-rivalry suspected||New Delhi: A 20-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by two men in outer Delhi’s Mukundpur, near Bhalswa Dairy, on Thursday night. The attackers fired at least five bullets, two of which hit the man, who died during treatment at a government hospital later. Police suspect that the murder was the result of either a personal enmity or attempt to establish dominance in the illegal gambling business in the area.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma said the attackers have been identified and police teams are conducting raids to nab them. He said the victim, Raju, was a history-sheeter and had been released from jail two months ago.“Raju was involved in a murder case in 2018. He was also involved in cases of theft. Investigation has revealed that one of the killers is a friend of the man Raju had murdered in 2018. Hence, personal enmity or revenge killing cannot be ruled out in Raju’s murder,” said an investigator, on the condition of anonymity.According to the officer cited above, Raju was last seen with two men in a lane close to his home in Mukundpur. Around 9.30pm, the neighbours heard gunshot sounds in their neighbourhood and rushed out of their homes when Raju was found unconscious in the lane, bleeding. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he died during treatment. The doctors told police that two bullet entry wounds were found – one each on his face and chest.“We have taken some people in custody for questioning. There are specific leads about the attackers. They will be caught soon,” the officer cited above added.This is the seventh murder which has been reported in the national Capital within the past four days, from May 4 to May 7. Those murdered include a 32-year-old woman Delhi Police constable, whose husband, a head constable in the force, allegedly himself killed self with his service pistol in a village in Meerut, 14 hours after purportedly killing her in a car parked in south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-year-old-shot-dead-in-mukundpur-gang-rivalry-suspected/story-u9TziXC70diRISwriLZP0I.html
08-05-2020||City||Ludhiana industrialists seek extension of deadline to file taxes||With the Union government extending the lockdown for the second time, members of the Punjab Dyers Association (PDA) on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking extension of the deadlines to file Goods and Services Tax (GST), income tax, Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) contribution.PDA general secretary Bobby Jindal said, “The last date for filing ESI and EPF was extended till May 15 when the government had announced the first phase of the lockdown in March. But, the lockdown was extended again till May 17. How can the government expect us to pay the taxes when the industry is shut?”“The government should extend the last dates for filing taxes in proportion to the number of days for which the lockdown has been extended or the industry might face permanent closure,” Jindal added.Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president Gurmeet Kular said, “It seems that the government is least concerned about the industry which is closed since March 22. The Union and state governments must extend the last dates for filing taxes. Further, interest and penalties on delayed payments should also be waived.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-industrialists-seek-extension-of-deadline-to-file-taxes/story-Fw7nc0giqMyMDCWqeXEJDL.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Days after caretaker found covid-19 positive, four occupants in the shelter too test positive||Days after the caretaker of a shelter in central Delhi’s Jhandewalan was infected with Covid-19, four occupants from the shelter too tested positive for the disease on Friday morning. Shelter number-14 serves over 50 people and they share common toilets and other facilities. Since the caretaker was tested, the shelter management decided to test those that showed symptoms. With the new cases, the rest will likely be quarantined.According to Prabhas Chaudhary, supervisor of a cluster of nine such shelters in the area, said that the report has come positive for actually five occupants but because of a spelling mistake, authorities were not able to identify the other patient. “Nine persons with symptoms like fever and sore throat were tested on May 5 by a team of district health officials in a mobile van, five of who tested positive on Friday. All of them are aged between 30 and 45 years. We have requested authorities to reconfirm the status of the fifth person,” said Chaudhary. While the test results came at in at around 11am, it was only until 4.30pm that the patients were taken to the isolation facility in Karol Bagh.Chaudhary added that the shelter served 56 people, but only 20 slept here. “The rest would be here for most part of the day. They would be served food and the other facilities, but would go sleep somewhere else during the night on their carts,” he said. The cluster of nine shelters together house over 500 homeless people. The caretaker had tested positive on May 4. He was then shifted to AIIMS Jhajjar quarantine facility. Nidhi Srivastava, district magistrate (Central) said that only four persons in the shelter tested positive in the report that came on Friday morning. “We plan to move the occupants above 50 years old and those having ailments like tuberculosis to isolation facilities. The rest will be quarantined in the shelter itself,” said Srivastava. She added that occupants of other shelters with symptoms were now being screened. Sunil Kumar Aledia, a social activist who works for the homeless in the city, said that he will be writing to all district magistrates screen occupants in all the shelters under their jurisdiction. “So many people have complained of fever and other symptoms here but the screening started only after the caretaker tested positive. So many people are housed in these shelters. Just because they are poor doesn’t mean they are denied of their right to life and dignity. The government must understand the seriousness of the issue,” said Aledia. At least 3725 persons are housed across the 223 regular shelter homes of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). Besides the Delhi government has converted 256 school buildings into temporary shelter homes to house thousands of migrants, who were stranded during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/days-after-caretaker-found-covid-19-positive-four-occupants-in-the-shelter-too-test-positive/story-ePem8D6CcSwqiI3xYVhJhJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Construction workers demand second round of compensation||New Delhi: With the national lockdown extended till May 17, construction workers belonging to the unorganised sector in Delhi have demanded from the government financial assistance for the month of May.In a recent letter to state labour minister Gopal Rai, the secretary of the Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union, Thaneshwar Adigaur, also requested the government to finish up pending registrations of new and old workers so that benefits of the government’s schemes reach more people. Construction workers in the unorganised sector can register themselves with the state government at an annual fee of Rs 20, to be renewed on a yearly basis. The process is online, and helps registered works avail government benefits of welfare schemes such as those regarding loans and pensions.While the Delhi government has allowed construction activity in the city, it has permitted operations only at in-situ projects where construction workers are available on site. However, those who are part of the unorganised sector won’t be able to work as they do not live at the construction sites. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in April had given a one-time financial assistance to the construction workers registered with it. Close to 40,000 workers were paid Rs 5,000 each during the lockdown.“There are lakhs of construction workers who have been rendered unemployed due to the lockdown. The lockdown has been extended and there is no clarity on how and by when construction workers, who are in the unorganised sector, would get work. We had requested the government to approve another chapter of financial assistance so that these people can take care of their families,” said Adigaur.When contacted, labour minister Gopal Rai’s office said no decision in this regard has been taken as of now. “The matter is under consideration,” said an official, asking not to be identified.Adigaur, who is also a member of the advisory committee of the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, said they have requested the government to also complete the registration process of construction workers who have recently applied, and to renew the registration of older members. “These people should also be brought under the ambit of financial assistance provided by the government. The government should reconstitute the welfare board and call a meeting of the advisory committee so that necessary measures can be taken for the welfare of construction workers,” said Adigaur.A senior Delhi government official with the labour department, requesting anonymity, said, “All measures have been taken to provide the necessary support to construction workers in the unorganised sector. The government is keeping a close watch on issues concerning labourers and construction workers in the city.”Following guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs in relaxation of lockdown norms, the AAP government said construction work in the city can resume if the employer makes arrangements for the stay of workers. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said, “Construction work has been allowed in Delhi, and it will take time to start again. For construction workers, the employers should make their stay arrangements at their respective sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/construction-workers-demand-second-round-of-compensation/story-aDbvU7bJ6Q6mEOCRmixJMN.html
08-05-2020||City||Plea in Delhi HC seeks laptops, internet for poor students to attend online classes||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the Delhi government’s response on a plea seeking free laptops, tablets or mobile phones for children from the economically weaker sections so that they can attend online classes during the coronavirus pandemic.A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government, the municipal corporations and a few private unaided schools after the plea said several students of the economically weaker sections (EWS) were not being able to access the online classes due to the absence of the devices.The plea filed by NGO Justice for All, through advocate Khagesh Jha, contended that the decision of private unaided schools to conduct online classes would affect over 50,000 students who cannot afford laptops, phones and high-speed internet services.Hindustan Times had on Tuesday reported that EWS students enrolled in city private schools are struggling to attend online classes and take online exams conducted by their schools amid the lockdown due to logistical issues. A Delhi government record has recently revealed only 24-30% students are attending online classes being conducted by the Directorate of Education (DoE) for class 12 students. As per the Telecom regulatory authority of India data, the county’s internet penetration stood at 52.08% in 2019. Appearing for the Delhi government, its standing counsel, Ramesh Singh, accepted the notice following which the matter was posted for further hearing on June 6.On the last date of hearing, the court had asked the petitioner to place some additional documents on record detailing the name of the students affected among other information. Following this, advocate Jha, on Friday gave a list of students while highlighting the Hindustan Times report.The plea said not providing laptops, phone and high-speed internet, free of cost, to poor kids would amount to a violation of their fundamental right to education guaranteed under the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plea-in-delhi-hc-seeks-laptops-internet-for-poor-students-to-attend-online-classes/story-27mcBnolbfjqvFPHC5kbAI.html
08-05-2020||City||Cabinet meet: Himachal imposes Covid-19 cess on liquor||Liquor will be costlier in Himachal Pradesh as the state cabinet, chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, on Friday decided to impose a Covid-19 cess.Now ₹5 per bottle would be charged on country liquor, ₹10 per bottle on Indian Made Foreign Liquor, ₹5 per bottle on beer made in India, ₹25 per bottle on foreign imported liquor and ₹10 per bottle on Indian wine or cider.The Cabinet also decided to hike import fee on all kinds of spirits used by the industries for manufacturing sanitisation products from ₹10.50 per bulk litres to ₹15 per bulk litres.The Cabinet gave its nod to increase the curfew relaxation daily to seven hours from five hours.With a view to provide 120 days minimum assured unskilled employment guarantee to every household of the urban local bodies, the Cabinet gave its consent to implement Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojana in the state. This would help strengthen urban infrastructure and provision of quality civic amenities in urban local bodies. A sum of ₹25.20 crore is expected to be spent under this programme.In order to boost the employability of youth of the state and enhance their employment prospective, the Cabinet gave its nod for setting up of Centre of Excellence at Waknaghat in Solan district under ADB funded programme as a specialised centre for high-end training in tourism, hospitality sectors and IT sector.The Cabinet sub-committee constituted for post Covid-19 economic revival made a presentation before the Cabinet regarding its recommendations for expediting developmental works, mobilisation of resources and possible support to different sectors.The Cabinet sub-committee also gave its recommendations on plugging revenue losses due to mining operations and for fast-tracking forest clearances.It also appealed to all state government employees and employees of state PSUs/boards/universities etc. for the generous contribution to the SDMA Covid-19 State Disaster Response Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-meet-himachal-imposes-covid-19-cess-on-liquor/story-AWBCUtaHb64HNBZ9nX8nIJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Thane residents can get Covid info on TMC portal||Thane residents will get all the information related to Covid-19 on the web portal. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has uploaded the data on its DigiThane portal and residents will have to click on the link http://essentials.thanecity.gov.in/ on this application of web portal.With the increase in number of cases, TMC is taking measures to increase awareness on the virus. The displaying of data will make the people aware of the daily increase and make them responsible, said the civic body.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The application or DigiThane website will give regular updates on the number of cases, the growth rate, the containment zones, the age-wise data of affected persons, ward-wise data, Covid hospitals and number of people who have recovered. All this will be uploaded on the dashboard of DigiThane website and application.”TMC said this will stop rumors from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-residents-can-get-covid-info-on-tmc-portal/story-mlRpHXzVekwMcrfxXutEvI.html
08-05-2020||City||Ludhiana priests cremating Covid patients can’t keep kitchen fire running||It’s double whammy for the two priests and their helper at the Ramgarhia crematorium near Dholewal Military Complex in Ludhiana.Since the crematorium was chosen to perform the last rites of Covid-19 patients, residents have stopped utilising its services for their dead. Worse, the priests have not been paid for the six Covid-related cremations conducted here, neither by the family of the deceased nor by the district administration that arranged the last rites.Having run into financial difficulties, the priests have now refused to cremate any more Covid-19 patients. Four people who succumbed to coronavirus disease and two suspected patients have been cremated here so far.One of the two priests, Pankaj Sharma, said he will not perform last rites of Covid patients in future.“Neither the administration not the patients’ families offer us anything in return. On the other hand, other city residents have also stopped bringing their dead to our cremation ground, afraid of contracting the virus,” says Sharma, whose father was also a priest.“It is our only source of living. Whatever the family of the dead offered us, helped to keep our kitchen fire burning. But, now we have run out of any means. If the situation persists how will we feed our families?” says Gurdev Singh, the other priest.‘STAYING AWAY FROM FAMILIES’The priests have also been staying away from their families for their safety. “I have visited home only once since the lockdown began, and even then I did not hug my two children. We have not been provided prophylactic (preventive) treatment. We also have no insurance cover. In such a situation, how can we continue to cremate the Covid-19 patients,” asked Pankaj.Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramgarhia Educational Trust, that manages the crematorium, said he had written to the civic body commissioner to provide health cover to the people performing cremations.Municipal commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said, “Families should pay for the last rites of their deceased kin. It is unfortunate. I will raise the matter with the authorities concerned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/priests-cremating-covid-patients-can-t-keep-kitchen-fire-running/story-85Di3oGdQoomGPgyBgJ1ML.html
08-05-2020||City||Nerul woman pays ₹77K to ‘customs’ for gift from ‘London bizman’||An assistant commissioner from the Konkan division administration lost ₹77,000 after a man, posing as a London-based construction businessman, claimed to send her a gift and cheated her.The 47-year-old development branch officer from Nerul had created an account on two matrimonial websites. In February, she matched with Fahim Reyansh based in London. He told her he works at a construction company at Huddersfield in London.Reyansh kept talking to the woman for over a month and gained her trust. Around March 15, he told her he has sent her a gift. A few days later, she received a call from a man, who claimed to be a customs officer.“The ‘customs officer’ asked her to pay ₹37,000 towards a 12-kg parcel. Later, he asked her to pay ₹1.8 lakh penalty, claiming they found £30,000 in the parcel. Reyansh sent the woman an audio message and requested her to pay whatever she can. She paid another ₹40,000,” said an officer from Nerul police.When the callers demanded more money, she called the customs department to enquire about the penalty amount only to learn that she was cheated. Soon after, she received a friend request from a woman named Dilipa Gupta, who too tried a similar trick. The woman officer approached the police and lodged a case of cheating against Reyansh and two others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nerul-woman-pays-77k-to-customs-for-gift-from-london-bizman/story-6d6G5P1yof81fm0hMgh2KO.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Dwarka residents unite to stitch masks for corona warriors||A resident of Dwarka, Abha Verma who used to stitch clothes for livelihood, wanted to help the corona warriors to the best of her capability. So, when Verma got to know about an initiative where local tailors were required to make masks, which were to be donated to the corona warriors, she joined in without much ado. “There is no bigger act of kindness than helping others, especially in difficult times like these. I, too, wanted to help in the best possible way, and I know stitching so I thought of using my skills to help others who are fighting to keep us safe. I got to know that the volunteers were taking up the task of stitching masks at the Brahma Kumaris centre near my house, and decided to be a volunteer in this cause,” says Verma, a Dwarka-resident. Kamla, from the NGO, says, “We had asked DCP Dwarka District about what do they need the most in this fight against coronavirus. And we got to know that masks are a primary need, then sought help of locals, and managed to stitch thousands of masks, which were then handed over to the police official to be distributed to their officers and other corona warriors, and even the underprivileged.” To be compassionate, one doesn’t need money and this coming forward of residents to stitch masks voluntarily, sets a perfect example for others to follow. Another resident of this area, Hari Kishan, prefered to stitch masks from his home. He says, “I pick up the cloth from the centre and stitch them at my home. I feel happy that I am able to use the lockdown time to help those who are working day in and out for us.” Anto Alphose, DCP Dwarka, says, “We received 1,100 masks from the NGO, and the best part was that these were prepared keeping in mind the samples we had shared with them. The masks were distributed among the police personnel and other needy people. We want to thank them for reaching out to us and checking on if we need soemthing amid this pandemic. Together we can fight and overcome this situation.” Other than the Dwarka police station, masks were also handed over to the head of the Police Stations in Dabri, Bindapur and Najafgarh. Sunil Mittal, SHO, Najafgarh police station, says, “We received 500 masks from the volunteers at the Dwarka centre of the NGO, and we distributed them to the needy during our food drive. We want to thank these volunteers and residents for their beautiful and timely gesture in these difficult times.” Follow @htdelhi for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-dwarka-residents-unite-to-stitch-masks-for-corona-warriors/story-wpCqMRoKhA9tjb76CJfEdN.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||DDA shifts ownership application for unauthorised colonies online||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has shifted the process to apply for the ownership of properties in 1,731 unauthorised colonies completely online. The land-owning agency will soon start inspecting properties while processing the applications—the inspections had been on hold due to the outbreak of Covid-19.A senior DDA official said that surveyors have been directed to follow social distancing norms while inspecting the properties. “We will soon resume the inspection of properties, except in Covid-19 containment zones. Surveyors will contact the applicants in advance. They will visit the properties of willing applicants only. Surveyors have been advised to strictly adhere to social distancing norms and take other necessary precautions,” the official said.The official added, “In order to continue services during the Covid-19 lockdown, the back-end scrutiny of applications will be carried out as the scheme is totally online.”Land-owning agencies have started the process of conferring ownership rights to people living in these 1,731 unauthorised colonies in December last year. They gave registries to 20 property owners in January, just before the assembly elections in Delhi. The ownership rights are being conferred under the Prime Minister-Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY).So far, more than 2.57 lakh people have registered on the PM-UDAY portal to apply for ownership rights. Close to 70,000 registrants have also got their properties GIS mapped through empanelled agencies, of which the survey of 65,000 properties is complete.The process was initially stalled due to the model code of conduct during Delhi assembly elections and later due to the outbreak of Covid-19.The land-owning agency has opened the processing centres at Dwarka, Pitampura, Hauz Khas and Laxmi Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-shifts-ownership-application-for-unauthorised-colonies-online/story-8uEXx1J1WhHecEhH2epdPI.html
08-05-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 deaths touch 100 in Rajasthan, Jaipur district records most fatalities||The Covid-19-related deaths in Rajasthan touched the 100-mark with one more death reported on Friday.The maximum number of deaths from coronavirus disease was recorded in Jaipur district at 53 followed by Jodhpur at 16 and Kota at 10, according to the state health ministry data. These three districts account for 79 of the 100 deaths, health department data shows.The first Covid-19 case was reported in Rajasthan on March 2. In the one-and-a-half month period till April 16, only 15 deaths were recorded. However, there has been a spike since then.Till April 16, there were 15 Covid-related deaths in the state. Since then there have been another 85 deaths in 21 days, or an average of 4 deaths per day.Details of the death reported on Friday are still awaited.Meanwhile, 64 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Friday taking the total count to 3,491. These include 26 cases from Jaipur district, nine from Jodhpur, eight from Kota, nine from Ajmer, five from Pali, two each from Jhalawar, Alwar and Udaipur and one from Solar district.The increase in the number of positive Covid-19 cases in the state in the fortnight has been very slow.The health department data showed that till April 21, there were 1,435 total corona positive active cases in the state, said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health.On May 7, the total corona positive active cases figure had gone up only slightly to 1,439.In the last 17 days, the net increase in the corona positive cases has only been 4. The state’s recovery rate too has consistently improved and as of May 7, it is 55.12 percent, he said. The ratio of recovered cases to deaths is a high 95.5, he said.Regarding deaths, the government for a long time did not factor them into the database.When deaths were reported at the beginning of April, the government did not count them as Covid-19 deaths, saying the patients had died of co-morbidities and not due to the coronavirus.On Thursday too, health minister Raghu Sharma insisted that no death in Rajasthan has taken place due to Covid. “All the patients who died had co-morbidities. No single death has taken place in Rajasthan only due to Covid,” he said.On Thursday, six deaths and a total of 110 cases were reported, taking the number of cases to 3,427.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-deaths-touch-100-in-rajasthan-jaipur-district-records-most-fatalities/story-lyCU1RV7rWM3vaZxItRp9H.html
08-05-2020||City||Police canteen staffer positive, 100 cops on self-quarantine||New Delhi As many as 100 Delhi Police’s crime branch officials, including a deputy commissioner of police (DCP), have gone into self-quarantine and would undergo testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday after a cafeteria staffer at their Kotwali office tested positive on Friday. More than 70 Delhi Police personnel have been infected with the virus, so far, while at least 10 of them have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-canteen-staffer-positive-100-cops-on-self-quarantine/story-21LcDBENGnWGSqrRvQwTVI.html
08-05-2020||City||80-year-old Muslim woman cremated as per Hindu rituals in Hisar village||In a unique move, the family members of an 80-year-old Muslim woman, Phuli Devi, performed her last rites as per Hindu rituals in Bithmara village here on Friday.Stating that Phuli’s body was consigned to flames, her relative Majid Khan said they belong to the Scheduled Caste community and before their ancestors had converted to Islam during the Mughal rule, they were Hindus.“There was neither any pressure on us nor any tension in the village. We got full support from the villagers when we decided to cremate Phuli,” he clarified.The deceased’s son Satbir Singh said that earlier their family used to follow the burial rules. “From the very beginning, we have been staying with Hindu families in the village and maintained brotherhood and peace with them. Cremating my mother as per Hindu rituals was our decision and we got support from others too. No one from any community threatened us to do so and the step was taken without any external pressure,” Singh added.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni said, “The last rites of Phuli Devi were performed according to Hindu rituals. There was no pressure on the family and the members had not converted to Hinduism. There is complete harmony in the village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-year-old-muslim-woman-cremated-as-per-hindu-rituals-in-hisar-village/story-I71Gihc3oOjn4nvf0wLgFN.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||5-year-old boy on cycle killed in Chandigarh accident||A five-year-old boy on a cycle died after a goods carrier hit him in Chandigarh’s Maloya Colony, police said on Friday.The accident, which took place around 5pm on Thursday, was the first fatal one in the city ever since the lockdown was put in place in 46 days ago. The last road fatality was reported on March 21. As many as 13 people have lost their lives in road accidents in Chandigarh this year so far.The victim has been identified as Tanvir. Lavish Kumar, 26, who was behind the wheel rushed him to hospital, but to no avail.The boy’s father, Gulshan Kumar, who works as an auto-rickshaw, was called to the hospital later.Police said the accused, Lavish, is a graduate and lends a hand in his father’s transportation business. He has been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence. He was arrested, but later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-year-old-boy-on-cycle-killed-in-chandigarh-accident/story-a2SUslo7wCSQ17mHk4Qo3O.html
08-05-2020||City||Plea in HC to resume public transport in Delhi||HT Correspondentletters@hindustantimes.comNew Delhi: After the Union ministry of home affairs’ directed to let government and private offices open in the city, a plea was filed in the Delhi High Court seeking resumption of public transport services, stating that many do not own private vehicles and are solely dependent on public transport systems.The plea, filed through advocate Prashant Vaxish, said the move of the governments to open offices has left a large number of people without the means to reach their workplace. It sought the unfurling of public transport modes while maintaining proper social distancing norms.The petition, which is likely to be heard next week, said that according to data from the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, about 25 lakh people use DTC buses per day. Similarly, the Delhi metro records a ridership of 15 lakh commuters on a single day basis. It said that hence, there is huge dependency on public transport in absence of which people are left in the lurch.The plea, filed by law student Shreesh Chadha, also sought issuance of directions for framing of guidelines for ensuring the safety and hygiene of passengers while commuting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/plea-in-hc-to-resume-public-transport-in-delhi/story-iBwXosmSv1VQ7qalfA41YN.html
08-05-2020||City||Three doctors test positive at Hindu Rao Hospital||New DelhiThree more doctors tested positive for Covid-19 at North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital in Malka Ganj on Friday, taking the total number of health care workers who have been infected with the virus here to 10 from seven on May 3.The seven doctors were said to be from the opthalmology, medicine, radiology, anaesthesia and gynaecology wards. The other health care workers, among the total 10, include two nurses and one lab technician. The technician is believed to have contracted the disease from his wife, who is a nurse at a private hospital.Besides, five gynaecologists at another major north corporation hospital, Kasturba in Daryaganj, are also Covid positive, and a ward helper at the Rajan Babu TB Hospital, which is again under north Corporation, is also suffering from Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-doctors-test-positive-at-hindu-rao-hospital/story-Yqn9He3LYTTyvgAKZcEgYP.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Air India employee unions move HC, challenges 10% deductions in salary||Three Air India employee unions have moved the Bombay high court on Thursday challenging 10% deduction in their salary on account of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.The petitions filed by Air India Aircraft Engineers’ Association (AIEA), All India Service Engineers Association and Indian Pilots Guild, through advocates Jane Cox and Karishma Rao, are likely to come up for hearing next week.Both groups of engineers are employed by Air India Engineering Services Limited, a 100% subsidiary of Air India, while the pilots are employed directly by the national carrier. The petition said that on March 20, 2020, Air India announced 10% deduction for three months from the allowance package of all employees, except the cabin crew, on account of the impact of coronavirus.“It is in blatant violation of the directives issued by Government of India, especially government order dated 29 March 2020, prohibiting employers from making any pay cuts during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, regardless of whether or not establishments are operational,” states petition filed by AIEA and adds that the state authorities are personally liable for the implementation of the government order. It adds that in the case of most of the employees’ allowances form a major part of their wage bracket and in some case it exceeds 60℅ of their monthly salary, resulting in large deductions. The petition states that the deduction for March 2020 was most shocking, as the employees have worked for 24 days during the month before the nationwide lockdown was imposed.The petition adds that even otherwise employer-employee relationship continues and since the employees are willing to work, the employers are bound to pay their agreed monthly wages. Such wage deduction amounts to a change in service condition and therefore in breach of legal provisions, it adds.The unions have urged the court to restrain Air India and AIESL from making any further deductions from their future salaries. They have also sought a direction for payment of the 10℅ allowances deducted from their March 2020 salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/air-india-employee-unions-move-hc-challenges-10-deductions-in-salary/story-RkC7cr1Gxm9UCAEN980oyK.html
08-05-2020||City||Vashi APMC market to shut from May 11 to 17||The APMC market in Vashi will be shut from May 11 to 17. The decision was taken after several Covid-19 cases have been being reported from the market.Of the 485 Covid positive cases reported in Navi Mumbai till May 7, 185 cases are of APMC vendors and traders and their close contacts.State principal secretary (marketing) Anoop Kumar said, “There have been a number of cases being reported from APMC market with 23 cases being reported in a single day. The market has to be sanitised thoroughly. All markets will be shut from Monday till May 17.”All five APMC markets of vegetable, fruit, onion-potato, grains and spices will be disinfected.Kumar said that supplies will not be affected. “The APMC market supplies grocery and vegetables to Mumbai Metropolitan Region. We have planned accordingly to ensure there is no shortage.”He added that there is enough stock in the retail market and more will be supplied in the next two days. There will be regular direct supply too.APMC secretary Anil Chavan said, “Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation will screen all mathadis, workers and security personnel working in the APMC market. Those with symptoms will undergo Covid test at a subsidised cost that will be borne by the APMC administration.”APMC director and wholesale trader Sanjay Pansare said, “All plans are in place to ensure direct regular supply to Mumbai and surrounding regions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-apmc-market-to-shut-from-may-11-to-17/story-Dp4JF0nt3qncAF0OLupo3N.html
08-05-2020||City||J&K admn arranges special trains to bring back stranded residents||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is arranging special trains for its residents stranded across the country due to the lockdown. The administration will bear the cost of the tickets, even as 30,000 people have so far returned to the UT with proper regulation, officials said on Friday.“The J&K administration has collected details of stranded persons, who wish to return to the UT by providing web links for registration. Arrangements are being made for their arrival in an orderly manner while adhering to the norms of social distancing and undertaking testing so as to ensure that timely action is taken to prevent any spread of Covid-19,” said an official spokesperson.“Approximately 30,000 persons have entered the UT, with proper regulation, from Lakhanpur. During this period, migrant workers, students and stranded persons from the states of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have already returned to J&K. The stranded persons in the states/UTs of Haryana, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh and Delhi have been permitted to return, in a regulated manner, with effect from May 7 and this process will continue for a week,” the spokesperson added.Simultaneously, train services were being arranged for stranded persons of J&K, particularly from far off places, he said adding that these trains will start arriving shortly.“These trains will start arriving shortly and necessary coordination with the sending states as also with Railway authorities is going on. Nobody should move in a hurry without passes issued with the consent of the J&K administration, else, will be quarantined for 21 days in Kathua,” he added.He said the Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to bear the cost of the tickets. The returnees will not need to make any payments for their return journey by train.“The UT of J&K has taken umpteen measures for controlling the spread of Covid-19, with frontline workers working untiringly. In this backdrop, it is necessary that the return is managed such that these efforts do not get adversely affected”, he said adding that the administration reassures all the stranded persons of J&K that it is taking every possible step for their early return to their homes.Meanwhile, the first batch of 166 migrants stuck in J&K due to the coronavirus enforced lockdown was on Friday sent to their home states in six buses, officials said.The migrants belonged from Patna, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Jammu north sub-divisional magistrate Pawan Kotwal said.Two buses ferrying 88 migrants were sent to Patna, while one bus each with 39 people left for Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-admn-arranges-special-trains-to-bring-back-stranded-residents/story-7RuVJPWIqjJKVH4Tl6K29L.html
08-05-2020||City||NGO provides 1,950 safety kits to Asha workers in Hisar||Social organisations on Friday started distributing safety kits among accredited social health activists (Asha) in the state.The move has come after Hindustan Times reported how frontline Covid-19 warriors were lacking basic safety equipment such as masks, gloves, head gear and sanitisers.A Hisar-based social worker, Shivang Tayal, said that they have launched a campaign ‘Rakshak ki Raksha’, a collaborative campaign by Tayal Foundation and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) of Hisar, to protect India’s “most vulnerable and under-addressed frontline workers” fighting against Covid-19.He added that the organisation had so far provided 1,950 safety kits to Asha, ANM, anganwadi and multipurpose health workers (MPHW) in Hisar. By next week, the foundation will distribute 3,500 more kits to these workers of Jind, Gurugram and Fatehabad districts, said Tayal.Each ‘Suraksha’ kit comprises a hand sanitiser, face mask, gloves, face shield and soap, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-provides-1-950-safety-kits-to-asha-workers-in-hisar/story-IfhPaOanPSguHVj6ng2LHN.html
08-05-2020||City||J&K crosses 800-mark with 30 fresh Covid-19 infections||Thirty more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 823, officials said.All fresh infections were reported from Kashmir— Baramulla , Srinagar, Budgam, Kulgam and Ganderbal districts—where the tally has risen to 755.Officials said 29 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals, including one in Jammu and 28 in Kashmir division. So far, 364 patients—310 in Kashmir and 54 in Jammu—have recovered from the disease.Of the total 450 active cases, 437 are in Kashmir while 13 are in Jammu. Nine people have died so far in the UT.Till date, 88,067 people have been put under observation—18,477 in home quarantine, 450 in hospital isolation, 186 in hospital quarantine, 8,724 in home surveillance while 60,221 have completed their surveillance period.FIRST COVID CASE AT CIVIL SECRETARIAT IN SRINAGARA few days after opening, the civil secretariat in Srinagar has recorded its first Covid-19 case after an employee tested positive for the disease, officials said on Friday. The employee, a resident of the Safapora area in Ganderbal district, was found positive on Wednesday. Officials said he had been visiting his brother who was admitted at a hospital, which has reported some coronavirus cases.Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chaudhary said an entire floor of the civil secretariat was cleared and disinfected.“Secretariat in Srinagar is functional, everything normal. I’ve just returned from there. One positive case was found, particular floor cleared/disinfected, due protocols followed. Clarified after wrong media reports,” Chaudhary tweeted.After the development, an officer of the finance department and some other employees have put themselves under self-quarantine.ADMN SCALES UP TESTING FACILITIES The Jammu and Kashmir administration has scaled up sampling and testing facilities, with over 3,000 samples and 1.000 tests on a daily basis, an official spokesperson said. The administration has taken a combination of containment and mitigation measures to slow the spread of COVID-19 by carrying out contact tracing, limiting travel and quarantining citizens. The increased sampling and testing has become all the more important as the migrant workers and students belonging to the UT are returning back to their home districts, the spokesperson said. The administration is ensuring that every person who returns from other states gets tested before going back to their home district, the official said. Special sample collection centres have been set up in Lakhanpur in Kathua, Thandi khui in Samba, Tikri in Udhampur, one in Doda. All migrant labourers and truck drivers are being tested at Lakhanpur, the spokesperson said. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-crosses-800-mark-with-30-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-14tmfndaOtwc1WEDnRNcNL.html
08-05-2020||City||Kangra admn to step up vigil against home-quarantined persons via surveillance software||The Kangra administration and the National Informatics Centre (NIC) have developed HP entry-cum-surveillance software to keep track of people entering the district and people under home quarantine do not flout the norms of isolation.Kangra DC Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said that they will urge the Union ministry of electronics and information technology for the adoption of the software at a national level.He said that while the administration is facilitating people who wish to return home, effective surveillance becomes even more important to ensure that people stay in quarantine for the prescribed period after their arrival.For this purpose, Prajapati said the district administration has developed an integrated HP entry-cum-surveillance software for tracking the movement of such people after they enter the state.Additional DC Raghav Sharma, who led the team that developed the software, said that the software is being used in Kangra district only.Elaborating about its functioning, Sharma said that anyone who wishes to return to Himachal has to apply on https://hpkangra.nic.in/curfewpasskangra/ and upload scanned documents including an identity card and supporting document for purpose of the visit.Details of co-travelers are also needed to be filled online. The whole process is linked to the Aarogya Setu app which sends a green or red alert on the bases of personal information filled by the applicant.“This is also a workflow-based system that redirects all the applications to sub-divisional magistrates of the concerned area,” said Sharma. The system also keeps a check number of passes issued per day.Once a person gets permission to enter the state, all their details and that of co-travelers are redirected to the field staff in the concerned area.The same software is used to assign such person a surveillance officer or direct them to go into home quarantine or institutional quarantine, and discharge certificate. The surveillance officer uses the application to file daily follow up of the quarantined person including if they jump quarantine.In case a person is tested Covid-19 positive, then all their travel history including the vehicle used is available on the application which can further be used to trace the primary contacts outside or within the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangra-admn-to-step-up-vigil-against-home-quarantined-persons-via-surveillance-software/story-LFiIJybIJasPJ6jWyvBAjK.html
08-05-2020||City||Rohtak PGIMS starts screening for BCG vaccine trials||A team of three doctors at Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) has started screening of employees for clinical trials to find the efficacy of the tuberculosis vaccine, the recombinant (zenotype) Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG), to protect people from the novel coronavirus.Professor of community medicine at the PGIMS, Dr Ramesh Verma, who is co-investigator for clinical trials said that the team has conducted screening of 10 PGIMS employees who are attending to Covid-19 patients. Four of these employees have undergone a Covid-19 test and their results have already come out negative.“We will inject the recombinant Bacillus Calmette Guerin (BCG) vaccine to them on Saturday. This trial will be performed on 175 persons, including doctors, staff nurses, attendants and others looking after Covid-19 patients at PGIMS and the family members of the positive patients, who have tested negative for the virus. Under this research trial, we will give rBCG vaccine to 131 persons (aged above 18 with no disease) and the remaining 44 will be given placebo (no treatment). To perform these trials, we received a stock of 75 vaccines and we will get the remaining ones in the next two to three days,” Dr Verma added.Professor Verma said that they will conduct this research about the efficacy of rBCG vaccine for the next six months.“Early Covid-19 trends show that the deadly virus is not severe in developing countries, where TB vaccines are given to infants. This rBCG vaccine is being used for trial as it improves immunity and has anti-viral properties. The final research will tell us whether this vaccine is helpful in tackling the virus or not,” Professor Ramesh Verma added.The drug controller general of India (DCGI) has granted permission to five sites, including PGIMS, Rohtak, to hold a clinical trial for the rBCG for the next six months. The research is being conducted under the guidance of Professor of pharmacology and general investigator Dr Savita Verma, head of pulmonary and critical care medicine, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary and Dr Ramesh Verma.Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, who is also the coronavirus nodal officer at the institution, said that the BCG vaccine was developed to protect children from tuberculosis and they expect that the rBCG vaccine may offer protection against the severity of Covid-19 as it is helpful in tackling other infectious diseases too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rohtak-pgims-starts-screening-for-bcg-vaccine-trials/story-odYRfWhO17IRx3Hh09Xx9M.html
08-05-2020||City||80-year-old woman among three win Covid-19 battle in Mohali||Three more patients recovered from coronavirus infection and were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, bringing the number of active cases down to 43 in Mohali district on Friday.The total number of patients who have recovered so far has reached 52. Among those discharged on Friday are two women, aged 32 and 80, and a 67-year-old man, all from the hotspot Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi subdivision.The development comes on the day the district reported a death and a fresh case, taking the number of confirmed cases to 98.Jawaharpur accounts for 46 cases, of whom 34 have recovered so far, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. Dr Singh said after 14-day treatment, reports of two consecutive tests conducted on the three patients came negative, after which they have been discharged. He said all remaining patients are undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital and there condition is stable.The Jawaharpur residents will not be sent home yet and will stay at a quarantine facility in Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure. The health teams will keep track of their health regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-year-old-woman-among-three-win-covid-19-battle-in-mohali/story-wPpIeZ4rRzuP21TMQJTFXK.html
08-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand maintaining district-wise logbook of returnees to ensure accommodation, supply of essentials||With a large number of migrant workers returning to their homes from different parts of the country, the Jharkhand government is maintaining a district-wise logbook containing their details to ensure they get food, accommodation and medicines at their native places, official sources said on Friday. The logbooks at the district level have information about the returnees collected by officials while talking to them over phone, the sources said. After returning to the state, the migrant workers are transported by buses to their native places where they are quarantined as per the Covid-19 protocols. The first special train run by the railways after suspension of its operation due to the lockdown ferried around 1200 migrant workers from Lingampally in Telangana to Hatia in Ranchi on the World Labour day (May 1). The 24-coach train was the first in the country to transport stranded migrant workers after the Centre had permitted inter-state movement by relaxing the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Since then, thousands of migrant workers and students have come back to the state by special trains from far-off places like Kerala, Telangana, Kota in Rajasthan and Punjab. Many others travelled back home in buses from Punjab, Telangana and Chhattisgarh, among others. To help people from other states who are stranded in Jharkhand, the state government has launched ‘Jharkhand sahayata portal’ where they can register themselves, an official statement said. These people can register themselves on http://covid19reg.jharkhand.gov.in/ and the state government will make arrangements for their return, it said. Taking to Twitter, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday praised pravasis (migrants) of Jharkhand, who could not come home so far, for showing patience in the times of crisis and assured them that the state was making efforts to run more trains to bring them back. The government has appointed deputy officials for coordinating movement of migrant workers and others stuck in West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-maintaining-district-wise-logbook-of-returnees-to-ensure-accommodation-supply-of-essentials/story-tSAkbcqdGhjwuMbl2tNcZN.html
08-05-2020||City||Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad integral part of India, our duty to look after its people: J&K IMD director||After the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has included regions of Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad as part of its Jammu and Kashmir meteorological sub-division, director of J&K IMD Sonum Lotus said, “Since they are our people, we should look after their concerns.”Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad are territories currently under Pakistani occupation.In February 1994, the Parliament passed a unanimous resolution, which stated: “the state of Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and shall be an integral part of India and any attempts to separate it from the rest of the country will be resisted by all necessary means; and that Pakistan must vacate the areas of the Indian state of J&K, which they have occupied through aggression; and resolves that all attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of India will be met resolutely.”Sonum said that media should disseminate information of IMD weather forecasts for the people in Pak occupied Kashmir and they, for now, can log on to IMD’s website https://mausam.imd.gov.in/ for daily weather forecasts.He, however, said that there was nothing “new” and “surprising” in weather forecasts for the Pak occupied Kashmir.“There is nothing new. Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh entirety belong to India and we are doing it for our people including those from Gilgit- Baltistan, and Muzaffarabad following the reorganisation of the state of J&K”, he added.“While the people of Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad will get updates on the IMD website to keep them abreast with weather forecasts, we may also ensure that their representatives get the weather forecast on their mails in the near future. This is the beginning. Let’s see how the government wants to go further,” he said.The official said that the basic purpose of including these areas in its Jammu and Kashmir meteorological sub-division is because “people in these regions are our people and it is our responsibility to look after their concerns.”Lotus said that following the reorganisation of the J&K into two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, it was decided to include these areas under the Ladakh region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gilgit-baltistan-muzaffarabad-integral-part-of-india-our-duty-to-look-after-its-people-j-k-imd-director/story-R0upMaw2qoK6kWiop8sSkO.html
08-05-2020||Ranchi||Lockdown 3.0: Stranded people reach Jharkhand from Tamil Nadu||Stranded people including patients reached at Hatia Railway Station on Thursday via a special train from Tamil Nadu’s Katpadi. Several arrangements were made by railways for the benefit of passengers as most of the passengers were patients, coming from Vellore.Arrangements was made for 50 wheelchairs, sufficient coolies, drinking water.Railway staff were deputed to guide them on their arrival at the station here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/lockdown-3-0-stranded-people-reach-jharkhand-from-tamil-nadu/story-zH5SCeASX0qi3rm7kWPDYP.html
08-05-2020||City||Man, son arrested for killing auto driver in Mumbra||A father-son duo was arrested by Mumbra police on Thursday for allegedly stabbing their neighbour to death with a knife. Pankaj Gohil , 50, and his son Sawan, 29, was arrested immediately after the murder.According to Mumbra police, Abdul Salam Shaikh, 38, was an autorickshaw driver.On Wednesday night, Shaikh was roaming on the street near his house after dinner when he started talking to Gohil’s wife. Both of them started arguing over something.An officer from Mumbra police said, “Both Pankaj and his son Sawan joined the argument and started thrashing Shaikh. They got a knife and attacked him. Shaikh died on the spot. We are yet to interrogate the accused. We have arrested them under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-son-arrested-for-killing-auto-driver-in-mumbra/story-Eo94AypePOCORASx3JhoVO.html
08-05-2020||City||Shimla street vendors seek permission to resume work||Street Vendors have demanded that the Shimla municipal corporation (SMC) should allow them to resume work. A delegation of street vendors union met SMC commissioner Pankaj Rai and submitted a memorandum seeking permission to resume work. Rai assured them that he will send a proposal to Shimla deputy commissioner and will urge him to take appropriate steps.Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) state president Vijendra Mehra said that state government has allowed shops to remain open on alternative days, but street vendors continue to face hardships as they have not been allowed to resume work.Due to coronavirus-enforced lockdown, street vendors’ business has been badly affected and they are having trouble meeting their daily needs.Street vendors have demanded that if the administration cannot allow them to resume work then vendors who have applied for I-cards and certificate of vending should be granted financial assistance of ₹8,250 for April and May as declared by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shimla-street-vendors-seek-permission-to-resume-work/story-X9dtHq2YTzmDsALbjfQjnL.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to go on one-month summer break from May 15||Panjab University on Friday announced summer vacations from May 15 to June 15, 2020.The decision comes a day after the Punjab state government declared a one-month summer break in colleges and universities of the state from May 15.“In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been decided that Panjab University, including regional centres, constituent colleges and affiliated colleges shall have summer vacations from May 15 to June 15, 2020,” reads the official order of the university.Panjab University registrar professor Karamjeet Singh said, “We have taken the step after internal deliberations.”Panjab University has around 190 affiliated colleges and 160 of them are in Punjab. “One of the reasons to announce the summer break maybe that most affiliated colleges are in Punjab and the state government has already announced summer vacations from May 15,” said a university official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-go-on-one-month-summer-break-from-may-15/story-cbGXHcgvBbHjzeQUYLndxH.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Seven deaths, 117 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Pune city on May 7||Seven deaths and 117 fresh positive Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases caused due to Sars-Cov-2 virus were reported in Pune city on Thursday.The death count in the city is now 125 and there are 2,146 active positive cases in the city, according to officials.Meanwhile, 84 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals, said officials.All the deaths which were reported on Thursday were of people above 60 years of age and admitted at different hospitals across the city. The oldest one was a 75-year-old male from Yerawada who was admitted at Kashibai Navale Hospital on May 1. He had pneumonia and died on Thursday at 10.20am.Three patients from KEM hospital included a 65-year-old male and 66-year-old female both from Bhawani peth area. The male had pneumonia, while the female patient had an acute renal failure due to which she died.Other three deceased patients included a 72-year-old male from Sassoon Hospital and a 60-year-old male from Sahyadri Hospital, Deccan, both from Ganj peth area. The third patient was admitted at Noble Hospital (pls check) and was from Lullanagar.Deepak Mhaisekar, Pune divisional commissioner said, “Till date, a total of 680 positive patients have been cured and sent back home in Pune district. We are providing all necessary help to hospitals for the treatment of patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/seven-deaths-117-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-pune-city-on-may-7/story-1E3wfh3Xw2mE66y8RUUatO.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Pune city registers drop in Covid-19 mortality rate; rise in daily discharge of cured patients||The city has been registering a significant improvement in the recovery and discharge of cured Covid-19 (coronnavirus) patients, additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said on Thursday.In a tweet on Thursday morning she said, “Start with good news for Pune” while presenting data on the rising numbers of discharged Covid-19 patients. While 27 patients were discharged on April 28 and 29, the number was in the 50s right from May 1 to May 6. The percentage of ‘active’ cases (positive cases without number of dead and discharged) to positive cases had also declined from 79 per cent on April 28 to 65 per cent on May 6, Agarwal said.In an interview she said, this was a very positive trend and encouraging for the government and the local administration. “The lockdown has definitely helped bring down the doubling ratio of positive patients,” she said.The senior civic official said that the mortality rate for Pune had dropped from a high of 9 per cent to 5.8 per cent and the authorities were now confident of bringing it down further.“Even the doubling rate of Covid-19 positive cases has risen to 12 days in Pune,” she said.Agarwal attributed the early detection of positive cases to PMC’s door-to-door survey and increased testing. “This is helping us find the positive patients in the early stages. Now we are hoping that cure ratio will increase more as the maximum number of positive patients will be completing their 14 days treatment in the coming days,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-city-registers-drop-in-covid-19-mortality-rate-rise-in-daily-discharge-of-cured-patients/story-DtuRQgIjKHErM2ygxoUdgK.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini seeks anticipatory bail||A former director general of Punjab Police, Sumedh Singh Saini, on Friday moved an application seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered against him in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991.The application was moved in the court of additional district and sessions judge Harpreet Kaur here. After a brief hearing, the court refused to stay Saini’s arrest. A police team from Mohali is in Delhi to take him into custody.Saini sought a stay on the arrest, saying that he is being falsely implicated in the 29-year-old case.Refusing to hear the arguments or staying the arrest, the court summoned records from the police. In response to the court’s notice, Punjab Police will file a reply to the application seeking anticipatory bail on Saturday. Saini was the Chandigarh senior superintendent of police in 1991. Multani, a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini in which four cops in his security were killed. The police later claimed Multani escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on the complaint of Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.The case was also registered against former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, SIs Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-seeks-anticipatory-bail/story-3nIoLTHGkS4rFoav96A6TJ.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali woman tests positive for Covid-19 a day after delivering baby||A 24-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, a day after she gave birth at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh. The woman, a resident of Milkh village in Kharar block of Mohali, is the first case in the district where a woman has tested positive for the virus after giving birth.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the woman was admitted in GMSH-16 but her child was doing well. “Health teams have already sealed the village and will collect samples of her family members. The doctors in the hospital will also take the sample of her child and husband,” Singh said.“This is first such case in the district where a Covid-19 positive mother has delivered a baby. We will follow all protocols,” said Singh.With this the district count has reached 98. As many as 52 patients have recovered, three have died and 43 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-a-day-after-delivering-baby/story-ENfArHg0fdx1cK2r415LJO.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||74-year-old man becomes third Covid-19 fatality in Mohali||A 74-year-old Zirakpur man, who died at Ojas Hospital in neighbouring Panchkula city on Thursday, became the third person to succumb to Covid-19 in Punjab’s Mohali district after his reports came out to be positive, posthumously, on Friday. The victim, a resident of Jaipurias Sunrise Greens in Zirakpur, was suffering from lung cancer. He was admitted to Ojas hospital in Panchkula on May 7. The hospital also tested him for Covid-19. The victim passed away on Thursday afternoon. However, his reports, which came on Friday, found him positive for the deadly virus. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the victim was staying with his daughter in Zirkapur and his cremation had been performed as per protocol under the observation of health officials. “We will collect the samples of his family members and will also trace his contacts. We have already sealed the area in Zirakpur,” he said.OTHER FATALITIES On March 31, a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon had succumbed to Covid-19 at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. A 74-year-old woman had died at the Kharar civil hospital on April 6. She was brought to the hospital due to acute hypertension and diabetes and was tested for Covid-19 as a precaution. Her reports, received on April 7 confirmed she had Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/74-year-old-man-becomes-third-covid-19-fatality-in-mohali/story-yUpTewmGA7uuBY8ZdMaJQN.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||200 employees of Sangrur sewa kendras not paid during lockdown||Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked private companies not to cut employees’ salaries during the lockdown imposed to contain the novel coronavirus around 200 sewa kendra workers have not been paid for the month of April. Employees say they were just paid for 21 days in March and were not paid during the lockdown. The Punjab directorate of governance reforms hires private agencies to provide staff to run sewa kendras. These firms recruit employees on a contractual basis. The employees include computer operators, security guards and safai karamcharis.“It is the 47th day of lockdown and I have not received salary for the month of April and 10 days of March. It is difficult to survive in a pandemic without money. Though, the government has assured us that that salary of employees will not be stopped, we are still waiting to be paid,” said Jagseer Singh, a Sewa Kendra employee.Assistant district e-governance coordinator Sahil Kalra said, “The issue is being discussed. However, the higher authorities will take the final call.”Digital Solution Services Private Limited senior official Ankush Katoch said, “We have paid them for the duration of their services. However, discussions are on with government officials.”Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said he had taken up the issue with director governance reforms and they said that the issue was between employees and the service provider. “The matter is being mediated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/200-employees-of-sangrur-sewa-kendras-not-paid-during-lockdown/story-2C3578MxhZiiADjwJdW8OM.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||23-year-old murdered in Faridkot, one held||A 23-year-old man was murdered in Faridkot’s Dhudi village on Thursday. Five people -- Jagjeet Singh, Billa Singh, Bant Singh and his sons Nirmal Singh and Jagraj Singh, all residents of Dhudi village -- have been booked. Jagjeet Singh has been arrested while the other four are absconding. The victim’s mother, Paramjit Kaur, said her son Sukhdev Singh had an old enmity with the accused. “The five accused barged into our house at night and attacked Sukhdev with sharp-edged weapons,” she told the police.Station house officer Joginder Singh said the victim was rushed to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot where he succumbed to his injuries. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Faridkot Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/23-year-old-murdered-in-faridkot-one-held/story-gd06XpU4oGZjXsUTuMeWFI.html
08-05-2020||Patna||Start random testing in all districts at the earliest: Bihar CM||With COVID 19 having spread far and wide in Bihar, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday ordered that random testing be started across all districts at the earliest in order to get a clearer idea of the extent of the outbreak besides instilling a sense of security among the people.At a high-level meeting he chaired here to review the coronavirus situation, Kumar also directed senior officials led by the Chief Secretary to ensure that Standard Operating Procedures were followed at all quarantine centers which have been set up to contain the large number of migrant workers who have been returning on board special trains.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe also gave strict instructions that the quarantine centres at the Panchayat levels must be equipped with facilities at par with block level ones so that migrant workers who were being lodged there for a 21-day period from the date of their arrival faced no inconveniences.There have been reports in a section of the media that migrant workers were reluctant to put up at the quarantine centres because of poor amenities.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe Chief Minister also said that random testing should be started at all districts as soon as possible as it would help in more effectively checking the spread of coronavirus and instill a sense of security in the minds of the people.Till date, the dreaded coronavirus has spread to 32 out of 38 districts in the state and the number of confirmed cases in Bihar till date is close to 550, including five deaths.The Chief Minister also called for ensuring adequate supply, at all districts, of Truenat kits small, chip- based, battery-operated machines which can be handled with minimal training and after being widely in use for detecting TB cases, have been approved by the ICMR for conducting COVID 19 screenings.He also reiterated the need for breaking the chain of infection through constantly supervised contact tracing and strengthening of the infrastructure available at hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/start-random-testing-in-all-districts-at-the-earliest-bihar-cm/story-1OAsyQrbjDaHAYnEYtx9uM.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP’s first Covid patient to undergo plasma therapy stable, say doctors||A 58-year-old doctor, the first Covid -19 patient in Uttar Pradesh to undergo plasma therapy, is stable and continues to be on ventilator support 13 days after the experimental treatment began, doctors said on Friday. The patient from Orai in Uttar Pradesh was admitted to the King George Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow on April 26. “After 13 days, the condition of the patient is stable and he is still on ventilator. We can’t say when he will be discharged,” KGMU Vice Chancellor M L B Bhatt said.  Dr Tulika Chandra of Blood Transfusion department, KGMU said, “When the patient was given plasma therapy his condition was very bad. Now his lungs have improved. But as he is old and has diabetes, he has been kept on ventilator. A team of doctors are keeping an eye on him.” The patient was administered plasma donated by a doctor from Canada who was the first Covid-19 patient admitted to KGMU and later recovered. Convalescent plasma therapy is an experimental procedure for Covid-19 patients. In this treatment, plasma, a blood component, from a cured patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 develops antibodies to fight the virus. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a cured coronavirus patient to treat another critical patient. The process of donating plasma is similar to that of donating blood and takes about an hour.  Union health ministry had advised against considering plasma therapy to be regular treatment for coronavirus and said that it should be used for research and trial purposes till there’s robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-first-covid-patient-to-undergo-plasma-therapy-stable-say-doctors/story-CqwpDr61IDcstXfxVXFhcL.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||ASHA workers to get Rs 50 lakh death cover amid Covid-19 outbreak||Accredited social health activists’ (ASHA workers’) families will receive Rs 50 lakh in case they succumb to Covid-19, announced the state health department on Friday. They will receive Rs 10,000 in case they are infected. As part of the special incentives announced for ASHA workers, they will receive a monthly allowance of Rs 1,000 for performing their duties amid the pandemic and Rs 1,500 for conducting door-to door survey.The decision comes after four ASHA workers were found infected in Moga in the last week of April and their union threatened to go on strike.The order pertaining to additional incentives has been sent to all civil surgeons.The monthly incentives will be paid to them from the month of January to June while the incentive for door-to-door survey will be given to them from April to June.Similarly, ASHA facilitators will get Rs 5,000 per month for doing their duties and Rs 1,500 per month for conducting door-to-door survey.FREE TREATMENT, CHECKUPSThe order says ASHA workers’ and facilitators’ medical examinations will be conducted free of cost and they will also be treated for free at government hospitals.National Health Mission director Dr Parvinder Sidhu said the decision had been taken to appreciate the work done by ASHA workers and facilitators during the Covid -19 crisis.ASHA Workers and Facilitators’ Union state president Pramjeet Kaur Maan said, “We had decided to go on strike on May 7. After we announced the strike, the department approached us and assured us that our demands will be considered. Now, they have given us incentives. We welcomed the department’s decision but this is a half win for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asha-workers-to-get-rs-50-lakh-death-cover-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-sJ97cI79fwPJdsg5iG3s3J.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Pune civic body to distribute ration kits at Covid-19 containment zones||In a bid to limit the movement of people in containment zones, the civic body in Maharashtra’s Pune city will distribute ration kits to 70,000 families in the hotspot areas from Friday onwards, an official said.As of Thursday, the Pune Municipal Corporation has over 2,140 Covid-19 cases, of which 1,600 were reported from Bhavani Peth, Dhole Patil Road, Kasba-Vishrambaug, parts of Shivajinagar and Yerwada areas.“We want people in the containment zones to stay indoors and not venture out even to buy essentials. We will distribute 1 lakh ration kits to 70,000 families in these areas,” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.These kits will contain five kg of flour, three kg of rice, pulses, oil and other essential items that can last up to 15 days, he said.“Community workers and civic employees will distribute these kits from Friday onwards,” he added.Apart from ration kits, the PMC also plans to provide sanitisers and one lakh masks to residents of containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-to-distribute-ration-kits-at-covid-19-containment-zones/story-UtlDcy0NQw8yJeQacPsnjN.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Couple tests Covid-19 positive, Gurugram society sealed||An up-scale Vipul Belmonte residential complex at Golf Course road was sealed after emergence of two Covid-19 cases, here on Thursday.The patients, a senior citizen couple, underwent Covid-19 test after the wife got fever. The husband had recently visited the Azadpur vegetable and fruit wholesale market in Delhi.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAfter the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) sealed the complex, health officials initiated the sanitation works. Ravi Kumar, the estate manager of the complex, confirmed the development. Manish Shandilya, convener of 80 RWA residential complexes in Gurugram, said medical team questioned the residents about their contacts with the couple. Neighbouring groceries and vegetables shops are also on the radar.“The team suspects residents of neighbouring flats on the same floor may get infected. Being senior citizens, they frequently sought neighbour’s help,” Shandilya said.Around 700 families, living in the complex, have been asked to stay in home quarantine till further orders.With these two cases, the coronavirus tally of Gurugram has reached to 106. Of this, 54 are active cases. On Wednesday, the Gurugram administration had detected 17 cases. Of this, 10 are vegetable wholesalers. They have shops in Khandsa Anaj Mandi, here, and Azadpur wholesale market connection.In the mandi, 19 wholesalers have tested Covid-19 positive after they visited the Azadpur market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/a-couple-tests-covid-19-positive-gurugram-society-sealed/story-YrbXM0oMdTcml6liyqTOFP.html
08-05-2020||Bangalore||Hundreds of migrant workers demand to be sent back home immediately in Mangaluru||Hundreds of migrant labourers thronged the Railway station here on Friday after learning that the Karnataka governnment would be operating special trains to their home states and demanded that they be immediately sent back, police said.The workers, mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand,stayed put at the station and refused to disperse, despite appeals by police, who rushed to the spot, to leave.Police quoted the migrants as saying that they were stuck in the city without jobs, money and adequate food and that they were even willing to walk to their home states if the special trains were not operated immediately.On Thursday, the Karnataka government decided to deploy special trains from May 8 to send back the workers to their homes and sought approval of nine states for the process.They were informed that Karnataka intended to run two trains a day to these states till May 15 for ferrying the thousands of migrant workers, stranded in the city and other districts due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The fresh move came two days after the government withdrew its request to the railways to run special trains for the migrants within hours of making it on Tuesday.Eight special trains had ferried migrant labourers to their home states from the Bengaluru division before the cancellation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/hundreds-of-migrant-workers-demand-to-be-sent-back-home-immediately-in-mangaluru/story-3ZvtqVsERlUIu4E8w64UBP.html
08-05-2020||Kolkata||Social stigma, low testing behind WB’s high Covid-19 mortality rate: Report||Social stigma and low testing are the key reasons for the high mortality rate among Covid-19 patients in West Bengal, where the disease, like elsewhere in the country, is still an urban phenomenon, experts say.The state’s TMC government has been drawing consistent criticism from the Centre and opposition parties over the way it has tackled the pandemic, and has been accused of under- reporting data about the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths.As of May 7, the state has reported 1,548 Covid-19 cases and 151 deaths of people infected with the deadly virus.However, the state’s public health authorities have attributed only 79 fatalities to the contagion and the rest to concurrent illnesses called comorbidities in medical jargon.The centre recently rapped the state government over its Covid-19 management which, it said, was characterised by a very low rate of testing in proportion to the population, and a very high rate of mortality of 13.2 per cent, the highest in the country.West Bengal, which had tested just about 4,400 samples by April 18 at a rate of 400 samples per day, is now testing more than 2,500 samples a day. The aggregate now stands at more than 30,000, according to state officials.Experts in the field say given the fact that most cases were reported from Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, the disease is still an urban phenomenon” but will spread to rural areas also sooner or later.According to public health experts and medical practitioners in the frontline of the fight against the disease, not just the low number of tests but the social stigma and ostracism faced by patients and their families are acting as a deterrent to effective tackling of the pandemic.Social stigma is a major issue in identifying a Covid patient. Since the spurt in the number of cases, people have stopped coming to hospital fearing social stigma and public shaming in their locality and instead prefer to stay home. And when they do turn up, its too late, professor and senior surgeon at SSKM hospital Diptendra Sarkar told PTI.“The stigma associated with this disease needs to be addressed so that more people come forward for tests, he said.Manas Gumta, a senior surgeon and general secretary of Association of Health Service Doctors, shared Sarkar’s view and said it is the responsibility of the state government to chalk out a roadmap to remove the social slur associated with the disease.“The government needs to engage social groups and NGOs to address the problem of social stigma. It is indeed a reason behind fewer people coming forward for tests,” he said.Gumta said the number of tests being performed now are still less than what has been recommended by ICMR. The numbers need to be increased substantially and also the testing facilities, he said.While decoding the arithmetic behind the higher mortality rate, he said the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients in most countries was 2-3 per cent, but in Bengal it was so high due to fewer tests being conducted since the onset of the disease.For example, if you test 20 people and 10 are found positive while two of those who test positive pass away then your mortality rate is 20 per cent. But, if you test 50 people and 40 are found positive and two of them die, your mortality rate is 5 per cent.“So the answer to decreasing the mortality rate lies in conducting more tests, random tests of asymptomatic patients and ramping up life support infrastructure at hospitals, he said.West Bengal, despite the increase in the number of tests, lags far behind states like Maharashtra and Gujarat where the number of tests has crossed two lakh and one lakh respectively.In most of the death cases, the patients arrived when it was too late. But if intensive and critical care facilities can be ramped up, many lives can be saved. We are a bit late but we are trying to catch up with other states in terms of testing and treatment, said another senior doctor of a Covid hospital who did not wish to be named.West Bengal Home Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay had recently attributed the low tests and high mortality rate to initial lack of testing laboratories. Only one Covid-19 testing laboratory was functioning in the initial days of the outbreak of the disease.Today, we have 16 testing laboratories and a few others are in the pipeline. The more testing you do, the more people you treat and then the mortality rate will also be low.“The mortality rate appeared high not because Bengal was failing but because (adequate) infrastructural facilities were not present, Bandopadhyay said.The West Bengal government had alleged last month that the Covid-19 testing kits supplied by the Centre were far less in number as compared to other states and many were defective.Meanwhile, some experts feel that though the disease has so far been limited to urban areas, it will spread to rural Bengal in the coming months.It is true that the contagion is still an urban phenomenon but in months to come it will spread to other rural areas. In urban areas, the intensity of the spread is high because of high population density which is not the case in rural areas, senior doctor and internal medicine specialist Rahul Jain said.Out of the 23 districts of the state seven predominantly rural districts have not reported a single Covid-19 case so far, according to state government data.At least 80 per cent of the cases have been reported from the four red zones districts of Howrah, North 24 Parganas, East Medinipur and Kolkata, with the state capital having the highest number of containment zones and cases.South 24 Parganas and Hooghly districts have also reported quite a few cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/social-stigma-low-testing-behind-wb-s-high-covid-19-mortality-rate-report/story-VGGBAEy2IXueEplUxOGX3N.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Number of Covid-19 cases cross 3,000-mark in UP, Agra tally reaches 678||The number of Covid-19 positive patients in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 3000-mark on Friday with 73 fresh cases and two more deaths.According to Union Health Ministry update at 8 am, the number of positive cases in the state is 3,071 and the death toll stands at 62.Agra continues to be one of the hardest hit cities in the state with the total number of Covid-19 cases reaching 678. State health officials said that 11 more positive cases surfaced in Agra on Thursday.At least 20 people have died due to the disease in the city so far, officials said.A newspaper journalist was among two people who died due to the Covid-19 in Agra on Thursday, they added. The other patient was a woman from Sikandra; both were under treatment at the SN Medical college, according to the District Magistrate’s office as reported by news agency PTI.According to a health department bulletin, 67 of the 75 districts in the state have detected a total of 3,071 patients, of which 1,250 recovered, while 1,759 are undergoing treatment.On Thursday, Kanpur Nagar and Meerut reported one death each, it said.Males account for 75.16 per cent of the total coronavirus patients in UP, PTI reported a health official as saying.Principal Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said Uttar Pradesh ranks second in testing COVID-19 samples in the country.On Wednesday, over 1 lakh samples were tested in private and government labs in the state. The number of ventilators has also increased to 1,300, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/number-of-covid-19-cases-cross-3-000-mark-in-up-agra-tally-reaches-678/story-0xt81chVALG6KWj3ILQNqM.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||10 automatic weapons, 150 cartridges seized in Sultanpur Lodhi, six booked||Ten automatic weapons and 150 cartridges were seized in Sultanpur Lodhi, police said on Friday. Police have booked six people in the case. The accused are Baljinder Singh of Gurdaspur, Sukhwinder Singh of Amritsar, Lovepreet Singh of Mothawal village, Mohit Sharma of Sultanpur Lodhi, Mangal Singh of Saropwal village and Maninder Singh of Bharoya village.A joint operation was carried out by the Kapurthala police and the organised crime control unit (OCCU) on Thursday night. The team was led by additional inspector general (AIG) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh and OCCU deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Bikramjit Singh. Police said the gang’s kingpin had links across the border and was conspiring to disturb the law and order in the state. A case under Sections 384 (extortion), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 473 (forgery and counterfeiting), 489 (tampering with property mark with intent to cause injury) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and Arms Act was registered against the accused at Sultanpur Lodhi police station.Kapurthala Senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said that accused had committed robberies and were running an extortion business. “They have oversees links and had the latest weapons,” he said. It is unclear how many people were arrested in the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/10-automatic-weapons-150-cartridges-seized-in-sultanpur-lodhi-six-booked/story-eYqyDUxjaZsgUMydOXBqQL.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: 13 fresh cases in Gurugram, taking total tally to 117||The Gurugram administration has been shaken up after detecting corona positive patients in double digits for the second consecutive day. On Thursday, the district administration found 13 patients infected with coronavirus. On Wednesday, it had detected 17 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe situation is alarming here with 65 cases reported a week ago and now the tally has zoomed up to 117 on Thursday.J.S. Punia, civil surgeon of Gurugram said: “5 cases reported in one family resides in Jyoti Park area in old city. Besides, district administration has also sealed an upscale condominium called Vipul Belmonte complex at sector 53 on Golf Course road after two senior citizens found positive for Covid-19. 2 other infected persons belong to Rajiv Nagar, two from Acharyapuri near sector 12, and one each from Rajendra Park and civil hospital.”The affected areas were sealed by Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and health officials have initiated the sanitation works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-13-fresh-cases-in-gurugram-taking-total-tally-to-117/story-5qxq4EzGy20FcKuYWT1zcN.html
08-05-2020||Gurugram||Teenager’s father demands probe into his son’s suicide||The parents of 17 year old teenager who committed suicide in Gurugram’s upscale condominium, has moved application before Gurugram police seeking thorough investigation in the matter that applied huge pressure to commit suicide.The teenager had jumped from the balcony of his flat located at 11th floor of Carlton estate residential complex on May 4. The deceased was suspected to be a member of Bois Locker room, a controversy on Instagram’s group.His father has levelled allegations against group admin and a girl of an Instagram account wherein his son was also a member. He also alleged that there are no preventive tools in Instagram to prevent objectionable messages and videos.“My son was shy of riding bicycle then how could he post objectionable messages? He was purportedly framed by others members of Instagram group. A girl had levelled false allegations against him and he was trolled by several others with huge amount of messages. He probably unable to deal with them and went under depression,” the deceased’s father said.“As per my knowledge, anyone who is more than 13 years old can open an account on Instagram. I want to put this in prospective as they are not mature enough to understand its consequences. I have lost my child but I am raising this point to save lives of others and their parents would not face such a trauma that we are undergoing after losing my child,” he said.Subhash Bokan, the PRO of Gurugram police said: “We have received the complaint from his parents and investigation is underway with all angles. Further action will be taken after the findings of cyber experts and forensic science experts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/teenager-s-father-demands-probe-into-his-son-s-suicide/story-zz9NMAbqU8nWfetZai1JqJ.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Death of migrants in train accident heart-wrenching: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday termed the death of 16 migrant workers in the Aurangabad train accident as heart-wrenching and said the Centre must work closely in unison with state governments to ensure labourers reach their homes safely.His party colleagues, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, also expressed shock over the deaths of migrant workers in the train accident which took place in the early hours of Friday near Karmad in Aurangabad district.These workers, hailing from Madhya Pradesh, were walking to their villages and slept off on the rail tracks out of exhaustion when they were run over by a goods train, an official said.He said all of them were employed in a steel manufacturing plant in Jalna, a district adjoining Aurangabad in central Maharashtra.Pawar said the issue of migrants walking back to their native places must be looked into seriously and all necessary steps be taken for their safe journeys.News of migrants losing their lives in the Aurangabad railway accident is heart-wrenching. Issue of migrants walking on foot to go back to their hometowns must be looked into seriously and all necessary steps must be taken for their safe travel, Pawar tweeted.Central Government must work closely in unison with the state governments to ensure that these migrants reach their homes safely. My Condolences to families of the deceased, may their souls rest in peace, he added.The former Union minister said contractors/employers should take care of workers from the unorganised sector if the latter are leaving towns fearing loss of jobs.The state governments too should form flying squads to take care of their (workers) needs consistently. The Centre and state governments should come together and solve the problem immediately, he said on the micro-blogging site.Deshmukh, in his message, said the entire state is part of the grief of the kin of the deceased workers.The accidental deaths of 16 workers, who worked in Jalna, in Aurangabad at dawn on Friday is quite shocking for the entire Maharashtra.Entire Maharashtra is part of the grief of the family of the workers. Prayers to God for giving peace to the souls of the deceased and courage to their kin, Deshmukh tweeted.Water Resources Minister Patil said the news of the tragedy has left him numb.Worker brothers, the government is making all efforts (to help you) reach your villages. Please do not travel risking your lives, Patil urged on Twitter.NCP MP Supriya Sule also expressed grief over the accident.Deeply Saddened to hear about the demise of 16 Migrant workers in Aurangabad early this morning in a Train Accident. My Heartfelt Condolences, the Parliamentarian said on the micro-blogging site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/death-of-migrants-in-train-accident-heart-wrenching-sharad-pawar/story-7LjZ1dxCm7WBTQeeF4fB5K.html
08-05-2020||Noida||Hospital staff protests outside Red Zone residential society amid blame-game on Covid-19 infection||Some staff members of a private hospital in Noida protested outside a residential society, whose residents have accused them of risking people with coronavirus as its two health care workers tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Over three dozen staffers of the Felix Hospital in Sector 137 protested in the evening outside the Ajnara Daffodil, where a 41-year-old female resident was detected with the novel coronavirus infection on May 5, according to an official report.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA representative of the society, however, said it was “not desirable” for health care workers to assemble in that manner knowing well that the sector is a containment zone and the matter could have been resolved amicably.D K Gupta, a doctor and chairman of Felix Hospital, said two of his staff members tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday and one of them, a nurse, had come in contact with the female patient in the residential society on April 27.  “The nurse had gone to the society to attend to a third-stage cancer patient because of an emergency. That patient had earlier been travelling to Delhi for treatment. Now some residents of the society are blaming the nurse and our hospital of being carriers of the infection, when actually the nurse got infected from the patient,” Gupta told PTI.“After the Ajnara Daffodil resident was found positive for coronavirus, our nurse was also tracked through contact tracing and other people who had come in her contact, including our staff, were quarantined and then tested. Now two of them have been found positive for coronavirus,” he said.The doctor said his hospital was now mulling filing a complaint with the police over some residents of the society falsely claiming that 80 per cent of his staff was infected with the novel virus.“We have a staff of more than 300 people at Felix Hospital and claiming that 80 per cent of them are infected with Covid-19 is just not correct. They are putting it out on social media and everywhere. We will file a police complaint against them,” Gupta said.D P Juyal, President of the Apartment Owners’ Association of Ajnara Daffodil, said the protest gathering was dispersed by the police soon.“Who infected whom is a matter on which more clarity is needed and is controversial. However, assembling in a crowd like this and raising slogans is not desirable at a time like this because this sector is in a containment zone already and it adds to the risk,” he told PTI.“Today two of the hospital staff have been found infected with the virus and you cannot stop anyone from raising concern over the safety of the people. The hospital officials could have called us and the matter could have been solved amicably over a dialogue,” Juyal added.Meanwhile, the society remains sealed with in and out movement restricted in view of the coronavirus case there.Notably, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday approved the UP Public Health and Epidemic Disease Control Ordinance, 2020, which protect ‘corona warriors’ (frontline workers against Covid-19) such as doctors, paramedical staff, sanitary workers, and police personnel by making actions against them as punishable acts.Those misbehaving with healthcare workers, paramedical staff, police personnel or sanitation workers in Noida and Greater Noida may land in jail for up to seven years along with having to cough out a fine up to Rs 5 lakh, according to the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/hospital-staff-protests-outside-red-zone-residential-society-amid-blame-game-on-covid-19-infection/story-PTu3hjPR8T5IAYVefWM7zH.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Bahraich villagers team up for food security on a rainy day||Faced with the influx of jobless migrants returning home and the fear that the government and NGOs may stop assistance once the pandemic subsides and the lockdown ends, villagers in Bahraich have devised their own survival strategy. They have formed grain banks (which run without any government intervention) to help sustain the needy on a rainy day.Dwarika Prasad, 45, of Kailashnagar village in Bahraich district has donated 20 kg wheat out of the total harvest of over one quintal from his one bigha landholding to the village grain bank.He and several other villagers of more than five dozen villages of the district have been contributing regularly to the grain bank (anaj bank) set up in each village to help the poor and needy, specially post the Covid lockdown, as villagers think assistance may not come their way then.When the government imposed the lockdown, a number of migrant workers returned to their villages, feeling they would at least get two meals a day.“We saw our people coming back with a sense of insecurity and fear, whether or not they would be able to go back and start life again. They were happy that they were with their family now,” said Geeta Prasad of Kailash Nagar, also a member of the anaj bank of his village.He said the question of their livelihood prodded him and several others to thrash out a solution that could provide relief in the grey days. “The government is taking care of the basic need of food right now but once the lockdown is over, the government will stop the assistance. What will the poor families do then? A month later the monsoon will arrive and no one will be able to harvest crops or get any work anywhere easily. Post the lockdown, the situation may become grimmer,” said Prasad, adding, “We had to think about the future.” An NGO Dehat, which is active in Bahraich, came up with the idea of anaj bank. “When we came to know about their worries, we suggested running it like a bank. Food will be given to a needy person and he will be asked to donate the grain back during winter crop harvesting,” said coordinator of Dehat Jitendra Chaturvedi. He said committees had been formed in 61 villages of the district and around 106 quintals of wheat had been deposited in the bank.Pawan Yadav of Chalwa village said, “Initially villagers did not buy this idea but gradually they understood the concept. We are reaching out to farmers who can afford to donate 10 kg of wheat from their farm. Every village has a committee and every donation is accounted for.”“During rainy days, we have planned to give the grain from our bank to the needy, with an optional rider that he or she would return the same amount of paddy in the winter. We won’t force them to return it but this is an effort to keep this bank alive. Village committee will take a final call on the waiver,” said Karan Kumar Upadhyay of Jamaniya village of Bahraich.Phulwa, a 59-year-old woman of Lohara village said, “My son worked in Delhi as a daily wager but now he is back with his family.” The woman who has a small landholding of almost a bigha, said, “The monsoon will arrive next month and floods will hit the village. Our landholding is small and that too without any produce. So the anaj bank is a great help to me and several other families like us.”The land will remain unused, especially in villages which are usually hit by floods in the rainy season. “They will sow paddy and harvest it in December and January,” said Devesh Awasthi, a local youth activist.He said, “All the NGOs and government agencies are providing all kinds of help these days but it won’t last long.Many people do not have land; some have empty land due to other reasons. What will they do after the government stops assisting and social organizations also stop their activities?”Village head of Kailash Nagar Ramesh Kumar said, “Villagers are excited about the grain bank and those in need have high hopes. Actually this is a transparent model. Those who donate grain can actually see where the grain has been used. There is no interference of the government. This is an effort of the villagers for the villagers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bahraich-villagers-team-up-for-food-security-on-a-rainy-day/story-IFCKKLXNCIsGs3jx1WyoIK.html
08-05-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM announces Rs 5 lakh aid for kin of labourers killed in Maharashtra||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday condoled the death of 14 migrant workers from the state in a train accident in Maharashtra and announced a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to their families.At least 14 migrant labourers from Madhya Pradesh, who were sleeping on rail tracks, were mowed down by a goods train near Karmad station in Aurangabad district in Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday.Two other labourers were injured in the accident.“I have spoken to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and demanded a probe into the accident besides aid to their families,” Chouhan said and announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased labourers.A team of officials will be dispatched to Aurangabad to take care of the injured migrants and make necessary arrangements for their treatment, he said.“I am also in touch with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to get updates about the treatment and other arrangement being made for them,” he said.The migrant workers were walking along the rail tracks to reach Bhusawal from Jalna, 40km from Karmad, on way to their villages in Madhya Pradesh. They slept off on the tracks due to exhaustion, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-announces-rs-5-lakh-aid-for-kin-of-labourers-killed-in-maharashtra/story-3bmyLh7JJqHzR4pfhV7LwK.html
08-05-2020||Football||Korea kicks-off with baseball and football, world watches||Having earned global acclaim for containing Covid-19 and conducting elections in the time of a pandemic, South Korea has again got the world looking towards it. The east Asian country started its baseball season on Tuesday and will kick-off K-League, its top football competition, on Friday. “Because it is South Korea, fewer eyebrows will be raised,” said India captain Sunil Chhetri. At the beginning of the coronavirus crisis, South Korea was one of the worst affected countries behind China, the epicentre. But with some of the most aggressive testing and contact tracing done anywhere in the world, they also quickly became the model of how to fight the pandemic. “The start of K-league is definitely encouraging news for everyone in Asia,” said India head coach Igor Stimac from Split, Croatia. “But let’s be patient and see how things settle down in other countries. We all miss the games and our normal routine. But rushing back too soon might cause greater damage.”Some of the things shown in the K-League promotional video clip won’t happen—like players throwing shirts to the crowd. There won’t be a crowd, at least now. Celebrations too are unlikely to see hugs, huddles and players in a heap. But when Jeonbuk FC take on Suwon Bluewings on Friday, the world of sport will hope it is the first step in a restoration act.“If I can, I will watch them,” said Spanish footballer Jaime Gavilan, who played for Bluewings in 2016-17. Having recently been permitted to step outside for a run, Gavilan, 34, said life in Madrid now is “comme ci comme ca (so-so)”. “But they (South Korea) make things better than here. That is why they can start the league, one of the most important in Asia.” Gavilan also played for ATK in the ISL, and now plays in the Spanish second division.South Korea will be the first country that played in the 2018 World Cup to start football. And it has spiked interest in a planet starved of live sport. From struggling to get a new broadcaster at the start of the season, K-League 1 and 2 now has a lead broadcaster and two more for the domestic audience and has sold rights to 17 countries, China, Hong Kong and Croatia among them. Negotiations are on with at least four more, according to a report on Friday by the K-League. On-line football platforms from Singapore, Holland and Britain too have acquired video licenses.“We hope fans will forget about the virus when they watch the K-League,” K-League president Kwon Oh-gap told The Guardian.Football federations of different countries have asked K-League how they can resume playing, he said, days before news broke that Bundesliga could resume later this month, the Super Lig in Turkey would restart on June 12 and that players in La Liga and Serie A have begun training.To start the season, K-League paid for testing players and staff — all 1100 of them. The league president said the go-ahead was contingent upon South Korea being able to keep the number of patients to below 30 for two weeks. There have been 13 new cases over the past three days in the country, all of them international passengers, according to a AFP report on Thursday. South Korea has reported 256 deaths due to Covid-19, according to worldometers.info. K-League coaches will wear masks, there will be no handshakes and if anyone returns a positive test, the team won’t play for at least a fortnight. Players will be allowed to drink only from bottles with their names on them. They will be warned for talking, spitting on the pitch and blowing their nose.“That will give another layer of protection,” said Chhetri, locked down in Bengaluru and recovering from surgery. “Let’s say someone who is positive slips through despite the best effort. To protect the rest, they won’t be allowed to talk when they are close to a player. It will be difficult to ensure this but these are not normal times. I am also sure physical distancing requirements will make the shower area different.”Chhetri said he would be, “very apprehensive and a little happy” if he had to play now. “Apprehensive because of the way it spreads and worried that everyone involved in a game, right down to the ball kids, could be carrying the virus. When we start, we will have to think about all these things. Eventually this day will come for every country. When a vaccine is out things will be different.”Five-time Olympic rowing champion Steve Redgrave has questioned the idea of playing without fans, saying it is motivated by business. For example, not resuming the Premier League in England could mean a deficit of 1 billion pounds, the league has said. “I genuinely don’t feel people are thinking clearly about the ramifications if we don’t play…it’s partly about money. And we should all care about the money,” said Crystal Palace chairman Steve Parish in an AP report. In his interview in The Guardian, Redgrave has said, “the object of sport is to bring people together, and inspire them.” But till a vaccine comes along, Chhetri said, playing behind closed doors will be the new normal. “I don’t see how we will be back to packed stadiums before that.”Players will find empty stadiums a strange experience, said Gavilan. In 2015 when he was at ATK, the average attendance in Kolkata for ISL games was over 50,000. The maximum for a Bluewings game in 2016-17 was around 15,000, he said.England cricketer Jos Buttler though sees crowdless venues differently. “There is no one watching you and you are playing because you love the game,” he told Lancashire Cricket.Exactly how K-League players feel will be known by the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/korea-kicks-off-with-baseball-and-football-world-watches/story-upZp5XEUnVmGdP4U49m7iO.html
08-05-2020||Education||IRIMEE to be expanded, not shifted: Railway ministry clarifies||Ministry of Railways on Thursday clarified it has no plans to shift the Indian Railways Institute for Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE), Jamalpur, to Lucknow.“Any assertions to this effect are incorrect and misleading and do not have the approval of the ministry. Indian Railways is very proud of the history and legacy of IRIMEE and there is no question of it being transferred from its present location. In fact, all efforts are to further strengthen it further,” said a statement from the ministry.Earlier, chief Minister Nitish Kumar had written to railway minister Piyush Goyal, urging him to intervene in the matter following reports of alleged shifting of IRMEE, while his minister Sanjay Jha tweeted to voice government’s concerns. As the statement came, Jha thanked the Railway minister for the clarification and said “the Bihar Govt is committed to extend its finest cooperation to ensure the institution further flourishes”.The Railway ministry statement said there was plan to enlarge the activities of IRIMEE to also impart educational programs in transportation technology and management. “Several additional educational programs starting with one-year diploma courses at Jamalpur are planned to be introduced for which curriculum development and design is underway,” it said.The training of mechanical engineers for the railways started at IRMEE in 1927 and presently it conducts training courses for in-service officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/irimee-to-be-expanded-not-shifted-railway-ministry-clarifies/story-Aou0qenjKcVCClbp93sX3N.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Assist on PIL seeking ban on liquor sale from shops: Alld HC to govt||The Allahabad high court on Thursday directed the state government counsel to seek instructions from the state government with regard to a PIL petition seeking ban on sale of liquor from shops and starting of online booking and home delivery of liquor instead on the ground that social distancing was not being maintained at shops.As per the guidelines of central and state governments, adhering to social distancing was mandatory at all places to check spread of Covid-19. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by one Sunil Choudhary, a social activist, a division bench of chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma directed to list this matter on May 12.In the petition, the court has also been requested to direct the state government to start online booking of liquors and its home delivery. In the PIL, the petitioner stated that he is not against the policy of the government to permit sale of liquor but what disturbed him was the violation of social distancing norms throughout the country. In this backdrop, the petitioner requested the court to direct stopping of sale of liquors from shops. He said he also annexed some photos with his PIL petition showing clear violation of social distancing while purchasing of liquor from the shops opened recently by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/assist-on-pil-seeking-ban-on-liquor-sale-from-shops-alld-hc-to-govt/story-aIxbY6TBXdjTh95NWHyCCK.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt not providing list of migrants: Cong||The Congress on Thursday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of not providing the list of migrant workers, who have returned back to the state, so that the party could pay the rail fare charged from them while returning to their homes from different parts of the country.Addressing media persons through video conferencing, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra said their party wanted to pay migrant labourers the rail fare charged from them and had requested the government to provide a list of such labourers who had returned from other states. However, there was no response from the state government, they alleged.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a tweet posted two letters sent by her party’s Rae Bareli and Amethi district unit presidents asking their respective district administration to provide a list of migrant labourers. She also posted two mobile numbers urging residents of the two cities to provide a photocopy of their rail ticket to enable the party pay them the rail fare. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi has announced that party is ready to pay the rail fare to every migrant labourer. Migrant labourers have been left alone in the country’s fight against Covid-19,” said Lallu and Mishra.They said charging rail fare from the migrants was a shameful act and alleged that the state government also did not provide permission to their party workers to make arrangements for providing refreshments to migrant labourers on their way back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-not-providing-list-of-migrants-cong/story-kUPeqC9MbtikZOpvjONRfP.html
08-05-2020||Noida||Social distancing norms flouted in Noida’s Sector 88 vegetable market||After social distancing norms were found being flouted at a vegetable market in Noida’s Sector 88 on Friday early morning, the market committee has stepped up to control the crowd.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have controlled the crowd to some extent but with the extension of lockdown all labourers working in industries started working here, those earning somewhere else have also come here,” Santosh, Secretary, Market Committee, Noida.He also said that about 5000-6000 masks and hand gloves have been distributed till now.“We’ll issue 100-150 passes from tomorrow, only those cart pullers will be allowed entry into the market,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/social-distancing-norms-flouted-in-noida-s-sector-88-vegetable-market/story-9YDKrDwFBAwWciiUQ99ZoO.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Couple, teen daughter found murdered in Prayagraj, CM for prompt action||A couple and their daughter were found murdered in Andhi village under Manda police station in the district on Thursday morning. Taking serious note of the incident and also expressing his displeasure over it, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked all senior officials to visit the site and ensure immediate action against the perpetrators of the heinous crime.The deceased had been identified as Nandlal Yadav, 55, his wife Chabila Devi, 48, and their daughter Raj Dulari, 16.Police officials along with the dog squad and forensic team rushed to the murder site and started investigating the incident. It seemed that all three were killed in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Police said prime facie it appeared that they had been killed with a sharp-edged weaponSP trans-Yamuna Deependranath Chaudhary said Nandlal, his wife and daughter used to sleep at their house, close to the fields while other members of the family lived in their old residence in the village. Body of Nandlal was found in the fields close to their residence while the body of Chhabila Devi was in the courtyard. Raj Dulari’s body was found inside the room of the house. Nandlal’s son Ram Bahadur came to call them in the morning and spotted the bodies. Following this, he raised an alarm and other villagers also came. Bodies had multiple injury marks inflicted with some sharp edged weapon. Preliminary investigations revealed that Chhabila Devi had a scuffle with another woman in the family two days back. Police said other members of the family were being questioned further and all angles including that of any property related dispute were being investigated. Bodies had been sent for autopsy. Later on complaint of Ram Bahadur, an FIR against unidentified persons was registered by the police.Meanwhile, a member of the family also alleged sexual assault on one of the women, claiming that clothes on her body were found disturbed. Police said that they were waiting for postmortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/couple-teen-daughter-found-murdered-in-prayagraj-cm-for-prompt-action/story-Q5m80hFjYMfsIhzwDSbH3O.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||FIR against Moradabad firm for supply of poor quality ration in Lucknow||The Lucknow district administration lodged an FIR against a Moradabad-based firm for supplying poor quality ration during the lockdown, on Wednesday night. The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 188 for disobeying government order, 420 for fraud, as well as section 51 of Epidemic Act.A senior district administration official said so far one FIR is registered with Qaiserbagh police station in connection with poor quality of ration meant for supplying to the public during the lockdown. He said that the rations kits were supplied in different areas under four tehsils of Lucknow district— Sadar, Sarojininagar, Mohanlalganj and Bakshi Ka Talab (BKT).“So far, one FIR has been registered for poor quality of ration kits in the entire district but we are consulting legal experts, and if required, three more FIRs will be filed in Sarojininagar, Mohanlalganj and BKT police stations,” he said.He said that the FIR registered with Qaiserbagh police station is against the authorities of the firm— Shakti Bhog Products, Moradabad. He said that the FIR was registered after the district authorities found that the quality of Dal, Atta and rice supplied in the ration kit was not of good quality. He said that the firm was given the supply contract on the assurance of supply of proper quality products. He said the distribution of poor quality ration kits was immediately stopped and alternative arrangements are being made. He said that the firm also violated other norms mentioned while allotting the contract for supply of ration products.He said that the contract of ration supply was allotted to the Moradabad firm through e-tendering after they agreed to supply the required material at the cost of 630 per kit. He said the official of Epidemic Cell Kuldeep Jaiswal has lodged an FIR in this connection on the direction of district magistrate Abhishek Prakash.Additional DCP West Vikas Chandra Tripathi said a sub-inspector Tehsildar Verma of Qaiserbagh police station has been made the investigation officer of the case and asked to complete the probe on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/fir-against-moradabad-firm-for-supply-of-poor-quality-ration-in-lucknow/story-oV24aAKwVZrb5titkfQuSN.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Migrants face discrimination at home as villagers fear corona spread||Police had to be called in after villagers in Siddharthnagar’s Mahua village objected to the entry of migrants who returned home in trucks from Mumbai with some of them even clashing with migrants and calling them ‘corona carriers.’ Mahua village head Narsingh informed the police as the villagers refused to budge from their stand that the migrants from Mumbai be quarantined for 14 days before being allowed to visit their homes in the village.The village head said people were scared after 10 migrants who arrived in nearby Naugarh and Bansi villages had tested positive during their period in quarantine and had to be admitted in nearby Munderwa hospital. The police however pacified the angry villagers of Mahua village by telling them that all the migrants were subjected to thermal scanning and showed no symptoms of having contracted the infectious coronavirus. “These migrants would be quarantined in their homes in the village,” the police said. These aren’t isolated incidents. Nearly 3000 migrant workers who returned to Gorakhpur from Mumbai and Surat by ‘Shramik Special’ trains run specifically to fetch the migrants were subjected to discrimination at times from their own family and some of them also reported instances of misbehavior. Mohammad Ilyas, 33, who worked in dye making factory in Maharashtra returned home by Shramik Express on May 4. After undergoing thermal screening and filling up details in prescribed form at the railway station he travelled on foot to his home in Gorakhnath where he was denied entry by his wife Shabana who called up the local corporator to get her husband screened for coronavirus infection. Ilyas had to wait for hours outside and was allowed entry only after a team of doctors checked and cleared that he was free him of any infection. In Qazipur Khurd village under Sahjanwa block of Gorakhpur, from where three positive cases have been reported so far, over 15 migrants have been quarantined. Their quarantine period would be over between May 8 to 12 and a group of villagers are keeping watch on them to ensure they complete their period in quarantine. “Armed with sticks, 5-6 men keep eye on the quarantine center (primary school) and if any one attempts to come out and roam outside the quarantine centre, these villagers chase them back,” the villagers said. “The fear has gone up and so is the level of alertness. Villagers have blocked entry of outsiders to the village. If any outsider is spotted, the villagers inform the police,” Maneesh Yadav of Rampur village in Sant Kabir Nagar said. Rafat Hussain, the village head of Ramgarh village of Sidhdharthanagar, however said that in his village some migrants were allowed to directly visit their homes. “In our village 15 migrants arrived on May 4 from Maharashtra and were sent home directly after thermal screening and advised home quarantine. However many of them aren’t following the advisory and have started roaming around. I have already appealed to them to follow the guidelines on home quarantine but what can I do if they don’t listen,” Hussain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/migrants-face-discrimination-at-home-as-villagers-fear-corona-spread/story-w3fb1wUg44EHi50hTwroFL.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Now, Akhara Parishad urges CM to reopen temples in Uttar Pradesh||Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex decision making body of the 13 recognised monastic orders of the country has decided to write to the prime minister, home minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to allow reopening of temples in the state. The decision was taken after Kashi Vidvat Parishad urged chief minister Yogi Adityanath to reopen the state temples for devotees. “If the center can decide to open liquor shops, what’s wrong in the opening of temples if we follow the concept of social distancing? At least it will allow devotees to offer prayers to almighty to help the nation overcome the present crisis,” said president of ABAP, Mahant Narendra Giri.In the presence of chief patron of Juna Akhara, Mahant Hari Giri, ABAP president said that on behalf of parishad chief they would soon send letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard. Juna Akhara is the largest of the 13 akhara’s of the country with PAN India presence.Giri said that it has been almost two months since the temples have been closed due to the corona crisis. “The temple management is finding it hard to pay the salaries of the priests and other staff members who look after the temple, as the temples are closed for almost two months now,” said Giri.He said that if temples are allowed to open, the management, saints and even devotees would ensure that all safety protocols, including sanitisation and social distancing, are followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-akhara-parishad-urges-cm-to-reopen-temples-in-uttar-pradesh/story-IiDBOe2Q5QkaZvG27dY4CP.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown 3.0: Maharashtra seals borders with neighbouring states to curb liquor smuggling||In an attempt to prevent smuggling of liquor from neighbouring states during the lockdown, Maharashtra has sealed its borders with them and deployed adequate manpower at a dozen checkposts, an official said on Friday.The move by the excise department has come in the wake of lifting of certain coronavirus-induced curbs, which included allowing reopening of liquor shops.As the demand for alcohol has increased in Maharashtra, there is a possibility of liquor smuggling by inter-state organised syndicates, the official said.Considering the threat from such syndicates, the excise department has deployed its flying squads and vigilance teams in districts located along the borders with neighbouring states, he said.To avoid any smuggling activity during this period, we have increased our vigil on 12 checkposts and sealed borders with adjoining states,” he said.This will help in curbing illegal transportation of liquor or spirit, the official said.With the help of local police, the excise department has initiated action against persons involved in smuggling and transportation of liquor, he said.Since the lockdown came into force in late March, at least 4,829 offences have been registered for illegal liquor transportation and 438 vehicles seized, he said.Besides, at least 2,104 persons have been arrested so far in such cases, the official said, adding liquor and other material worth Rs 12.63 crore have been seized since the shutdown.The excise department has started a control room, where people can provide information related to illegal manufacturing or sale of liquor, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-3-0-maharashtra-seals-borders-with-neighbouring-states-to-curb-liquor-smuggling/story-MTGTLXm2Mz7G46HkM6rncM.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bitten by snake, 14-year-old girl dies in Shimla||A 14-year-old girl, who was bitten by a snake, died in Nankhari on Thursday.The victim, a resident of Kofardhar, was in the fields when she was bitten. She was immediately rushed to the Community Health Centre, Nankhari, where she died during treatment.The body was handed over to her relatives after conducting postmortem.Rampur Bushahr deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Abhimanyu Verma confirmed the report and said inquest proceedings had been initiated case under section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bitten-by-snake-14-year-old-girl-dies-in-shimla/story-sPIjozWy1OKsjOYMgDkzsM.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||From 250 to 400: Covid testing lab to increase capacity at SRN Hospital||With number of samples for Covid-19 confirmatory test rising, the newly set up lab at the SRN Hospital is all set to add more equipment to tackle the rush, said officials.The additional equipment will help the lab undertake 400 tests a day instead of 225 to 250 that it conducts per day at present, they added.This would be helpful as now samples from additional three districts, Bhadohi, Sonbhadra and Mirzapur, are also arriving at the lab.Earlier, the lab was catering to the samples from Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Chitrakoot.The dedicated lab embellished with requisite equipment and protection standards set up at MLN Medical College’s Microbiology department after receiving the mandatory go ahead from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) became functional on April 10.Till then all samples of COVID-19 suspected patients after collection were being sent to the labs at King George Medical University in the state capital and at Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University. This meant that no matter how quickly the tests gets conducted, it took one to two days at least for the results to arrive in the hands of the treating doctors and health department officials. While in the beginning it was receiving mere 50-odd samples for testing from Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Chitrakoot districts, soon the number of samples rose and it also started receiving samples from three additional districts of Bhadohi, Sonbhadra and Mirzapur. “We have increased the number of equipment in the lab that will enable us to increase the number of tests as well. Presently we are carrying out tests of up to 20 samples a day but within a day or two, this capacity will rise to 400 tests a day,” said Dr SP Singh, principal, MLN Medical College.The lab has a Biosafety level (BSL)-2 and BSL-3 units. BSL–2 biosafety level covers laboratories that work with agents associated with human diseases (ie pathogenic or infections organisms) that pose a moderate health hazard while BSL-3 Laboratories are designated for “indigenous or exotic agents that may cause serious or potentially lethal disease through the inhalation route of exposure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/from-250-to-400-covid-testing-lab-to-increase-capacity-at-srn-hospital/story-Iqn3RK0wU26W2PMh9KMuYJ.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Now Yogi orders allotment of mining leases||A day after the state cabinet approved an increase in prices of petrol, diesel and liquor, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked his Team-11 of officers to make allotment of leases for mining of sand, coarse sand and other minor minerals to ensure a spike in the revenue of the state government.Yogi was reviewing the situation at a high level meeting here on Thursday. The state government earned only ₹45.44 crore from mining in April 2020 against the target of ₹300 crore for the month. On Wednesday, Yogi had presided over a meeting of the state cabinet that approved increase in petrol, diesel and liquor prices to generate additional revenue of ₹4229 crore in 2020-2021.On Thursday, he said a work plan to provide jobs to migrant labourers should be prepared. He said about 7 lakh migrants had already arrived and his government was committed to bring all the migrants. He said 37 trains carrying migrants had already reached the state and 20 more would arrive on Thursday. He said 25 to 30 more trains carrying migrants were expected to reach on Friday.Yogi said possibilities of jobs must be explored in MSMEs, food processing and dairy development sectors, rural job scheme (MNREGA), One District One Product (ODOP) scheme, self help groups and Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana etc. He asked for the number of jobs provided by the industrial units running in the state be compiled.Yogi said arrangements should also be made for medical screening and quarantine for those expected to return from abroad from May 8, 2020 onwards. He said lockdown should be strictly enforced and social distancing norms must be followed.The chief minister also asked for an increase in the number of quarantine centres and community/kitchens to accommodate NRIs coming back to India. He said mandis should be sanitized regularly and efforts should be made to protect medical and health teams and hospitals from any infection. He said patients should be examined before their admission to hospitals.He said resources should be continuously provided to Central Drug Research Institute, Indian Institute of Toxicology Rrearch, Birbal Sahni Institute of Paleosciences and Indian Veterinary Research Institute, where work to test Covid-19 samples had already begun. He said the state government was providing PPE kits, N-95 masks and sanitisers on subsidized rates to hospitals covered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.He also asked chief veterinary officer to go for regular inspection of cow shelter homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-yogi-orders-allotment-of-mining-leases/story-eFBUXaGvoy757xnoZD2p9J.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four, including 2-year-old girl, test positive in Himachal, count now 48||Four more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 50.The fresh cases include a 41-year-old man from Hamirpur, another from Shahpur of Kangra, a two-year-old girl from Salooni sub-division of Chamba district and a woman from Una.With this, the number of active cases in the state stand at ten, and 34 patients have recovered and were discharged.The Hamirpur patient is a resident of Bijhari in Barsar sub-division and had returned from Delhi on April 29. He developed flu-like symptoms and tested positive for Covid-19 after his samples were sent to the Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT), Palampur, additional chief secretary, health, RD Dhiman said.The patient was shifted to the Charitable Hospital at Bhota, a designated Covid-19 treatment facility in Hamirpur.The two-year-old patient had come in contact with her father, who returned from Baddi on April 30 and tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.She is being shifted to a Covid treatment facility, Dhiman said.The 25-year-old patient from Kangra, worked as a courier boy in Delhi and returned home on April 28 with two others. The fourth patient, a 30-year-old woman hailing from Amb sub-division of Una, had returned to the state two days ago with her family. They were quarantined in an institutional facility at Mehatpur inter-state border.Himachal Pradesh has seen a rise in ten cases, including a fatality, in the past five days.A youngster from Jogindernagar of Mandi district, who had returned from Delhi on April 29, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Next, a 21-year-old man from Sarkaghat in Mandi who had also travelled back from Delhi after undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment, died of the contagion at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. His mother tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday.On Wednesday, three cases, one from Kangra and two from Chamba district, were reported in the state.The Kangra patient had returned from Delhi on April 27, while those from Chamba had a travel history to Baddi.Una is the worst affected district in Himachal Pradesh with total of 17 cases followed by nine each in Solan and Chamba. Seven cases have been reported in Kangra, three in Hamirpur, two each in Sirmaur and Mandi and one in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/41-year-old-hamirpur-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-takes-himachal-corona-count-to-47/story-JYg08XAa3Z97ENYwVyFzIK.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt forms team to probe tiger’s death in PTR||The state government deputed a fact-finding team to probe into the death of a tiger at Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) even though the autopsy report confirmed the death due to traumatic injuries.Headed by principal chief conservator of forest (Project Tiger) PK Sharma forest and comprising senior IFS officer Ramesh Pandey and Kanpur zoo vet R K Singh as members, the team visited the site of the incident in Pilibhit on Wednesday and expected to submit its report within a week.“We will decide the line of action after the team submits its findings,” said principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Sunil Pandey. The five-year-old adult male tiger which had injured three villagers on Friday died 15 minutes after it was tranquillized at Jari village on Sunday evening.While forest officials claimed that the big cat died of earlier wounds, some wildlife activists suspected the death due to overdose of tranquillizers.The autopsy report by the centre for wildlife conservation, management and disease surveillance at Indian veterinary research institute (IVRI) has confirmed that the tiger’s death was caused by traumatic injuries in his thoracic cavity which caused excessive internal bleeding.The autopsy report also confirmed subcutaneous contusions and haemorrhage on the dorsum of his neck, shoulder and thoracic wall, which had superficial presence of maggots. In addition to many other internal injuries, the chambers of its heart had blood clots. The tiger’s toxicological report is awaited.“The injuries described in the autopsy clearly indicate that the tiger had been brutally beaten by humans and that the maggot wounds were at least 7-10 days old,” said B M Arora, president of Indian zoos and wildlife veterinarians.“We’ve inspected the spot and collected important information about the tiger’s death. Our focus is on finding how the tiger was victimised with brutal beating, and why PTR officials and their field force had failed to trace the injured tiger in the wild, or identify its assailants,” said PK Sharma, in-charge of the inquiry team.In response to whether the crippled tiger had overdosed on tranquillizers after two darts were injected into its body in quick succession, the officials said they will also examine the volume of tranquillizing substance used on the animal and whether it was excessive, given that it was injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-forms-team-to-probe-tiger-s-death-in-ptr/story-q3RT6H8WKLKNB16aAPnnHK.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP outperformed Europe in tackling Covid-19: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh was bigger than major Europe countries like France, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain, yet the state performed exponentially better than them in tackling Covid-19.Yogi Adityanath made this point in a seven-page letter to the leader of opposition in the state assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary (Samajwadi Party). “These countries accounted for over eight lakh positive cases and more than a lakh Covid-19 deaths, while UP had only 2,969 positive cases and 58 deaths,” the chief minister said in the letter. The chief minister’s missive was in reply to Chaudhary’s letter to him earlier this week. In that letter, the leader of opposition had alleged that state government was not doing enough to tackle Covid-19 and related issues. “The government, officers, and all the people engaged in Covid-19 containment are dedicatedly working, but instead of words of encouragement, baseless allegations do not suit the circumstances. We need to be a constructive participant in the country’s endeavour to overcome the pandemic,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-outperformed-europe-in-tackling-covid-19-yogi/story-tUxkVzI2ezxyp9o2nXfLKL.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown blues: Plans to reach Nepal shattered, quarantined few kms from home||Ramesh Thapa, 37, a chef at a restaurant in the state capital, left for his home town in Nepal on May 2 just before the third lockdown began on May 4.He planned to cross Nepalganj (Indo-Nepal border) at Rupaidiha, remote town area in Bahraich district, along with his five friends from different parts of the state. All of them had decided to meet at Rupaidiha. Bahraich is one of the transit points in Uttar Pradesh for Nepalese to return home.In April end, Thapa had planned to visit his ailing mother in Nepal but due to the lockdown, he had to change his plan. He patiently waited till May 1 at his rented accommodation in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, which he shared with four other non-Nepali migrants.But after it was clear that the lockdown will continue, he contacted his fellow Nepalese friends over the phone, who were also stuck all across Uttar Pradesh after the March 25 lockdown and decided to reach Rupaidiha and thereafter cross-over to Nepal. All of them left their respective places on May 2.Thapa managed to reach Rupaidiha hitchhiking on May 5. Two of his friends also managed to reach there. However, the three other friends could not meet them at the decided spot. But before they could cross-over to Nepal, cops spotted them and all of them were sent the Haji Mohammad Yusuf degree college at Babaganj, a makeshift shelter home. “Around 25 Nepalese are quarantined at this shelter home along with others. It has a capacity of 200 people. All of them are being looked after properly,” said Dr Archit Srivastava, in-charge, primary health centre, Charda, Rupaidiha. “There was no work left in Lucknow. All the restaurants are closed. No one knows when the situation will become normal. In the first week of March, I had sent all my savings to my family in Nepal. Now, I had no money,” Thapa said.“I had a prior plan to visit my ailing mother in April. But due to lockdown, I was stuck in Lucknow,” added Thapa.For Thapa and his friends, their journey to Nepal will resume only after the mandatory 14-day quarantine period is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-blues-plans-to-reach-nepal-shattered-quarantined-few-kms-from-home/story-48wJnOqTibBeMkXNfpkIkL.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Migrants’ return injects element of concern in Covid-19 scenario||The return of a large number of migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh from nearly a dozen states is emerging as a potential cause for concern about a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state.As the government is aware of the factor, it has put a screening and quarantine protocol in place. In all, 50,000 doctors, paramedics and associated screening staff are being mobilized to screen the incoming migrant workers.According to the data released on Thursday afternoon, 42,000 migrant workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh on 36 special trains so far. By the end of Thursday, 20 more trains will reach different districts of UP carrying another 24,000 migrants. According to the schedule for Friday, 51,600 more will reach the state on 43 trains in the next two days. By then, the total number of migrants to have returned will be a whopping 1,18,249 on 99 trains.THE NUMBERSSince March 24, nearly 7 lakh migrants workers have returned to the stateEver since the Shramik Special Trains started plying, 42,000 workers came back on 36 trains20 trains with 24,000 workers are scheduled to arrive on Thursday43 trains are scheduled to arrive on Friday with 51,600 workersBy Friday, total the figure would become 118249 passengers on 99 trains.50,000 doctors, paramedics, and other trained people deployed at 12,000 centres to check workersThe trains have reached Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Ballia, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, and Ghazipur.More are scheduled for these districts and Varanasi, Amethi, Sultanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Hardoi, Azamgarh, Barabanki, Sonbhadra, Gonda, Bahraich, Ambedkar Nagar and Fatehpur.The fear doesn’t seem to be unfounded as the Bundelkhand region that virtually was missing from the Covid-19 map till a week ago, is now showing an upward trend. Fifty-four coronavirus positive cases have been reported in the region and at least 15 of them are migrant workers.In Siddharthnagar, 10 migrants have tested positive at the government quarantine centres.While the migrants themselves are apprehensive of their health, residents of villages are opposing their re-entry, considering them to be ‘coronavirus carriers’. A state government spokesperson said since March 24, a total of seven lakh migrants had returned to Uttar Pradesh. The large numbers made the government change its original screening and quarantine protocol.The original order, issued by the revenue department, on April 25, had asked the district magistrates to quarantine all migrants at quarantine centres for 14 days. However, on May 1, the government modified the order.“According to the changed order, the incoming migrants have to be checked for symptoms at transit centres. Those with symptoms will be kept at quarantine centres. The others will be sent for 14-day home quarantine. We are also taking into account the time they have spent at the quarantine centres in the states that they have come from or will come from,” said Sanjay Goyal, relief commissioner, Uttar Pradesh.On Thursday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath repeated the order and the instructions to the officers concerned. He said, “If they do not show any symptoms, send them for 14-day home quarantine with Rs 1000 allowance each.”Goyal explains, “There is no protocol to test each and every migrant coming in. Only those who show symptoms for Covid-19 will be tested. If the test is positive, they will be sent to the government’s quarantine or, if necessary, to medical quarantine. The rest are being sent home with a 14-day home quarantine advisory. The district administration will keep watch on them for 14 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-migrants-return-injects-element-of-concern-in-covid-19-scenario/story-Rs2dB5Otk4scT6fpKS6EeM.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||3 days in a row, cured patients outnumber fresh cases in UP||For the consecutive third day on Thursday, the Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals in Uttar Pradesh outnumbered the fresh cases, said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department.While 120 patients were discharged, 73 were admitted in hospital on the day. Those discharged included four in Lucknow.The total number of coronavirus cases in the state now stands at 3,071. So far, a total of 1,250 patients have been discharged. The number of people surveyed by health teams has reached 23,967,777 in the state. Lucknow had no fresh cases during the day, according to data shared by the state health department.The state has reported 62 deaths till now, including one each at Prayagraj, Basti, Varanasi, Shravasti, Bulandshahr, Etah, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Mainpuri, Jhansi, Bijnor, Bareilly, and Lucknow, two at Aligarh, four at Mathura, two at Ghaziabad, nine at Meerut, three at Firozabad, six at Kanpur, seven at Moradabad and 16 at Agra, according to health department data.“Ghazipur district was declared croronavirus-free as all its cases (patients) recovered and were sent home. Now, the focus should increase on all such districts to keep them free of any fresh case,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, International Association of Doctors.According to health department data, 67 districts reported cases till now. They include Agra (670), Lucknow (237), Ghaziabad (116), Noida (193), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (292), Pilibhit (3), Moradabad (117), Shamli (29), Jaunpur (8), Baghpat (18), Meerut (184), Bareilly (11), Bulandshahr (57), Basti (36), Hapur (54), Ghazipur (6), Azamgarh (8), Firozabad (178), Hardoi (2) and Pratapgarh (12). The list also includes Saharanpur (205), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (17), Maharajganj (7), Hathras (9), Mirzapur (4), Rae Bareli (47), Auraiyya (13), Barabanki (2), Kaushambi (2), Bijnor, (35), Sitapur (20), Prayagraj (15), Mathura (38), Badaun (16), Rampur (27), Muzaffarnagar (24), Amroha (32), Bhadohi (2), Kasganj (3), Etawah (6), Sambhal (22), Unnao (3), Kannauj (7), Sant Kabir Nagar (30), Mau (1), Etah (12), Sultanpur (4), Aligarh (53), Mainpuri (11), Gonda (10) Shravasti (8), Bahraich (15), Balrampur (2) Ayodhya (1), Jalaun (8), Jhansi (9), Kanpur Dehat (2), Siddharthnagar (20), Deoria (2), Mahoba (2), Kushinagar (2), Amethi (3), Gorakhpur (3) Chitrakoot (3) and Varanasi (77).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/3-days-in-a-row-cured-patients-outnumber-fresh-cases-in-up/story-howLobn1Mu574ICRV9ES0I.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: All 75 district hospitals equipped with ventilators||The state health department has installed ventilators in government-run district hospitals in all 75 districts of the state, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Thursday. With this, the total strength of ventilator-beds in the state has increased to 1,300. Prasad also said Uttar Pradesh ranked second among states in the number of coronavirus sample tests in the entire country. The number of laboratories testing coronavirus samples increased from 20 to 24 in the state. The chief minister had also directed the officers to procure portable ventilators, he said. Till Wednesday, 1,10, 534 samples were tested in private and government labs. He said 4,584 coronavirus samples were tested on Wednesday alone. Besides, pool test was conducted by dividing 2,199 samples in 459 pools. Twenty-eight of these pools tested positive.Besides, the state government has decided to give 50% subsidy on personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, sanitizer and gloves to private hospitals that are providing emergency services to poor patients at Ayushman Bharat rates. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier directed the health department officers to install ventilators in 20 districts that did not have this facility for patients. With completion of the task in these 20 districts, all district hospitals in the state were now equipped with ventilators, Prasad said. The health department plans to purchase extra ventilators for installation in category two and three hospitals. The health department has admitted 1,929 people suspected to be infected with coronavirus in isolation wards so far, while 10,797 people were quarantined. He said 75.16 % of all coronavirus patients were males and 24.84% were females. Emergency services had started in non- Covid hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-all-75-district-hospitals-equipped-with-ventilators/story-b1W2AcSMtjO4SGSzMVu6NL.html
08-05-2020||Lifestyle||Rabindranath Tagore’s 159th birth anniversary to be a low-key affair during coronavirus lockdown in Bengal||Amid the ongoing lockdown to fight COVID-19, the West Bengal government has decided to celebrate the birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore on Friday in a less colourful manner, a senior government official said.“Rabindra Jayanti will be observed by the state government at 4 PM on May 8 at Cathedral Road in the southern part of the city. The honourable chief minister will remain present at the programme,” he said on Wednesday.“There will be no big celebrations like other years as no gatherings will be allowed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The chief minister will only garland the statue of Tagore. There will be no stage and no singing programme,” he said.Only accredited representatives of the media may cover the programme, the official added. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/rabindranath-tagore-s-159th-birth-anniversary-to-be-a-low-key-affair-during-coronavirus-lockdown-in-bengal/story-rvDWfy4uRAv7JilhTDGYKJ.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Ayushman Bharat likely to cover Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh||The Ayushman Bharat health scheme could soon include Covid-19 in the list of ailments for which insurance cover is to be provided. The State Agency for Comprehensive Health Insurance and Integrated Services (SACHIS) has made a proposal in this regard and the state cabinet has to take a call on it. If approved, the decision will impact the lives of 1,18,07,068 eligible families in the state. Anyone among them falling ill due to coronavirus can avail treatment at their hospitals of choice, listed by the health department for such patients. “The national health authority (NHA) has agreed to the idea. Now, the proposal is with the cabinet for a decision,” said Sangeeta Singh, CEO of SACHIS that monitors the Ayushman Bharat scheme in Uttar Pradesh. NHA is the national agency that monitors Ayushman Bharat scheme. Each Ayushman Bharat beneficiary family is entitled to a health insurance cover of ₹5 lakh per year. There are packages for treatment of different ailments with the empanelled hospitals. Hence, the beneficiary does not have to pay the hospital.Statistically, there has been a fall in the number of cases being done under the scheme in the state. The fall was recorded in the past two months. As per statistics available with SACHIS, the average daily cases that was earlier around 1500 per day has now come down to 400 cases per day. One reason for this fall is the closure of hospitals across the state during lockdown to contain coronavirus. The list of beneficiaries is ready. If a decision is taken, the same shall be communicated to the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/ayushman-bharat-likely-to-cover-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh/story-1g7Fi8BadnOEr6Lq1brleK.html
08-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi for investment, job-oriented policies||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said necessary amendments should be made in the state government’s policies to boost industry, attract investment and create more jobs in Uttar Pradesh.Yogi Adityanath was viewing a presentation about Industrial and Employment Promotion Policy 2017, UP Warehousing and Logistics Policy, UP Electronics Manufacturing Policy 2017 and UP Electronics Policy 2020. He also viewed a presentation about job scenario and stressed on providing jobs to migrant labourers in various sectors, including in 90 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises in UP.He said problems of investors should be resolved expeditiously. The chief minister said UP could be a potential destination for investment in the changed world scenario. He also said the UP Warehousing Logistics Policy 2018 should be amended to bring down limit for land needed for logistics parks.Earlier, he held a video conference with Buddhist monks and conveyed his good wishes to them on Buddha Purnima. He expressed confidence that Buddhist monks would take message of Lord Buddha to people and prepare them in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-for-investment-job-oriented-policies/story-jXZaJ0hIL3tYr5d7H5d9dJ.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Becoming, her biography||It’s not necessary that children follow their parents’ profession. Sardar Surjit Singh is a village farmer, and so is his only son. But his eldest child, a daughter, is a school principal. And his youngest, a daughter again, is a Chartered Accountant.And she lives in Gurugram.“But I have also done my share of farming in our small family khet (farming land),” says Navneet Kaur Virk. “I’ve fed the buffaloes, I’ve rooted out the weedy wild grass with the khurpi (trowel)...”Ms Virk’s last name happens to be the name of her village in Jalandhar, Punjab. This evening, she is speaking from the isolation of her flat in Gurugram’s Sector 93. It’s a house Ms Virk bought with her own savings — she moved into it in November last year. She has been in the city for a whole decade, but until then she would be living in PG accommodations “where hosts were nice enough, but tended to count the number of rotis one would be having for dinner.”You might think that for a 42-year-old career woman, enjoying an independent life in a two-bedroom flat in a modern metropolitan area is nothing out of the ordinary.Ms Virk doesn’t see it that way. These days, as the pandemic-ridden world is reeling under a prolonged lockdown, she finds time to look back on the journey that took her from village to city.She is the only member of her family to live in a metropolis. She is also the only one in her entire network of relatives to be single. “I took charge of my life from a very early age, and by now I have done many things by myself that I hadn’t thought I could do,” she says, breaking into a momentary laughter.The lady’s background gives a perspective to the distance she has travelled. Her mother, she says, cannot read or write. Her father studied till 7th standard. Her brother is a college drop out. “It was my studious behen (sister), Davinder, who kept me focused on the studies despite the household chores we were obliged to do everyday.”The three siblings would help their parents in the fields daily after returning from school. It was expected of every child in the village, she informs.Ms Virk’s school was 4 km away in the town of Phagwara. She would go walking, though in her early days her brother would take her on his bicycle. Years later, she was gifted her own bicycle by a cousin visiting from Birmingham, in the UK. Almost all her relatives—she points out—were distinguished by having at least one family member working in Canada or England. Hers was an exception.“We were so poor... the little bit of crop we would grow in our land was barely enough for our own needs.... only a tiny portion was left aside for sale in the mandi (wholesale market).”Following in her sister’s footsteps, Ms Virk stayed on course with her studies, eventually entering the college, where she graduated in commerce. She picked chartered accountancy after a casual discussion on the subject one day with a couple of friends.Being a CA student isn’t easy, Ms Virk explains. “It is notorious as a field where students tend to fail rather than pass.” For the next few years, she would commute daily to Phagwara town for her “articleship training” with a practising chartered accountant, a mandatory requirement for the certification course.Ideally, if a student clears all the exams in one go, it takes about four-and-a-half years to become a CA. Ms Virk accomplished it in seven years. The intervening setbacks rankled her family. “First, they were under social pressure to get me married. Then, it was puzzling to them that it should take me so long to get the certificate.” They couldn’t understand why was she wasting her time staying awake at the desk all night long.On January 17, 2007, the day she cleared the exams and finally became a CA, her brother gifted her ₹1000 “to party with friends.”That year proved to be a double milestone in Ms Virk’s biography. She left her village for Bengaluru after landing a job in the corporate world. One of the first things she was asked in the new office was to submit her passport for a work visit to Canada.”The Canada trip fell through, but Ms Virk’s company later sent her to California for eight weeks. By now, travelling abroad is no longer novel to her. She flies to UK almost every year for meetings with clients, she says.The lady shifted to the Delhi region in 2010, and is currently a senior manager in a multinational company.“As far as my materialistic dreams are concerned, I feel contented,” she declares. Haunted by the limited means of living while growing up, she was propelled by an urgent urge to become financially free. “Now I have the ability to buy things I desire without thinking much about the cost.”And then there’s the freedom of anonymity that a big city offers to its residents, including single women. “It doesn’t feel a bother to get out of the house... nobody here cares where I might be going, or if I am the one driving the car, or if I am with somebody else... this all is freedom.”At one point during the phone chat, Ms Virk steps out onto the terrace and shows the sun setting behind a row of tall buildings through the screen that connects her to this reporter.“Like most mothers, Mummy also believes that a kudi (girl) is settled only after she gets married.... but I feel that nobody ever gets settled in life.” Following a pause, she confesses that “one of the reasons I purchased this flat was to make Mummy feel secure about the fact that I have a place of my own and that I can take care of my life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-becoming-her-biography/story-kYzV1UcgcXpZaouFhgr6vJ.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt launches e-token system for liquor sale: How it works||To ensure social distancing and to stop overcrowding at liquor shops, the Delhi government on Thursday launched an e-token service with a time slot for people to buy alcohol at any nearby store.The Delhi government said in a statement that it took this decision to encourage people to avoid long queues by applying for an e-token.Here’s how the process works:• People can apply for an e-token through the link ‘https://www.qtoken.in/’• Users have to provide their name and phone number, following which the e-token will be sent to the phone• Tokens will be also be issued for those standing in queues, as per a Delhi government orderWhy it has been done?The e-token will help maintaining social distancing and cut down on waiting time in long queues by specifying time for each e-coupon holder to buy liquor at a shop.The people will require to furnish address of liquor shop in their area along with their mobile number and other details, while applying for e-token on the web link.However, the website for the token crashed within a few hours of its launch. A senior official attributed that to “high traffic within a limited time after announcement”. The link is still not working.Following the guidelines of the Central government, the Delhi government had given permission to open about 200 shops across the national capital from Monday onwards. However, due to overcrowding and long queues in some areas, only 50 shops could be kept open.Liquor shops would also start issuing coupons to people standing outside in queues, as per a government order, which also directed the deployment of marshals, to ensure social distancing, and use of more barricades, for area management.The additional tax of 70% on the maximum retail price of liquor would continue in Delhi.Delhi has 864 liquor shops, of which 475 are owned by government departments, ranging from tourism to industrial and infrastructure development. The other 389 are owned by private individuals and enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-e-token-system-for-liquor-sale-how-it-works/story-CyKGw9o6RoyCWhdVdtE5MK.html
08-05-2020||Jaipur||Babesiosis outbreak in Gujarat’s Gir causes death of 23 Asiatic lions||An outbreak of Babesiosis caused by a protozoan parasite has reportedly caused the death of several lions in India’s only wild abode for Asiatic lions in Gujarat’s Gir National Park, in the last three months, officials said on Thursday.According to D T Vasavada, Chief Conservator of Forest, Junagarh, one-third of the 23 lions have died in the eastern Gir forests in the past three months due to Babesiosis and efforts were on to contain the outbreak of the disease.“Some animals have been lost because of the disease caused by blood protozoa called babesia, which spreads through tick infestation and mite bite, and is not contagious. It is completely treatable,” he said.He added all the big cats, who died, were from one small part of the park and may have got infected by consuming an animal.The other lions in the park died due to infighting, old age, drowning and snake bites. “We are conducting a thorough investigation and results will be submitted to the state government soon,” he said.The Jasadhar Animal Treatment Centre is currently treating 18 lions infected by Babesiosis.The officials said a combination of the viral and protozoan infections had killed around two dozen lions, after which Gujarat forest department imported canine distemper virus (CDV) vaccine from the US and vaccinated all lions in the Gir forest.24 lions had died in the same range of Gir National Park in September 2018 due to a combination of Babesiosis disease and canine distemper virus (CDV).An official said that babesia protozoa attacks the red blood cells in a lion’s body causing anaemia and makes it susceptible to other diseases like the CDV.“We are de-worming livestock of cattle main diet of Asiatic lions in eastern part of Gir. We are disinfecting their enclosures where ticks and mites could be there. We are also burning grass and hay around water holes,” said a Gujarat government official.The officer said antibiotics were being administered to the lions affected by babesiosis. “We have already managed to successfully treat six animals and there has not been any death due to the disease for almost a week now,” the officer said.He further added that a multi-pronged strategy has been adopted to contain the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/babesiosis-outbreak-in-gujarat-s-gir-causes-death-of-23-asiatic-lions/story-XFxTWegFXznC7o1pUxXBUJ.html
08-05-2020||City||Shramik special trains: Harrowing time for migrants as trains continue to run late||Learning no lesson from the delayed departure of all three Shramik Special trains in the past two days, the government machinery in Ludhiana could not ensure that the four trains planned on Thursday left on time.Migrants summoned to board the trains were at the receiving end as they hopelessly waited in the scorching heat to be ferried to the railway station from the various bus pick-up points.Scheduled to leave at 11am, the first train of the day for Purnia, Bihar, with 1,177 passengers, chugged off at 2.20pm, with a delay of 3.2 hours. This caused the second train – Ludhiana-Gorakhpur Shramik Special – to depart 3.55 hours late at 5.55pm. It had 928 passengers.Sources in the railways confirmed that boarding for the Gorakhpur train started at 2pm, at its scheduled departure time.The third train for Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, with 1,188 passengers, was to leave at 8pm, but was also 90 minutes late. Around 100 migrants leaving on this train, were seen waiting for the pick-up bus near the Verka Milk Plant since 2pm. While some found shelter under the trees, other braved the sun with luggage on their heads for around four hours till the bus arrived at 6pm.The last train headed to Amethi, Uttar Pradesh, was planned to leave at 11pm.MEDICAL SCREENING VENUE CHANGEDA senior official in the district administration, requesting anonymity, said it was an unprecedented situation, so various departments were experimenting different protocols to ensure that maximum trains ran in a day.“On Wednesday night, it was decided to change the venue for medical screening from the Interstate Bus Terminus to Guru Nanak Stadium, as transporting passengers from pick-up points to the bus stand to the railway station was a time-consuming process,” he said.However, only five counters were set up at the stadium for medical screening, while the number of passengers was more than a 1,000. Noticing the rush, authorities eventually decided to increase the counters to 14.After screening, tickets were provided to the passengers, who then collected packaged food from a separate counter and walked towards the railway station, located a few metres away.‘PERSONNEL WORKING ROUND-THE-CLOCK’With the district administration announcing at least 12 trains a day from Friday, the work to transport passengers to medical screening to boarding them in the trains will continue round-the-clock.Different departments have deployed their staff in shifts of eight hours each to carry out the work smoothly.MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon said, “It takes at least two hours to screen passengers of one train, and if 12 trains are to run daily from Friday, this will have to be done all day and night.”“At least 600 police personnel are managing migrants at pick-up points, escorting them to buses and then to the screening centre, besides maintaining law and order,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) Deepak Pareek, adding that they will be working in three shifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-special-trains-harrowing-time-for-migrants-as-trains-continue-to-run-late/story-Aj5frBsLVU5nJXJ5dedWuL.html
08-05-2020||City||Lack of awareness, confusion posing hurdles in migrants’ return home||Three days after railways started Shramik Special trains to transport migrants from Punjab to their home states amid the Covid-19 lockdown, lack of awareness and tech illiteracy continue to be pose hurdles in their return home.Nearly 6 lakh migrants from Ludhiana have registered on the Punjab helpline portal. Yet, several do not know how to apply and are consequently visiting the railway station directly to understand how to board a train.Cops have a hard time filtering out migrants without tickets when they approach the railway station with luggage.Among them are also those, who have got registered, but haven’t received a text message for date of boarding. Yet, they reach the railway station believing they can catch a train.KNOW THE PROCESSThe district administration has been shortlisting passengers from the applicants on the portal. The shortlisted passengers are sent two SMSes, one for confirmation of application and another sharing their date of travel.Only passengers receiving the second SMS need to report to their nearest pick-up point at the time mentioned in the message. From here, a bus will transport them to the Guru Nanak stadium for medical screening, and thereon, they have to walk to the railway station after collecting food from the stadium.Dani Ram, 43, who hails from Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, accompanied his neighbours, who had received the text messages.“I had also registered to return home and received a confirmation message. But, I have not received the pick-up message, while my neighbours have got them and were taken to the stadium in a bus,” he said.On their part, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal and commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal have shared video messages, explaining the process to board the trains.In the videos, the officials have urged the passengers not to approach the railway station directly. “Even if 2,500 people have registered for a destination, a train can transport only around 1200 passengers. So, messages are sent on first-come, first-serve basis,” the DC said.TICKETS TO WRONG DESTINATIONSThere are also incidents where migrants have received tickets for the wrong destination.Vaseem Ansari, 33, who wants to travel to Moradabad, said he got a ticket for Bareilly, which he realised only after receiving the train ticket on the bus while going to the railway station. Ansari said he did not know how to apply on the portal, and took somebody’s help. “They must have entered the wrong destination. Now, I will have to apply again and wait for my turn,” he said, adding that several migrants were facing troubles using the mobile application for the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lack-of-awareness-confusion-posing-hurdles-in-migrants-return-home/story-4hMUFtg05OOt9mKMv6x61J.html
08-05-2020||City||After steady rise, no fresh case in Ludhiana||After consistent increase in Covid-19 cases since April 29 that have now mounted to 124, the district reported to fresh case on Thursday.Among the 124 patients, six patients have been discharged, while five have succumbed to the disease.Meanwhile, after a 64-year-old man, a resident of Daba, tested positive on Wednesday, the health department sealed the area around his house in the wee hours of Thursday.Four members of his family and an ambulance driver, who took him to a hospital, have been placed in home quarantine.The patient also suffers from hypertension, diabetes and asthma. He was shifted from the civil hospital to Christian Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday night. His condition is stated to be critical and he has been placed on ventilator. SOURCE OF INFECTION UNKNOWNAccording to health authorities, they have not yet established the man’s source of infection. A manager at a tyre manufacturing unit at Focal Point, the patient had been visiting work during the curfew. The health department is working to trace the factory employees, who came in contact with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-steady-rise-no-fresh-case-in-ludhiana/story-auCmoRKFNnPWngBfB1YygI.html
08-05-2020||City||Thane organisations step forward to help stranded migrants||With no food or money left, many migrant labourers in Thane and Bhiwandi are making attempts to walk back to their native states. Some organisations in Bhiwandi have now stepped ahead to help such labourers with food in a bid to make them stay in the city and not risk their lives.One such organisation, Shree Bhairav Seva Samiti, has been serving food, medicines, footwear, masks and caps to migrant labourers. “We have also made a provision of around 1,000-litre capacity potable water tanker. We make them understand the importance of staying at home and that by traveling on foot they are putting their families’ health at stake. We offer details of shelter homes around so that they are able to manage food during the lockdown,” said Anil Bhairav, chairman, Shree Bhairav Seva Samiti.Volunteers from Rajnoli, Vashind, Atgaon, Bhatsa and along the Mumbai-Agra highway have been helping the organisations in Bhiwandi. “We have put up posters and our volunteers reach out to the migrants who are traveling with their baggage. We explain to them about the impact of the virus and assure them that help will be provided if they stay back,” said Shahid Ansari, member of another social organisation, Alpha Group.Despite help pouring in, migrant labourers continue to remain anxious. “We have been patiently waiting for the past one month to go homes. Now we have no money and no means to earn it either due to the lockdown. To feed ourselves and our families, we are left with no option but to go back home and engage in agriculture. We may take many days to reach our homes but we will feel secure there,” said Rajendra Yadav, 43, who works in a powerloom. He has decided to walk back to his hometown in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-organisations-step-forward-to-help-stranded-migrants/story-JIyNAKgzzXM8XQctVQfqnM.html
08-05-2020||City||Isolated at PAU since return from Kota, Ludhiana youths rely on books, meditation||Isolated away from home since their return from Kota, Rajasthan, city youths are utilising this time to study, meditate and indulge in other constructive activities. Among the students who returned, eight girls and 14 boys have been housed in separate rooms at Parker House, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), so they do not come in direct contact with their family members and others.One of the students, Ashish Rana, said, “Earlier, I used to spend most of my time studying, but as I have a lot of extra time nowadays, I read Bhagavad Gita to be at peace with myself.” He appealed to other people staying in isolation centres to spend their time in productive activities and remain positive.Another student Shruti, who is preparing for the Joint Entrance Examination, said, “I am utilising this 21-day quarantine time to prepare for the entrance examination. I am following a fixed routine in the hostel room and listen to music to relax myself. I am getting all facilities here and even get quality time to read books and meditate.”‘FACILITIES AS PER GOVERNMENT GUIDELINES’Municipal corporation joint commissioner-cum-nodal officer of the PAU isolation centre, Kulpreet Singh, said the students were provided food three times a day along with other facilities in line with Punjab government guidelines. “We also interact with them from time to time. Some students had asked for books that have been provided to them,” he said. The nodal officer also said that a few parents came to meet their wards, but were not granted permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/isolated-at-pau-since-return-from-kota-ludhiana-youths-rely-on-books-meditation/story-ktRbQ8k1RFUarmcX6ok0NL.html
08-05-2020||City||Demanding compensation for losses, contractors keep liquor vends shut in Ludhiana||Allowed to reopen shops from Thursday, wine contractors in the district decided to keep their liquor vends closed. Reason: They are demanding compensation for the losses incurred in the last financial year and review of the 2020-21 Excise Policy , including withdrawal of quota condition. In Ludhiana, there are around 750 liquor vends in 150 groups, including those at Khanna, Samrala, Jagraon among others, which remained shut on Thursday. The government earns an annual revenue of around ₹ 1,100 crore from these liquor vends, which amounts to over ₹3 crore per day.Meanwhile, anticipating low sales owing to the movement of migrant labourers out of the district, the contractors have also raised questions on home delivery of liquor allowed by the state government. They said it was not possible for the vendors to supply alcohol under the limits imposed by the government. In this regard, a cabinet meeting on Friday has been scheduled by the state government to look into the demands of the contractors.Working on the directions issued by the state government, the administration had on Wednesday allowed the wine contractors to open the vends from Thursday. While counters sales are allowed from 9am to 3pm, home delivery can be done till 6pm.Further, demanding the withdrawal of quota system, one of the wine contractors, Neeraj, said, regular sales cannot be expected during the Covid-19 crisis. “With labourers moving out and a major section of residents struggling to cater to their daily needs, it is difficult for contractors to even recover the fee that has to be paid to the government,” he added.Another contractor requesting anonymity said the government was only allowing the vends to open for revenue. “Nothing is being done to provide relief to the wine contractors who have also suffered major losses due to imposition of curfew in the last week of March,” he said. He demanded that the proportionate quota of the loss owing to curfew during the last financial year be reduced and proportionate licence fee be waived. He also claimed that the government’s decision to commence home delivery of liquor will not bear fruit as only 2 litre of liquor can be delivered per household. “We do not have the required work force and the residents are also suspicious over supplies being done by delivery boys as they fear it might be infected with the virus,” he said.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) Pawan Garg said, “The state government has to take the decision on policy matter and compensation to be given to the vendors. It is expected to take a final decision in the cabinet meeting expected on May 8.”“However, the department has asked the contractors to open the vends from Friday,” he added. YAD OPENS ‘DOODH DA THEKA’ TO OPPOSE GOVT’S MOVE Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha chose a novel way to protest against the government’s decision to reopen liquor vends. Holding cannisters with “doodh da theka” written over them, the YAD leader sat in front of a liquor vend opposite the city railway station and began distributing milk. Gosha said, “The government’s decision is ironical as it has allowed the liquor vends to operate while the gurdwaras and temples remain closed.” He said the government was only eyeing revenue with no value for human life, adding that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will continue to oppose the move. Long queues of people, including those homeless, migrants and beggars, emerged as soon as Gosha began to sell milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demanding-compensation-for-losses-contractors-keep-liquor-vends-shut-in-ludhiana/story-ciirmoW95KzQVXOQxTCz0J.html
08-05-2020||City||1,200 migrants from Thane leave for Bihar||Around 1,200 migrants left from Thane to Bihar in the Shramik Special train on Thursday. Only those with fitness certificates were permitted to board the train and there were security officers to ensure that the passengers followed social distancing norms. “Around 1,200 registered and nominated passengers were listed to travel from Shramik Special to Bapudham Motihari railway station in Bihar at 4.30pm,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway (CR), Mumbai.According to the officials, the passengers were instructed to form a queue and board the train to ensure social distancing and wear masks, owing to which the train was delayed by some time. “The passengers were also informed how to take precautions and maintain social distancing throughout their journey,” said CR official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-200-migrants-from-thane-leave-for-bihar/story-N056yw5TBhmVB7cxSDeHjO.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Like 26/11 and underworld, we’ll defeat this unseen enemy, too, Mumbai police commissioner tells cops||A day after 26 personnel from JJ Marg police station near Mohammad Ali Road were tested positive for coronavirus, Mumbai Police commissioner Parambir Singh on Thursday visited the police station to boost the morale of the personnel. On Wednesday, 60 personnel from JJ Marg police station were also quarantined, making it one of the worst-affected police stations in the city.“My fellow mates at JJ Marg police station, after the Covid-19 cases were reported, there was a sense of panic among the public, I have been informed. I have faith that the morale in the police department is high. Mumbai Police has fought many battles before this which you all are aware of. Whether it was the fight against the underworld or the 26/11 terror attack, we fought with all our might. We suffered casualties, but emerged victorious each time. This is a similar war where the enemy cannot be seen but, we have to fight and along with the public, we will win this war. With team work and our efforts, we will overcome this unseen enemy,” Singh said.Until Thursday, around 250 Mumbai Police personnel were tested positive for Covid-19, said Singh. From the Maharashtra Police, 531 personnel were tested positive for coronavirus, of which five died, 487 are treated and 39 recovered. 166 try leaving city, 4 bookedRAK Marg police booked four people for allegedly attempting to transport 166 daily wage labourers to their native town in Uttar Pradesh in the early hours of Thursday. The workers claimed that they applied for police permission, but as no trains or buses were made available by the authorities, they decided to leave on their own in trucks. However, a police team stopped the three trucks during a check near Nyaneshwar Nagar. “We have booked the truck drivers – Tabrez Suleman, 25; Wasim Chaudhary, 50, and Dharmendra Harijan, 32 – and a cleaner, Saifuddin Khan, 25,” said Sunil Sohani, senior inspector, RAK Marg police station. All the workers were sent back to their respective accommodations in Mumbai.Meanwhile, the Santacruz police on Wednesday night stopped two cars and nabbed six people on Juhu Road which were trying to leave the city without e-passes. One of the cars was heading to Telangana, while the other to Gujarat, said Shriram Koregaonkar, senior inspector, Santacruz police station.54 FIRs on Wednesday for lockdown violationsMumbai Police lodged 54 FIRs on Wednesday against 80 people and arrested 41 for lockdown violations. The maximum number of FIRs (22) was filed in central region, followed by 17 in west region – both of which are the worst-hit by Covid-19. A majority of cases (20) were filed for gathering at one place, followed by 14 FIRs for not wearing masks, seven each against keeping hotels open and illegal use of vehicles, while five against shops for operating despite selling non-essential commodities.Jeweller booked for opening shopSantacruz police booked a jeweller for allegedly keeping his shop open. “On May 6 while patrolling, our personnel found Shree Nivas Jewellery shop open on the pretext of cleaning it and booked Ganesh Padmnabhan, 37, who was running it,” said a police officer.Wine shop manager booked Mahim police booked a wine shop manager for allegedly violating the excise department directive of not permitting more than five customers outside the shop. Around 100 people gathered outside the shop of Ram Gupta, located near the station on Tuesday around 10am.Liquor worth ₹2.9-lakh seizedVanrai police seized illegally stored liquor worth ₹2.96 lakh from a slum behind Udyog Bhavan in Goregaon (East) on Wednesday. “We learnt that the liquor was being sold illegally during the lockdown. We have arrested the accused,” said Gitendra Bhawsar of Vanrai police station.Dumper rams into manA dumper driver, Zabir Shaikh, 32, was arrested for allegedly crashing into a fabricator on May 3. The victim Zishan Khan, 56, suffered severe injuries to both his legs. An officer said, “A temporary hospital for Covid patients is been constructed in Bandra and the victim was working at the project site as a labourer.” Around 4pm, when he was resting under a tree, Shaikh was taking a reverse, when he accidentally drove over the victim’s legs. Khan’s elder son Imran said, “My father’s legs are damaged badly. He is undergoing treatment at Shiv Hospital, Govandi. My father is the only breadwinner of his house and we have no money for his treatment.”(Inputs from Faisal Tandel and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/like-26-11-and-underworld-we-ll-defeat-this-unseen-enemy-too-mumbai-police-commissioner-tells-cops/story-IWP6AF1XGHhd6x0jxHBOCL.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Experts to meet Maharashtra CM to discuss how transportation can open up||While the city remains under lockdown, a citizens’ group is collating mobility solutions that may be put in place when the city starts opening up. Mumbai Mobility Forum is crowd-sourcing ideas for how public transport in the city may function in a way that congestion is reduced and distancing norms are maintained. The group plans to present their ideas to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray soon. Experts associated with Mumbai Mobility Forum have already collated some short, medium and long-term solutions for the city. Pranav Naik from the Mumbai Mobility Forum described the initiative as crowd-sourced and with inputs from experts who can help authorities implement the solutions. Among the short-term solutions are marking seats in buses, donation drives for cycles and pop-up lanes for bicycles as short-term solutions. Medium-term suggestions include increasing the number of buses, bus-routes, train services and new Metro lines. Long-term solutions look at integration of all modes of transport, congestion charges and a smart bus network. Naik said, “The goal is to effect long-term behavioural change towards sustainable modes of transport and wean a bulk of the population away from private transport as well as improve the quality of life for Mumbaikars.”Adhering to physical distancing norms in Mumbai’s suburban trains and buses is a huge challenge since these are overcrowded on any given day. Physical distancing requires people to maintain a distance of at least six feet from one another. The train network ferries 7.5 million passengers daily while buses help 5 million people transit over more than 400 routes. The city’s bicycle mayor Firoza Suresh, who is also a part of Mumbai Mobility Forum’s initiative, suggested promoting cycling as a means of transport. “Cycling is an inherently physically-distanced mode of transport. In Mumbai too, this is the right time to bring up the behaviour change,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/experts-to-meet-maharashtra-cm-to-discuss-how-transportation-can-open-up/story-swjeiJQLI18rzTNRCFBrAM.html
08-05-2020||City||Migrant workers stranded in Navi Mumbai as police refuse to accept forms||The Panvel city police on Thursday refused to accept new forms from migrant workers, leaving hundreds of workers confused and stranded. “Several people have gathered across police stations to go back home but the Uttar Pradesh government has still not given consent for trains from Maharashtra to enter the state,” said Ashok Dudhe, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2. The police also claimed that there is no confirmation from the West Bengal and Bihar governments also, owing to which the police cannot accept new forms for migrants to return.Several workers waited outside Panvel police station for two hours only to be sent to the municipal corporation office.Satyendra Saha, 46, is a native of Bihar, employed at a steel plant in Pen. To return home, he underwent a medical test but after walking through the night for more than eight hours from Pen, he was told by Panvel police that there are no trains to Bihar.“The police are threatening to hit us. What do we do? We got the medical test done and have been running around for the last two days. We will die like this even before contracting coronavirus,” said Saha.Even at the corporation office, their forms were not accepted.“The civic officials sent us back to the police. They are making us run from pillar to post and not telling us clearly what we need to do,” said Manju Roy, who is struggling to get a form to go to Kolkata.Meanwhile, the police has green-flagged the journey of migrants from Odisha. “On Friday, a train to Odisha will depart with 1,200 passengers for which migrants can submit forms,” said Dudhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-stranded-in-navi-mumbai-as-police-refuse-to-accept-forms/story-yflIQ3nKQv1cGeYlTbv5rO.html
08-05-2020||City||Maharashtra government: Medical certificates not needed, migrants will be screened||In a relief for lakhs of migrants stranded in the state who are waiting to return to their home states, the Maharashtra government on Thursday issued a clarification that there is no need to attach a medical certificate to the registration form required to facilitate the journey.In an order signed by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, the state amended an earlier order which made it mandatory for migrant workers to submit a fitness certificate from a registered medical practitioner with their registration forms.The decision was taken in the wake of the long queues outside private practitioners’ offices, diluting social distancing measures and after the migrants complained that some doctors were overcharging them for the medical certificate.The new order stated that migrants/stranded persons who wish to return to their home states should be screened at the time of starting the journey with a digital thermometer and symptomatic examination free of cost must be conducted by the state or civic officials. Corporations can also hire registered medical practitioners for the exercise, the order said. A single-list of all passengers, indicating that they have been screened and found to be not displaying any influenza-like illness (ILI), be issued by the medical person-in-charge, stated the directive.State minister Chhagan Bhujbal said contradictory orders by the state created confusion and panic among migrants. Speaking to a regional news channel, Bhujbal said that several migrants stuck in the state want to return home but are confused due to unclear orders. He added that he took up the issue during a cabinet meeting on Wednesday.“The migrants are confused if they should go home or to the doctor first. So the ones who have the authority to issue orders, should do so immediately quickly. The notifications that are coming now are creating confusion,” he said. He also pointed out that migrants were seen on the Mumbai-Agra highway, walking back to their home states. “Such scenes are heart-rending and they are unfitting for a state such as ours… There is no physical distancing maintained when they walk. They enter villages; drink water there and eat there. Instead, they should be ferried back to their villages in one go,” he said.Meanwhile, Sion police sent 36 daily wage workers from Rajasthan back to their native homes in two buses on Wednesday evening, Lalita Gaikwad, senior inspector of Sion police station said. The police had arranged for biscuits, water and fruits for the migrants’ journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-government-medical-certificates-not-needed-migrants-will-be-screened/story-uxj4vBXLfz7nmQpbSpMBCO.html
08-05-2020||City||GMCH Amritsar jam-packed, new patients being admitted to charitable hospital||With Punjab’s new Covid-19 hotspot, Amritsar, witnessing sudden spike in the number of cases daily, and the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here getting jam-packed with infected patients, the health department has started admitting new patients to the Sri Guru Ram Dass (SGRD) Charitable Hospital in the city.Till Thursday, 242 patients from Amritsar and neighbouring districts were admitted to GMCH, which has the maximum capacity to accommodate 300 patients in its isolation ward. The charitable hospital has the capacity to quarantine 150 patients.“The GMCH is running out of beds some of which have been reserved to treat serious Covid-19 patients who may need emergency shifting from other hospitals from in and around Amritsar. The government has acquired 150-bedded SGRD Charitable Hospital and is paying the expenses. The asymptomatic and stable patients are now being treated there ,” said Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore.“We can admit Covid-19 patients to our full capacity as we have enough resources, including ventilators, for providing treatment,” said GMCH principal Dr Sujata Sharma. “Fifty seven Covid-19 patients are admitted to SGRD Charitable Hospital. The patients are getting treatment from specialist doctors and are stable. The hospital has been converted into a full-fledged Covid facility in the wake of the rising number of cases. We have 10 ventilators which can be used for Covid-19 patients in case of emergency. The patients suffering from other disease instead of Covid-19 have been shifted to SGRD, Vallah,” said Dr AP Singh, dean, Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences.“Besides, the School for Meritorious Students, Amritsar, has also been converted into a Covid facility with the capacity of 1,000 beds which are kept for asymptomatic and stable patients. In case of emergency also, patients can be admitted to the facility as doctors and adequate nurses would be appointed.”The district has witnessed a hike of 1,857% in Covid-19 cases in just a week with its tally jumping to 274 cases till Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmch-amritsar-jam-packed-new-patients-being-admitted-to-charitable-hospital/story-ETuwARDa09PV1i6XvPCfgM.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||ASHAs in Haryana fighting battle against coronavirus without armour||They are among the frontline corona warriors, yet numerous representations by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in Haryana for the very basic safety equipment such as masks, gloves, head-gears and sanitisers seem to have fallen on deaf ears of health authorities to this day. Result: Two such workers have already contracted the coronavirus and many more are at risk due to the nature of their duties involving exposure to a large number of people, including potential virus carriers.There are about 19,000 ASHAs in the state, most of whom are engaged in tasks such as conducting health surveys of every household in the areas assigned to them, besides routine vaccinations and health-related works in all 22 districts of Haryana. “All these health activists have been working hard since mid-March and repeatedly asking, verbally and in written representations, that they need the basic safety gears like masks, gloves and sanitizers, besides a smartphone as they have now been asked to update all activities online. They come from humble backgrounds and cannot afford high-end cell phones. We have again written to the health authorities, after another ASHA tested positive in Ambala after the first such case in Jind,” said Surekha, general secretary of the ASHA workers’ association. In Ambala, these workers were assigned duties in different areas to check foreign-returnees and ensure that they were quarantined. In the second round, they were allotted duties to check residents with flu-like symptoms and refer their case to seniors; samples were taken accordingly. An ASHA tested positive on May 4 and was initially shifted to a designated hospital in Mullana and later to the civil hospital, which did not have adequate facilities. “Around 10% of us have received masks, but the remaining ones have to buy on their own. If the frontline health workers are at risk, how could they help in this war against pandemic?” asked a leader of these workers.In Jind, four Anganwadi workers, who had conducted door-to-door surveys without wearing proper safety gears, had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier last month. A senior official of the Jind child development project wing, who did not want to be named, agreed that not all health workers were provided with the safety gears. In Hisar and Sirsa too, the situation is not different, despite the fact that health workers have to enter the containment and buffer zones and interact with people there. Though masks are not a big issue as we can use our scarves or dupattas as alternative, most of us have neither been getting sanitisers, nor gloves or head gears regularly, several health workers claimed. Same concern has come to the fore from Karnal as well, where ASHAs have been assigned to prepare reports of people coming from other states. They need proper protection as they meet unknown people every day and yet, complaints of inadequate and erratic supply of protective gears are in abundance. ‘WILL ENSURE GAP ARE PLUGGED QUICKLY’When contacted, Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who lauded the contribution of these accredited health activists in fighting the pandemic, said there were clear instructions that all of them would get personal safety gears as per their duty requirements. “Yet, I will ensure that the gaps, if any, in the availability of said safety gears, are immediately plugged,” he added. (With inputs from Neeraj Mohan, Sunil Rahar, Bhaskar Mukherjee and Bhavey Nagpal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ashas-in-haryana-fighting-battle-against-coronavirus-without-armour/story-ERdAy68kHLOllIx1Gctv3L.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||6 more Covid-19 patients recover, active count 45 in Mohali||Six more Covid-19 cases were discharged in the district on Thursday, taking the number of recoveries to 49 out of 96 infected, of which 31 were from the Jawaharpur village hotspot in Dera Bassi. The number of active cases is now 45 with two fatalities.No other fresh case has been reported in Mohali. “It is indeed a pleasure to share that another six Covid-19 patients have fully recovered and been discharged from the hospital. With the combined efforts of all, especially frontline doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, we will be able to contain the spread of the deadly disease very soon,” said Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, at a briefing.The remaining patients were being treated at the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur. They were doing fine and no one was critically ill, he added.The patients discharged on Thursday include four from Jawahapur village and one from Mundi Kharar, all treated at Gian Sagar Hospital. The sixth patient was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).The residents of Jawaharpur, however, will now be quarantined at a special facility set up at the Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure before being sent home. The Kharar resident has been advised home quarantine and will be monitored by the health teams.Dr Manjit Singh said he hoped the epidemic would be brought under control with the cooperation and support of the people and advised everyone to stay at home.District epidemiologist Dr Renu Singh and Dr Harmandeep Kaur were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/6-more-covid-19-patients-recover-active-count-45-in-mohali/story-SuuHGLH0EijpYq0aKFSrDL.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||100 commercial units closed in Chandigarh’s industrial area||The UT administration on Thursday shut down around 100 commercial establishments, other than industrial units, in the industrial area of Phases 1 and 2.A team led by director industries Harjit Singh Sandhu, accompanied by the police, closed down hardware shops, iron sheet traders, electronic goods warehouses and electronic shops. Sheds of scrap dealers were also closed down.Sandhu said, “As per the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on May 1 regarding the opening of industrial units in a red zone outside the containment zones, these shops cannot be allowed to remain open in an industrial area.”Only industrial units are allowed to remain open in an industrial estate, with strict access control, added Sandhu.City BJP industrial cell convener Avi Bhasin, who intervened on behalf of the commercial establishments, said, “All shops that have been closed are service providers to the industrialists. These are purely business to business establishments and not retail outlets. Without their services, industries cannot function. This is a clear case miscommunication and misinterpretation of the MHA guidelines.”City BJP chief Arun Sood took up the issue with the UT administration and said that hopefully a solution will soon be found.ACCESS CONTROLMeanwhile, local industrialists complained that even though the administration had designated six access points for the two industrial areas, no screening was being done of the people entering inside. There are three access points each for industrial phases 1 and 2.Industrialists expressed particular concern about the people coming from sectors and colonies, parts of which have been notified as containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/100-commercial-units-closed-in-chandigarh-s-industrial-area/story-0ojtqWMQWLth6gt3O3lXcP.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||PSPCL to open all cash counters from today||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to make all the 515 cash collection centres operational from May 8 between 9am and 2pm across the state for consumers to deposit their bills while strictly adhering to health protocols.Approving a detailed strategy for resuming work by the PSPCL based on the recommendations of the task force constituted by the state government, Amarinder, who also holds the power portfolio, also allowed meter reading operations. All the meter readers have also been asked to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Similarly, replacement of faulty and defected meters has also been allowed.Apart from these, all maintenance and construction activities would also be resumed by distribution (DS/APDRP/TS/P&M) organisations as preparedness plans for summer/upcoming paddy season to ensure uninterrupted and reliable power supply to consumers. Principal secretary, power, A Venu Prasad was asked to issue detailed instructions to all deputy commissioners and SSPs across the state in this regard besides providing required support and cooperation to Powercom to execute these activities in a seamless manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-to-open-all-cash-counters-from-today/story-KTpAmiycrOtHKe6ndtspeL.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Anticipatory bail plea of rape accused dismissed in Chandigarh||A district court has dismissed the anticipatory bail application of a private school teacher who is an accused in a rape case.The case dates back to March 2, 2020, when an FIR was registered against accused Anil Sharma of Khuda Ali Sher, Chandigarh. The complainant had told the police that in 2017, he used to send his children to learn skating from Sharma, and the two families became friends. In December 2019, he came to know that his wife had undergone an abortion and was depressed, he said.The complainant said that his wife revealed that Sharma had “forcibly made physical relations with her and even started blackmailing and threatening her.” He alleged that the accused had physically and mentally harassed his wife.The complainant mentioned in the FIR that when he confronted Sharma, he cut the call and fled to another city. “In January, he came back and when we tried to contact him, his wife threatened us,” the complainant said, adding that his wife was in depression after the episode.He demanded legal action against Sharma for “spoiling his wife’s life”.Counsel for the complainant argued: “The accused is a physical education teacher and the victim’s children were studying in the same school. The accused pressurised and blackmailed the victim and repeatedly raped her, and even threatened to spoil the career of her kids.”Following the arguments, anticipatory bail was denied to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anticipatory-bail-plea-of-rape-accused-dismissed-in-chandigarh/story-0ychF75a5hFc9PoUGXTCEP.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Paswan rakes up slow distribution of free foodgrains, Capt rejects claims||Union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday called the Punjab government out for tardy distribution of foodgrains to 1.41-crore beneficiaries in the state under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).“Punjab was allocated 70,725 tonnes of foodgrains for April under PMGKAY but the state government distributed 688 tonnes which is merely 1% of the total allocation,” Paswan tweeted, urging Amarinder to expedite the distribution of free foodgrains in his state. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on March 26 announced the free supply of 5kg of wheat or rice per person per month and 1kg of preferred pulses every month for three months to deal with the economic impact of the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak.Though Paswan also gave similar details of progress made by several other states in separate tweets on the social networking service, his comments on Punjab triggered a war of words between Union food processing industries minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and chief minister Amarinder Singh. Retweeting Paswan’s comment, Harsimrat asked Amarinder to get his act together and ensure people do not continue to suffer for want of ration. “Please start central ration distribution immediately,” she wrote.Rejecting the Centre’s claims on food supplies to Punjab, the CM accused Harsimrat of misleading the Union food minister. He denied any delay in distribution of free foodgrains received from the Centre, saying the state had received less than 50% of the promised dal (pulses) in the absence of which the wheat grains also could not be distributed.Amarinder said as per the Centre’s own directives, wheat and dal had to be distributed to the eligible beneficiaries during the lockdown/curfew, but pulses were not forthcoming from the central government. Contrary to what Harsimrat had been claiming, the fact was that Punjab had received only about 2,500 MT of the promised 10,800 MT of dal by May 1, he said, adding that the state started distribution with this initial quantity of dal and wheat on May 1 itself, and distribution was currently in progress in 18 districts. He further said the state government had already spent from its own budget to distribute 15 lakh food packets, with each containing 10kg wheat, 2kg Dal and 2kg sugar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paswan-rakes-up-slow-distribution-of-free-foodgrains-capt-rejects-claims/story-OX8VWfueBesVQGcIFIATPP.html
08-05-2020||City||4 booked for quarantine violations||The Sadar Ahmedgarh police have booked four persons, including sarpanch of Khanpur village, near Malerkotla for quarantine violations. The sarpanch and his supporters have alleged that they caught two drug smugglers but police are ‘protecting them’. Police said sarpanch Harbhajan Singh came in contact of a Covid-19 patient and was quarantined along with some others at a government primary school but they violated quarantine. “A resident caught two women carrying drugs in his fields. The sarpanch and others questioned the women when they were passing by the school road. Locals found some capsules from the women’s bags after which one of the women misbehaved with the sarpanch. However, police did not act against the women and booked the sarpanch instead,” said Chamkour Singh, a Khanpur resident.“The accused were identified as sarpanch Harbhajan Singh, Satvir Singh, Jyoti and Bimla, all from Khanpur,” police said. Senior superintendent of police Sandeep Garg said that they have started investigation and assured fair inquiry into the matter. A case was registered for violation of quarantine. And samples of the capsules recovered from the women have been sent to the laboratory. Further action will be taken as per reports, said SSP Garg. The case against the four accused was registered under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC at the Ahmedgarh Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-booked-for-quarantine-violations/story-QuNatubTacPFPEwsz2WMPN.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching case: SP sent on compulsory leave||State home minister Anil Deshmukh late on Thursday announced that Palghar superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh has been sent on compulsory leave over his handling of the April 16 Palghar mob lynching case. The state government has already suspended a few police personnel and officers for their inept handling of the incident, wherein three people were murdered by a mob of tribals during the nationwide lockdown. Deshmukh, on Thursday, visited Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district where the lynching took place. He was accompanied by director general of police (DGP) Subodh Kumar Jaiswal and met local political representatives including MP, MLA and members of gram panchayat. Local political leaders reportedly complained to the minister that the police did not take adequate steps to mitigate the rumours which led to the killings.Deshmukh, in a video message on Thursday, said, “After visiting the village and meeting the elected representatives, we have taken the decision of sending the Palghar SP on compulsory leave. The charge of the post has been given to the additional superintendent of police of Palghar.” On April 16, three men – two seers and their driver – were dragged out of their vehicle outside Gadchinchale village, around 110km from Palghar, and were beaten to death by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters. The incident occurred when the victims were going from Mumbai to Surat to attend a funeral.The deceased were identified as Kalpavriksha Giri, 70; Sushil Giri, 35; and their driver Nilesh Telgade, 30. The seers belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were slated to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri in Surat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-case-sp-sent-on-compulsory-leave/story-D5mQNNW6MpB5V61WeR1wUN.html
08-05-2020||City||Punjab-origin UK MP ‘sacked’ as care worker on Covid-19 frontline||An Indian-origin opposition Labour Party MP, who had returned part-time to her previous role of a care worker to join the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the UK, says she was sacked for speaking out against the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) on the frontlines.Nadia Whittome, born in the UK to a Punjabi father and the youngest member of parliament in the House of Commons representing her birthplace of Nottingham in central England since her win in the December 2019 general election, is now running a drive to encourage care workers to speak out if they have safety concerns.“Because I’ve spoken out about this (PPE shortages) I’ve been sacked from my employment. But this isn’t just about me, it’s not just about one individual case, or even one employer. Care workers across the country are being easily exploited by their employers, especially if they’re on zero-hours contracts,” said the 24-year-old Labour Party MP, who had pledged to donate the salary from her part-time role at the retirement home run by ExtraCare to a local Covid-19 support fund.“If you are one of the care workers who has been pressured or threatened with disciplinary action for speaking out about the lack of PPE, then I’d like you to contact my office, in confidence, to share your experience. It’s really important that we get a picture of the scale of this happening across the country,” she said, in her appeal to care workers.Her employer ExtraCare said in a statement that the reason for Whittome’s contract being terminated was that they no longer required extra staff and also that there were no problems with PPE at the Lark Hill retirement village where she had been based.“Nadia joined us as a casual worker to help our care team and we welcomed her contribution, providing support on eight care shifts during March and April. Our in-house care team is now fulfilling our needs at this time and Nadia’s help is no longer needed,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-uk-mp-sacked-as-care-worker-on-covid-19-frontline/story-gwY95zINovTcjRULgG847H.html
08-05-2020||City||UK announces 4 more flights from Amritsar to London for stranded citizens||The United Kingdom (UK) on Thursday announced five more flights, including four from Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar, to bring stranded British citizens home from India.In a press release, the British High Commission said special flights will be operated from Amritsar airport to Heathrow airport in London on May 12, 13, 14 and 15, besides a flight from Ahmedabad on May 13.“Once these flights are completed, over 16,500 travellers will have been brought back from India on 64 special flights chartered by the government,” said a of British High Commission spokesperson.The spokesperson said, “In the last round of flights, seats on the planes will be allocated to those who have already registered on the government’s online booking portal, Corporate Travel Management (CTM). Staff at the British High Commission in India will continue to provide assistance to those waiting to return to the UK”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uk-announces-4-more-flights-from-amritsar-to-london-for-stranded-citizens/story-uHwVtB9Ih2fYKnWoyu7IPJ.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||First batch of Haryana residents to arrive today from Singapore||The first batch of Haryana residents stranded abroad due to Covid -19 travel restrictions will touch down at New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on Friday morning. The Air India flight (AI381) from Singapore carrying 243 passengers, many of them from Haryana, will reach New Delhi at 11.35 am.The flight schedule of the stranded Haryana residents and the modalities of the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine upon arrival have been worked out following deliberations between foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and state government top brass.The second flight (AI 1242) with 165 passengers on board including Haryana residents from Dhaka in Bangladesh will arrive at New Delhi on May 9 at 3 pm. The third flight (AI 926) from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia with 145 passengers including Haryana residents will arrive at IGIA on May 10 at 8pm.Quarantine facilities for returneesAs per the standard operating procedure (SoP) of the Union ministry of home affairs, all the stranded Indian nationals flying in from foreign shores will be taken to suitable institutional quarantine facilities possibly at the headquarters of the districts to which the arriving passengers belonged. “As per the new instructions, all Haryana residents will be quarantined in Gurugram and Faridabad if numbers from other districts are less. Subsequently, they will be sent to their home district centres as and when the numbers increase,” said an official coordinating the arrivals.Passengers on arrival will be screened and anyone found symptomatic will be taken to a medical facility immediately as per the health protocol.Top officials said that passengers will have to undergo mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine upon arrival. The cost incurred during the quarantine period will have to borne by the passengers. If they test negative after 14 days, the returnees will be allowed to go home and will undertake self-monitoring of their health for another 14 days as per the protocol.Officials said the state government has made arrangements for putting up around 392 passengers at nine private hotels in Gurugram at a daily tariff of around ₹3,600 (including three meals). Similarly, 14 Haryana tourism hotels, including eight in Faridabad, four in Gurugram, and one each in Sonepat and Jhajjar, having capacity to accommodate around 200 people will also be used as quarantine facilities for the returnees.Conservative estimates of the ministry of external affairs have put the number of stranded persons from Haryana at 3,693. However, state officials said it could go up to 5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-batch-of-haryana-residents-to-arrive-today-from-singapore/story-qWQr7T5bWE8Wr1kkC7iNsN.html
08-05-2020||City||Despite work offers, migrant labourers desperate to go home||Even as industrial units are becoming operational with easing of lockdown restrictions in Punjab, migrant labourers are desperate to go back home due to concern for their families, fear of Covid-19 infection and uncertainty over their future.Kailash Kumar, 40, an industrial worker of Jalandhar who hails from Bahraich (Uttar Pradesh), said, “We are concerned about our families back home and want to leave as soon as possible.” Kailash said he and several of his co-workers are waiting for the confirmation of their train bookings.Nearly one lakh migrants, majority of them factory workers, have registered with the district administration to go back to their home states on special trains. Seven ‘Shramik Express’ trains have already departed from the city to different states, ferrying around 8,400 migrant labourers since May 5. Manoj Kumar, 29, hailing from Bihar, who worked in a dyeing factory in Jalandhar, said there is an uncertainty about their future. “Even if the factory resumes operations, we will be working under the fear of virus infection. We will rather go back home and live with our families.”Gagan Kumar of Bihar, a construction worker in Nabha subdivision of Patiala, says his mother has been facing health problems back home. “My contractor is calling for construction work now. However, I want rush home. We don’t know when will get the next chance to return home.”Sunil Mandal, another migrant labourer from Bihar, said, “We have had a tough time during the lockdown period so far. Though we have work opportunities now, my family is worried and insisting me to return home.” So far, over 35,000 migrant labourers have registered for their return in Patiala district.Narinder Singh Saggu, president of focal point industrial units association, said the government should have consultations with industrialists so that the workers’ apprehensions could be resolved.Onkar Singh Agaul, state general secretary of BKU (Rajewal), said, “The government should have made all possible efforts to keep back migrant labourers in Punjab to revive the economy of the state and save paddy growers from the farm labour crisis.”Meanwhile, as many as 1,188 migrant labourers left for Gonda (Uttar Pradesh) from Amritsar on a Shramik Express train on Thursday. Deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said proper screening of passengers was carried out by health workers before they boarded the train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-work-offers-migrant-labourers-desperate-to-go-home/story-KX9ZWOsBoHR1PfarRKdSCM.html
08-05-2020||City||Teen leaves for UP on foot, Khanna police hand him over to parents||A 14-year-old boy, who had left Ludhiana on foot for his native village in Uttar Pradesh, was rescued on Thursday night.Members of the Child Welfare Society, Khanna, had found the teenaged boy, a resident of Janta Nagar, Ludhiana, wandering on the streets and taken him to the Khanna police station.Society member Munish Verma said when they found the boy, he revealed that he had left his house without informing his parents.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajan Parminder Singh said, “The boy was feeling bored due to isolation amid lockdown and decided to head out for his native village in UP after his parents refused to leave. But, by the time he reached Khanna, he felt weary and realised that he won’t be able to make it to his native village.”The boy’s father, who is a labourer, said once the boy came to know that the government had arranged trains and buses for migrant labourers, he had started pressuring him and his wife to leave for their native village. But they were not ready to go, so he left on his own, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-leaves-for-up-on-foot-khanna-police-hand-him-over-to-parents/story-DFUuUGIw1GYkErFDbDkVAI.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh writes to Modi, seeks exit strategy from lockdown||Reiterating his demand for grants to the states to meet the revenue shortfall and expenditure on coronavirus containment, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clearly define an exit strategy from lockdown and the way forward for economic revival.In a letter to the Prime Minister, Amarinder said the exit strategy should not only lay down the parameters to contain coronavirus within safe limits but also define the path of economic revival with focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the states. He also urged the PM to give directions to ministries in this regard in order to enable states to formulate clear strategies and path, post lockdown 3.0. The CM said this was necessary as Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdowns had led to unprecedented losses of jobs, businesses, and economic opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/captain-amarinder-singh-writes-to-modi-seeks-exit-strategy-from-lockdown/story-QkyzDYjcNCRgyZsTtP1b4H.html
08-05-2020||City||Opening liquor vends ridiculous: Akal Takht jathedar||Criticising the Punjab government’s decision to open liquor vends and provide home delivery of booze, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Thursday said the move was ridiculous as places of worship, which act as immunity boosters, were closed.On places of worship in Muktsar being asked to announce on loud speakers that liquor vends had opened, the jathedar said the incident was unfortunate. “Sale of liquor should not be allowed. Shopping malls, cloth stores and other shops are closed. Why are liquor sales being prioritised? The move will also cause an increase in cases of domestic violence,” he said, during a media interaction at the Akal Takht Secretariat.“All temples, mosques and gurdwaras have been closed by the government. Where will people go to express their devotion? People’s devotion acts like an immunity booster and is key in the fight against Covid-19,”he said. TREAT COVID-19 PATIENTS RESPECTFULLY He condemned the vilification of Nanded pilgrims who tested positive for Covid-19. “Those infected are victims not criminals and they should be treated respectfully. Strict action should be taken against those who utter derogatory remarks against them,” the jathedar said.“First, attempts were made to target the sangat, which had gathered at Sri Anandpur Sahib during the Holla Mohalla festival after Baldev Singh of Nawanshahr tested positive for Covid-19. Then, our NRI brothers from Punjab were targeted. Now, the pilgrims who returned from Takht Hazur Sahib, Nanded, are being vilified, which is condemnable”, said Giani Harpreet Singh.‘ONLY PILGRIMS BEING BLAMED’ The jathedar said, “Punjabi workers from Maharashtra had also joined pilgrims at Nanded to avail the transport facility provided to them. They took shelter at the gurdwara there, which was not wrong, but, only the pilgrims are being defamed.”“This vilification drive against pilgrims will not be tolerated at any cost. No person, who tests positive for the coronavirus, should be treated like a criminal.”On quarantining Nanded-returnees in congregation halls of Dera Radha Soami, the Akal Takht jathedar said, “There are no accommodation arrangements at deras. These deras have only sheds not rooms and rapidly heat up during the day, but pilgrims are forced to live in them. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has appealed the government to shift them to gurdwara serais, which have rooms, but the government seems adamant on keeping them at deras.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/opening-liquor-vends-ridiculous-akal-takht-jathedar/story-P11Q2EqSr7UwaRScABrERM.html
08-05-2020||City||40 Nanded pilgrims among 55 more test +ve in Punjab, tally 1,715||The samples of 55 more people, including 40 who returned from pilgrimage to Takht Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded recently, were tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday.With this, the state’s tally of those infected with the disease reached 1,715.Twenty fresh positive cases with Nanded link were reported in Gurdaspur. So far, 109 cases have been detected in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said a total of 1,626 suspected patients of coronavirus were detected in the district, of which 1,208 turned out to be negative whereas the reports of 325 were awaited.Also, 13 men, all Nanded returnees aged between 20 and 68, are from Tarn Taran district where the Covid-19 tally reached 157 of which 156 are pilgrims. One man had come from Rajasthan.Deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the 13 positive patients were quarantined at the Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College at Sarhali village.11 new patients in JalandharIn Jalandhar, 11 fresh positive cases of infection surfaced on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 148.The health department officials said all 11 patients were close contacts of a 30-year-old Covid-19 patient who succumbed to the disease at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Tuesday. The 30-year-old, a resident of Qazi Mohalla, had tested positive on April 30.The new patients, aged between 18 and 65, include four Qazi Mohalla residents, four from Rasta Mohalla and three from Killa Mohalla. So far, a total of 19 contacts, including 10 women, of the Covid casualty have tested positive so far, the officials said.As many as 4,618 samples have been collected in the district, of which 3,295 tested negative while the results of 1,057 are awaited.8 fresh cases in AmritsarIn Amritsar, eight more people were found infected with the virus on Thursday, taking the total number of those found positive in the district to 274.Civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “Of the eight, six are pilgrims who returned from Nanded. The other two are their close contacts. Of a total of 274 total cases in Amritsar, 255 are Nanded returnees and their contacts.”Bathinda ASI among 2 infectedIn Bathinda, two persons were found positive, taking the tally of those infected in the district to 39. The reports were received late Wednesday night.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said one of the patients is a Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) who had gone to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back Punjab students stranded there while the other returned from Jaisalmer in the neighbouring state. The Jaisalmer-returned man worked as a labourer. Both were quarantined after they reached Bathinda.In Faridkot, an 80-year-old woman, who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra, tested positive for the coronavirus on Thursday, taking the district’s count to 45.The elderly woman was admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “The woman was quarantined upon her return and her swab samples were sent for testing. A total of 130 pilgrims have returned to the district from Hazur Sahib, of whom 38 tested positive while reports of 21 are pending. At present, there is only one active case in the district.”(Also inputs from Bathinda and Faridkot)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/20-nanded-pilgrims-among-39-more-test-ve-in-punjab-tally-1-673/story-eMIozRQlBe9AppwuoCDOSL.html
08-05-2020||City||Five of family including infant test Covid-positive||A two-month-old girl from Dombivli (West), her 33-year-old mother and three more members of her family tested Covid-positive on Thursday. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) health department said the infant got infected from her 35-year-old father, who tested positive on Tuesday. The baby’s father works at APMC market in Vashi.A 32-year-food delivery boy, a resident of Kalyan (East) and working in Mumbai, has also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-of-family-including-infant-test-covid-positive/story-OXCevqauS4UYgmYfarbCTO.html
08-05-2020||City||Kurukshetra cane growers in a fix as Shahbad sugar mill stops ops||Thousands of sugarcane growers associated with the Shahbad Cooperative Sugar Mill in Kurukshetra are facing tough time selling their produce since the administration stopped the crushing operations after a 52-year-old mill employee was found infected with coronavirus on May 1.The mill was yet to crush over 6 lakh quintals or around 2,000 acres of sugarcane. A senior government official familiar with the development said the sugarcane harvesting was in the last phase. “Earlier, the management of the Shahbad sugar mill had made a pact with two private mills in Yamunanagar and Karnal’s Bhadson for the procurement of the remaining produce,” he added. Saraswati Sugarmill of Yamunanagar has agreed to crush 3 lakh quintals of sugarcane of farmers associated with the Shahbad mill, but the management of Bhadson mill later refused to do so. Now, the remaining produce has been allocated to the cooperative sugar mill in Kaithal. The development has left the farmers worried as it will increase their transportation cost and the government is yet to announce any financial assistance. “The development has delayed the harvesting as it will not only affect the yield, but also put extra burden on us as we would have to travel 85km extra to sell our produce in Yamunanagar,” said Krishan Kumar, a farmer from Deeg village in Kurukshetra. Another farmer, Gaurav, from Yara village said, “My 400 quintals of sugarcane are yet to be harvested and I am waiting for the sugar mill to send me indents to purchase my produce.” Managing director of Shahbad Cooperative Sugar Mill Sushil Kumar said, “We have made arrangements for the remaining 6 lakh quintals of sugarcane with the nearby mills. But, as of now, there is no discussion to compensate the farmers for selling their produce to other mills,” he added. The private sugar mill in Yamunanagar has crushing capacity of around 1 lakh quintal per day and it could crush the entire produce by May 15. But, the farmers who have been told to sell their produce to Kaithal cooperative mill might face problems as the mill’s capacity is around 25,000 quintals per day and it will take several more days to crush the crop allocated to the mill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kurukshetra-cane-growers-in-a-fix-as-shahbad-sugar-mill-stops-ops/story-4HNj91nbLwTc2qa6IkHG4N.html
08-05-2020||City||PAU cautions farmers against desert locust attack in Punjab||Agri scientists at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) have cautioned farmers against a possible desert locust attack in the border areas of Punjab and Rajasthan. The advisory has been issued after locust sightings in Fazilka, and considering the heat-driven continuous breeding activity of locusts in the Middle East and Pakistan.Entomology department head PK Chhuneja said in the last couple of weeks, small groups of hoppers (wingless nymphs) had been witnessed in some areas of Rajasthan and Punjab. “These locusts are sneaking into India from Pakistan. They are likely to arrive in swarms and damage the vegetation in the border areas of Rajasthan and Punjab,” he said.Chhuneja added that swarms of locusts invaded India during monsoon. But they appeared in January and February this year due to climatic changes.He added that if farmers observed any activity of hoppers or flying locusts, they must immediately inform PAU or the Punjab agriculture department to suppress their invasion. “The hoppers, which move by jumping, can be crushed under wide-wheel vehicles. The flying locusts can be scared away by creating loud drumming sounds or by using torches,” the PAU advisory read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-cautions-farmers-against-desert-locust-attack-in-punjab/story-LrnlPCqV7EjEOPlO6z3o6J.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Two gymkhanas at Marine Lines to be converted into Covid care centres||As Mahalakshmi racecourse is being prepared to be converted into quarantine centre for Covid-19 patients, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is also in the process of converting two gymkhanas at Marine Lines into Covid care centres. The establishments will have 180 beds in total. The facility will be a part of BMC’s plan to set up 34,000 beds in quarantine centres across the cityChakrapani Alle, assistant municipal commissioner, under whose jurisdiction the Hindu and Catholic Gymkhanas lie, said that they will have 80 and 100 beds respectively.“We are in the process of converting these two gymkhanas into Covid care centres, which will work as quarantine centres for asymptomatic patients. The place has been finalised and will be ready in the next few days,” said Alle.Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, BMC, said as of Wednesday, there were 14,000 beds available for asymptomatic patients, including in various grounds across the city which have already been converted into Covid care centres.“The one at NESCO is almost ready and will be the biggest quarantine centre in the city. Another one at NSCI Dome is also ready. All these quarantine centres can be used in the next 10 days,” said Shah.Presently, there are 3,000 beds available for critical patients and the BMC is in the process of setting up 4,750 beds for them at Nair, KEM and Seven Hills hospitals, among others. In addition to mobile ICU beds planned at NSCI Dome.According to details provided with the civic body, 7,500 beds are in place for symptomatic Covid-19 patients in hospitals, with 5,000 beds identified through private facilities. There is also a plan to identify around 750 ICU beds.At a parking lot of Mahalakshmi Race Course, a 200-bed isolation facility is being set up, Mahim Nature Park is being set up with 600 beds, Richardson and Cruddas factory near Sir JJ Hospital will have 200 beds, Bandra Kurla Complex’s exhibition grounds to house 500 beds; Nehru Science Centre and Andheri Sports complex will have 100 beds each. The civic body is also preparing 350 municipal schools to create an additional capacity of 35,000 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-gymkhanas-at-marine-lines-to-be-converted-into-covid-care-centres/story-0eQWcxdgoQzH0bX0h4mDsL.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Around 4K objections against draft EIA rules filed from Maharashtra||Alleging that the Centre was diluting environment protection laws to allow construction in ecologically important areas, citizens and environment groups have filed 3,971 objections against the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification, 2020 proposed by the Union environment ministry. On March 12, the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) presented the new rules that will replace the 2006 EIA notification, which is presently in force, in their attempt to make the existing norms ‘more transparent and expedient’ in issuing environment clearances for development projects. The government defended the changes saying the idea is to introduce procedures to bring violations, for example work done without prior environment clearance leading to ecological damage, under regulations at the earliest in the interest of environment safety. “EIA 2020 has been envisaged to uncover all loopholes that were left unchecked in previous norms, and ensure a complete balance between development and conservation,” said a senior MoEFCC official.The draft was published as an official gazette on March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown. It has allowed suggestions and objections to be filed within a period of 60 days which ends on May 21. However, the ministry on Thursday announced an extension of the deadline till June 30.Environmental collective Let India Breathe, which is campaigning against the changes in law, said the lockdown has restricted their dissent. “We hope to democratise it (the notification) through our objections,” said Yash Marwah, a member of the collective. “The state’s failure to hold the notification for a little longer makes us wonder whether there is a larger picture we are missing.”Environmental groups say the new rules are a watered down version of the 2006 norms, but with provisions to protect industries rather than the environment as it does away with public consultations before granting clearances.Projects like highway expansions have been exempted from getting prior clearance, said members from Jhatkaa.org, a Bengaluru-based advocacy organisation. “This is being done even though there is clear evidence of the threat of fragmentation of wildlife habitats and the emergence of zoonotic diseases like Covid-19,” said Meghna Amin, a campaigner the organisation, and called for the notification to be scrapped in its entirety. “From excluding new industries from the list which requires environmental clearance, to reducing number of public consultations, the draft norms mainly look to serve the business community. Fewer public consultations mean a lesser chance for local, vulnerable communities to voice their opinions.” Environment groups say the new rules exclude industries such as electronic waste management, large-scale renewable energy projects, and geo-engineering technologies from its purview. Projects that promote continued fossil fuel dependence, such as coalbed methane extraction, onshore or offshore oil and gas drilling etc., are exempted in the draft rules.“This notification runs totally opposite to the solid environmental jurisprudence developed by courts in this country,” said Zaman Ali, an environment lawyer. “Going against an order by the Supreme Court, the draft norms allow post-facto environment clearance (approval after a project has begun) wherein violators can pay and have their violations condoned. This does not create deterrence. ‘Polluter pays’ changes to ‘pollute and pay’.”Ali explained how, according to the draft rules, projects, including those proposed by polluting industries such as operations for soda ash, chemical fertilisers, ammonia, acids, pesticides, fiber, petroleum and petrochemical products, dyes, synthetics, paints, are exempted from public consultation if the factories are located inside a ‘notified industrial estate’. “All building and construction projects are now off the peril of public consultation too,” he said.Mumbai-based environment group Vanashakti, which raised objections to the changes, highlighted that if the draft is finalised it will cause permanent damage to the landscape. The group has raised concerns about relaxation in rules about land levelling, land acquisition, mining and transportation of materials. “The need of the hour, considering climate change, water crisis, outbreaks of zoonotic virus pandemics, is to strengthen the existing legislation; not dilute it further,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti. “What’s worse is that due to the prevailing lockdown most of the country is at standstill and residents are not be able to file their objections on time.”The MoEFCC official said all objections will be considered by a panel constituted specifically to assess issues raised by citizens. “We have received some letters. We will study them after the final deadline,” he said.HOW TO SEND YOUR RESPONSESObjections or suggestions on the draft notification can be sent in writing to the secretary, MoEFCC, Indira Paryavaran Bhawan, Jor Bagh Road, Aliganj, New Delhi 110003, or by e-mail to eia2020-moefcc@gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/around-4k-objections-against-draft-eia-rules-filed-from-maharashtra/story-dA1vUTfV0Bs0UeWJ1hfYTI.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Gathering held at Gymkhana in Bandra, alleges lawyer||An advocate recently approached the Bandra police station to file a complaint against Bandra gymkhana for allegedly holding a gathering to commemorate the 85th anniversary of the establishment, amidst the Covid-19 lockdown. However, a senior police officer from the police station said no complaint has been filed.The gymkhana president did not respond to repeated calls and messages.Adil Khatri, an advocate, said that to celebrate 85th anniversary of the gymkhana, members gathered, sang and danced at the premises, even when the gymkhana was shut. A video of the event was posted on social media which was pulled down on Thursday. “People can be seen dancing in the video, some of them are wearing masks, some are without it. Action should be taken against them,” said Khatri.A source said the video was recorded on April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/gathering-held-at-gymkhana-in-bandra-alleges-lawyer/story-uBdbILT2P8DMxxkOa2vRRM.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Facing flak, Fadnavis apologises for tweet on Shahu Maharaj||After drawing flak over his tweet on Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, former chief minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday apologised for the post and said the thought of disrespecting the legendary ruler can never come to his mind.Fadnavis, in his tweet on the occasion of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj’s death anniversary on May 6 to pay tributes to him, had referred to Shahu Maharaj of Kolhapur – revered as a progressive king and social reformer in Maharashtra – as a “social worker”. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Sambhaji Raje on Thursday sought a public apology from Fadnavis for hurting sentiments of the followers of late Shahu Maharaj. He tweeted, “Former CM Devendra Fadnavis must apologise to all Shiv-Shahu devotees. He has hurt sentiments of all Shiv-Shahu devotees including myself in the state.”Fadnavis said, “I had asked my office to make the change in the tweet when I learned about the earlier mistake. The thought of disrespecting him (Shahu Maharaj) cannot ever come into my mind. I admit that sentiments of people are hurt. I apologise for it.” Raje was nominated to Rajya Sabha by the BJP four years ago with Fadnavis taking the lead to get him under the BJP umbrella.Fadnavis has recently been having a tough time on social media websites. Last week, the BJP state unit had even submitted a complaint to the city police commissioner against social media trolls for targeting the former CM. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-mp-seeks-apology-from-fadnavis-over-tweet-on-shahu-maharaj/story-l41eGncfA0QzyQO68KuzwK.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||SSC paper evaluation: Edu board talks to authorities, teachers about travel permissions||Two days after teachers and state education board staff were allowed to travel to pick up SSC (Class 10) answer papers to evaluate, the Mumbai divisional board is now taking all local authorities into confidence for the process.Sandeep Sangave, secretary, Mumbai divisional board, said that they have written to all the authorities to facilitate smooth transportation of answer papers from storage centres to the evaluators. “We could have given permission letters to teachers earlier, but we first wanted to take all the authorities into confidence. We have also spoken to education department officials and school principals,” he said.Teachers will start getting permission letters today, allowing them to travel to their schools to pick up the papers after they provide the letter as proof. Similarly, teachers who have already evaluated papers can send them to the moderators through the school or board staff.The Mumbai division of the school education board also covers schools in Thane, Raigad, and Palghar. Barring Raigad, all other areas come under the red zone where there are travel restrictions because of the coronavirus.Teachers said that they are awaiting instructions from the board. “Especially in red zones, we are worried about how transportation would take place. Some relaxation can be given in case there is no movement allowed,” said Uday Nare, teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri.The board is hoping that once permissions are in place, evaluation work can take place soon and results can be declared on time. The state board usually declares Class 12 results in the last week of May and Class 10 results are out by the second week of June. A Supreme Court order mandates the declaration of results by June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssc-paper-evaluation-edu-board-talks-to-authorities-teachers-about-travel-permissions/story-WzIZcF8kx5P48SzRFDZoOM.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC reserves civic school in Kurla under monsoon contingency plan for Mithi banks||As part of its contingency evacuation plan for those living along the banks of Mithi river, as the river overflows almost every monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is reserving the Bail Bazar municipal school in Kurla which can house between 800 and 1,000 persons.Unlike the 350 other municipal schools in the city, Bail Bazar municipal school is not being converted into a Covid Care Centre (CCC) despite its large capacity in a bid to reserve it for monsoon. BMC is also preparing a plan for monsoon evacuees in view of social distancing rules. Fortunately, the areas that may need evacuation owing to monsoon have not seen any Covid-19 cases so far.Almost every year during monsoon months, the civic body is forced to move around 400 to 600 people living in four to five localities along the banks of Mithi, as the river overflows owing to heavy rain and high tide. The most-affected areas include Kranti Nagar, Indira Nagar and Bamandaya Pada in Andheri (East). BMC’s disaster management department generally prepare an evacuation plan, and the residents are moved to nearby municipal schools with the help of the local ward offices. However, in light of the crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, major municipal schools across the city have been converted into quarantine centres to house asymptomatic positive patients and contacts of Covid-19 patients. Residents of slums where homes are congested, where residents use community toilets and where Covid-19 cases have been reported are also being moved to quarantine centres as a safety measure.Manish Walunju, assistant commissioner of L ward which covers these areas, said, “That school is not being converted into a CCC. I will need it during the monsoon. It a four-storey structure with two halls on the ground floor. So, about 800 to 1,000 people can stay there. If we need to evacuate people from Mithi’s banks during monsoon and this school is in walking distance from these two-three localities.”BMC is also preparing a plan with special instructions for maintaining social distancing norms in case more than 400 to 600 people need to be evacuated. Walunju said, “We have one-and-a-half month to chalk out the plan as the heavy rains are likely in June and July, going by the pattern every year. Since the school is in walking distance from the areas that we evacuate, it will be easier to plan keeping social distancing in mind.” Last year, BMC had moved about 400 people living in Kranti Nagar to this municipal school.Saeeda Khan, a corporator from L ward, said, “We have insisted that BMC divert the overflowing water to Vikhroli and Airoli creeks by micro tunnelling. This is the long-term solution. In case they need to shift people this year due to waterlogging, I will insist that BMC come up with a social distancing plan to ensure the rooms in the school do not get crowded with too many beds, and that they detect Covid-19 positive cases well in advance, if there are any, to avoid other residents coming in contact with people who may be carrying the virus while staying in the school. I am also going to ask for a separate school to be reserved for residents who live in Indira Nagar as a monsoon contingency plan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-reserves-civic-school-in-kurla-under-monsoon-contingency-plan-for-mithi-banks/story-xaBR2kX2ql46jDc2nU6MaP.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||University exam dates to be out today: Samant||The state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Thursday evening tweeted that a final decision on the status of university examinations will be announced at 1 pm on Friday. This statement comes almost a month after Samant formed an expert committee including vice-chancellors of state universities, directors of state common entrance test (CET) cell and directorate of technical education (DTE) as well as other experts, to come up with a concrete plan for the current and next academic year.“A committee of vice-chancellors presented their report to the government today. The same was discussed with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the examination dates for higher and technical education will be declared on Friday at 1 pm,” Samant posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-exam-dates-to-be-out-today-samant/story-q1yy5Fnywau9RH9lvZYirN.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC pins hope on two drugs for Covid-19 treatment||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is pinning hopes on two drugs – Itolizumab, used to treat skin condition psoriasis; and Tocilizumab, used in case of rheumatoid arthritis – for treatment of Covid-19 patients.A 35-year-old critically ill Covid-19 patient, who was put on a clinical trial for Itolizumab at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital on Saturday, has shown improvement, said doctors. The BMC now plans to administer the drug to patients at BYL Nair Hospital from Friday. Itolizumab is manufactured by a Bengaluru-based biotech company, Biocon, which has “repurposed” the drug for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The drug has been classified as a humanisedanti-CD6 monoclonal antibody, which means it is a molecule produced in a laboratory using living organisms. Once incubated into the body, it acts as an antibody, which can restore the immune system’s attack on foreign bodies. According to doctors at KEM, the pneumonitis in the lower zone of the 35-year-old patient’s both the lungs has improved. Also, his dependency on external oxygen has reduced. “The patient was on ventilator support. We have not taken it off, but he is recovering properly. We can administer it to more patients, if they agree for the trial,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital. Dr Mohan Joshi, in-charge of Nair Hospital, said, “We have got permission to start the clinical trial for Itolizumab from Friday. Patients are selected for the trial depending on their health condition. It is not clear how many patients will be treated using the drug.”The other drug, Tocilizumab, is produced by Roche and marketed by Cipla. It helps prevent extreme inflammation in gravely ill Covid-19 patients. Of the 19 critically ill patients who were given the drug, 16 have shown signs of clinical recovery in radiological analysis within 24 hours. Their oxygen saturation in blood has also improved. “We have noticed considerable improvement in the health of the critically ill patients within 24 hours,” said Dr Joshi. “It will be tough to conclude the Itolizumab clinical trial a success depending on only one patient. Clinical trials need assessments of several patients which require time,” added Dr Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-pins-hope-on-two-drugs-for-covid-19-treatment/story-vlVQuO0nx95M6QdX7wnZsI.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B admin yet to decide on exams||With uncertainty looming over spring semester exams, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has asked its students not to believe rumours about cancellation of exams, saying that the administration is yet to take a decision on the matter.On March 28, amid the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the institute announced an early summer vacation from April 1 to May 31, 2020. It, however, did not clarify the status of spring semester examinations, which are usually held in March. Last week, there were rumours that the institute had cancelled the exams altogether which led to anxiety among many students. However, on Wednesday, IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri dispelled the rumours and said a final decision was pending.“During pandemic of this kind, such rumours add to the agony and anxiety of the students who are away from the campus right now. Please stop spreading such fake news. Our senate will take a decision on this soon, and it will be reported on the institute’s website to inform all students,” said Chaudhuri.An expert committee formed by the Central government had, last month, suggested that universities hold online examinations. Meanwhile, different IITs have chalked out plans to conduct exams in batches while maintaining social distancing guidelines laid down by the Central government. While IIT-Roorkee has prioritised its final year students for the completion of semester, IIT-Madras may allow its students to take their exams at the nearest IIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-admin-yet-to-decide-on-exams/story-7bJMHneyygYMUzdBrSo7QM.html
08-05-2020||City||Reopening order fails to lift liquor vendors’ spirits||Ludhiana/Bathinda Liquor vends remained shut in almost all districts of the state on Thursday, with owners claiming they would not be able to pay government fee for opening in the prevailing business conditions. In Ludhiana, 750 liquor vends in 150 groups remained shut. On Wednesday, the state excise and taxation department had issued an order allowing liquor vends to open from 9am to 3pm with home delivery allowed till 6pm. Punjab was one of the first states to seek permission from the Centre to seek opening of vends, but is yet to put a system in place, to actually do this, four days after this was allowed in phase 3 of the lockdown on May 3. The state has targeted an annual revenue of around Rs 6,200 crore from the trade. In April, the state lost around Rs 550 crore. A wine contractor Neeraj said, “We demand the withdrawal of quota system as regular sales cannot happen in these times. We are ready to open vends if the government fixes commission on sale of liquor.” Another contractor said, “We should not be levied fee for the days lost due to the curfew.” In South Malwa region, liquor vends did not open in Bathinda, Fazilka and Muktsar. Home delivery did not take off. In Bathinda, of 350 vends, only six opened in rural areas. In Mansa, vends opened in only three rural zones. Ferozepur deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) HPS Gotra said less than 15% vends opened in Ferozepur, Faridkot and Moga districts, adding contractors were not keen on home delivery. Muktsar DC MK Aravind Kumar said due to the pandemic, only home delivery was allowed till May 10.Former SAD MLA and liquor baron Deep Malhotra, who has the majority share in liquor business in Bathinda district, told HT that liquor traders wanted the state government to compensate them for loss of business during lockdown. “It is unfair to charge a fee from contractors for 2020-21 fiscal on last year’s revenue, while allowing us to work only for a limited time,” said Malhotra, adding home delivery was not workable. “Due to the pandemic, most of our labour is going to their native places, causing staff shortage. Home delivery also entails risk of infection,” Malhotra added.Of 47 groups of liquor contractors, only three opened vends in Jalandhar on Thursday. Owners have sought relaxation in licence fee and slashing of tax. In Sangrur, vend owners said the government should clarify whether their licences would be considered valid from April 1 or May 7.In Majha, no vend opened. “Until a new policy that offers tax relaxation is not brought in, we will not open,” said a Tarn Taran contractor. In Amritsar, which has over 300 positive covid-19 cases, no shop was allowed to open. Shops did not open in Barnala as well.State cabinet to take call todayChief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, who is also financial commissioner, taxation, did not respond to calls and messages. A senior officer in the chief minister’s office (CMO), however, said this was just a matter of operationalising the liquor vends. “The lockdown restrictions have just been relaxed and they (liquor contractors) need labour, premises, etc. I am sure they will operationalise very soon,” he said. On their demands, he said these issues would come up before the state council of ministers on Friday. “The lockdown has altered the entire financial year and the state has lost about one month of excise sales. There will be some amendments in policy, accordingly. The excise and taxation department is putting up an agenda before the cabinet, which will take the final decision,” he said.— With inputs from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Barnala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-order-fails-to-lift-liquor-vendors-spirits/story-kXkIfsCv2iy1OIRqfAJYzH.html
08-05-2020||City||1,200 leave in second Shramik Special from Hisar to Muzaffarpur||The second Shramik Special train left with 1,200 migrant labourers of various Haryana districts to Muzaffarpur in Bihar from Hisar railway station on Thursday.Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa, MLA Kamal Gupta, Hisar mayor Gautam Sardana, DC Hisar Priyanka Soni and SP Ganga Ram Punia flagged off the train.Total 1,200 migrants from Jind, Kaithal, Gurugram, Karnal, Bhiwani, Narnaul, Panipat, Ambala, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Yamunanagar, Dadri and Hansi reached Hisar in 37 Haryana Roadways buses to leave for eight districts of Bihar.DC Priyanka Soni said the migrant labourers will reach Muzaffarpur, where they will be quarantined and later allowed to go to their homes. Mayor Sardana, who distributed food, mask and hand sanitiser to the passengers, said, “With the help of various organisations, we prepared meals for the labourers and distributed among them. The administration is also provided them food and one-time meals will be arranged by the Railways as well.”Jhajjar DC Jitender Kumar said they had got requests from 151 migrant labourers. “We arranged five Haryana Roadways buses to send them to Hisar from Jhajjar,” he added.A migrant labourer, Rajesh Kumar, said after their health screening in Jhajjar, they were allowed to board the bus. “The administration helped us in every possible way,” he added.“Shramik Special” train leaves from Ambala Cantonment railway station for Bihar Amid heavy security and health check-ups, 1,188 migrant labourers from seven districts of Haryana boarded the first “Shramik Special” train from Ambala Cantonment railway station that left for Bihar on Thursday. The 24-coach train with around 54 passengers in each departed in the evening and is bound for Katihar district. Most of the migrants are from Saharsa, Madhyapura, Supaul, Aria and Purnia districts of Bihar. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said, “Various teams have provided food packets, sanitisers, water bottles and masks to the travellers. Health check-ups have also been conducted on all of them before entering the station premises. Passengers include labourers from Ambala, Panipat, Bhiwani, Jind, Fatehabad, Hisar and Kaithal districts.” “They were provided tickets for free and we ensured seating arrangement is such that social distancing is maintained in each compartment,” Sharma added. Some of the passengers were visibly happy going home and a female passenger thanked a health official after her check-up before entering the station. Railway officials said the train will run via Saharanpur and is expected to reach its destination at 5pm on Friday. A passenger from Jind said, “I’m going back to my home in Madhyapura after almost six months. I was working at a grain market in Jind’s Mullana and was stuck amid the lockdown. We were told about this special train by the local police and were subsequently brought here by a bus.”(With inputs from Bhavey Nagpal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-200-leave-in-second-shramik-special-from-hisar-to-muzaffarpur/story-Ap87P63yrFZdhlYNBnHfwL.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Waiter stabs colleague while fighting over mobile phone||A day after Mumbai shut down liquor shops again, a 31-year-old waiter, in an inebriated state, stabbed his colleague while fighting over a mobile phone on Wednesday morning.The accused, Nitin Bhise, was arrested by Vakola police. The injured waiter, Laxman Rawal, 34, has been admitted to VN Desai Hospital. Ravindra Ram, a waiter and the witness, in his statement to the police said, “On Wednesday around 4.15amm, an argument started between Bhise and me when I asked him to return my phone which he was using. He got angry and started abusing me. Rawal intervened when Bhise started hitting me and took my phone from him and handed it over to me. However, Bhise threatened to kill him and then stabbed Rawal on his stomach with a knife”Kailash Avhad, senior inspector from Vakola police station, confirmed the case and said Bhise was booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and is currently in police custody till May 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/waiter-stabs-colleague-while-fighting-over-mobile-phone/story-dCuFz2elWsSnHwGiDTH77J.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha reports highest single-day toll of 43 deaths||Maharashtra recorded 1,216 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, second-highest increase in a day so far.The death toll of the state also touched 694 as 43 fatalities, highest ever in a day, were registered on Thursday.The state’s case count, which went up to 17,974, is most likely to cross the 18,000 mark on Friday, eight days after it crossed 10,000 cases on April 30.The average of new cases daily has gone up to 1,000, raising concerns over the spread of the pandemic. In the second half of April, the average was 500.In Mumbai, the worst-hit city across the country, the case count also reached 11,394 with 680 new cases, prompting the Centre as well as the state government to plan aggressive quarantine arrangements, especially for congested areas and slums like Dharavi, where containing the disease is proving to be a major challenge for authorities.Of Thursday’s deaths, 24 were in Mumbai, seven in Pune, five in Vasai-Virar, two in Solapur, and one each in Palghar, Aurangabad and Akola. Also, one patient each from Manipur and Bihar died in Mumbai on Thursday. Of the deaths, 29 patients had comorbid conditions, said the health officials.In the past seven days, the state has registered 7,476 cases, which indicates that it is getting almost 1,000 new cases on a daily basis.However, the state government clarified that as many as 939 of the total cases are backlog figures, which were registered in the past few days and it will be streamlined once the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) application for daily data-entry of coronavirus cases is available on May 8.State officials also indicated a further rise in cases and said that the curve will be flattened only after completion of the fourth incubation period on May 17 and decline in cases is likely to start only by this month end. It could mean the peak in number of cases is yet to come.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said, “The graph will increase even further as several containment areas are densely populated so it is natural that it will affect a large number of people. The fresh cases are likely to increase a bit more in the coming days but by May 17 the curve will flatten because then we will be completing the fourth incubation period and by the end of this month, the number will start coming down.”Between April 19 and 30, the state was getting around 500 new cases on a daily basis but from May 1, the figures started showing significant rise.On May 1, the daily cases rose to 1,008, May 2 had 790 cases, May 3 had 678, May 4 had 771, May 5 had 841 and May 6 reported 1,233 cases. Besides, on May 4 & 5, the state also declared 796 and 143 cases additionally, saying that they were registered in the last few days and are being declared as per the Central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the ICMR website.“The number of fresh cases has increased, but it cannot be called as exponential growth as we are also declaring backlog figures. It means, the data entry at laboratories are getting delayed due to some technical reason and figures get accumulated. To deal with this, ICMR is now coming up with an application on which data entry will be made on a daily basis and backlog figures will be removed. Only then we will come to know whether there is exponential growth or not,” Dr Lahane said.The first case in the state was found on March 9 and it took 30 days to the state to cross the 1,000 mark.In Mumbai, the worst-hit city across country, the case count also reached 11,394 as 680 new cases were registered in a day. The death toll of Mumbai also reached 437.The state health department said it is yet to add another 146 cases in Mumbai figures following ICMR website due to lack of reconciliation.Considering the rapid rise in Mumbai, the state government has now directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to start aggressive institutional quarantine to contain the spread in the city by acquiring additional grounds and halls.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the department has directed the Mumbai civic body to start “aggressive” institutional quarantine to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases. Tope said that a Central team, which is in Mumbai to oversee the preparedness, has suggested that the civic body should ramp up its institutional quarantine facilities.The minister added that social distancing measures cannot be followed in small houses in slums such as Dharavi, and therefore, close contacts of the people who test positive for coronavirus have to be kept in institutional quarantine.Tope said that the department has asked Mumbai civic chief Praveen Pradeshi to increase such facilities by acquiring additional grounds and halls. “With the cases increasing we are looking at altering the preparedness plan. Around 2,000 additional beds with oxygen supply facility are being put up at [Mahalaxmi] Race Course, MMRDA Ground at BKC, Goregoan (NESCO exhibition centre). A Central team is in Mumbai, they have asked us to increase institutional quarantine facilities. We have emphatically told the municipal commissioner to increase it in any condition. Wherever halls and playgrounds can be acquired, they need to be done,” he said.He added, “Unless people are taken out of a place like Dharavi, the spread cannot be contained. The people cannot be kept in a room of 10ft x 10ft. Now, we need to aggressively increase institutional quarantine.”So far, 13,494 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 2,12,742 people have been put under home quarantine.He also appealed to people in the slums to come forward if they have any symptoms for early detection and to prevent the wider spread of the infection. He added that social distancing measures are also not followed in containment zones across the state and therefore cases are increasing from these zones in Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon, and Aurangabad.On Thursday, the state has also completed 45 days of lockdown, which was imposed from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in the areas where there are no cases or minimal in number.The health department has conducted 2,02,105 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them 1,83,880 people tested negative.State currently has 1,087 active containment zones. Around 12,021 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 51.76 lakh people for suspected infection.As the cases are rising, the number of cases recovered so far have also jumped to 3,301 as 207 patients recovered on Thursday.The doubling rate in the state now stands at 10 days. The state government, according to the health minister, has now decided to take the rate to 20 days.The mortality rate of the state has come down to 3.88% (651 deaths) on Wednesday from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it is continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.37% (1,781 deaths) till Wednesday, stated the data of the state medical education department.Tope said that the social distancing in containment zones is crucial. “The cases are increasing in containment zones because social distancing is not followed. Cases are increasing in Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Malegaon. People in these zones must work with the government and be alert,” he said.Several mathematical models have given projections for Mumbai, but there is no need to panic, the minister said. “We are preparing for all eventualities. In a meeting with the Union health minister, we have sought Army hospitals and railway coaches. But that will be kept as a last resort. We can use the coaches for asymptomatic patients or quarantine facilities.”The minister added that cluster-zone management needs to improve and stricter perimeter control needs to be put in place with the help of the police department to see that there is no to and fro movement.“Our intention is that the green zone should remain without any cases. There should not be any cases for 21 days in the orange zone. We do not want any cases in containment zones. Cluster zone management with the help of police would be strengthened. In red zone and containment zones in Mumbai, we would have to be more strict. People could face difficulties, but at the end of the day, lives matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-reports-highest-single-day-toll-of-43-deaths/story-LFwBglpcR1IXHhpTVEE29L.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||3-storey isolation ward at Kasturba Hospital: Row over selection of bidder||The civic body’s selection of contractor to build a three-storey isolation ward at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital has drew some doubts with allegation that the selected lowest bidder has no prior experience of such construction. It was also alleged that the bidder was blacklisted in 2011. RTI activist Anil Galgali has alleged the selected bidder, Kinjal Civil Con LLP, does not have any prior work experience of such work, and questions as to why the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is taking such a risk during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Galgali said, “Inspired by China, BMC planned to use pre-engineered building (PEB) technique to construct isolation ward with a capacity of 60 beds. However, the selected lowest bidder (L1) has experience of only road and nullah constructions. How will he construct a hospital by using modern technique? The identified L1 bidder was earlier blacklisted in 2011 and was involved in cartel bidding for a zoo tender in 2016.”Civic officials said they have selected the bidder in a transparent manner and in accordance with the laid down procedure. They added the contract is yet to be awarded since the procedure is still on. Babasaheb Salve, deputy chief engineer (health infrastructure cell), said, “As part of the procedure, we have identified the L1 bidder. The procedure has been done in a completely transparent manner. Now the standing committee will take appropriate decision on the matter.”Divyesh Doshi, director at Kinjal Civil Con LLP, said, “There is no issue about my qualification in tendring process. I don’t know about any allegations. We have followed all procedures and have been selected as the lowest bidder.”Doshi further said, “We are not blacklisted. We have been working on even bigger project than this. It is not a new technology. We have enough work experience in construction field, which is why BMC shortlisted us. These allegations are made deliberately.”Opposition leader Ravi Raja said, “It is true that such skillful work needs prior experience in similar kinds of work. I have not yet received documents to study the subject properly. Let the subject come before the standing committee first. We will take necessary action then.”To deal with Covid-19 outbreak in the city, the civic body has decided to improve its health infrastructure, and as part of the plan it decided to construct a G+2 storey isolation ward with 60 beds at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and floated a tender with estimated cost of Rs 73 crore. The civic body decided on using PEB technique so that project is completed in 90 days. Under PEB, building parts will be engineered at factory and assembled at site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-storey-isolation-ward-at-kasturba-hospital-row-over-selection-of-bidder/story-rR0UwdDGo4FR8LweOQZJ4N.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC to try Ayurvedic meds to shield frontline staff from virus||After giving anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to frontline workers, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to try Ayurvedic treatment as prophylactic medicine for health workers and police personnel who come in direct contact with Covid-19 patients and are actively involved in containing the virus’ spread.“We have been approached by Ayurvedic doctors to consider other forms of treatment. So, we have formed a committee to look into its effectiveness and give us a suggestion on its usage,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.This move comes in the wake of reports that Kerala has begun clinical trials for Zingivir-H, an Ayurvedic medicine developed by Kerala-based Pankajakasthuri Herbal Research Foundation to treat respiratory infections, viral fever and acute viral bronchitis. The Clinical Trial Registry of India has approved Zingivir-H for trial on Covid-19 patients.Ayurvedic practitioners believe Ayurveda the potential to offer both preventive and curative treatments for Covid-19. “It is important to explore all possibilities. Ayurveda is the oldest medical treatment and has good potential in developing immunity among people. In fact, the Union health ministry has also suggested the same,” said Dr Surendra Mahate, an Ayurvedic doctor.At present, BMC is providing HCQ and Arsenic album 30 to frontline workers. However, scientific reports from abroad have suggested that many who were given this treatment developed side effects like hair loss, skin rash and headaches.“All these drugs are being given under corporate social responsibility activity and are preventive measures to control the infection. We have also requested the Ayush department to provide more homeopathy medicines,” said a health officer from the BMC.Dr Avinash Bondwe, president, Indian Medical Association, said there was no concrete evidence to suggest HCQ, Arsenic album 30 or Zingivir-H could be preventatives. “The BMC is trying every possible way to save its frontline warriors from contracting infection. But as studies on these medicines are still underway, it is too early to comment,” said Dr. Bondwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-try-ayurvedic-meds-to-shield-frontline-staff-from-virus/story-Is2ECfHBpUckApjtxYc7UK.html
08-05-2020||City||ASHA workers: ‘Had to suspend work for Covid-positive colleague’||A day after the ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers’ union suspended work in Ambala demanding better facilities for their Covid-19 positive colleague, the health department on Thursday accepted their demands but refused to shift the patient to the other hospital.As per details, an ASHA worker in her late 30s and a resident of Dukheri village in Ambala cantonment had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on May 4. She was isolated at the designated hospital for Covid patients in Mullana along with 21 fresh cases, but another female doctor who tested positive on the same day was isolated at the civil hospital in Cantonment.The district ASHA workers’ body had protested and suspended work on May 6 demanding the department to shift their fellow worker to another hospital with better facilities for treatment.‘RISK IN SHIFTING PATIENTS’Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “We have told the authorities in Mullana to take care of the facilities but there is no plan to shift her to any other hospital as there is always a risk in that.”Meanwhile, Anju, president of district ASHA workers’ union, said, “If the frontline health workers don’t get adequate facilities, then how can they help in this war against the pandemic?”She said, “We had to suspend work for one day because our fellow worker was not getting adequate facilities at the hospital. So many people are using the same toilet and there was also some problem with the food arrangement.”“However, our demands have been accepted by the administration and the health department. They have ensured better facilities for her and also told us that ASHA workers, if found positive, will be isolated at other hospitals in future,” she said.Around 900 ASHA workers have been performing Covid-related duties in Ambala district since April 4. Earlier, the workers were allotted duties in different areas to check the foreign returnees and ensure that they are quarantined. In the second round, they were allotted duties to check residents with flu-like symptoms and refer their case to the health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asha-workers-had-to-suspend-work-for-covid-positive-colleague/story-mso7QF4JXNJhjvYQIIHkeP.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||CPCB directs states to track Covid-19 waste lifecycle, avoid spillage||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has asked states to track Covid-19 waste disposal, check spillage and ensure proper segregation of the waste. The CPCB has created a digital tracking system and will share the application with the states. The app can monitor the lifecycle of waste from collection, segregation, transportation and incineration by geo-tagging each process and submitting details on a common platform. Details will be monitored by state pollution control boards, said CPCB, adding that the boards were informed on Wednesday.“All waste generators, transporters, and those handling treatment facilities will be asked to register on the app,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB. “Generators will have to key in location details from where the waste is collected and declare the number of yellow coloured bags (marked specifically for Covid-19 waste) and amount quantity handed over. Transporters will confirm how much quantity they have lifted, and the same procedure will be followed at the treatment facility,” he added. On April 21, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had raised concerns about possible environmental hazards due to improper Covid-19 waste disposal and directed the CPCB to ‘incorporate best practices through continuous supervision and monitoring’. Apart from creating awareness at the state and district level, CPCB was directed to develop a software to compile data in an online format by using a digital tracking system to log Covid-19 waste.“We have also observed that out of 2.7 lakh health care facilities (HCFs) identified, only 1.1 lakh HCFs are authorised under the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 so far. There appears to be a need for further revision of guidelines to cover all aspects, not merely institutions but also individual households... any unmindful deep burial without adequate safeguards can adversely affect the groundwater and pose danger to health and safety of people,” read the order passed by the NGT bench, headed by chairman Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel.“Common treatment facilities are reporting that they are receiving mixed waste in yellow bags, especially from quarantined homes, at major cities like Mumbai and Delhi,” said B Vinod Babu, nodal officer, waste management, CPCB. “The biggest problem is segregation as waste segregators are afraid of catching the virus. We have already told states to conduct programmes, webinars and awareness drives at all levels. The same has been communicated to expert committee members as per NGT directions,” he added. HT had reported on April 8 that not more than 50% of total Covid-19 waste collected by workers was being segregated at source, as per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials. According to BMC, Mumbai is generating 800 to 1,000 kg of Covid-19 waste per day. However, data from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) shows the quantity to be between 4,000 to 5,000 kg for the city in the first week of May. Between March 22 and 31, the quantum of waste ranged between 500 to 600kg per day. It rose to an average of 1,500 kg during the first three weeks of April and 2,200 kg during the last week, MPCB data showed. There have also been reports of personal protective equipment (PPE) dumped or burnt openly. “There is little improvement in segregation at source but the process remains tough across containment areas. However, the civic chief has asked ward officers to implement necessary steps, including penal action for those violating waste treatment norms,” said a senior official from BMC’s solid waste management department.Waste generators include all hospitals, HCFs, quarantine camps, self-isolation homes and containment zones, added Gargava. “The data from the application will help identify gaps in the system, avoid spillage and ensure accountability,” he said. “If there is any discrepancy, the state board can know how many yellow bags were collected, status of deep-burial pits at landfills or adequate incinerators available for disposal etc,” said the member secretary. States will have to take a call on the extent of penal action, said Gargava. “Provisions under the biomedical waste rules would be applicable for those violating the process,” he said.Evidence of transmission of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through waste has not yet been established, said Babu. “However, studies have indicated the possibility of aerosol transmission with the virus surviving for a limited period on PPE. This puts waste handlers at risk and we need to be extra cautious,” he added. CPCB has revised its Covid-19 waste management guidelines thrice so far to incorporate developments arising from an increase in cases and quarantined areas in major cities. “HCFs have even been directed to disinfect sewage discharged at each establishment. NGT also wanted us to revise guidelines with respect to individual households. We are working on that, and additional directives will be issued soon,” said Gargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cpcb-directs-states-to-track-covid-19-waste-lifecycle-avoid-spillage/story-YkEjysAbnuNIMGhEGZMUhP.html
08-05-2020||City||2 SBI branches sealed after employees test positive in Patiala||Two branches of the State Bank of India (SBI) in Patiala city were sealed on Thursday after two of its employees were tested positive for the coronavirus a day before. A 48-year-old woman and her daughter (28) of Guru Teg Bahadur Colony, who work at the bank’s branches at New officers Colony and Quila Chowk, contracted infection.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the two have been quarantined, while the process has been initiated to identify those who visited the bank recently.“We have collected 142 samples, including those of 20 employees and officers of the bank. The department is also trying to identify the source from where two contracted infection,” Dr Malhotra said. The two were shifted to the isolation ward of the Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala. The New Officers’ Colony branch is situated near the Moti Bagh Palace of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-sbi-branches-sealed-after-employees-test-positive-in-patiala/story-uiVFU7EyPBJvr14FEYqaEI.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC books 3.3K rooms in 88 hotels to quarantine passengers from special flights||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said that it had reserved as many as 3,343 rooms in 88 hotels to quarantine the 1,900 Indian nationals who will arrive in the city from various countries through special flights. About 14,800 Indian nationals will be brought back to the country from 12 different countries over the next several days. All 1,900 passengers arriving in Mumbai, will be screened by a team of doctors of the BMC and those who show coronavirus symptoms will be admitted to a Covid-19 hospital. Those with no symptoms will be sent to quarantine facilities at various hotels. As per the state data, 680 cases of Covid-19 and 24 deaths were reported on Thursday. The total number of cases in the city has reached 11, 394 and 437 deaths so far. As per the BMC,148 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. So far, 2,435 people have recovered in the city. Meanwhile, the BMC has mandated all pregnant women to get registered at nearby maternity homes or hospitals. Beds have been kept reserved at BYL Nair Hospital for pregnant women with complications. Additional facilities are also being developed for Covid-19 positive pregnant women nearing delivery.In Dharavi, 50 new cases were reported on Thursday after which the total number of Covid-19 cases in the area rose to 783. Dharavi has reported 21 Covid-19 deaths so far. An official from G-North ward, which covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim, confirmed that two cases from Dadar and five cases from Mahim have been reported on Thursday. The total cases in Dadar have reached 66, and 96 in Mahim.BMC is also continuing its slum survey to identify senior citizens with comorbidities. As part of this initiative, the BMC claims to have surveyed over 17 lakh people and met above 58,000 senior citizens to check for comorbidities. Of these, 700 were found with low oxygen levels and 594 were proactively treated even though none of them had Covid-19 symptoms. The BMC has claimed to have surveyed 32 lakh houses across the city so far to screen residents for symptoms of Covid-19 and covered 1.27 crore people in those surveys. More than two lakh people have been traced through contact tracing. Meanwhile, the BMC’s F-North ward, consisting of Wadala, Matunga and certain parts of Dadar, will be under complete lockdown for 10 days starting Friday. The BMC officials said no vegetables will be sold in the area and only medical shops will remain open till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-books-3-3k-rooms-in-88-hotels-to-quarantine-passengers-from-special-flights/story-Na8cP6099bZY7d2rOzc4uN.html
08-05-2020||City||Punjab: IDSP staff threaten strike, if salary not hiked||Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) staff in the state, employed on contract, have threatened to stop work from Friday, if the state government did not implement orders for their hike in salary it issued on April 23. The IDSP is a programme under the National Health Mission (NHM). IDSP workers stay on the field to collect data on diseases, conduct surveys and maintain surveillance. Professionals like epidemiologists, microbiologists, entomologists, finance consultants, data managers and entry operators under the IDSP have been deployed across districts. They have now written a letter to Punjab NHM director Kumar Rahul demanding the implementation of the salary hike announced last month. “We are getting meagre pay compared to the work we are doing in the times of pandemic, but we have never complained as it is our duty to safeguard the nation. We are the frontline warriors but instead of encouraging us the government has discouraged us by taking back the salary hike order. Haryana has hiked salaries, but Punjab is doing nothing,” claimed Dr Anita Chauhan, epidemiologist, Faridkot.Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said they would issue another letter to implement salary hike for IDSP staff. “Our front line workers have done a commendable job to fight against covid-19, they will be rewarded,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/idsp-staff-threaten-strike-if-salary-not-hiked/story-0ji2PEGImdezb9Lwa0wjUJ.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC gives pre-monsoon construction nod to 200 realty projects||One week after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started giving permissions to private real estate projects in the city for carrying out pre-monsoon construction amid lockdown, the civic body approved more than 200 out of the total 350 applications it received.The pending approvals are being scrutinised, and approval will be given in the next one week, a BMC official said.The BMC has allowed resuming pre-monsoon works at the constructed or under-construction sites, where works had commenced prior to March 14 and were required to be left as it is due to the lockdown. These include the construction of retaining walls, work of shore piling to protect against landslides, waterproofing of terraces and exposed areas, completion of basements and other sub-soil works. However, no permission for new construction or for construction work apart from pre-monsoon work is being given by the BMC.Vinod Chithore, chief engineer of the BMC’s development plan department, said, “We have received around 350 applications till date, and we have approved more than 200 proposals till now. It is a continuous process, and we will clear all the pending proposals for whoever agrees to follow the conditions laid down by the BMC.” The BMC had made it mandatory for developers to have the labourers in situ (on the site) wherever construction work is ongoing, however, while large-sized developers had the labour, many mid-sized or small-sized developers have not been able to apply for permission considering there is no labour available in the market. Also, several developers have cited that while construction permission is being given for projects where labour is available on the site, but travel permission for supervisors, engineers on the site is becoming challenging owing to approvals taking the time. Further, several other conditions put by the BMC include labourers wearing masks, having medical checkups twice a week, isolation facility at the site, and maintaining social distancing at the construction site.Niranjan Hiranandani, managing director of Hiranandani group, said, “We have resumed work at ongoing projects in Powai, Thane and Panvel. Across the three locations, at our ongoing projects, we have 3000-plus workers who have started working. The site administration peculiarly takes all the necessary prevention measures like fumigation, disinfectant, wearing mask and gloves, staggered labour spread, sanitisation to follow the best guidelines practice.”Meanwhile, another developer Harshul Savla of M-Realty, said, “The conditions are quite stringent, and there is no single-window clearance for getting permissions. Wherever labour is available on the site, there is a problem for daily travel of supervisors and engineers to the project site. The BMC is permitting construction work, and not travel passes, and due to this a lot of time goes only getting permissions. The issuing of permissions should have been more lenient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-gives-pre-monsoon-construction-nod-to-200-realty-projects/story-hogb0Js0UioaYyDdJg8BrI.html
08-05-2020||Mumbai||Video shows Covid-19 victims’ bodies kept in ward with patients in Mumbai, probe ordered||A day after a video surfaced showing how bodies of Covid-19 victims at Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital, were left in a ward for an extended period alongside patients, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered an inquiry into the matter. A committee for the same has been asked to submit its report within 24 hours.On Wednesday night, MLA Nitish Rane posted the video which claimed that patients at Sion hospital were sharing the ward with dead bodies.The incident has again highlighted the casual way in which municipal hospitals handle bodies of Covid-19 patients, despite directions for them to be shifted from the ward within 30 minutes of being declared dead.The video shows Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in a ward with dead bodies wrapped in black plastic covers lying near them. This is in violation of the rules of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which state that deceased patients should be wrapped in airtight body bags to avoid possible transmission of the Sars-CoV-2 virus.“I have never seen such a horrendous situation [in Mumbai] where patients are made to share beds beside bodies. This causes severe psychological trauma among patients,” said BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, who has filed a complaint with the ICMR.The hospital said that often patients’ relatives do not come to claim bodies. Sometimes, it takes longer to wrap the body and send it to the morgue. “Being a non-Covid hospital, we have to attend to both Covid and non-Covid patients. This is a severe workload on us as we are already running at 60% staff strength. It is not always possible to shift a body within 30 minutes. Also, often the family members request us to wait for them before wrapping the body,” said a senior official from the hospital.Sion hospital dean Pramod Ingale said relatives of those who died of Covid-19 were also reluctant to take the bodies. “We have removed the bodies and will investigate the matter. We have got instructions that the families of the deceased need to claim the bodies within 30 minutes,” he said.The BMC has also formed a team to investigate the matter and submit a report within 24 hours. According to a letter issued to the hospital on May 7, the team has been instructed to find the person who shot the video and probe the reason behind the delay in shifting the bodies to the morgue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/video-shows-covid-19-victims-bodies-lying-near-patients-at-sion-hospital-bmc-to-inquire/story-KXlrvv0yKoNVBsMlBX134O.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal announces Rs 1 crore aid for family of Delhi cop who died of Covid-19||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Delhi government will give ₹1 crore aid to the family of the 31-year-old Delhi Police constable who died of Covid-19 on Tuesday.In a tweet, Kejriwal said the police constable kept “serving the people of Delhi without fearing about risks to his life at the time of such a health crisis. He was infected with the virus while serving us and later died. I pay him tribute on behalf of all residents of Delhi. The government shall help his family with an ex-gratia compensation of Rs 1 crore.” The constable, who was posted at Bharat Nagar police station in northwest Delhi, was on duty till Monday. He developed flu-like symptoms and was taken to two hospitals by colleagues, before being taken to RML hospital, where has declared dead on arrival. He had tested positive at a private lab. Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said the constable’s test had returned positive from RML Hospital as well, where he was tested a second time following his death. She said 10 police personnel, some from Bharat Nagar police station where he was posted, and others from the crime records office in Kamla Market that he would visit as part of his duty, have been quarantined since they were found to have come in contact with the constable as part of their job.The constable was cremated at the Punjabi Bagh crematorium on Thursday in the presence of some senior police officers and his family.The constable was a resident of Haryana’s Sonepat and is survived by his wife and three-year-old son. His wife is a contractual teacher at a North Delhi Municipal Corporation primary school.Her relatives on Wednesday said they have asked north municipality officials to make her a permanent employee.“She has her whole life ahead. Some teachers, on our behalf, have also placed a request with senior north municipality officials for her to be made a permanent employee.”The north municipality mayor, Avtar Singh, said there is no precedent for such an appointment. “This is different from postings on compassionate grounds where the spouse or child of a deceased, who was already serving in our corporations, is given a job. However, looking at the sacrifice this policeman made, we will definitely write to the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) to allow us to make Pooja permanent at work,” Singh said. Delhi L-G Anil Baijal on Wednesday tweeted that “his sacrifice in the fight against COVID-19 will always be remembered” and that he was “a great warrior who brought glory to the frontline police personnel fighting against pandemic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-announces-1cr-aid-for-family-of-delhi-cop-who-died-of-covid-19/story-yz1L0lDpyFr6ZNFF84VzYP.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||13-year-old boy dies in Delhi’s Rohini, locals say he was beaten by cop||A 13-year-old boy died in Rohini’s Prashant Vihar on Wednesday, following which local residents accused a policeman of hitting him with a stick while he was waiting outside a shop to photocopy an Aadhaar card to obtain ration. The police denied the allegations, saying it was an accidental death caused by a fall in a public park.The police have requested the constitution of a panel of experts to oversee an autopsy of the body.The boy, who lived with his parents and three siblings in Rajapur neighbourhood of Rohini Sector 9, was a class 8 student of a government school and used to help his ailing father sell vegetables and fruits on a pushcart.“I have suffered paralysis twice in the past and have poor health. My son was an intelligent boy and would help me negotiate with customers and receive payments,” the boy’s father said.The family used to also run a tea stall, which has been shut since the lockdown.The boy’s mother said, “On Tuesday afternoon, we heard that ration would be provided to the poor (in our neighbourhood) who could provide a copy of their Aadhaar card. Since we were short of money, we also decided to seek ration.”She said her son, accompanied by some neighbours, had gone to get a photocopy of her husband’s Aadhaar card.A youngster, who claimed to be an eyewitness, said that the boy was playing a game on his mobile phone while waiting outside the photocopy shop, when two policemen on a motorcycle approached them. “They began hitting us with a stick. One hit was directed at another man, but it missed its mark and landed on the boy’s neck. He collapsed right away,” the eyewitness said.Residents called for CCTV footage from the market to be checked to ascertain the truth.However, the police had an entirely different version of the events leading to death.Pramod Kumar Mishra, the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Rohini, said that as per the initial inquiry, the boy and a few others were seated inside a park, defying the lockdown orders and social distancing norms.“Two beat constables were patrolling the area on a motorcycle and noticed them. From outside the park boundary, the policemen asked them to leave. The youngsters began running away. It was during that time that the boy fell and fainted. The others managed to escape,” said DCP Mishra.The officer said that while one policeman immediately brought water for the unconscious boy, the other rushed to bring a jeep from the police station in the vicinity. “He was taken to Ambedkar Hospital, from where be was referred to Safdarjung Hospital. He died on Wednesday morning,” the DCP said.Mishra said that while there were no external injuries on the boy’s body, a request has been made to form a panel of doctors to carry out his autopsy. “We have not given a clean chit to anyone and will probe the case impartially,” said the DCP, adding that a first information report (FIR) will be filed only if there is an indication of foul play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cops-blamed-for-13-year-old-boy-s-death-in-rohini-police-refute-claim/story-qTpMgHzIaMzjSIr7GyjbCO.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 containment zone residents in Delhi demand relief from curbs||It has been over 30 days since Nihal Ahmad has been able to visit an ATM to withdraw cash. He has been locked inside his house in Ekta Vihar area of Pratap Khand in east Delhi’s Shahdara district. His movement, as well as that of other residents in the neighbourhood, has been strictly restricted since April 8, when Pratap Khand in Jhilmil Colony was declared a containment zone after two people tested Covid-19 positive. Residents of Pratap Khand on Thursday staged a demonstration in the locality, demanding their area be de-contained since they were facing lot of problems in procuring essential commodities and going about regular activities. Scores of residents stepped out of their houses on Thursday morning and gathered near police barricades, from where the colony has been cordoned off, to protest against the authorities for not de-containing the colony even after a month. They complained about the irregular supply of essential items such as milk, vegetables, fruits and medicines in the last few weeks. “I require cash and we cannot go to ATMs to withdraw it. There is no proper arrangement for mobile ATMs. It has been over a month since the entire locality was sealed due to Covid-19 cases. Now no new cases are emerging yet our colony is marked as a red zone while many areas in the city are being de-sealed. The area should be de-contained now,” Ahmad said.Another resident of the locality, Yogesh Kumar Bhati, who was also at the protest, said that initially, the system of home delivery of essential items was working fine, but now it has become erratic. Residents complained that even after hours of placing orders with the notified vendors of the area, they have to wait, sometimes an entire day, for the delivery. “Most vendors, who are authorised to deliver essentials in the locality, open their shops in the morning and evening only. So if you need anything urgently you have to wait the entire day. We demand the colony should be opened and if any case is found, then that particular lane or block should be contained not the entire locality,” he said.A senior official of the district administration, who wished not to be named, said a few cases were reported in the area even after April 15, that’s why the locality was not de-contained. The official said that a discussion and survey would be conducted with the health department officials to decide when to de-seal the area. “We are making all possible arrangements. For the home delivery of items, we have engaged civil defence volunteers. But still, if residents are facing problems then will look into the matter,” the district administration official said.Containment zones are complete quarantine zones and no one is allowed to go out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits etc. All entry and exit points and even internal lanes are barricaded in containment zones. The authorities allow only selected vendors to supply groceries and other essentials to the neighbourhood. Till Thursday, Delhi had 86 containment zones. As per the central government’s guidelines, an area can be de-contained only when no fresh Covid-19 positive cases are reported in the last 28 days. Till now, 14 areas have been de-contained in Delhi.The residents of other containment areas in the city also complained about the irregular supply of essential items such as milk, vegetables, fruits and medicines. In south-west Delhi’s Bengali Colony in Mahavir Enclave, residents complained that though in the beginning services were delivered smoothly, over the last 10 days, even sanitation and disinfection is not taking place regularly. Bengali Colony was made a containment zone on April 12 when one Covid-19 positive case was found in the locality. The area has been in containment for the last 25 days.Sunita Nagar, a resident of the colony who lives with her six-month-old daughter and her old parents, said that the biggest problem that she has been facing since the area was contained is to find items for her baby. “The colony was locked up in a day and I did not get a chance to stock up on my daughter’s essentials such as diapers, wipes and milk power. In the beginning, the vendors here would delivery some of the items but now I am finding it hard to get the things I need,” Nagar said. In Dinpur Village, residents said that residents are fed up of the authorities keeping them locked up “for no reason”. Dinpur village was made a containment zone on April 8 when three cases of a family were reported Covid-19 positive. The village has been under containment for last 27 days.“We agree that there were one or two cases from the colony, but you contain those houses, why are you keeping the entire colony locked? We are ready to co-operate with the agencies but there should be some relaxations,” Dhruv Pradhan, a local politician living in the south-west Delhi village, said. In the Zakir Nagar containment area, residents complained about the irregular supply of drinking water bottles. Gali number 18 to 22 in Zakir Nagar were contained on April 10 after two residents tested Covid-19 positive.“People in the area purchase 20-litre water bottles but the authorities do not allow them to be delivered at home. Plus the supply is also irregular,” Shoeb Danish, councillor of the area, said.District magistrate (south-west) Rahul Singh said that the assessment of areas was ongoing to ascertain when they could be de-contained. “I have not yet received any complaint about irregular supplies in containment areas. But still, we will look into the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/residents-of-containment-zones-allege-lack-of-supplies-being-sealed-in-for-too-long/story-C5y8rMqnbb4fHKYbHQezjN.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||First batch of 1,050 migrants leave Delhi for Madhya Pradesh aboard special train||As many as 1,050 migrant workers, stranded in the city after a national lockdown was announced to curb the spread of Covid-19, left for Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur on Thursday evening on board a special train from New Delhi. These men, women and children were among Delhi’s first batch of stranded workers who left the city for their home state under a government order that allows for inter-state movement of stranded individuals by buses and trains to be arranged by the state governments concerned. A Delhi government official associated with the operation said the city currently has at least 18,000 migrant workers lodged in 240-odd shelters operated by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), where they share space with other homeless people, and around as many small and large temporary shelter camps run by the district administrations.“First train carrying 1050 migrants from Delhi left for Chattarpur, MP, today at 8 pm. A series of such trains would be carrying migrants to different parts of India in the coming days,” said Delhi’s revenue and transport minister Kailash Gahlot. In the next three days, more special trains are expected to depart for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -- states from which the largest share of stranded migrant workers are in the Capital at this juncture, said a second government official, adding: “The Delhi government has already had discussions with UP and Bihar. Next in line are states such as Jharkhand, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Odisha.” The second train will most likely leave tomorrow for Bihar, the official said. Rail operations were suspended completely on March 25, for the first time in history of independent India, and it would continue to remain closed till at least May 17 -- the last day of the third phase of the national lockdown.The migrants were brought to the station from across Delhi districts in nearly 75 Delhi Transport Corporation’s low-floor buses. Before they boarded the buses, they were all screened for flu-like symptoms. After they reach Madhya Pradesh, they will be screened again and sent into 14-day quarantine. “The protocol is clear on that,” said the official.“The central government will bear 85% of the ticket price, and the remaining 15% will be taken care of by the home state (Madhya Pradesh). It is being implemented strictly under the rules drafted by the central government,” the senior official said. Sonu Kumar Singh, 27, one among 1050 passengers on board the special train, said he cannot wait to see his family back in his village in Madhya Pradesh’s Bundelkhand. “My mother is eagerly waiting for me. In my village, we have a small piece of land where I can do farming. At least I will not starve as it happened here in the last few weeks. I often had to sleep on empty stomach,” said Singh while walking inside the New Delhi Railway Station with his bag. Singh, a labourer, had been living in a government-run shelter in southwest Delhi district since March 30.The platforms, the parking lots, the pedestrian bridges and the concrete entrance area of the New Delhi Railway Station witnessed some semblance of life after more than six weeks when the migrants walked into it along with groups of health officials, civil defence volunteers and the police. Sanjay Kumar, 51, who was accompanied by his family of six including two grandchildren, said he was relieved to be able to go back home. “There was nothing left here. There was no work, no money and meagre food. Later, if things get normal, I will think of coming back,” said Kumar, a labourer at Paharganj market. Manish (doesn’t use a second name), 36, said that he was too happy to be going back home. “It had become difficult to survive. It was almost like a punishment to live in the shelter and today, I feel I have been released from a prison,” said Manish, who used to work at a restaurant in Rajouri Garden. Several government officials have claimed that thousands of workers have decided to stay back after they witnessed partial relaxation of the lockdown norms and revival of in industrial and construction activities this week.“More than 10,000 people from several states have applied for being sent back to their home states in the last five days. While the DUSIB has submitted a final list pertaining to shelters under them, which has around 700 names, the collective list pertaining to shelters under the district magistrates are getting updated every day. Currently, we have around 10,000 applicants in it,” said the first official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/first-batch-of-stranded-migrants-leave-delhi-for-mp-on-board-special-train/story-4cobk56ZRVbzw6MmcExPCJ.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||450-bed Covid Care Centre to start in new Burari hospital||With the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the city, the Delhi government has decided to start a 450-bed Covid Care Centre at its newly constructed hospital in Burari to cater to those with mild symptoms.The hospital is yet to open.So far, there are 12 Covid Care Centres in the city—where people with low-grade fever, sore throat, malaise and other such mild symptoms are admitted—most of which are situated in unused Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) or Delhi Development Authority (DDA) flats. The Burari facility was designed to be a 768-bed tertiary care hospital, which has been under construction since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s first full term. Even after completion of the construction, the government is still discussing whether the hospital should be run under a public-private-partnership (PPP) model.Two other super-speciality hospitals in Janakpuri and Tahirpur were to be operated under the PPP model when Sheila Dikshit’s Congress government was in power; however, they were later operationalised as government-run autonomous institutes. One of these hospitals, the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur, has now been converted into 500-bed dedicated Covid-19 hospital.Amid the Covid-19 crisis, the AAP government has also begun work on operationalising two of its other newly constructed hospitals in Ambedkar Nagar and Dwarka.The three hospitals will together add over 2,500 beds to the existing 11,770 beds in Delhi government-run hospitals.“This is part of the routine work to open up more hospitals. Work will begin to open these hospitals up soon. However, the hospital in Burari (the construction of which is almost finished) will take a while to open as the government is still deciding if it will be run on a PPP model,” a senior official in Delhi’s health department said.These hospitals might also be designated for Covid-19 care if the need arises.“Currently, there are two designated hospitals under the Delhi government with 2,500 beds to take care of Covid-19 patients. However, if there is a need for more beds, then the new hospitals might also be brought in use as it would be easier to keep the people with viral infection in isolation at the new facilities. There will be no intermixing with non-Covid-19 patients,” the official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/450-bed-covid-care-centre-to-start-in-new-burari-hospital/story-oMuYEZRNMwL7cXcJo79gMK.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Delhi starts e-token system for liquor purchases to avoid crowding||To avoid crowding at liquor shops, the Delhi government has started issuing e-tokens, specifying the store and timings, for residents on a web link set up by the excise department. Since Monday, when the government allowed around 172 liquor shops in the city to open after more than six weeks of lockdown, people have been crowding spaces outside liquor stores, violating social distancing norms that are mandated to curb the spread of Covid-19.The government continued its deliberations over home delivery of liquor and a decision is likely to be taken by the weekend, a senior official said. The chief secretary has already asked the excise commissioner to chalk out a plan “at the earliest”, he said.“In a bid to ensure social distancing and to stop overcrowding at the liquor shops, the Delhi government on Thursday launched an e-token service to buy liquor. The Delhi government took this decision to encourage people to avoid long queues by applying for an e-token with time slot at any nearby shop to buy liquor,” read a government statement issued on Thursday.The statement read, “Any person can apply for an e-token through the link ‘https://www.qtoken.in/’. Name and phone number will be required while applying and the e-coupon will be sent to the registered mobile number. With that e-token, the person will be allowed to buy liquor from the nearby shops. This will be an additional facility to reduce overcrowding at the liquor shops.”The weblink was non-functional till Thursday night. A senior official attributed that to “high traffic within a limited time after announcement” and claimed that it would be functional in a few hours.While Thursday was a dry day in Delhi, liquor shops would also start issuing coupons to people standing outside in queues, as per a government order, which also directed the deployment of marshals, to ensure social distancing, and use of more barricades, for area management.The additional tax of 70% on the maximum retail price of liquor would continue in Delhi.The municipalities on Thursday submitted a list of 30 private liquor shops in the city that are not located in markets, malls, commercial spaces and shopping complexes, and, hence, qualify for relaxations under the Central government’s guidelines applicable to red zones a second senior government official said. “An order to implement relaxation for private shops is expected in a day or two. Meanwhile, all government shops that were allowed to operate but could not function over the last four days for a range of reasons — lack of staff, inadequate stock to law and order issues — are set to resume from Friday. Increasing the overall strength of shops to 200 would help reducing mass gatherings outside shops to a large extent,” the official said.Delhi has 864 liquor shops, of which 475 are owned by government departments, ranging from tourism to industrial and infrastructure development. The other 389 are owned by private individuals and enterprises.“Only 50 (of the 172) could function full day on an average between Monday and Thursday. That is one reason for massive crowds outside most shops,” the second senior government official said.While most government shops function with L-6 and L-8 licences, which allow the sale of Indian manufactured foreign liquor and country liquor, respectively, most private shops have an L-10 licence, which allows the sale of imported liquor too.On Thursday, representatives of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, seeking a review of the 70% special corona fees and urged that private shops that are not located in containment zones be allowed to open and restaurants, bars and pubs be allowed to sell their unfinished stock by initiating a “take-away only” facility.The Confederation also urged the government to allow home delivery of liquor. “Such a facility can reduce at least 15%-20% physical crowd from the shops… A clear announcement of the period of imposing the special cess would also help people plan their purchases and reduce crowds,” said Vinod Giri, the director-general of the Confederation.On Thursday, the Confederation met deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and submitted a memorandum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-starts-e-token-system-for-liquor-purchases/story-gWjVtuMzCtbgouiOAb9sPK.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi gears up to receive over 400 returnees from abroad in special flights||With Delhi residents expected to return from across the globe over the next eight days, the Delhi government on Thursday arranged for paid quarantine facilities in more than 1,500 rooms in city hotels.More than 400 people are expected to arrive at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport from Singapore and Dhaka in Bangladesh on Friday, as part of the Vande Bharat mission to ferry back Indians stranded abroad, the city administration said on Thursday.Under the exercise , launched by the Union government on Thursday, national carrier Air India is bringing Indian citizens stuck abroad back to the country. At the same time, it will also send US, UK and Singapore stuck in the country.The Delhi government issued a revised order on Thursday on the rules for handling passengers arriving in Delhi from abroad, in which it specified that everyone will have to mandatorily be under institutional quarantine in a paid facility for 14 days from the date of arrival.The order clarified that Delhi will house returnees belonging to neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. This clarification came after the Delhi government, in its previous order issued on Wednesday, had asked the respective states to ferry the passengers in buses.“We are expecting to handle 410 passengers on Day one (Friday) of the operation in Delhi. One flight, carrying 243 passengers, will arrive at 11.30am from Singapore and a second flight, ferrying 167 people, will land in Delhi around 1pm from Dhaka,” a senior government official said.Shilpa Shinde, special secretary (health and family welfare), has been appointed the nodal officer for the Delhi chapter of the operation.“Everyone will have to mandatorily undergo screening at the airport. We have arranged for over a dozen buses to transport passengers from the airport to the paid quarantine facilities. No option of home quarantine or free government quarantine will be given as of now,” said Shinde.She said that the government has also kept free quarantine facilities on standby.Explaining the reason for providing the option of only paid facilities to the passengers, another senior official said the government will not be in a situation to address any grievances related to the quality of standards at the free quarantine centres.The government has tied up with seven hotels for quarantine facilities, which will be offered for prices between Rs 2,000 plus taxes and Rs 4,800 plus taxes, depending on the overall rating of the hotel and the choice of room (single or double bed).The rate includes breakfast, lunch and dinner, two bottles of mineral water per day, tea and coffee, and other facilities, such as Wi-Fi and TV. Food from a set menu will be served to the quarantined guests only in disposal plates and their clothes will be laundered separately.About 200 rooms at Hotel Le Meridian, 200 at Sheraton, 250 at Vivanta by Taj in Dwarka, have been reserved for the purpose, besides rooms at Red Fox and IBIS in Aerocity, Welcome Hotel by ITC and Red Fox in Mayur Vihar Phase 1.A spokesperson for the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), said, “The standard operating procedures for handling passengers of repatriation flights have been developed by the ministries and agencies concerned. This includes maintaining social distance, which would also be mandatory for the passengers to follow while getting off the aircraft. The government and Air India have been working out the logistics of the repatriation flights based on the number of citizens to be brought back to the country. The first such flight is expected to arrive in Delhi on Friday.“We are expecting about 200 passengers per flight. The Delhi government will be determining the locations where the arriving passengers would be sent for quarantine. The airlines, their ground handlers, DIAL staff, immigrations, CISF and customs will be supporting the APHO and Delhi government during these operations.”The airline staff will ensure that the passengers have filled their self-reporting forms properly and download the Arogya Setu app on their mobile phones, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-gears-up-to-receive-over-400-returnees-from-abroad-in-special-flights/story-QwWQk7Q1AbhJ1axbe4qZyJ.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Safdarjung opens OPD for new patients after Delhi complains of unequal division||Safdarjung Hospital on Wednesday opened up its outpatient clinics for new patients, after the Delhi government has raised the issue of central government hospitals in the city not treating enough non-Covid-19 patients with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan earlier this week, with routine services being restricted at most city hospitals to maintain social-distancing, Several Delhi government hospitals have reported working on more than 100% capacity, with patients being referred to them from central government hospitals as well as private centres.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had suggested that one of the three central government-run hospitals in Delhi – Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia (RML), and Lady Hardinge – be converted to a dedicated Covid-19 facility, with the other two providing routine services.“There have been cases of patients being refused routine treatment, with it being stated that three hospitals treat Covid-19 patients. Also, the 4,000-bed AIIMS has taken a good step and dedicated the trauma centre and the cancer centre in Jhajjar for Covid-19 patients but all other services have been stopped at the hospital. I urge you to restart the other facilities for non-Covid patients,” Jain had said in the meeting.Dr Harsh Vardhan had responded that all hospitals were treating patients and if any case of patients being turned away comes to light then the governments should discuss the matters with each other.A doctor from Safdarjung, on the condition of anonymity, said: “The Covid-19 situation is going to last for some time and in the meanwhile there were many patients who were not getting the treatment they need. Although patients already registered with us were being given consultation previously, the service has now been opened to all. We are getting a huge number of referral cases from other hospitals like AIIMS and RML.”Doctors say routine services have been restricted at most city hospitals to maintain social distancing. “Maintaining social distance at the hospital is not possible because we still have two or more patients on a bed. Several of whom have been referred from big hospitals such as RML and LHMC,” said a doctor from Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital in Khichdipur.As of May 7, there were 112 Covid-19 patients admitted to Safdarjung hospital, 61 to RML, and 28 to Lady Hardinge Medical College, according to the daily data. At the Safdarjung hospital, the services are running at over 100% capacity even in the non-Covid-19 areas of the hospital, said the doctor quoted earlier.At RML, although routine out-patient clinics are running, most wards are being used for Covid-19 cases or those with severe acute respiratory infections who are suspected to have Covid-19.“The non-Covid-19 services are very limited. The dire emergency cases are being accepted, but other than that, most wards are being used for the treatment of SARI and Covid-19 patients,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity. The hospital has about 1,420 beds.As for AIIMS, which had been the hospital under focus, 312 Covid-19 patients were admitted in total to Jhajjar and Trauma Centre as on May 6.“There are around 300 Covid-19 patients admitted to the trauma centre and AIIMS Jhajjar. Apart from that, there are about 1,100 to 1,200 other patients admitted in the main campus that has about 2,400 beds. These are patients who come to our emergency department and are usually in need of admission and surgeries. There are also some patients who were admitted before the lockdown,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, asking not to be named.Another doctor, requesting anonymity, added, “AIIMS Jhajjar is also drawing staff from the main AIIMS campus, in addition it is a big facility, so all services cannot be resumed immediately. Also, to ensure that social distancing is followed, the number of patients that are being admitted is lesser than the usual.” A decision is yet to be taken on restarting the physical clinics and routine surgeries, the doctor cited above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-urged-central-hospitals-to-treat-more-routine-patients/story-0UFRPZ8NNB5xlPulQjyWSM.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Health care workers say border curbs have hit medical services, tests in Delhi||Health care services – including Covid-19 testing – across Delhi have been affected, with neighbouring states closing down inter-state borders and barring the movement of even medical workers. The Haryana government had shut the Faridabad border completely and implemented strict checks at the Gurugram border last week.The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday advised resident welfare associations (RWAs) in Ghaziabad to ask doctors working in Delhi to stay in the Capital during the lockdown.In a circular, the UP government said, “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the RWAs are requested to advise doctors working in Delhi hospitals to stay in Delhi and offer their services during the lockdown so that more people do not get infected.”At least 100 staff members of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) who live beyond Delhi’s borders have not been able to report for duty, as a result of these curbs. “There are many people who stay across the border who are now not able report for work. And, it is a significant number — at least a 100. This is impacting health services,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Officials said more than 35% of health care workers in Safdarjung hospital have to commute across the border. “The border issue needs to be sorted out fast. We are falling short of health care workers with around 35% of our staff living across the border. For now, we are asking people to work longer shifts or take double shifts, but that cannot be sustained. It is very difficult to pull off long shifts in Covid-19 areas. If immediate relief is not provided, our remaining health care workers will get exhausted very soon,” said Dr Manish Kumar, president of the resident doctors’ association of the hospital.Health care workers said the closure of the borders had also hit Covid-19 testing facilities, which was a serious cause for concern.“The lockdown at the border means samples cannot be moved and our trained manpower is unable to report for work at this crucial time. I am working with around 20% of my staff, which has impacted the number of tests that we can do in a day. There shouldn’t be any borders in the National Capital Region, and such minor issues should not impact the government’s hard work of ramping up testing capability,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder, Dr Dang’s Labs.Delhi collects over 3,000 samples a day, but there have been several reports of results being delayed.Several Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) who work in Delhi also live in Faridabad, hampering on-ground services, including contact tracing and screening for Covid-19 in areas across the Capital, health officials said. “Many dispensaries are also not able to continue their immunisation services because ANMs working there are not able to cross the border,” said a Delhi government health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/border-curbs-affect-health-care-services-testing-in-delhi/story-suWS5IJat8VpUBGbIiJNAJ.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases mount in Delhi, more than 700 in home isolation||As many as 771 people, who have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi but are displaying only mild symptoms have been placed under home isolation within a week of the government issuing guidelines in this matter, according to Delhi government data. This comes on the heels of Delhi recording more than 200 cases of Covid-19 each day for the past week, and over 400 cases a day on three occasions.For the ease of the patients, the government has also set up a consultation app that allows the dispensing of prescriptions. The government has designated 37 doctors for the service, which will be active between 8am and 8pm every day for Covid-19 patients to seek medical care.The national capital has recorded 5,980 cases of Covid-19 and 66 deaths as of Thursday, which also had Delhi’s largest single-day case spike, with 448 new cases. Of the 3,983 active cases till May 7, 1,358 were admitted with severe symptoms to the 10 designated Covid-19 hospitals. Another 1,230 people were admitted to either Covid Care Centres or Covid Health Centres with mild to moderate symptoms. Some people who are asymptomatic and are showing mild symptoms such as low-grade fever, headache, throat pain and don’t require oxygen support but cannot ensure isolation at home are admitted in Covid Care Centres.And 771 people have been placed under home isolation. “This is an effective alternative for a scenario where the government is unable to cope up with the number of cases. Even if 30% to 40% of the population gets the infection, it is impossible for any government to manage the numbers. Also, when people know they can stay at home even if they test positive, more will come forward to report their symptoms and get tested,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.To be sure, along with mild symptoms, only those with no comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease, are allowed to stay in home isolation. Comorbid conditions are known to increase the risk of developing severe symptoms of Covid-19.Even then, home isolation is only allowed if the patients have adequate facilities, such as a separate room and bathroom, for the positive person, and if the others in the family do not have severe comorbidities.According to the standard operating procedure for home isolation issued by the Delhi government, a two-member team of an accredited social health activist (ASHA) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), or any other health care worker, visits the house of the patient on the first day of isolation to check symptoms and the isolation facility at home. The team carries a pulse-oxymeter to measure the oxygen saturation of the patient, a thermal scanner to measure the patient’s temperature, and 100gm bleaching powder for the family.The families are taught how to make 1% hypochlorite solution to clean various surfaces in the patient’s room, and how to disinfect masks before disposing of them.The patient also has to ensure that there is a family member who can provide 24x7 care, including food, cleaning of utensils, and other chores, without exposing others. The person has to wear mask and gloves when in the patient’s room.They caregiver also has to monitor the condition of the patient regularly and keep in touch with the district authorities to let them know if the patient develops symptoms such as difficulty in breathing, persistent pressure or pain in the chest, confusion, or bluish discolouration of lips or face. A team of privately hired staff actively checks with the family over the telephone for symptoms every day.The team visiting the Covid-19 patient -- they get  ₹100 for every household visited, an additional ₹200 for refreshments, and free commute -- stamps the left hand of the person stating ‘Committed to Home Isolation’ and pastes a sticker outside the house informing others of home isolation. The family and the teams all have to to download the Aarogya Setu app to monitoring that patients do not break isolation.“In the app, we have a facility to track the movement of the patient. Our teams often ask them to send a selfie just to ensure that they are in their rooms,” said a senior official.The patient is allowed to come out of isolation only after two of their tests are negative – for the first, the sample will be collected from home by private laboratories and, if negative, the person has to go to the nearest testing centre for the second sample collection.The big challenge, experts said, is handling the biomedical waste generated.“The waste generated from these households would be infected and cannot be disposed of as is with other general waste. The current guidelines do not talk of the biomedical waste management. The entire waste from the household will have to be treated as biomedical waste and can either be picked up by the bio-medical waste management agencies or provisions must be made for the waste to be dropped off at the nearest hospital or dispensary from where it can be collected,” said Dr Jugal Kishore.Currently, waste is collected separately from these houses by municipality collectors based on the list provided by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-cases-mount-in-capital-more-than-700-in-home-isolation/story-qT7hEciSFFWCquNOxGyJTM.html
08-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two videos of assault emerge on social media, no case registered||Two videos of assault surfaced on the social media on Thursday. While one of the videos was from Azadpur Mandi, the location of the second video — in which a man is seen being assaulted with wooden and plastic batons by a man in a police uniform and two-three civilians — could not be conclusively determined till late Thursday night.In the Azadpur Mandi video, an injured man is seen bleeding on the footpath while another man — who is apparently making the video — can be heard alleging that the injured man was assaulted by a policeman at the Mandi. In the video, some people are also seen surrounding two men in uniform riding a bike. The person who is making the video can also be heard instigating the crowd by saying, “maaro-maaro, gira do (hit them, hit them, pull them down).”Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya, however, denied that the man had been assaulted by a policemen. She said that a fight broke out between a customer and a civil defence volunteer deployed at the mandi over some issue on Tuesday.“The two later gave in writing that the issue between them had been resolved and they do not want any police action,” said Arya.According to the vendors at the Azadpur Mandi, the incident took place around 10pm on Tuesday, when the customer was making a purchase at a shop in the market. A minor argument ensued between a vendor and the customer, after which a civil defence volunteer intervened and allegedly beat up the customer.Anil Malhotra, member of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Azadpur, demanded strict action against the volunteer in question and also asked for increased police presence in the mandi to avoid such incidents.“If the authorities cannot handle the market, then they should just shut it down. But if you have decided to keep it open, then customers will come in and you cannot go on beating them like this,” Malhotra said.Adil Khan, chairperson of the APMC Azadpur, said that he was not aware of any such incident “We will take action against those who resort to violence against customers,” Khan said.In the second video, a policeman and at least two civilians are seen assaulting a man on a road while none of the passers-by, including the one filming the assault, come to his rescue.Though the exact reason behind the assault is not known, one of the passers-by can be heard saying that the man (who is being assaulted) was hugging people.The date and exact place where the incident took place is not known, but a couple of vehicles seen in the video have Delhi’s registration number plates.HT spoke to DCPs of West, Southwest and Dwarka districts. They said no such incident was reported tin any police stations in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-two-videos-of-assault-emerge-on-social-media-no-case-registered/story-gI8HaeZwgAPaEx5qhFyfxJ.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Students of Chandigarh tricity living in PGs being coaxed to pay rent amid lockdown||With the curfew in Chandigarh tricity being extended amid increasing cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), students complain they are being asked to pay rent forcefully or vacate their paying guest accommodations. Most tenants who reside in such accommodations are outstation students are not living in their PGs currently as all educational institutes are closed.A ministry of home affairs order released on March 29 stated owners cannot ask for rent for a month, and in case of non-payment, a student cannot be evicted. However, there are no preceding instructions for April, adding to the confusion. UT adviser Manoj Parida said the Chandigarh administration will be writing to the centre for clear directions on the issue after which future course of action will be decided. Many students alleged that as they are unable to pay rent, landlords are forcing them to come back and take their belongings amid the lockdown.Last month, Chandigarh Police were approached by Kajal who said the landlord of her paying guest accommodation in Sector 22, Joginder Mahajan, a resident of sector 37, was forcing her to pay rent or leave. Following this, the station house officer of Sector 17 issued a warning to Mahajan.A similar case was witnessed in Mohali where Usha, a daily wager complained her PG owner, Harbir Singh, was forcing her to pay rent. He was booked under extortion, assault, criminal intimidation and forgery at Phase 8 police station.A student living at a PG in Phase 9, Mohali, said she pays ₹11,000 as monthly rent and is not in a position to continue paying till August, when she expects colleges to resume classes. A student living in a rented accommodation in Sector 11, Panchkula, said she was given an eviction notice and asked to vacate by the end of this month as her rest of the roommates had not pay their dues. They were paying ₹ 18,000 for three-BHK flat.Punjab University students’ forum has also raised the issue. They said many students are unable to afford rent during this hour of crisis, and requested for a waiver. Students of DAV College also raised the issue.Most tenants contacted by Hindustan Times requested anonymity fearing a harsh blowback from the landlords. A resident of Sector 19 said, “My landlord is forcing me to pay rent for two months. I paid half the rent thinking they are dependent on us. But, they are still forcing us to pay the entire amount otherwise and threatening to give us a month’s notice to leave the place.”Another girl living in a Sector 11 PG said, “Not everyone is in the financial condition to pay rent. We didn’t complain about the owner to the police as she will not let us live in peace later.”“When I told my landlord that I won’t be able to pay rent, he asked me to collect my belongings and leave. I am based in Delhi, how can I go back now with no transport available?” a student of DAV College said.Gaurav Sharma, a student leader from the same college said, “Many students said they are being forced to pay rent. Most of them are outstation students. They can’t come back and vacate the premises during this crisis. How will they arrange passes and transportation? Landlords should be more sensitive.”Ashok Nanda, a landlord said, “It is very sorry state of affairs for retired persons who were bearing household expenses through rents they were receiving. In general, tenants’ excuse for not paying rent is they have not got their salary. However, not all of them are telling the truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-of-chandigarh-tricity-living-in-pgs-being-coaxed-to-pay-rent-amid-lockdown/story-WMymgRGluXViWFVnjJTuIP.html
08-05-2020||Noida||One help per household: RWAs come up with strategies as lockdown eases||With the Gaiutam Budh Nagar district administration putting the onus of formulating local guidelines on residential bodies, these associations Thursday came up with a set of guidelines to regulate the movement of people at housing societies.While the Gautam Budh Nagar administration had on Wednesday issued guidelines on interstate and interdistrict travel, opening of industries and private offices, and perimeter control of containment zones, it left it to the residents’ welfare associations to come up with guidelines to regulate the movement of helps, plumbers, electricians and others at housing societies.The district administration has suggested that the entry of plumbers, electricians and service personnel for ACs, ROs, refrigerators, etc. be limited to twice a week. The officials also said the RWA can decide in consultation with residents the entry of domestic helps, but stipulated that helps come only be from a non-containment zone and only one help per household will be allowed.Following the directives, RWAs started making plans for their individual localities after taking feedback from residents.“We have issued certain guidelines for now. It is difficult to keep one help restricted to a single household as they often work in multiple households. So we will try to prepare some sort of a roster for these helps and may have to get in touch with more helps to accommodate all families. However, it will be very difficult to track their movements once they leave the society. But we will monitor the situation till May 17 and then take a call depending on how thigs things pan out,” Rekha Chawla, secretary, apartment owners’ association (AOA), ATS village, Sector 93, said.Other localities are urging residents who require services of domestic helps to keep them on a 24-hour basis.“There are families who do require support of domestic helps. Almost 10% families in our housing society are elderly couples. Then there are those with young children or working people who have to worry about kids who aren’t going to school. Such people need help. We are asking them to make arrangements for the help to stay with them full time and to get them tested for Covid-19 first. For the staff, thermal screening will be done at the main gate,” Rajiva Singh, president, apartment owners’ association, Stellar Kings Court, Sector 50, said.He also said that for any maintenance service, the AOA have fixed two days of the week and the body will review the situation once more after May 17.Residents also said even though helps from only non-containment zones will be coming in, it is difficult to ensure that the guidelines are followed. Also, in high-rises with as many as 1,000 to 1500 flats, and many sectors the ‘one help per household’ rule is not feasible due to a large volume of residents.“We cannot fulfil this administrative requirement and that is why for now we are avoiding the entry of helps unless absolutely necessary. In that scenario, the family will have to engage her from 7am-7pm and get her checked for Covid-19. Meanwhile, we have permitted car cleaners, laundry personnel and gardeners to come in. The RWA has engaged its own plumber and electrician who are servicing the houses for now. We are ensuring that all service personnel are from non-containment zones,” colonel (retd) Shashi Vaid, chairman, Arun Vihar RWA, said.But RWAs are worries about conflicts with residents.“In case we make a rule, we don’t want people to say that we are being autocratic. So we have asked residents for their feedback. So far most residents have refused to engage a help until the situation improves,” the estate manager of a society in Sector 75 said.“If any conflict leads to a disturbance of peace or gets out of hand, police will intervene. However, any policy disagreements can be settled between the RWAs and residents amicably,” Sriparna Gangoulee, additional commissioner of police, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-help-per-household-rwas-come-up-with-strategies-as-lockdown-eases/story-lgRmyUSrySJxiDfGMCvDUK.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Additional dist collector of Pune Sahebrao Gaikwad passes away||Sahebrao Gaikwad, Pune district additional collector, passed away on Thursday morning due to heart attack, officials of the collectorate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/additional-dist-collector-of-pune-sahebrao-gaikwad-passes-away/story-nNhHsCkhRHBuJQWmKruaDL.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Uphill task to complete projects: Pune developers||While Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Maha-Rera) in its order dated April 2 extended the completion deadline for registered projects by three months, the city developers were expecting a one year’s extension. They said that shortage of manpower and raw material and less cash flow is hampering the ongoing projects.The order, issued on April 2, stated that all Maha-Rera-registered projects whose completion or revised completion or extended completion expires on March 20, 2020, has been given an extension of three months. Pune district administration allowed commencement of construction work from May 4.Suhas Merchant, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), said, “We were expecting one-year extension as despite government’s decision to allow commencement of work at under-construction sites, developers are facing multiple problems, including financial strain and inadequate cash flow.”Credai undertook a survey this week among 216 real estate developers to identify the key reasons for not being able to restart the construction work in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) regions.“The survey indicated that majority of developers are facing problems like unavailability of construction material, especially the material related to pre-monsoon construction work; difficulties in construction material reaching the sites; problems faced by technical staff and site engineers in reaching the construction sites,” said Merchant.“There is a state of confusion in the minds of the labour force at the construction sites. They want to return to their hometowns because of less work opportunity here and it is hampering projects”, said Merchant.The Credai chief pointed out that it is important to speed up the process of solving these problems because of less time in hand to complete the pre-monsoon work. “Site work for basement, retaining wall, underground work, waterproofing cannot start without consultants and the technical staff, including special work supervisors, need to present at sites.“Many labourers have left for their hometowns due to lack of work. So, if we do not start the work right now, the few labourers who are here will also leave and it will further delay the projects,” he said.Rohit Gera, managing director, Gera Constructions, said, “Though Maha-Rera has given an extension, the situation on the ground is different as lockdown is still in place. We will know the impact on real estate when we have full labour on-site and adequate supply of raw materials.”“The situation right now is that we have only 50 per cent of the labourers on-site, with many wanting to return to their villages, therefore affecting the projects. I am hopeful that even in these difficult times, Rera will stand by the developers and address problems judiciously,” said Gera.Gautam Chatterjee, chairman, Maha-Rera, said, “Due to the current situation, real estate projects across Maharashtra will take some time to resume. Recognising this, RBI has also allowed banks to provide a three-month moratorium on fixed-term loans and EMI payments.”“Therefore, in order to aid government efforts in controlling the damage of Covid-19 and ensure that completion of Maha-Rera registered projects does not get adversely affected, it has been decided to issue the order (extension order),” he said.Findings of survey undertaken by CredaiCredai undertook a survey this week among 216 real estate developers to identify the key reasons for not being able to restart the construction work in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) regions-Together, they have only 45,700 labourers at the site (in-situ)-Based on the survey, over 46% of labour will leave for hometowns as they have no work- Less than 20% of the staff was able to reach the site due to confusion/unavailability of e-pass / harassment by police.- About 90% of developers need material on site to begin work (pre-monsoon preparations)-Less than 10% of developers have been able to receive any material on site in the last few days- Almost 50% of developers (105 out of 216) have less than 100 labourers available at the site-Less than 3% of developers have more than 1,000 labourers at all their on-going sitesDue to the lack of petrol, many site staff, consultant staff (for checking) and contractor staff cannot come to work- Inter-district travel is currently not being allowed. Many senior engineers had travelled to hometown just before lockdown and they need to get back to Pune- One-time permission to move specific labourers required for pre-monsoon works- Gram panchayat and police are asking for health check-ups of labourers because of which they want to return to their villages- Ready mix concrete(RMC) plants are shut and hence, concretisation is not possible at several places- Safety/hygiene material is not coming to the site and hence, facing difficulty in implementing guidelines- Banks have stopped disbursements, so cash flow is a challenge||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/uphill-task-to-complete-projects-pune-developers/story-NIF3k0wVQEDCrNN5AQRq4O.html
08-05-2020||Pune||First special train for stranded migrant labourers departs from Pune to Rewa||The first special Shramik train from Pune for stranded migrant workers ran from Urli railway station, under the Pune railway division, on Thursday evening. The train scheduled at 5pm left the station at 6.40pm for Rewa railway station in Madhya Pradesh. The train carrying 1,173 passengers will reach the destination on Friday at 11 am. Rewa is 400 km northeast of Bhopal, the state’s capital.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram and Pune rural police superintendent Sandeep Patil flagged-off the train.Migrant workers from across Pune district who had registered for going back to their native villages were brought in private and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses to Urli railway station, 50km from Pune railway station.They were first accommodated in classrooms of Mahatma Gandhi Vidyalaya School located opposite to the railway station, before being brought to the station in a line. The passengers included labourers, children, women and the elderly.Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP), Pune rural police and State Reserve Police Force ensured that the passengers maintained social distancing norms while entering the platform number one of the station. Aadhaar card and body temperature of each passenger was checked before being allowed to go to respective coaches.The train journey time is 18 hours and will run on end-to-end basis and there will be no commercial halt en route. The train has seating capacity of 1,100 passengers with coach having a capacity of 72 seats, but only 54 passengers were allowed in each coach as per social distancing norms. The meals for Thursday night were given by the Maharashtra state government while breakfast for Friday will be given by the railways.Rajesh Hiralal Saket, who is travelling with his group of nine family members, said, “We were working in a company at Ranjangaon MIDC and had registered to go back. Today morning we got a call to be prepared for train journey and at 11am buses came to pick us up. We are from Narayani village in Rewa district and the last two months were very difficult for us to survive. I will never come back to Pune now and seek job in a nearby village.”Budha Sen, who was travelling with his wife and five-year-old son, said, “We were happy to get the call about our travel arrangements. I know life will be hard back in the village, but it was getting difficult to find livelihood in Pune. With no work and no income, we had to depend on NGOs and private organisations for food every day.”Ram said, “We are happy that we could send people back to their hometowns with proper safety measures. All our officials, Pune railway division, police department and other departments put in a lot of effort to make it a success. We will send all those stranded people who are willing to go back to their native places by all possible transport modes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/first-special-train-for-stranded-migrant-labourers-departs-from-pune-to-rewa/story-ksxxc7Kikisr9luZCQJpyL.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Unchecked vehicle movement seen in areas across Pune||A day after lockdown relaxations were offered on non-essential shop operations in Pune, many vehicles were seen on city roads without being stopped by the police even in areas other than non-containment zones.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) order on Wednesday allowed non-essential shops, including liquor, to function between 7am and 7pm. The order came two days after the Pune police had allowed five shops of non-essential goods per lane to open between 10am and 6pm. The Pune district collector also issued a separate order allowing supply of petrol and diesel in non-containment areas to residents without asking for passes.“Passes are checked for vehicle movement from containment to non-containment zone and vice-versa. Within non-containment zones, passes are not required. The relaxations are also for non-essential and non-exempted categories,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.The exempted categories and essential services did not require police pass even before.The police order had mentioned that five shops of non-essential goods per lane be opened between 10am and 6pm. However, an order by PMC, which supersedes the police order, stated that the shops be allowed to open between 7am and 7pm.Police passes given on Tuesday and Wednesday: 6,200Passes given till 11am on Thursday:440- death of relative, friend1,584- medical emergencies3,259- stranded students295- other reasonsPending passes199- death of relative, friend1,600- medical emergencies2,135- stranded students||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/unchecked-vehicle-movement-seen-in-areas-across-pune/story-0UnePCgvdlIw89ZNZz9csO.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Primary school teachers man police check-posts in rural Pune||Someshwar Bhagwan and Appa Sawant are primary school teachers in government schools. However, in these times of Covid-19 and the lockdown, they are required to keep awake the entire night for their duty at the police check-post (naka bandi) in Bhor taluka.In view of the shortfall in police manpower, primary teachers have been appointed for bandobast duty in many parts of rural Pune.Sudam Ombale, the Bhor taluka teachers association president, said, “Around 335 teachers have been appointed on check-post duty and a total of 32 check-posts have been erected on roads in Bhor taluka. We are receiving good support from officials, but it is a fact that in remote areas, people are facing some problems. Teachers did not get safety equipment and on their own have been purchasing sanitisers and masks. At some places, there is the issue of safety at night.”Vishal Tanpure, block development officer (BDO) from Bhor, said, “It is true that teachers have been assigned the role of policing. As there is limited manpower with the police, we have decided to depute teachers and this practice is getting followed all over Maharashtra. Earlier, we tried to give support of the home guards to teachers, but home guards too have less manpower and now only teachers are doing the policing work. As Bhor is close to Pune, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there is huge reverse migration and a total of 22,000 people from Mumbai and Pune returned to Bhor taluka as cases increased in both the cities.”Bhagwan who has been appointed at Kusgaon in Bhor taluka of Pune district, said, “This is a totally different experience for us. We have done census enumeration work and we have been on election duty and other kinds of work. But this is the first time that we are doing the work of policemen and that too on night duty.”Bhagwan, who has been given the responsibility of the check-post in Kusgaon, said, “The locals follow the instructions, but outsiders get into arguments and try to clear the check-post without a valid pass. Some of them argue with us saying we have no authority to stop them as we are not policemen.”The teachers work in three shifts and every teacher has to do night duty by rotation. Two of them stay awake the entire night to man the check-posts.“We have managed the chairs and the bamboos on our own to barricade the road. We enter the number of each vehicle passing by this road in a register and check whether they have a valid pass or not,” Bhagwan said.Appa Sawant, a teacher from Bhor taluka, said he has done night patrolling and survey and supervision of people during the quarantine. “This is a completely different kind of work. The government should ideally put revenue staff like talathi or people from some other department with authority along with us teachers as people don’t listen to us,” Sawant said.“To put teachers on road duty is not right,” he said, while adding that there were no complaints about this given the extraordinary circumstances caused by the coronavirus pandemic.The check-post is absolutely bare with basic provisions and the villagers are also not assisting in any way due to the lockdown, one teacher said. Since Bhor taluka is close to Pune city, many people have been trying to go to their villages to be away from the city. When stopped at the check-post, they get into heated arguments, said Sawant. He noted that at some check-posts there was no power supply and the teachers were sitting in the dark the entire night.A teacher who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, “Our check-post is in an isolated location and two of us are manning it. When some people get into a heated argument, we just take down the number of their vehicle and allow them to pass by.”He said that in some villages, there was resistance to allowing people from Pune and Mumbai to return home and the police was at once informed of their presence. They are then asked to stay in isolation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/primary-school-teachers-man-police-check-posts-in-rural-pune/story-MWCOl7yf97l9xW6rfe3uuK.html
08-05-2020||Pune||Non-essential shops open in Pune; some remain shut as per trade association’s stand||Many non-essential shops opened on Thursday following the notification by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), while some remained closed as per the decision of the traders’ body.Pune Vyapari Mahasangh, the traders’ body, in its meeting on Wednesday night decided to wait for a few more days to open shops as most of its members hail from containment zones.Shops selling cloth, hardware and construction material were open in areas like Aundh, Baner, Kondhwa, Hadapsar, Warje and Camp, even as those located in the central parts of the city like Deccan, Navi peth, Shivajinagar, and Kothrud, Satara road and Bopodi remained closed.Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, on Wednesday, allowed non-essential standalone shops to open between 7am and 7pm in non-containment zones. In his order, Gaikwad allowed shops involved in selling and repair of electronic gadgets and mobile phones to be opened on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while hardware, plumbing, construction and cloth stores along with vehicle garages to function on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday.Many shop owners who did not open their business establishments cited confusion regarding the orders issued by the PMC and the appeal made by Pune Vyapari Mahasangh.Fattechand Ranka, president, Pune Vyapari Mahasangh, said, “Our staffers who work for these shops located in the central parts of city have to travel from containment zones. We have decided to remain shut as part of our help to the government.”Besides non-essential shops, vegetable and grocery stores also extended their timing of doing business after clarity from the PMC, which allowed these establishments to remain open for 12 hours from 7am. Huge crowd was seen at petrol pumps after Wednesday’s order by district collector Naval Kishore Ram allowing sale of fuel to everyone.DMart at Aundh, which had downed its shutters after a staff was tested positive, opened its doors on Thursday.Rupesh Junawane, resident of Aundh, said, “While many shops are opening, we request at least the libraries to open as it will keep the elders and children occupied.”At Satara road, most shops except grocery stores were closed while on Bhau Patil road at Bopodi, almost all shops, barring medical stores, were shut. The only shop that was open was Rajan Coffee, a shop that specialises in south Indian grocery items.Bhavesh Kumar Parit, who runs a laundry in Kothrud, said, “We have been shut for more than 40 days and now if we don’t open, it will adversely affect our business. Hence, we decided to open the shop after the PMC’s permission.”At some places in the eastern parts of city, shopkeepers said they had to shut business by 12 noon as policemen turned up asking the establishments to shut operations before the 2pm deadline. “In Kothrud where I live, all non-essential shops were closed and even the supermarket selling grocery was shut down post noon by the police,” said Sneha Gore, professor. Pune police chief K Venkatesham said that police are allowing shops to carry out business with all guidelines being followed. “Field staff has been intimated about the orders by municipal commissioner and district collector. Request social distance and personal hygiene measures,” tweeted Venkatesham. The locals, however, differed. “When the policemen are asking us to shut down before deadline, we are confused over what orders are being issued and what is actually being implemented on ground. We want more confidence-building measures from the government through which we can open shops and conduct business. We want support from the government which will boost the confidence of traders doing business in green zones,” said Amit Prajapati, a super shoppe proprietor from Vimannagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/non-essential-shops-open-in-pune-some-remain-shut-as-per-trade-association-s-stand/story-K9APjz9nHxyLYi0Fy5yj6J.html
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU guard, 6-year-old boy among Chandigarh’s 14 new Covid-19 cases, tally touches 138||Four Panjab University security guards were quarantined after their colleague was among 14 new Covid-19 cases confirmed on Thursday and Friday morning, taking Chandigarh’s count to 138 in 51 days since the first case was reported.The cases came from both the city’s hotspots for the second week straight with 13 confirmed positive from Bapu Dham Colony and one from Sector 30B.According to Prof Ashwani Koul, chief, PU security, the infected guard, who lived with his parents in Bapu Dham Colony, has not been coming to the campus from April 24. “We have given the names of four security guards who are likely to be his first contacts to the health department officials and they have been quarantined.Among the 10 patients are a six-year-old boy, three others are family members of a reported positive case, three more from one household are community contacts of another positive case in the locality; and yet another three, including a 36-year-old woman, are contacts of another previously diagnosed positive case. Three more cases of which details are yet to emerge has tested also tested positive. The Sector 30 case is a 12-year-old girl who is the family contact of yet another case diagnosed earlier.The last two weeks have seen a massive 400% jump in cases, from 28 on April 25 to 135 on May 7, with Bapu Dham Colony accounting for 57% of the total cases in the city and 67% of the active cases.COVID-19 TEST POSITIVITY RATE GOES UPIn last two weeks, the test positivity rate (TPR) of Chandigarh has increased from 3.8% to almost 10%. From March 18 to April 25, the city recorded 28 cases detected through tests of 734 persons, indicating a 3.8% positivity rate. However, after April 25, UT conducted 1,111 tests, from which 110 tested positive, which means a TPR of around 9.6%. Also, the recovery rate in the city, once double the national average, has come down to 15.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-test-positive-in-bapudham-colony-chandigarh-s-covid-19-count-reaches-128/story-VgpGrbiLaE4jJRqhAfTRcP.html
08-05-2020||City||Handwara encounter: CM announces Rs 10-lakh aid, job for kin of slain Mansa soldier||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced a Rs 10-lakh financial aid and a government job for the kin of Rajesh Kumar, an army jawan hailing from Mansa district, who was among five security personnel killed in an encounter with militants in North Kashmir’s Handwara.The CM described the incident as a “ghastly and cowardly act” by the militants.According to a government release, the CM announced a financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh, including Rs 5 lakh as ex gratia and Rs 5 lakh in lieu of a plot, to the next of kin, besides a government job to one eligible member of his family.Extending his heartfelt condolences to the family of Naik Rajesh Kumar of 21 RR (Rashtriya Rifles), who belonged to Rajrana village in Sardulgarh tehsil of Mansa, the CM said his heart went out to the “martyred” soldiers.Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on Rajrana village as the news of the soldier’s death reached there.Baljinder Singh, former sarpanch of village, said that Rajesh is survived by his parents, two brothers and two sisters. “He was the only earning hand in the family.”Mansa deputy commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said the body of the soldier will arrive in the village on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/handwara-encounter-cm-announces-rs-10-lakh-aid-job-for-kin-of-slain-mansa-soldier/story-sNMuusPsJeaw8iDWRTgUkL.html
