09-05-2020||City||As pandemic rages, manufacturers, service providers must increase warranty, push back submission dates||Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown have created many unexpected, peculiar situations. For example, when an Octogenarian resident of Bengaluru decided to deposit Rs 15 lakhs in the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY), he never thought that Covid-19 would come in the way of his investment.A pension scheme for senior citizens, PMVVY, implemented through the Life Insurance Corporation of India, offers an assured return of 8 per cent for ten years. On March 17, the 83-year old man met an LIC agent , who explained the benefits of the scheme to him and said the scheme closed on March 31. The senior citizen immediately rushed to a couple of banks in which he had the money, put Rs 15 lakhs together (the maximum deposit accepted under the scheme) in one account and on March 21, handed over the cheque and the filled form and other required documents to the agent, who in turn gave them to a development officer the same day. This was to be deposited in the LIC office on Monday, March 23, well ahead of the March 31 deadline.However, as luck would have it, Karnataka announced lockdown of nine districts including Bengaluru from March 23 and the Octogenarian’s money and form could not be deposited by the development officer in the LIC office. The senior citizen says he tried to make the payment online, but could not do so with his Rupay/debit card limitations. So his cheque and the form are stuck with the development officer and his hope of earning a decent return on his investment hangs in the balance. Locked down at home, he’s now desperately writing to the finance ministry, the LIC, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority and even the higher courts, urging that his application and cheque be accepted, as the delay in submission of the form and money was caused on account of circumstances beyond his control.I am sure there are many other senior citizens like him, who are in this predicament and it is only just and fair that their applications are accepted. In fact because of the lockdown, many senior citizens have lost a great opportunity to invest in a good pension scheme in the last week of March and earn a decent interest on their investment in this age of fluctuating and low interest rates on savings. So the government must respond positively to the appeal by the All India Senior Citizens’ Confederation to postpone the last date for submission of deposits in the scheme.It has already deferred the last date for tax saving investments from March 31 to June 30. Even for linking Pan Card to Aadhar card, the deadline has been extended to June 30. There should be similar extension of the cut off date for the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana to June 30While on the subject of deadlines and time limits, I must mention that today, several companies are on their own extending the warranties in view of the lockdown and informing the customers. This must become universal and all manufacturers and service providers, without any exception , should suitably stretch beyond the earlier deadline, their warranties and guarantees, service contracts and extended warranties. For example, there should be an extension of time for free check up and servicing for all new vehicles- keeping in mind the fact that the vehicles have not moved at all during the lockdown. Likewise, the time limit for free servicing of all machines, including home appliances and air conditioners should be adjusted depending on when the lockdown is lifted. Similar logic should apply to paid service contracts and too. Battery manufacturers/dealers should also offer special schemes/ assistance to vehicle owners whose batteries may have died down due to non-use. Lives of many batteries could have also got reduced because of disuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-pandemic-rages-manufacturers-service-providers-must-increase-warranty-push-back-submission-dates/story-Qp6qctb4H1XJwZ21EfSSyK.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||HC denies permission to complete illegal hospital to treat Covid-19 patients||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has rejected a plea by a local doctor seeking permission to complete construction of an unauthorised hospital at Beed in Marathwada region, even after he offered to make the building available for running an out-patient department (OPD) and dialysis unit for Covid-19 patients in the district.The petitioner Dr Manoj Munde had moved the HC with a plea for an urgent hearing for permission to complete the remaining work of his hospital building at Beed and to start the OPD and make available a dialysis unit for the coronavirus-infected patients from the district.He stated that he had purchased an old hospital building in the town and had on August 20, 2019, applied for construction permission. He had made the payment for requisite development charges to the Beed municipal council on November 8, 2019.However, in March 2020, the civic body noticed that substantial construction of the new hospital building was already done, even before the building permit was obtained. On April 13, the civic body refused the building permission.On April 20, Dr Munde requested the district collector for permission to operate the hospital, claiming that the new building was already constructed and could be used for treating Covid-19 patients.He moved the HC after the resident collector on April 25 issued an order shortlisting the unfinished building for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The building would then be used for the purpose but the illegal status of the structure would not be lifted.Government pleader DR Kale opposes the doctor’s plea, stating that the construction was illegal and could not be allowed to be completed.Justice Ravindra Ghuge on Friday accepted his contention and rejected the doctor’s plea for interim permission to complete the unfinished building and to operate an OPD and a dialysis unit there. The judge said such an interim order “cannot be granted in the face of the illegality, prima facie, indulged by the petitioner”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-denies-permission-to-complete-illegal-hospital-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-uzGriQKmOqRBpoaJRGBRLI.html
09-05-2020||City||Lineman critically injured while fixing transformer in Dadri||A 40-year-old lineman was critically injured while fixing a transformer in Dadri on Thursday evening. The incident took place in Shiv Vatika area in Dadri, where the victim, Dushyant, was fixing the transformer and the power supply suddenly came back. The victim was critically injured and got stuck to the transformer for sometime before being rescued. He has been admitted to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi with 50% burn injuries.Krishna Kumar Saraswat, executive engineer, Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), said the incident took place on Thursday night. “The lineman is a contractual worker with the Chitehra power sub-station. He was fixing a transformer in Shiv Vatika area, where the incident took place. The power came back suddenly and he could not get down from the transformer. He received severe burn injuries in the incident,” he said. According to the police, the lineman went to the area to check the transformer, after getting complaints from people about frequent tripping and fluctuations in the neighbourhood homes which were connected to the transformer. “Local people spotted him and informed police and the power department. The power supply was discontinued and the victim was brought down. He was then rushed to Safdarjung Hospital for medical treatment,” said Dinesh Singh, station house officer(SHO), Dadri police station. He said that the power department has filed a complaint in this matter. “The complaint is informatory in nature. The victim’s family has not filed any complaint in this matter,” he said.Saraswat said that the victim is in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) but he is responding to medical treatment. “He is out of danger. The power department has launched a probe into the matter. The investigation will reveal if there was back-feeding or the transformer had some technical glitches,” he said. The Dadri police have cordoned off the area and advised people not to venture out for safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lineman-critically-injured-while-fixing-transformer-in-dadri/story-mUeISRRq8IhRZW3dzOfleK.html
09-05-2020||Noida||‘Roti Bank’ in Noida generates 50,000 chapatis daily for the needy||‘Roti Bank’, an initiative that was started almost a month ago by a few Noida residents from sectors 78 and 79 to help daily wagers get food during the nationwide lockdown, has now become a mass movement. More and more people from across the city have started contributing to the initiative, which also has the support of the Noida authority. In the beginning, at least 500 families had contributed two chapatis each. And now around 50,000 rotis per day are being collected and provided to the Noida authority’s community kitchen from where they reach the needy. Between April 13 and May 8, the bank has made more than 650,000 rotis. On April 12, a handful of apartment owners from Sector 78’s three housing complexes -- Antriksh Golf View 1, Golf View 2, Assotech Windsor Court -- and Sector 79’s Sportswood had started the ‘Roti Bank’. They did not think the idea will inspire so many city residents to come forward to help the homeless and jobless people during the Covid-19 pandemic.“We have got 655,300 rotis from residents from April 13 to May 8. And the number is increasing daily as more and more residents are contributing,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida authority.Within a week after launch of the initiative, residents of around 20 societies in 7X sectors (74, 75, 76, 77, 78 and 79) started contributing to it. “Now, residents from sectors such as 21, 25, 26, 34, 49, 51, 70, 93, 104, 108, 110, 119, 122, 137 and 143 have also joined the initiative. Some housing societies from Greater Noida have also started sending rotis. The initiative is daily helping 9,300 needy people to get food. So far, it has helped 142,150 people,” said another Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.To begin with, the residents had requested via WhatsApp groups and other social networking sites for two rotis from each family daily for the next two weeks. The residents have to hand over the rotis to security guards at the gates, from where authority representatives collect them daily in the evening to deliver the same to homeless and migrant workers.“We all have a duty to help the needy during this crisis because the government alone cannot provide food for so long. We hope the entire city will come forward and ensure nobody sleeps hungry during the pandemic,” said Amita Singh, a resident of Sector 76.The Noida authority is running five community kitchens -- Shani temple Sector 14A, Harola Sector 5, Bhangel, Sorkha and Mamura for the poor. Rotis from nearby housing complexes reach the kitchens, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/roti-bank-in-noida-generates-50-000-chapatis-daily-for-the-needy/story-C2kAt2XYuqmRvE62mFRmLO.html
09-05-2020||City||Sena MLC tests positive of Covid-19||A Shiv Sena member of legislative council (MLC) tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The MLC’s wife had tested positive last week. The MCL, who quit Congress to join the Sena a few years ago, is admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mulund. He is the second legislator in the city to test positive. Last month, state housing minister Jitendra Awhad tested positive.Sandeep Malvi, Thane deputy municipal commissioner, said, “The 58-year-old Sena MLC tested positive on Saturday. His wife got infected from the house help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sena-mlc-tests-positive-of-covid-19/story-IQIY81mg8B3FkDbMABThhL.html
09-05-2020||Noida||Noida: Vehicle headlights used to conduct health checkup of 35 evacuated persons from Singapore||The 35 persons who were among those evacuated from Singapore were given a check-up under the headlights of vehicles as there was no electricity apparatus at the Community Health Centre (CHC) in Noida’s Bhangel. The health centre comes under the health department of the Gautam Budh Nagar district. According to the 35 returnees, there weren’t any tube lights or bulbs at the facility. The travellers alleged they had to wait for over three hours to get their temperature and blood pressure checked and that too in the dark. They added that all of them were checked in an open area at the CHC where there was no light, after which administration officials switched on the headlights of their vehicles to provide some light.“It is unbelievable that health facilities in Uttar Pradesh are so bad that they are screening people in the dark. Officials had to use the headlights of their vehicles to lighten the area where we were made to wait to get ourselves checked. We were made to wait for over three hours just to get our temperature and blood pressure checked,” said a 27-year-old lawyer from Ghaziabad who was evacuated from Singapore.The returnees added the hotel where they are staying has not provided even basic facilities such as water, nor are there any room services, despite having to pay Rs 2,000 per day for a paid quarantine. “The Bhangel CHC area was full of mosquitoes. I had to drink tap water at the hotel as the hotel officials didn’t provide me with water for a long time. We are paying for the quarantine so at least basic facilities should be provided,” said a 39-year-old engineer from Ghaziabad.Out of the 35 persons evacuated from Singapore, six are from the Noida district while the rest belong to Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Agra, Deoria and Lucknow. Initially, it was decided that people who are from the district will be put under institutional quarantine while others will be sent back to their hometowns. These 35 persons, meanwhile, added that no social distancing was maintained at the CHC when they were taken for the checkup.“There was so much confusion on Friday evening as we were told we will be going to our homes but then they informed us that all of us will have to be put under institutional quarantine for 14 days. We are paying for the quarantine but we aren’t even getting water on time. I had to drink tap water in the night as the hotel staff did not provide water despite many calls,” said another person from the group.All the persons have been put under quarantine at the Savoy Suites at Pari Chowk which has been developed into a paid quarantine centre by the district administration. The 35 persons also alleged they got no help in lifting their heavy luggage at the airport and the hotel.“We were told that nobody will help us in shifting our luggage as they are scared of getting infected. There is a passenger here with two small children and she was struggling in putting her luggage inside the bus carrying us from the airport. At the hotel also, nobody helped us carry our luggage. The UP roadways bus which had come to pick us up was dirty,” said a 50-year-old passenger who was evacuated along with his wife.“They are charging me Rs 2,000-plus-taxes per person so we are paying over Rs 4,000 for the two of us. They told us they can provide only four bottles of packaged water each day and we will have to pay extra if we need more. The quality of food is so bad that you can’t eat it. Though they are charging us, no extra towels, bed sheets, soap or water is provided to us,” added the man.The district magistrate, meanwhile, pulled up his officers over conducting the health checkup of these 35 persons under the vehicle headlights, in the absence of electricity paraphernalia. “I have spoken to officials and we are looking into the matter. We have been trying to address all the issues of these people,” said district magistrate Suhas LY.These persons have also said that there are no windows in the rooms as there is a centralized air-condition system, which has been switched off. “ACs are not allowed and there are no windows in the rooms, so we have to keep our doors open the whole day to get some fresh air,” said a college student from the group.“We are trying to provide all possible services to the 35 persons but their issues will be conveyed to the concerned senior authorities,” said a hotel staff at the Savoy Suites, Greater Noida, requesting anonymity. Gautam Budh Nagar chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-vehicle-headlights-used-to-conduct-health-checkup-of-35-evacuated-persons-from-singapore/story-078ddZPTZBDVbsgaQq5GCO.html
09-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Source of virus from random sampling difficult to ascertain, say health officials||Six samples, out of nearly 800 random ones collected from hotspots in the last fortnight, have tested positive for Covid-19, raising concerns among health workers about tracing the source or contact of the virus.Till Friday, Ghaziabad had recorded a total of 133 cases, which included about 29 cases that were linked to hospital acquired infection, officials said. They added that six cases emerged by random sampling from densely populated and low-economic class areas.“About 700-800 random samples was collected from hotspot areas, where we have found six positive cases. The emergence of such cases is slightly worrying as the source of such infection is difficult to ascertain. We have found two such cases from Khoda, three from Islam Nagar and one from Jhandapur in Sahibabad. We cannot comment if these cases were due to community spread as such,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.“We are taking 30 to 40 random samples in different hotspot areas each day and trying to find out if there is any spread . The prime focus area for us now is Khoda ,where at least 15 people have tested positive. We have asked the administration to strictly enforce the lockdown and sealing in the locality,” he added.In a rare instance in Ghaziabad, the officials said that no positive cases were found on Saturday and total number of cases stood at 133.Till Saturday evening, the number of sampling done in Ghaziabad stood at 4,321 with reports of 573 still awaited. Across the state, the number of samples tested on Friday stood at 4,525.Among the initial cases in Ghaziabad, people having travel history tested positive. Later, cases linked to a religious congregation in Nizamuddin area of Delhi emerged. A few cases were also traced back to Noida-based fire safety and security solutions company, Ceasefire.“The latest cases which are coming in are medically acquired infection in which patients undergoing treatment or healthcare workers have tested positive. We have about 29 such cases where health care workers have tested positive so far. The two deaths which have resulted so far are due to comorbid conditions. There are several cases where we are yet to trace the source of infection and are awaiting reports,” he added.The officials said that the source of infection of a 60-year-old woman (who died) from Pratap Vihar, Vijay Nagar is yet to be ascertained and test reports of her family members are yet to be received.“The other case is of the additional regional manager from Aligarh and his four of his family members, who tested positive. A woman from Jhapdapur, who died in Delhi, also has five family members who tested positive on Friday. It has come to light that contacts of patients carrying the virus are often testing positive owing to families staying closely together and sharing bedrooms, utensils. So, it becomes vital that social distancing is maintained within the family as well,” CMO added.The officials of Uttar Pradesh government said that the recovery rate of the state at present is about 43% which is higher than the national rate of about 30%.“With the process of sampling and testing intensified, there is lot of stress on community surveillance as more migrant workers and people from foreign countries are being brought in. We are in the process of forming gram samitis in rural areas and mohalla samitis in urban areas, who will keep track of people coming from outside and will send them to home quarantine after medical examination,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).According to officials, about 12,4791 people have been tested in the state with the help of government and private laboratories. The state at present has 449 hotspot areas with a population of 47.29 lakh people residing in about 8.34 lakh houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-source-of-virus-from-random-sampling-difficult-to-ascertain-say-health-officials/story-G6HppqJ4dI2gfPrxdvCofI.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||No need to test tiger cub for Covid: Forest department||The state forest department has decided not to send swab samples of a three-month-old tiger cub from Chandrapur to one of the approved animal testing centres for Covid-19 in Bhopal. The cub was the first wild animal in Maharashtra suspected of being infected with Covid-19. However, after forest officials said the cub is not showing any symptoms of the infection, the chief wildlife warden decided against testing the cub’s samples. Initially, the department had planned to send the cub’s samples to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, in Bhopal. “Many days have passed since the rescue, and the animal currently shows no symptoms of ill health. Also logistical issues such as interstate transport will be a tedious task. We will monitor the cub’s health and in case there are issues, a follow-up decision will be taken,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). The department hopes to reunite the cub with her mother. Scat samples were collected of a tigress less than two kilometres from the spot where the cub was rescued on April 24. “The scat and swab samples of the tigress and the cub have been sent to an institute in Hyderabad for DNA analysis. If the results are positive, the process to reunite them will commence,” said a forest official.On April 24, the female cub was rescued from Sushi Dabgaon village, around 60 km from Chandrapur, and is currently at a transit treatment centre. After concerns were raised by non-government bodies that the cub was rescued without Covid-19 protective equipment, swab samples were collected on April 28 and sent to Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC). Earlier this week NVC returned the samples as they are not authorised by the Centre to conduct tests for Covid-19.Independent experts concurred with the forest department’s decision. “There is no reason for us to worry or panic about this cub’s safety. Since the animal is asymptomatic, there is no point testing samples similar to the protocol for humans,” said Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust. “Different types of coronaviruses are carried by animals and this particular strain affecting humans can also be carried by cats. While some tigers in Bronx Zoo in New York contracted Covid-19, there is no case across the world where any big cat has died.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-need-to-test-tiger-cub-for-covid-forest-department/story-ORdlzM9b5lh94dKOcqkyFP.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Industrial, commercial consumers to be charged 10% of average power usage||In a directive issued to power distribution companies on Saturday, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has stated that owing to possibility of higher assessment from industrial and commercial consumers, only a token amount of 10% of the average energy consumption will be billed to premises under lockdown. The commission had earlier ordered a moratorium on fixed charges for three billing cycles for the industrial and commercial consumers. On Saturday, it stated that this amount will have to be paid in the next three billing cycles and if the charges are paid at one go, then the consumers would get a 1% rebate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/industrial-commercial-consumers-to-be-charged-10-of-average-power-usage/story-gEK78YVF4JvcO5VyiliXTM.html
09-05-2020||City||40 from Vaishali fire station in home quarantine after two personnel test positive||About 40 fire department officials from Vaishali fire station were sent to 14 days of home quarantine on April 27 after two of their personnel tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer, said, “We are staying in home quarantine after one of our drivers and one fireman tested positive for Covid-19. The driver’s wife also tested positive. So, on the advice of the health department officials, we are on 14-day quarantine since April 27. I and the other officers work from office nowadays and are not going home. All 40 staff members as well as their families who are living on the station premises are now in home quarantine.”The firefighters are involved in sanitisation work in different parts of the city, including those in hot spot areas.“Our administrative work is going on from Vaishali fire station but no personnel is going out to the field. We are still coordinating work over phone and the rest of the stations are engaged in sanitisation and firefighting activities. Besides the regular sanitisation work, our department has also attended to about 115 fire incidents, including seven major fires, during the period between March 16 and May 8. The vehicles at Vaishali station ave been completely sanitised,” Singh said.According to officials, the district has 127 fire personnel and officers and 40 of them are presently in home quarantine.The officials said the Vaishali station’s workload is being shared by the stations in Kotwali, Sahibabad, Modinagar and Loni. The sanitisation works include spraying of disinfectants with the help of fire tenders and officials said that so far, they have taken up sanitisation work in about 1,500 spots35 persons brought back from DhakaOn Saturday, 35 persons who landed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport from Dhaka, Bangladesh, were brought to Ghaziabad by evening and were given the option of staying in a govt-run quarantine facility or paid quarantine at a hotel reserved for them in Bajaria. The officials said the 35 persons are from different districts in Uttar Pradesh, including some from Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.“The batch of 35 persons was handed over to us. If they opt for the hotel, they will have to bear the cost of boarding and lodging for the quarantine period of 14 days. The batch also includes two women,” PM Dixit, the project director of district rural development authority, said.He said the group comprises workers, professionals, students and exporters who were stranded in Bangladesh after the global outbreak of the Covid-19 and have now returned to India under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union government to bring back citizens stranded abroad. The first Air India flight under the mission from Bangladesh, carrying 167 passengers, had arrived in Srinagar on Friday.“All persons who arrived on Saturday were medically screened at the airport by our health department teams. They were ferried in batches of 12 to Ghaziabad, keeping in mind the social distancing norms,” he said.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad remained 133 (Saturday evening) as no new case was reported on Saturday. “The 18 reports which arrived on Saturday are the second negative report for many patients. Since their two successive reports have come negative, they will be discharged,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/40-from-vaishali-fire-station-in-home-quarantine-after-two-personnel-test-positive/story-MPkNKIY47FWIDd3nDmbqmL.html
09-05-2020||Noida||Body of 55-yr-old lies at GIMS mortuary as authorities wait for Covid report||The family of a 55-year-old woman — who died on May 6 and whose body has been lying in the mortuary of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences — have been waiting for four days to perform her last rites as authorities are yet to determine if the patient suffered from Covid-19. According to the officials, the woman is a resident of sector 128 and her husband is a constable with the Delhi police. The woman had complained of vomiting after which she was taken to the district hospital in sector 30 of Noida.Doctors at the district hospital suspected her of having Covid-19 and her sample was collected for testing. On May 6, the condition of the woman deteriorated after which she was referred to GIMS, where she died during the treatment within an hour of being admitted.“The woman was brought to us on May 6 in a critical condition from the district hospital. She died during treatment. She was suspected to have Covid-19 and her reports are still pending. We have spoken to the chief medical officer to get her reports as soon as possible so that we can release the body as per laid down protocols,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.The health officials have sent her sample to the National Institute of Biologicals in Noida. On Saturday, officials asked the NIB authorities to provide the woman’s reports on a priority basis as her family members have been struggling to claim the body to perform her last rites.“We were informed about the woman by the chief medical superintendent of the district hospital. Her samples were collected during treatment. We expect her reports to be handed over to us by Sunday morning,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.The family members of the woman are also worried as they don’t know if she was Covid positive or not, as many people had come in contact with her before May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/body-of-55-yr-old-lies-at-gims-mortuary-as-authorities-wait-for-covid-report/story-dGSMcfTR6zF4oqmV1aNwFM.html
09-05-2020||Noida||For domestic workers, working for a single household is not an option||For hundreds of domestic workers in the district, implementation of a new set of guidelines issued by the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration regarding the resumption of work would mean a major loss of income. The district administration, on May 6, issued new guidelines, asking the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and local residents’ bodies of the district to come up with strategies to ensure that only one domestic help works for one household and that they only come from a non-containment zone. While many domestic workers were unaware of the new guidelines, those who were expressed their dilemma. “One of my employers told me that although I can resume work, I can only work for one household. I work in five places and get similar money from all of them. How can I choose only a single household? I got payments from all families for the month of April but that is not the case this month. Only one of them has paid me completely. Two have given me half my pay, but have promised to help me out with ration if the need arises. Two of the rest haven’t paid anything. Although we can start work now, we are yet to gain access into the society. This way, we are neither getting any money nor work. How long can we go on like this,” said Azeema, a domestic help, who works for two societies in Sector 76.Domestic helps are also not comfortable with working only for one household because they feel that in this way they will lose on other sources of income.“Why will one family pay me as much as rest of the households combined? Even if I do more work for a family, they will not pay me as much as working for three or four families. Why will others continue to pay me if I work only in one house? Further, our landlord is not letting us go to work. He says it’s too risky and that no one is going out. I have not been able to go to collect my salary. He said when everything opens then we can go but, in the meantime, he has refused to help us in any way,” said Rekha, who lives in Harijan Colony and works as a domestic help in Arun Vihar.Most residential bodies in the district have refused the entry of the domestic help due to the non-feasibility of the one-household rule. “For high-rises, with several hundred flats, it is impossible to have only one domestic help per house. So we are currently discouraging the entry of maids and have requested the families that if they really need help, the maids should stay with them on a 24-hour basis and that the families should get them tested,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations(NOFAA).However, for domestic workers, who work for only a few hours on a daily basis, living with one family for the whole day is also impossible. “I didn’t know that we are only allowed to work for one family. I cannot choose which family to work for. One of my employers is an elderly couple, another family has two toddlers. Even if I could choose one, staying with them for the whole day or even from 7am-7pm is not possible. I have four kids and I cannot leave them unattended for the whole day,” said Sarita, who works as a cook.Despite repeated attempts, the district magistrate could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/for-domestic-workers-working-for-a-single-household-is-not-an-option/story-KMjNKW4fMl9Lr7PvjNGI3M.html
09-05-2020||City||No one cares if we live or die, say migrants walking back home along railway tracks||In the scorching 40 degrees-plus heat on Saturday afternoon, Ramakant Pahayar, who used to work at a hotel in Lal Kuan near Ghaziabad, and six others had stopped under the shade of a tree near Greater Noida’s Maripat railway station to catch their breath and eat their meagre rations -- some salt, a few boiled potatoes and a water bottle. The group has a long way to go; about 700km to be precise, to reach their village of Bhatanwara in Panna, Madhya Pradesh. They have been keeping away from the national highways to avoid police checkpoints and have been walking along the Delhi-Howrah railway tracks for 10 kilometres so far. Penniless and jobless ever since nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24, Ramakant along with his fellow travellers from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and remote parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been struggling to survive in NCR, often having to go without food and shelter. With no government or employer coming to their help, they decided to walk back home to the safety of their villages.“No one here -- neither our landlord, our maalik (employer) nor the government -- cares if we live or die. Three meals a day has become a dream and it’s not possible for me to starve every day. We don’t know when this lockdown will end -- we felt walking back to our home would be a better idea than to starve and die here. There is no food, our landlord is pressurising us for rent, and the government is not arranging us transport; what option do we have but to walk?” said Ramakant when asked what made him leave his rented room in Ghaziabad.Since the journey is long, and he had little resources, Ramakant decided tot ag along with Rinku, another daily wager from Panna, carrying with them some potatoes they got from their neighbours. On the route, they met four other migrants from Bihar, and the group decided to stick together till Agra. Those who were heading to Bihar said they had at least a 1,200km ahead of them, but seemed mentally prepared to tackle it.“I would never return. I would rather do anything in our village -- help the family with farming or something, but I won’t return. I decided this before leaving my room. We cannot travel by road as the police would beat us. We will follow these railway tracks to Agra, from there we will see which track goes to Jhansi or Gwalior or we will try to hitchhike with truckers from the highway. We will have to figure something out but returning is not an option,” said Rinku, who washed dishes at a dhaba in Ghaziabad.Asked if he knew that the government was arranging transport, he said he neither knew about shelter homes, not the transport arrangements, not did anyone from the administration inform him or the others about all this.Deepak Kumar, another daily wager who used to live in Roza Jalalpur village of Greater Noida, said a return to one’s roots was always the better option. Deepak, who hailed from Purnia district, was travelling along with Pankaj Kumar and Pramod Kuma, who are also from his district.“The police were stopping us and that is why we had to take the railway tracks. We know that this track goes to Bihar, via Kanpur and Allahabad. For now we will go to Dadri, and try to hitchhike, but if nobody offers us ride, then we will stick to the tracks. It will take us at least 10 days to reach home, but that’s okay,” Deepak said.Pramod Kumar said the decision to walk back home was the last option for many.“The meals served in the community kitchen in our area were irregular; sometimes just once a day, sometimes twice in three days, and they would give ration only to a few people. Our landlord has been asking for rent -- what option did we have? The government is not arranging buses or trains, and even when they did, we were told that it’s only for people in Delhi,” Pramod Kumar said.Fifty-year-old Ram Asarey, who hails from a village in Aligarh, was another who preferred taking the railway track back home, along with his wife and son. Ram Asarey, who worked at a stone crushing unit in Ghaziabad and lived in Shahberi village, Greater Noida, said amid the uncertainty brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic, he felt that going home was a better option.“Our ration and savings are both gone. Besides our entire family lives in Aligarh. We don’t know how long this lockdown would continue, so walking back home to our village seemed a better option,” Asarey said.According to Ramesh Chandra Meena, the gateman at Chaproli railway crossing in Greater Noida, hundreds of migrants had been walking along the tracks ever since the lockdown was extended from May 3 to May 17. “The maximum people pass by this point early morning or late evening. But the exodus along the tracks continues throughout the day. Yesterday, people from neighbouring Jaunsivana village even distributed food to the migrants. There are women and children; all walking back home. Some even stopped by to enquire where this track would lead,” Meena said.When contacted, a few senior officials of the district administration said they had heard that migrants from Rajasthan were sent back home, however they were unclear on the numbers and future plans.“There were a few migrants who were sent back home to Rajasthan. It is unclear how many of them were sent home, but the numbers were close to 70. We are unclear if migrants from other areas will also be sent back home,” said a senior official from the Gautam Budh Nagar administration, on condition of anonymity.“I am not apprised of the migrant situation, will inform once the information reaches me,” said SB Singh, district social welfare officer, GB Nagar, further stating that the additional divisional magistrate (administration) E Diwakar Singh was looking after the migrant crisis.Singh, however, could not be reached despite a number of calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-one-cares-if-we-live-or-die-say-migrants-walking-back-home-along-railway-tracks/story-0NNf4FC5AOILXKoQF33hTL.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Colleges heads seek clarity on minister’s decision on MU exams||A day after the state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that all university students except final year undergraduate and post-graduate students will be promoted to the next academic year, principals are awaiting a final word from the University of Mumbai (MU) for clarity.Many colleges are still unclear on which of the two 50:50 formulas, one suggested by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and one by the state government, need to be implemented.UGC has recommended that colleges promote first and second year students, 50% based on a student’s performance in internal tests and other projects in the current semester and the remaining 50% on previous semester’s performance. The state education minister, however, suggested that a 50% of a student’s assessment should be based on this year’s performance and 50% on that of the previous year. “Unaided courses, including Bachelor of Management Studies and Bachelor of Mass Media have 25 marks set aside for internals in every subject for internals, and most colleges can use the UGC formula since they have completed these evaluations,” said Parag Thakkar, in-charge principal, HR College, Churchgate. “But traditional courses (BCom, BA and BSc) have only theory papers for 100 marks, and no internals marks to grade students.” He added that they are waiting for a final word from the university on the gradation formula for promoting students.Many colleges are also unsure about attendance rule as suggested by Samant. According to MU rules, a student requires a minimum of 75% attendance.“Many colleges, including our college had already issued notices to attendance defaulters and barred them from examination,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle. “Now that the minister has asked us to allow all students to be promoted despite attendance deficit, we will follow this rule,” he said. A statement released by MU late on Saturday stated that the varsity is preparing an action plan for the academic schedule with the planning of 158 examinations in the final session of the final year of diploma, undergraduate and post-graduate courses. “About 2,22,581 students will be enrolled for the final session of the final year and for 158 examinations as per the annual examination system,” said an official from MU.However, around 500 students from Mithibai Autonomous College, who were debarred from appearing for exams due to attendance deficit, are still unsure about the scenario. Of these students, 107 had moved the Bombay high court seeking to be allowed to appear for exams, which was rejected by the court in March, before the lockdown was implemented. “We are hoping the attendance relaxation rule will be applicable to us as well, and we will be considered for promotion to the next academic year,” said a student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/colleges-heads-seek-clarity-on-minister-s-decision-on-mu-exams/story-gsmV7SHmIipYH1BLzOUjdI.html
09-05-2020||City||18 migrant workers held for cycling from Noida to Bihar||Eighteen migrant workers who were cycling from Noida to Bihar were sent to a shelter home by the Badalpur police on Friday. The police booked them for violating the lockdown norms and seized their bicycles as well. Patneesh Kumar, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said the workers were stopped near Patwari Bagh area in Badalpur around 1pm. “The workers were not wearing masks. They were keen on continuing their cycle journey to their home towns. We informed them that this is not only illegal but also unsafe,” he said. Most of the workers are from Purnia and Katihar, in Bihar.“The workers were taken to a shelter home. We have registered a case against them under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005.”Kumar said the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration is making arrangements to send the stranded migrants to their home towns. “We will arrange some buses and send them home accordingly, till then they will stay in the shelter home,” he said.Meanwhile, a group of migrant workers also gathered near Sector Delta 1 in Surajpur area of Greater Noida Saturday morning and demanded the local administration to facilitate their journey to Bihar. The workers, who all live in rented homes in Bhiraundi village, alleged that their landlords were pressuring them to pay rent. The workers said they had run out of money after the nationwide lockdown was imposed, and can’t afford to buy food as well.Raju Kumar, a worker, said survival had become difficult in this lockdown for many like him. “Someone told us that the administration is going to arrange buses for Bihar, hence we came here (Sector Delta 1). We want to go back home as staying in Noida has become difficult,” he said.A team from Surajpur police reached the spot after getting information about the gathering. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Surajpur police station, said the migrant workers were provided cooked meals and dry ration. “We have taken down their names and addresses. The police and the district administration will soon arrange some buses and send them home,” he said.The crowd dispersed after the police assured the workers they will be sent back home in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-migrant-workers-held-for-cycling-from-noida-to-bihar/story-2Cr9EO6oJqAfvp2R9vskBJ.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||3 flights with Indians to land in city today||The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) airport geared up on Saturday for the first repatriation flight, under government’s Vande Bharat mission, to land in the early hours of Sunday. Total three flights, with over 800 stranded Indians, will land in the city during the day.As per airport officials, the Air India flight with 326 passengers, which took off from London at 4.30pm (IST) on Saturday, is scheduled to land at 1.30am on Sunday.Flights from Singapore (with 243 passengers) and Manila in Philippines (241 passengers) will also land in the city during the day. The Singapore flight is expected to land at 12.30pm and the one from Manila around 11pm. The Government of India has charged the stranded passengers for flying them back. While passengers on US flights are being charged Rs 1 lakh, passengers flying from the UK have to pay Rs 50,000. Tickets for passengers flying from Singapore is around Rs 20,000 and those wanting to fly from Dhaka have to shell around Rs 12,000 per air ticket.A Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) spokesperson said that the airport will receive around 2,350 Indians in the span of seven days, starting Sunday.“The airport is all set to support the initiative and has put together standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ensure the safety of passengers. The repatriation operations will see CSMIA catering to ten flights and six transit flight in the course of seven days welcoming stranded Indian nationals from the UK, USA, Singapore, Malaysia, Bangladesh and Philippine, commencing with three flights on May 10,” MIAL has dedicated two aero-bridges for repatriation flights.Screening of passengers before entering the immigration area will be done by the airport health organization. MIAL said that the passengers will need to maintain a physical distance of minimum of two metres through distinctive markings at the airport and will be required to wear face masks and hand gloves during the entire course of their journey. The airport has set up 30 immigration counters for ensuring quickest clearance for the arriving passengers.The MIAL spokesperson added that the airport is making special arrangements for the stranded nationals by arranging food and beverage facilities in the arriving hall. The airport will also have a limited number of forex and sim card outlets.All the arriving passengers will be escorted by the security agency- Central industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel until they are handed over to the state authorities. The spokesperson stated, “Provisions have been made in the eventuality that any symptomatic passenger is identified at the airport, he or she would be immediately isolated and moved to the separate area earmarked for the purpose. Designated airport ambulances will be on standby to shift the symptomatic passengers to designated isolation centres.”The state government has made arrangements for asymptomatic passengers from Mumbai to be moved to identified quarantine facilities like hotels (depending on their preference), while those from outside Mumbai will be transported to their respective district headquarters for institutional quarantine. A helpdesk at the airport has been set up to guide the passengers. CSMIA has handled total repatriation of over 8,500 passengers with 51 evacuation flights since March 25 to May 9. Of the total repatriation flights facilitated by CSMIA, Atlanta in the US saw over 2,000 passengers landing in total eight flights operated by Delta Air Lines, highest to any destination from Mumbai during the lockdown period. London was the other destination with six flights operated by Air India and two flights each by Virgin Atlantic and British Airways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-flights-with-indians-to-land-in-city-today/story-S3NQ98k3QdFsEn6PCazg1O.html
09-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar reports 116 cases in past 20 days, first 100 cases were found in 40 days||Increased testing has helped the Gautam Budh Nagar health department identify 116 Covid-19 cases in the past 20 days in the district. The district, which has reported a total of 216 positive cases so far, took almost 40 days to reach its first 100 cases of coronavirus disease. The first Covid-19 case was registered in the district on March 12. Initially, the health department had limited testing kits which delayed the process of identifying a case at an early stage, officials said.According to the officials, increased number of testing and intensive contact tracing has resulted in identifying 116 cases in a span of 20 days. As per the reports of the district health department, 1,967 samples were collected between March 12 and April 20. However, in the last 20 days, between April 21 and May 9, officials collected 2,014 samples. In total, 3,981 samples have ben collected since the first case was found.In the last nine days, 78 cases were found in the district which included many health workers. The officials have been trying to increase the number of sampling in the district to identify people infected with Covid-19. There are around 100 cases where the exact source of infection isn’t known yet, the officials said.“Our officials have been focusing on contact tracing, which has helped us in identifying cases early. The number of random sampling has also increased. In total, 121 persons have already been discharged after successfully completing the treatment. The number of active cases, which is 93, is lesser than the recovered ones. Many persons who have been found positive were already under institutional quarantine, which has helped in containing the spread,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate.Experts said that the increased number of testing will result in identifying more cases. “The increase in number of cases is bound to happen. Around 95% of the cases are of mild symptoms or asymptomatic persons. It is important to pay attention in safeguarding older people and the ones with comorbid conditions,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi.There are three big clusters in the district from where maximum cases have come up. Around 44 persons having direct or indirect links with the Ceasefire company in Sector 137 were found positive for the infection. Around 51 persons are found positive for the infection from the JJ Colony of sectors 8, 9 and 10. Till now, over 36 medical and paramedical staff of different hospitals have been found positive for Coronavirus. Remaining are either from small clusters or single cases.On Saturday, two new Covid-19 cases were found in the district, taking the total number of positive cases to 216 in the district. The two patients included a 62-year-old man from Sector 66 who was under the institutional quarantine at the Galgotias hostel in Greater Noida and was rushed to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences after he was found lying unconscious in his room on Friday evening. He was declared dead on arrival by the hospital authorities.The second patient is a 52-year-old man, a resident of Khajoor Colony in Sector 45 of Noida. His source of infection is yet to be identified, the officials said.By Saturday night, the health department collected a total of 3,981 samples. Currently, there are 93 active Covid-19 cases in the district and around 401 persons are under institutional quarantine. Two people have died due to Covid-19 infection in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-reports-116-cases-in-past-20-days-first-100-cases-were-found-in-40-days/story-InhnP4Jj0TBHcN0ngSdciO.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Paper evaluation: Teachers worried about their travel||A few days after the state education department allowed teachers in the state to travel for SSC (Class 10) paper evaluation duties, many teachers have raised concerns over the decision. Teachers said there is a lot of risk involved in travelling, especially in areas demarcated as red zones. “Many teachers stay far away from their schools and might have to make two or three trips to the school to collect papers and to transport them back which will put them in risk. In such a situation, the government needs to increase the evaluation period to give more flexibility to teachers,” said Anil Bornare, coordinator of the BJP teachers’ front, which wrote to the department on May 8. Uday Nare, teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri, said, “Some window should be given at least for areas in red zones as the situation is worse in some places than others.” The Mumbai Divisional Board, which also consists of Thane, Raigad and Palghar, started issuing letters permitting teachers to travel from May 8. With the Supreme Court’s mandate that the board should declare results by June 10, the board has decided to try and finish evaluating and moderating answer sheets. The state board normally declares Class 12 results in the last week of May and Class 10 results by the second week of June.“We have spoken to concerned officials at the local level to facilitate travel for teachers. The idea is to finish as much pending work as possible so that results are not delayed. All precautions with respect to safety and social distancing should be followed in the process,” said Sandeep Sangave, secretary , Mumbai Divisional Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/paper-evaluation-teachers-worried-about-their-travel/story-g6VxJ9AIKtQE3aCUqI2CjO.html
09-05-2020||Noida||GB Nagar reports second Covid-19 death in 24 hours||Gautam Budh Nagar district reported its second death due to the coronavirus disease on Friday night, almost 18 hours after it witnessed its first Covid-19 death. According to officials, the 62-year-old Covid-19 patient, a resident of Mamura area in Noida Sector 66, was under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias University hostel. Authorities of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida declared him brought dead on arrival.On Friday early morning, a 60-year-old man from Sector 22, who had tested Covid-19 positive a day earlier, had died of pneumonia at GIMS. He was the first resident from the district to die of Covid-19, the officials said.District magistrate Suhas LY said the Sector 66 resident’s swab samples were collected on Thursday and he was put under quarantine at the hostel. He was found Covid-19 positive around 8pm on Friday. The officials said that the 62-year-old man was found lying unconscious in his room when a health care staff went to call him for dinner.“He was keeping well till Friday afternoon and had his breakfast and lunch on time. But he was found lying unconscious in his room in the evening and was rushed to GIMS. The hospital authorities declared that he was brought dead. The cause of death, as per the GIMS report, is a cardio-respiratory attack,” the DM said.Dr Rakesh Gupta, GIMS director, said that the patient was brought dead at 10:45pm. “We aren’t aware of the exact cause of death. The state health department will provide more details,” Gupta said.His body was handed over to his family members to perform the last rights in the presence of the health and police officials. On Saturday, two new Covid-19 cases were found in Gautam Budh Nagar, taking the total number of positive cases to 216 in the district. The two patients included the 62-year-old man from Sector 66 who died due to Covid-19. The second patient is a 52-year-old man, a resident of Khajoor Colony in Sector 45 of Noida. His source of infection is yet to be identified, the officials said. Meanwhile, the officials have also put some people under quarantine who had come in direct contact with the deceased. On Friday morning, GIMS authorities had said that the Sector 22 resident died of respiratory failure at 3:45am . He was admitted to Metro Hospital in Sector 11 on Monday, and tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday evening, they added.“The patient from Sector 22 was transferred from Metro Hospital to GIMS around 3:30am on Friday, but died 15 minutes later following respiratory failure as he was suffering from pneumonia after contracting Sars-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19,” Gupta said. On May 4, a 47-year-old man from Khoda Colony of Ghaziabad, who was being treated at Felix Hospital in Sector 137, had died of Covid-19. As per health officials of Gautam Buddh Nagar, this death will be counted in Ghaziabad’s records. According to the officials, this man too was being treated for a respiratory problem. He first went to ESIC Model Hospital in Noida, from where he was referred to Felix Hospital last Saturday.Meanwhile, many persons under quarantine at the Galgotias hostel have complained of unhygienic premises and poor treatment by the staff. The district magistrate has pulled up his officials earlier for negligence and asked to ensure better hygiene levels on the premises.On April 12, a 32-year-old man who was under quarantine at the university hostel had jumped to his death. However, he had tested Covid-19 negative after his death. The health officials had blamed the quarantine centre staff for negligence that led to the man’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-reports-second-covid-19-death-in-24-hours/story-GMGuIFitUdR074KKGD34qN.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees rise in tiger attacks during lockdown||There has been a surge in the number of tiger attacks in Maharashtra during the lockdown, said the chief wildlife warden of the state forest department. Following representations from local villagers, one tigress, suspected of killing at least two people, has been tranquilised and sent to Gorewada Zoo in Nagpur. Twelve people have died due to tiger attacks during the lockdown in Maharashtra.Between March 23 and May 2, 11 deaths were recorded in five districts – two in Gadchiroli; two in Gondia; two in Bhandara; one in Pench Tiger Reserve (Maharashtra); and four in Chandrapur district (including two deaths in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve). All the deaths were of people who had entered protected areas to collect Mahua flowers or tendu leaves, the forest department said. On Saturday afternoon, 50-year-old Abhiman Narayan was mauled to death by a tiger near Kondhala village, in Gadchiroli district, after he had entered a forested zone to pick tendu leaves, said forest officials.“While isolated cases of conflict are witnessed annually, there is a spike this year, especially during lockdown,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. Overall, there have been 18 deaths recorded this year between January and April as compared to 23 throughout the year in 2019 and 25 in 2018. Tigers are moving freely outside core zones and in some cases, they’ve come closer to human-dominated areas during lockdown, leading to conflict. “Cases were restricted to the Chandrapur district in previous years, but a surge has been witnessed this year from other districts as well,” said Kakodkar.On April 23, the forest department issued a set of guidelines to all districts witnessing conflict, stressing that villagers should avoid going deep into the forest, especially the core area. “Deaths during forest produce collection have been happening annually but there is definitely a rise being witnessed this year not just in Maharashtra but other states as in central India as well. But villagers need to be more careful as they are aware of the dangers,” said Kishore Rithe, state wildlife board member.Villagers go into the forest to collect Mahua flowers —dried Mahua flowers are fermented to produce an alcoholic drink and the flowers have other uses too — and tendu leaves (Diospyros melonoxylon), which are mostly used to make bidis. This year, the Mahua, which usually blooms in early March, has bloomed in April. Nitin Desai, director (central India), Wildlife Protection Society of India, said dried Mahua flowers are selling for Rs 150 per kilogram and fresh flowers are selling for Rs 100 per kg in Maharashtra, compared to Rs 30-35 per kg in central India. One of the reasons for increased demand is the production of alcohol-based sanitiser. Wildlife activist Umeshsingh Zire said, “During the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, alcohol-based sanitiser industries, especially across Gadchiroli and Gondia, are following production methods being implemented by Madhya Pradesh, and paying villagers more for large quantities of dried Mahua flowers.”50 TIGERS TO BE TRANSLOCATED FROM CHANDRAPUROver the next three years, the forest department plans to translocate 50 of the 160 tigers from Chandrapur landscape, including tiger reserves, to address future conflict issues. “A proposal has been sent to the Maharashtra government to tranquilise and translocate 50 tigers to areas with fewer numbers, zoological parks or even other states with low tiger numbers,” said Kakodkar. The proposal is awaiting clearance from the state wildlife board, Maharashtra government and National Tiger Conservation Authority.State wildlife board member Kishore Rithe said translocating tigers would be a stop-gap measure since tigers were likely to breed again and increase their numbers in the area. “Rather than moving animals out of this zone, district planners need to identify villages falling in fragmented corridors and plan their translocation, which will be less tedious,” said Rithe.GONDIA FOREST DEPARTMENT TRANQUILISES TIGRESSOn Thursday, a two-year-old, sub-adult tigress (N1) — allegedly responsible for the death of two persons (during forest produce collection) in Gondia — was tranquilised and captured by the forest department. She was sent to Gorewada Zoo in Nagpur on Friday. Forest officers developed a contraption involving a cage set atop a tractor to tranquilise the animal. “After a few kills were reported from the Brahmapuri division in November and December last year, we had issued orders to capture the tigress but the animal could not be located. Earlier this year, we learnt the tiger had travelled from Chandrapur to Gondia where it made a few kills, including villagers collecting forest produce. Based on the deaths reported in the last week of April and another on May 2, capturing efforts were escalated. The operation was successful and the animal is healthy,” said Kakodkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-sees-rise-in-tiger-attacks-during-lockdown/story-kERre4syjCupwg7NZzbYxK.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||ACP assaulted for stopping couple from plucking flowers in Andheri||A woman assistant commissioner of police (ACP) with the Government Railway Police (GRP) was allegedly assaulted by a couple after she stopped them from plucking flowers , on Saturday morning. ACP Sujata Patil said, “During Ramzan I wake up by 4am for breakfast. On Saturday morning, when I had gone to buy milk, I saw a couple sitting on the divider of the road and plucking flowers. They were even damaging the plants. I tried stopping them, but the man started verbally abusing me.”Patil, who was standing at a distance from the couple following social distancing norms, further alleged the couple got aggressive and twisted her arm, while the woman hit her. Patil escaped and called the police control room. However, the couple managed to escape from the spot as it was still dark, said Patil. “I immediately rushed to my building to take my bike to look out for them, but to no avail. Later, I informed the ACP of the area and zonal deputy commissioner of police about the incident,” Patil said. Parmeshwar Ganme, senior inspector of DN Nagar police station, confirmed the incident and said the investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/acp-assaulted-for-stopping-couple-from-plucking-flowers-in-andheri/story-SDl9tLwG8SD55NDT4RfXRK.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||SoBo’s rehabilitation project for Metro-3 to soon take shape||Amid the lockdown, one of Mumbai’s biggest rehabilitation projects in the south Mumbai is finally taking shape. The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) has released its plans for the multi-storey buildings at Girgaum-Kalbadevi that will house 734 tenants from the 30 old buildings that were demolished for the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz).One of the first known markets and business establishments in old Bombay, the multi-storey towers - Kalbadevi Heights, Kalbadevi Commercial Centre and Girgaon Heights - will bring in integrated development to the area, resulting in the widening of the congested JSS Road and is expected to attract more footfall to the areas with increased connectivity.“The three buildings will be completed and ready for occupancy in phases from 2022. The project may trigger more cluster/redevelopment opportunities in the area. The on-ground work is also expected to start soon,” said an MMRC spokesperson.The Kalbadevi Commercial Centre will also house ground plus two-storey fish market with separate entries, area for loading/unloading for the market and separate service lifts for the fish market and commercial units. It will house 33 commercial shops and 24 commercial offices.This week, MMRC floated a ₹395-crore tender for the 48-storey Girgaon Heights that will house 473 residential units, 137 commercial shops and 19 commercial offices. It has already awarded the contract for the 38-storey Kalbadevi Heights that will house 291 residential units and five commercial units.Under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s Development Control Regulations 33(7), the six non-contiguous blocks are being developed as one cluster. The three other blocks will be utilised for Metro allied activities.Sandesh Samant, a resident of Girgaum and a professor, said the new development will bring in a big change in the Girgaum-Kalbadevi belt. “JSS road is one of the most prime roads and there have not been many redevelopment projects here,” Samant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sobo-s-rehabilitation-project-for-metro-3-to-soon-take-shape/story-ZiLz5N1FenbTLCB8e467jK.html
09-05-2020||City||Mamta Ashu urges Captain Amarinder Singh not to allow home delivery of liquor||Congress councillor and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s wife Mamta Ashu has urged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to reconsider the decision of allowing home delivery of liquor. Tagging the CM in a tweet, Mamta stated the fight against drugs was an election promise and the home delivery of liquor (which is also a drug) might lead to increase in cases of domestic violence amid lockdown. Further, she stated contractors were also not in favour of home delivery. Mamta said, “Liquor vends would eventually open, but home delivery should not be allowed.” The councillor said, “Another major reason to disallow home delivery of liquor is the presence of children in homes during lockdown. It will also have a bad impact on children.” She said liquor contractors have also been opposing home delivery citing shortage of workers. Meanwhile, vends remained closed in Ludhiana for the third consecutive day after the government allowed vends to open. The contractors are demanding compensation for the loss incurred during the last financial year and review of the excise policy and the withdrawal of quota condition. “The decision on whether to open the vends or not would be taken only after the outcome of the cabinet meeting on the excise policy,” said Varinder Sharma Bobby, leading the contractors.Going by the directions of the state government, the administration had, on Wednesday, allowed wine contractors to open the vends on Thursday last for counter sale from 9am to 3pm and home delivery till 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mamta-ashu-urges-captain-amarinder-singh-not-to-allow-home-delivery-of-liquor/story-qxKPX6IyoFnK6DufsrBKPN.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Man attacks 3 cops with choppers at Marine Drive, held||A 27-year-old unemployed man attacked three police personnel with a chopper at Marine Drive, on Saturday, during a nakabandi. The accused, an architect living in south Mumbai’s Cumbala Hills, has been arrested by the police. The injured policemen have received multiple injuries. According to officers from Marine Drive police station, the accused, Karan Pradip Nair, was walking on the footpath from Chowpatty to Marine Drive with a chopper in his hand around 1.30am on Saturday.Marine Drive police officers, who were on a nakabandi duty near Pransukhlal Mafatlal Hindu Swimming Bath and Boat Club asked him to stop after seeing the chopper in his hand. But Nair continued to run towards Marine Drive, following which some police officers chased him.“Our men tried to overpower him when he stopped, but he threatened them and tried to assault them with the chopper. He even attacked an officer on the neck, but the officer managed to dodge him and sustained injury on his shoulder. Two other officers sustained injuries on their hands,” said Mrityunjay Hiremath, senior police inspector.The injured police personnel – a night round police inspector Jitendra Kadam, sub-inspector Sachin Shelke and constable Sagar Shelke – were taken to Sir JJ Hospital for medical aid and were released after primary medication. They were not admitted at the hospital as they would have been at risk of contracting Covid-19, Hiremath said.The accused is an architecture graduate who is currently unemployed and lives with his mother and younger sister in a Cumbala Hill house which he owns on a pagdi system. “Preliminary probe revealed that before leaving his home on Saturday, Nair had a heated argument with his mother wherein he got angry and threatened to kill someone and left with the chopper, which is otherwise used for cutting trees,” said Hiremath. The police is further investigating the case. Nair has been charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act. He would be produced in court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-attacks-3-cops-with-choppers-at-marine-drive-held/story-qREWQWqTdvV0pUolis15mL.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC aims to increase Covid doubling rate to 20 days by May 17||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in a bid to bring down the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, which has crossed the 11,000-mark, aims to increase the doubling rate in the city to 20 days from the current 10 by May 17. On April 26, there were 5,407 cases in the city, which doubled to 11,394 on Thursday. To increase the doubling rate, the civic body has planned measures such as enforcing lockdown in containment zones, conducting aggressive house-to-house surveys, opening more fever clinics, identifying vulnerable senior citizens and admitting more number of suspected patients. BMC has deployed a team of seven senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers and has assigned each of them with a zone. Every day, the officers will visit their respective zones and conduct briefings via video conferences. The IAS officers assigned with the task include additional municipal commissioners A Jarhad, Jayashree Bhoj and P Velrasu; additional municipal commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani; Covid-19 task force member Manisha Mhaiskar; former Navi Mumbai civic commissioner Dr N Ramaswami and former Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation managing director Ashwini Bhide.The deployment was decided in a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and members of the central government team on Thursday. A circular issued by outgoing civic commissioner Praveen Pardeshi stated, “The above mentioned additional municipal commissioners will ensure actions in most effective and efficient manner so as to improve the positive case doubling rate from the current 10 days to 20 days by May 17, 2020. They will personally visit their zones every day from morning till 2pm and attend office post 3pm. A debriefing will be taken by the undersigned [Pardeshi] daily at 6pm via video conferencing. They will mobilise staff to get the works entrusted to them from all resources.”The action plan drafted by BMC read, “Mapping of positive cases, contact tracing, high risk, low risk etc. Strict enforcement of containment zones, house to house survey, identifying comorbid senior citizens and their further treatment, fever clinics, facilitate private nursing homes, clinics, hospitals to operate followed by testing of symptomatic persons, creation and operation of health infrastructure, community participation by involvement of community leaders.”A deputy municipal commissioner who attended Thursday’s meeting, said, “There is no special technique to increase the doubling rate of positive cases in the city, but if we conduct an aggressive door-to-door survey and identify suspects, we are able to minimise the transmission. This indirectly will increase our doubling rate in the city. Increasing the doubling rate does not means we have to detect lesser cases, but it means early detection to prevent further spread.”The officer added, “The increase in the detection of cases each day will mean that despite rise in cases, we are detecting and isolating patients, by which we are avoiding transmission. This will bring down the doubling rate in the coming days.”The BMC has has projected around 75,000 cases by end of the month going at the present rate. It said that though the curve is not going up drastically, it is preparing for a worst-case scenario.Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Matunga, said, “There are so many complaints that people are not getting tested or getting admitted despite having symptoms relating to coronavirus. Despite claims of increased number of beds at hospitals and testing capacity, the fact is citizens are not able to get tested or admitted. Also, despite the fact that many senior citizens are at greater risk, there is no proper identification of elderly patients with suspected symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-aims-to-increase-covid-doubling-rate-to-20-days-by-may-17/story-mtvGJAHO4Pwuodg0ihhN2L.html
09-05-2020||City||19-year-old bike thief arrested in Ulhasnagar||A 19-year-old youth was arrested on Saturday for stealing bikes in Ulhasnagar. The police recovered five motorcycles from him which he had stolen in the past two weeks.The Ulhasnagar Central police said, “We had received several complaints of motorcycle thefts in the past few days. We formed a team and started checking all CCTV footage of the areas. We saw the same youth at three different places and later saw him taking away a scooter.”The police traced and arrested Vijay Mudliyar and recovered five bikes from him. He confessed that he had stolen five more bikes from Kalyan area. The police said, “The accused has a master key of some bikes and used it to steal parked bikes. He used to modify the bikes and sell them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-bike-thief-arrested-in-ulhasnagar/story-zBqkcPvcecOJ3dYZPYuJmM.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||JNU revises academic calendar, allows students to return to campus in June||Releasing a revised academic calendar, Jawaharlal Nehru University on Saturday said its students may return to campus in the last week of June to finish end-of-semester academic work. The varsity, however, added that the schedule was subject to change as per Covid-19 developments and related guidance from government and University Grants Commission (UGC).“Tentatively, students are expected to return to JNU campus between June 25 and June 30 so that they can complete their remaining academic components and complete their examinations. Examinations will be completed by July 31. The next semester for the continuing students will start from August 1,” said vice-chancellor (V-C) M Jagadesh Kumar. The deadline for submission of thesis and dissertation for research scholars has also been extended to December 31.In April, the university had allowed all its schools and special centres to hold midterm and semester examination via the mode of their choice. Of the 13 schools, five decided to go for the online mode. The rest will hold offline exams after the lockdown.On Saturday, Kumar said if the examination results were not ready by July 31, students could opt to register provisionally and begin the next semester. The registration process for the next semester will be carried out online, he said.On the modalities of accommodating students on campus, Kumar told HT, “Our Covid-19 task force is working on this keeping in view the government guidelines and the UGC guidelines. We are focussed on the fact that when the students return to the university, their safety and health conditions are taken care of. We need to work out some innovative ways to make sure that they continue to study while following COVID-19 guidelines.”JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh, however, questioned the feasibility of conducting exams, especially for those students who did not have access to internet. “So many research scholars who left the Capital don’t even have the money to come back. Many don’t have access to internet. Without any class, students who didn’t have internet till June 25, how will they give exams without preparation? Through this mode, the onus of the results will be put on students. Nobody will notice that there was no learning in the past four months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jnu-revises-academic-calendar-allows-students-to-return-to-campus-in-june/story-MBNRC5kbPmIrXWhCzniWZN.html
09-05-2020||Gurugram||Khandsa market to continue operations in sealed area, guidelines issued||Despite being located in a containment zone, Khandsa Mandi, the city’s biggest wholesale vegetable and fruits market, will continue to operate under “essential services”, district administration officials said on Saturday.Over the last seven days, at least 24 vendors at the market of 128, whose samples were collected, have tested positive for Covid-19. After being shut from May 5-8 for sanitisation, the market reopened on Friday midnight. The entry of people per hour was limited, a separate area was dedicated for green vegetables, and the wearing of gloves was made compulsory. The timings were also extended by a couple of hours to ensure thinner crowds.As per the revised timings, the mandi will open from midnight till 6am and only 100 people per hour would be allowed entry into the market. Green vegetables would be sold 200 metres from the market, at the open ground of DAV school, said officials. Not more than 200 vendors at the market will be allowed to carry out unloading and loading of fruits and vegetables, while not more than 100 vendors would be allowed to do the same for green vegetables at the dedicated area, said officials.In addition, people, including vendors, below the age of 18 and above the age of 60 are not allowed entry into the market.The district administration, late Friday, had included Khandsa Road as one of the 21 containment zones in the city.“We understand the importance Khandsa Mandi holds for the city and hence, its operations will continue under essential services. We only approved its reopening after the entire market was sanitised and disinfected, and we confirmed there were no other cases linked to the market. We are closely analysing all activities across the city to limit the spread of coronavirus,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner.Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) officials said that they are yet to receive any directions from the district administration regarding changes in the containment zone.“Even after cases of coronavirus were found in wholesale markets such as Azadpur Mandi in Delhi, and few mandis in Faridabad, local authorities have resumed operations there, after a brief shutdown. Hence, we are expecting Khandsa Mandi to also remain operational as it caters to a significant amount of the population and is a lifeline for the city,” said an HSAMB official privy to the matter.The mandi provides around 6,000 quintals of vegetables and fruits on a daily basis to the city.Vinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB declined to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khandsa-market-to-continue-operations-in-sealed-area-guidelines-issued/story-IxMe5Y53HDPFMZBJ4b2ZOM.html
09-05-2020||Gurugram||Fault in power cable leaves NBCC Green View in the dark for more than 24 hours||A fault in a 4-km long underground electricity cable led to a power outage for more than 24 hours at NBCC Green View, a residential society in Sector 37. The power went off around 4pm on Friday, and was only restored around 7:30 pm Saturday evening.The 11kv cable connects the society with the DHBVN’s power house in Sector 9. It was laid underground more than four years ago by the DHBVN (Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam) to provide electricity to residents in NBCC Green View.Residents at the society, which is home to more than 200 families, were dependent on diesel generators (DGs) for power back up in the absence of regular electricity supply.Yadvendra Singh, a resident, said, “Our maintenance agency, appointed by the NBCC India Limited — which developed this society about four years ago – told us that a cable burst near Basai Chowk and the power distributor DHBVN has been informed about the fault.”Officials said a cable burst near Basai Chowk where the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority is constructing a flyover. The cable was fixed at the spot on Friday night, but despite fixing it the power supply could not be restored till Saturday evening .The repair work was underway till Saturday evening. RB Yadav, in-charge of the maintenance of the society, said, “We had also hired a private electrician to locate the fault in the underground cable. We detected one fault in the cable on Friday night near Basai Chowk, but it did not help in restoring the supply as there were some other faults that we tried to fix with the help of DHBVN.”CS Jakhar, DHBVN executive engineer, said, “It is a 4-km long underground cable, and it was difficult to locate all faults manually. But we procured a device that locates the faults in cables repaired the cable completely on Saturday evening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fault-in-power-cable-leaves-nbcc-green-view-in-the-dark-for-more-than-24-hours/story-usg4m6XcZch7yWvZIIbUJM.html
09-05-2020||Gurugram||Residents moving out of city in private vehicles seek clarity about health clearance||Confusion prevailed among the city residents regarding their travel to their home states in their personal vehicles. Residents expressed confusion as whether they are required to obtain a medical certificate on their own or would the district administration carry out the necessary health screening.The outbound applicants said that they have registered themselves on the e-Disha portal launched by the Haryana government for the movement of migrants and have received an SMS, asking them to upload a medical certificate.Umang Arora, a software professional and a resident of the city since last year, wants to leave for Meerut in Uttar Pradesh as his elderly parents live there alone, and need help in buying food, getting medicine, and performing other chores. “I had applied twice on the Saral Haryana portal but my application got rejected. On May 6, I again applied on the new e-disha webpage, and on Friday, I got a message, stating that I have to upload my medical certificate, which surprised me,” said Arora, adding that there was little clarity in this regard as to who would conduct the medical test, when and where. The applicants said that private doctors were not available in their clinics and hospitals were also reluctant to entertain asymptomatic patients. “Most of the people I know are also scared to visit hospitals or doctors as we don’t know if adequate safeguards have been taken or not. The government should conduct the screening,” said Arora.Some of the applicants, who want to move to other states in their vehicles, posted about their confusion on Twitter, and said that they should be called to a government hospital for screening instead of them having to find a doctor willing to issue a health certificate.Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Chakkarpur, who hails from Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh and works in a hotel here, said that at the time of registering with the government, there was no mention of a medical certificate and that he expected the local authorities to carry out the screening as is the case with migrant workers. “I have to take medicines for my mother who is a heart patient and I have been waiting for the last few days to leave,” said Kumar. They also suggested that the government should charge them for a health check up and provide the certificate, thereby making the process smoother. “Why should we be required to go to a private hospital?” asked Kumar. TL Satyaprakash, secretary, home department, Haryana, who is also the nodal officer for migrants for Haryana and Karnataka, however, confirmed that migrants travelling in their vehicles would have to get a health certificate from any registered medical practitioner and submit it to the authorities. “All efforts are being made to facilitate the movement of migrants who want to leave and those who are returning. As soon as all documents are uploaded permission will be given,” he said. Suneeta Rathi, deputy CMO, Gurugram, who is responsible for health screening of migrants in the district, did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-moving-out-of-city-in-private-vehicles-seek-clarity-about-health-clearance/story-GoeDM1Lvt7RqfmyKKK8kLN.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC to add over 3,500 beds to existing capacity for Covid-positive patients||With a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city this week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to add over 3,500 beds to the existing capacity for the treatment of positive patients by May 20. These will include 465 ICU beds.Recently, the civic body projected that the number of cases in the city could rise to 70,000 by May end. Currently, around 80 to 90% of patients are asymptomatic and don’t need hospitalisation. Going by this trend, about 7,000 people of the projected 70,000 are likely to need hospital beds. Hence, BMC has decided to increase its bed capacity in a phase-wise manner.As per the civic health department, as part of the first phase, 478 beds are fully commissioned including eight dialysis units which give dialysis to 25-30 patients daily in BYL Nair Hospital. In the second phase, 465 more beds to be commissioned by 14 May. Once both phases commissioned, Nair hospital will have 943 total beds including 100 intensive care units (ICUs) and neonatal intensive care units (NICUs). In addition to that, 1,306 more beds with 80 ICU units will be added in Seven Hills Hospital by May 20.“Maybe cases are increasing in some areas, so we’re increasing the number of hospital beds,” Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer of the BMC, said.“Considering the urgency of pregnant women, we have decided to keep aside 65 dedicated beds at Nair hospital to provide proper care to pregnant women,’’said Shah.The BMC will increase 353 beds in King Edward Memorial Hospital (KEM), 260 beds in Sion Hospital, 320 in Cooper Hospital, 250 in Hindu Hruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray (HBT) Trauma hospital and 135 beds in Shatabdi hospital in Kandivli.Currently, Mumbai has 2,000 beds each across 26 private, municipal and state government hospitals in the city. The BMC will now increase its existing bed capacity by converting non-Covid beds into Covid beds. Anticipating the future trajectory of coronavirus, the civic body has kept 25,000 isolation beds ready for asymptomatic patients at hotels, lodges, sports complexes and at marriage halls. The BMC has identified more than 350 municipal schools to create additional capacity of 35,000 beds. The civic body has also identified halls and gymkhanas which can accommodate 20,000 beds and put it on standby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-to-add-over-3-500-beds-to-existing-capacity-for-covid-positive-patients/story-NcBKfb05r0kXfIyEtzchiP.html
09-05-2020||City||Security beefed up on Delhi borders to check movement of migrant labourers||Gurugram: Security has been further tightened on the Gurugram-Delhi borders after 65 migrant labourers were found near Palam Vihar in four trucks on Friday night while allegedly trying to cross the border, the police said.Police personnel deployed at the borders have been directed to check credentials of the driver, co-driver and helping staff of any vehicle ferrying essential goods, senior officials sad.The labourers were trying to evade the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, the police officials said, adding that some of them were travelling on a truck with an Uttar Pradesh registration number to their native places in violation of the social distancing norms.Only a few labourers were wearing masks, and most were ignorant of the threat of infection that travelling in huddles pose, the police said.Muhammad Akil, Gurugram police commissioner, said that they were travelling at night to get away unnoticed but were found at the border. “They were employed in the industrial area of Manesar and in Udyog Vihar. They wanted to reach Delhi where their relatives were waiting for them to board a truck to reach Bihar,” he said.According to the police, personnel at Palam Vihar border noticed some people’s movement in a truck laden with vegetables. They checked under the tarpaulin and found nearly 15 migrant labourers.When questioned, the labourers told the police that they feared getting placed under quarantine so they planned to escape from the city.“Those caught told the police that some fellow labourers were walking down and some had boarded different vehicles. All were found and sent to rescue shelters after their medical examination was conducted,” said Akil.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said Uttarakhand government has organised 42 buses to bring back the migrant labourers from Gurugram. These buses are being operated from Tau Devi Lal stadium each night, the ACP said. “Many labourers from Delhi are also trying to enter the city and misguide the administration. Even if they do not hail from Uttarakhand, they try hard to board the bus saying that they have lost their identification (ID) cards. But we are only allowing those who are registered and are carrying valid ID cards,” Yadav said.The police commissioner said, “We have initiated strict checking at all the borders connecting to the national capital and other districts. Besides, around 200 cops are deployed near Tau Devi Lal stadium to ensure no one enters the stadium who does not have valid documents to travel.”Some migrants have managed to cross the border. Mukesh Kumar of Madhya Pradesh said it’s been three days since he left Delhi. “I managed to enter Gurugram along with 16 others. We were not left with any option. My relatives were stranded in Gurugram, so I thought to join them and start journey together,” he said.The officials said the district administration is making all arrangements for their travel and has already started the process, as per Covid-19 guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/security-beefed-up-on-delhi-borders-to-check-movement-of-migrant-labourers/story-ELKkyfw3YBvfcSKnvLlyyM.html
09-05-2020||City||Delhi govt’s Covid bulletin to be released in morning from Sunday||New Delhi: The Delhi government changed the cycle of its Covid-19 health bulletin that it used to issue everyday at 9.30pm. Following complaints that the details were being released late, the government said it will start issuing the report in the morning from Sunday. On Saturday, the government released the health bulletin at around 5:45pm and said that the changed cycle is in tandem with the time cycle of the ICMR. “Kindly note that we have changed the cycle of health bulletin from 12 midnight to 12 midnight as per ICMR time cycle. Earlier, we were following 4pm to 4pm time duration. This health bulletin has data from 4pm yesterday to 12 midnight. From tomorrow, we will be releasing health bulletin in the morning,” the government said in a statement. As per Saturday’s bulletin, Delhi had recorded 224 cases in a span of just 8 hours - from 4pm to midnight on on May 8. The number of deaths remained at 68.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-s-covid-bulletin-to-be-released-in-morning-from-sunday/story-lQ5masLWpKBfTUnLEKu1HJ.html
09-05-2020||Gurugram||One policeman killed, another critical after collision on NH-48||A 25-year-old police constable was killed while another was critically injured after a truck allegedly hit their motorcycle near Kapriwas border in Bilaspur on National Highway 48 on Saturday afternoon. Police officials said that the victims were dragged for several metres by the truck before it came to a halt. The truck driver was arrested despite abandoning his vehicle on the road and trying to flee.Police said the victims, both constables of Haryana Police, had recently completed their training at the police academy in Madhuban and were returning to their respective residences on leave. The victims have been identified as Bharat Singh, 25, of village Bhokarka in Pataudi, who died, and Lalit Yadav, 23, of Gindokhar in Rewari. According to the police, the incident took place in the afternoon and was reported at 2.15pm, when they were on their way to Gurugram from Rewari on a motorcycle.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that as they were about to take a U-turn at the Kapriwas exit, a speeding truck rammed into a barricade and hit their motorcycle head-on.“One of the officers died on the spot, while his colleague’s leg was crushed. Both were immediately rushed to separate private hospitals. The truck, which had Rajasthan ‘s registration number, has been seized,” said the police official.Singh sustained a fatal head injury while Yadav is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 38, where he is in a critical condition.A case was registered against the truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304- A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code at Bilaspur police station on Saturday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-policeman-killed-another-critical-after-collision-on-nh-48/story-ig79vTin7JvbVV05FLkT8I.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||CM’s ward new hotspot in Mumbai||With more than 500 Covid cases till Friday, H-East ward, which covers Bandra (East), Santacruz and parts of Vile Parle (East) and houses the Thackeray family, has emerged as a new hotspot after Worli, Dharavi and Govandi. The city, meanwhile, reported 722 cases with 27 deaths on Saturday, bringing the case count to 12,864 and toll to 489.H-East was one of the first wards to start door-to-door survey to identify suspects. The ward is also identifying senior citizens for comorbidities, and referring them for further treatment. The ward has a large number of slum pockets, followed by a high population of state government employees and their families. According to the figures provided to the local elected representatives of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the H-East Ward had 595 positive cases, as of Friday, a jump from 269 cases on April 26.Ashok Khairnar, assistant municipal commissioner, H-East ward, said, “The strategy to bring the virus under control is similar to other areas – having more and more containment areas followed by aggressive screening and testing maximum citizens. In our ward, things are now under control, and we have screened maximum citizens residing in the limits of H-East ward.”Some of the areas where cases of coronavirus have been reported include Navpada, Dnyaneshwar Nagar, Vakola Masjid area, Agripada, Siddarth Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Gaodevi, Kherwadi, Patthar Nagar, Golibar Road, Government Colony, Teachers Colony, Behrampada and Bharat Nagar etc.Local Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddique said, “We do not have any particular area where maximum cases are being reported from. The cases are spread across. I held a meeting with the authorities recently to raise several issues such as availability of beds. A 1000-bed hospital is being built in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and H-East patients must get priority there. Further, private hospitals must give discounts to patients and not overcharge them.”In case of Dadar, the count went up to 105 on Saturday from 87 on Friday. Eighteen new cases were reported in Dadar on Saturday from areas such as Kasarwadi, Bal Govind Das Road, Gokhale Road, Lokmanya Nagar etc. Of the 105 cases, 17 have been discharged.The BMC on Saturday discharged 137 patients at the National Sports Club of India (NSCI). Of the 137, 95 are from G-South Ward which includes Worli, Prabhadevi etc. The G-South ward is also the most affected ward, with more than 800 cases.The second most affected area in the city is Dharavi, one of India’s biggest slum clusters. As of Saturday, Dharavi recorded 833 cases with 27 deaths. Dharavi falls in G-North ward of BMC which includes areas such as Mahim (112 cases) and Dadar (105 cases). The city so far has 2,646 containment zones.Meanwhile, the BMC has geared up to screen 1,900 citizens who are expected to land at Mumbai airport starting Sunday. The first flight is to land with stranded citizens from London at 1.30am on Sunday. The BMC will screen all fliers and those with symptoms will be admitted to Covid-19 hospitals, and those with no symptoms will be sent to quarantine facility in 88 hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-s-ward-new-hotspot-in-mumbai/story-e4MP5s4mCkEcyP7pnkzq9M.html
09-05-2020||City||Panvel gives permission for standalone shops to open from 7am to 5pm||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to give permission for standalone shops to open on specific days from 7am to 5pm.Stationery shops, general stores, construction material suppliers and so on will be open on Mondays and Fridays. Automobile shops, garages, service centres will be open on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Electronic products and electrical repair shops will be open on Wednesdays and Sundays. Hosiery and ready-made garment shops will be open on Thursdays.Municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “We have decided to allow standalone shops in PCMC jurisdiction. There will a maximum of five shops on a road or a lane in every one km area which will open on specified days.”Malls and market complexes will remain shut during the lockdown period.Deshmukh said, “We appeal to all to ensure social distancing and follow all the norms. The shops will be open throughout the day so that there is no crowding. If we find violations, we will shut the shops immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-gives-permission-for-standalone-shops-to-open-from-7am-to-5pm/story-L1418QHc3PeBsdOUrbclFO.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Ensure Covid-19 does not spread any further in jails: HC to Maharashtra jail authorities||Observing that the situation in Arthur Road jail, where 77 inmates and 26 staff members have tested positive for Covid-19, the Bombay high court on Friday asked the jail authorities to ensure that the virus does not spread any further.Justice Bharati Dangre said that the authorities need not be reminded of the rights of inmates to a safe and healthy environment, and even while incarceration they equally enjoy the right to life as those in the outside world.The judge was hearing a plea filed by an inmate of Arthur Road jail, Ali Akbar Shroff, seeking interim bail on the ground that in light of the precarious situation on account of the spread of Covid-19 in Arthur Road jail he had become more vulnerable.His counsel, senior advocate Abad Ponda, pointed out that the 43-year-old is a chronic patient of diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure. Ponda added that Shroff also has a sinus problem and required constant medical treatment and supervision.This medical condition, according to the senior advocate, may prove fatal as persons suffering from hypertension and diabetes are considered more susceptible to the coronavirus and therefore urged the court to release Shroff on temporary bail.“The situation no doubt is precarious,” said justice Dangre commenting on Linda’s statement that several inmates of Arthur Road jail have tested positive for coronavirus. “If it is true that more than 100 patients have been tested positive in Arthur Road jail, it is for the authorities to arrange for their affairs and to ensure that the inmates presently housed in the jail are not infected by the virus,” the judge added.She, however, rejected the interim bail plea saying several aged inmates are presently languishing in jail although they are more prone to the virus, as compared to the present applicant. “Since no imminent health impediment is reflected in the case of the present applicant, the application is rejected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ensure-covid-19-does-not-spread-any-further-in-jails-hc-to-maharashtra-jail-authorities/story-1moGsoEQB98CzyAhqGeV4I.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||St George hospital starts dialysis facility for Covid-19 patients||The government-run St George Hospital has started a dialysis facility for Covid-19 patients.The Covid-19 converted hospital mostly receives critically-ill patients infected with the novel coronavirus - many with a history of acute kidney ailments and require dialysis every day. Doctors, as a result, referred them to other centres owing to the unavailability of the dialysis facility, which often delayed their treatment.Taking note of it, the hospital has procured five dialysis machines and additional 10 will soon be acquired.“One machine can conduct dialysis of six to eight patients daily. With our capacity, 30-40 patients can undergo dialysis every day,” said Dr Akash Khobragade, superintendent of the hospital. “We are in the process of getting more machines so that critical patients don’t have to run around.”HT has been reporting on the difficulties faced by Covid-19 infected dialysis patients due to lack of facilities. At present, the dialysis facility for Covid-19 patients is available in Seven Hills, Kasturba Gandhi, King Edward Memorial, Nanavati and Saifee hospitals.Dialysis is the process of removing excess water, solutes, and toxins from the blood in people whose kidneys can no longer perform these functions naturally. This is referred to as renal replacement therapy. Every alternate day, patients need to undergo dialysis, without this, a chronic kidney failure patient can even die.“A patient on dialysis already have compromised health immunity which makes them more susceptible to Covid-19 infection. In such a situation, if dialysis is not provided on time, the chances of mortality among such patients is high,” said Sejal Jobanputra, a coordinator of Kidney Warriors Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/st-george-hospital-starts-dialysis-facility-for-covid-19-patients/story-F2g2dBypqOOBE45JRuqmPK.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Couple arrested for series of snatching incidents||The Delhi Police on Saturday arrested a 22-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman for allegedly committing a series of snatchings in the national capital in the last three months.The police said the two suspects were addicted to drugs and would snatch mobile phones from people before selling them to buy narcotics.The police identified the suspects as Arjun alias Chhanga, who is from Paharganj, and Vaishali Kaushal, who is a tattoo artist. They had first met in December at Kaushal’s tatto studio in Karolbagh where Arjun, who has several criminal cases against his name, had come to get inked, the police said. They added that the two suspects soon realised they had a lot in common, and moved in together three months later.After moving in together, the couple began snatching mobile phones for money they needed to buy drugs, the police said. However, the nationwide lockdown had forced them to stop their criminal activities, they added.The couple allegedly resumed snatchings last week, soon after the government eased the lockdown norms allowing people to step out of their homes and open standalone shops and run offices with one-third staff members. Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia, said within a week, the couple targeted six pedestrians, in central, north and west Delhi. They used to ride a scooter and snatch mobile phones and bags of their victims, he said. However, the couple ran out of luck on Saturday, when a team from the Desh Bandhu Gupta (DBG) Road police station intercepted them near Kishanganj railway colony near north Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla. The two suspects had gone there to allegedly sell the stolen phones. The couple had already committed two snatchings in Khyala and Subzi Mandi in less than three hours, before being caught around noon, said a police officer involved in the operation.“ We seized four stolen mobile phones and a stolen scooter from the couple. Arjun, who was previously involved in over 31 crimes, used to ride the scooter, while Vaishali rode pillion and snatched mobile phones from pedestrians,” said DCP Bhatia.The police officer added that several teams were formed to nab the suspects after snatchings were reported from central Delhi areas. Statements of a few victims of snatchings and the footage from CCTV cameras installed around the crime scenes had pointed towards the involvement of a couple riding a white scooter in the snatchings.“Our teams activated the criminal intelligence network that helped them zero in on the young couple living in Paharganj area. The couple’s movements were tracked and they were caught from Kishanganj railway colony,” a police officer said.The officer said that the couple used to live on rent in a room in Shalimar Bagh area in northwest Delhi, where they used to keep the stolen property. The couple told the police that they had committed more than a dozen snatchings before the lockdown was announced on March 24. They used to sell the stolen phones to a shopkeeper in Karol Bagh.“We have identified the man who used to buy the stolen property. He will be arrested soon,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/couple-arrested-for-series-of-snatching-incidents/story-MHMX6vstteISmoGBVzLdAI.html
09-05-2020||City||Delhi: HC extends bail of under-trials prisoners by 45 days over corona infection fears||New Delhi The Delhi High Court on Saturday extended the interim bail of 2,177 under trial prisoners for another 45 days after the high-powered committee, constituted to decongest Tihar jail, made the recommendation.In April, the under-trials, lodged across three prisons in Delhi -- Tihar, Mandoli, and Rohini -- were released on interim bail to decongest the jail complexes and ensure social distancing inside prisons. At over 18,000 prisoners, Tihar is the most crowded prison in the country. Prison officers are on high alert ever since reports came of prisoners testing positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in other prison complexes in the country. At Tihar however, no prisoner had tested positive for the virus until Saturday.A bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Talwant Singh on Saturday afternoon extended the period of interim bail by 45 days from the date of the respective expiry of the interim bails, on the continuation of the terms and conditions. The court told Sandeep Goel, director general (prisons) to ensure this order is conveyed to all the 2,177 under-trials by telephone, as well as through all other available modes of communication.The court’s order comes in reference to a matter filed on the basis of a letter written by the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), seeking a judicial order to extend the interim bails.On May 5, a meeting of the high-powered committee, headed by Justice Hima Kohli of the Delhi High Court, was convened, where the DG (prisons) had said that the interim bails of the 2,177 prisoners was going to end on May 9.Kanwaljeet Arora, member secretary, DSLSA, had said that since it would be difficult to file separate pleas for all the inmates, a judicial order by the high court would suffice. The committee had then asked the DSLSA to put this forth before the Registrar General of the Delhi High Court, following which the matter was taken up on Saturday.On Saturday, in a hearing held via video conferencing, Goel told the court that health concerns with regards to the Sars-Cov-2 pandemic have not changed and that it would be a dangerous proposition if the undertrials out on bail are put back into jails, where they might infect other prisoners.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel (criminal), and advocate Chaitnaya, both representing the Delhi government, submitted there is no objection to the extension of the interim bails granted to the 2,177 under-trials by another period of 45 days from the respective date of expiry of their interim bail period.Following this, the court accepted the recommendations of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-extends-bail-of-under-trials-prisoners-by-45-days-over-corona-infection-fears/story-6k5e5QUaCItHsWeoYqrNNO.html
09-05-2020||City||Police station cook tests positive, takes Panchkula Covid tally to 20||With a 27-year-old female mess assistant at the Sector 5 police station testing positive on Saturday, Panchkula district’s Covid tally touched 20. Of these, 17 patients have already been cured and discharged from hospital. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the woman is a native of Harigarh village, Pehowa in Kurukshetra, and was staying at the women’s police station in Sector 5. She said that 83 blood samples of police personnel and other employees working at police posts, police stations and check posts in Panchkula were taken for testing on May 5, wherein only the woman cook tested positive.District Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Rajiv Narwal, said the cook had taken leave and gone to her native village in Kurukshetra on May 7. “We have informed the health department team in Kurukshetra for further action as the woman is currently at her native village where she is admitted. We have isolated her immediate contacts, of which five women constables whom she was sharing the room with during her stay here, are being tested,” he said. As per officials, the woman was usually engaged in cooking and carrying water to the police station and her source of infection has not been ascertained as yet. Meanwhile, one of her contacts in Panchkula, the mess supervisor, has tested negative. Officials said the woman’s family members– husband, five-year-old daughter, her in-laws–in Kurukshetra have also been isolated there. For 18 days, Panchkula district registered no Covid case, following which on Friday, a 44-year-old milk vendor-cum-confectioner from Rajiv Colony near Sector 16/17 tested positive. The district administration on Saturday declared some of the area in colony as containment zone and the remaining as buffer zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-station-cook-tests-positive-takes-panchkula-covid-tally-to-20/story-le6NfCc8uwbPNXTvZiNzVJ.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Hours after mother’s death, woman ‘kills self’ in AIIMS||The body of a 23-year-old woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad was found on Saturday morning on the terrace of an under-construction building in the new private ward of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The woman’s mother had died battling cancer three days ago at the hospital.Police suspect that the woman may have allegedly killed herself by jumping from the third floor of a building adjacent to the terrace, where her body was found.The woman, investigators said, was missing from the hospital soon after her mother passed away at AIIMS during treatment and her father was out to complete the formalities to claim the body. The family had filed a missing persons complaint, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.According to the police, the woman’s mother was brought to AIIMS on April 30. The doctors tried their best to cure her but the cancer was in the advanced category. The patient’s daughter had been upset because her mother’s health had been deteriorating, an officer said.On May 6, the patient died and her husband went to complete the hospital formalities. Their daughter, in the meanwhile, left her cellphone in the ward where the patient was being treated and stepped out. The father returned and found his daughter missing. When he could not locate her, he informed the hospital authorities and also filed a missing complaint. On Saturday morning, the hospital staff found her body on the terrace with head injuries.“We spoke to her friends and relatives. The woman used to tell them that she would end her life if her mother did not survive. Prime facie it appears that she killed herself. However, we have not ruled out other possibilities as well. The investigation is on,” said DCP Thakur.AIIMS formally didn’t not comment but an official off record said that a body was found and as per protocol, the hospital authorities informed the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hours-after-mother-s-death-woman-kills-self-in-aiims/story-UbqaEEx4h9KqMM2K52zypJ.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||1L cases of lockdown violations across Maharashtra so far, 19K arrested, ₹3.76 cr collected in fines||Maharashtra Police has registered a total of 100,245 cases for lockdown violations, with a majority for gathering at one place. A total of 19,297 people were arrested since the state was put under lockdown in March, 54,611 vehicles have been seized, and ₹3.76 crore collected in fines for violating lockdown rules. Across the state, 194 cases have been registered for assaulting policemen or obstructing duty, and 689 persons have been arrested. Assault on police personnel has led to 73 policemen and one home guard getting injured to date. Additionally, 32 health professionals have been attacked across Maharashtra. Across the state, 194 cases have been registered for assaulting policemen or obstructing duty, and 689 persons have been arrested. Assault on police personnel has led to 73 policemen and one home guard getting injured to date. Additionally, 32 health professionals have been attacked across Maharashtra. Till Saturday, 714 Maharashtra Police personnel tested positive for Covid-19, of which 61 recovered, while 646 are still undergoing treatment, and seven succumbed to the virus. Till Saturday evening, a total of 344 Mumbai Police personnel tested positive and four of them died from the virus.As the figures of police personnel testing positive and others getting quarantined continue to increase, and aged policemen and women with health issues have been asked to stay home, the force will have to fill up this shortage sooner or later.With this in mind, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced the possibility of seeking help from Central forces to supplement the city’s already-stretched manpower. However, he categorically denied rumours of calling in the Indian Army.A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said that a final decision on calling in Central forces will be taken in two days.When asked how much additional manpower is needed for the Mumbai Police force, Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “An actual figure cannot be given.” A DCP-level officer from Maharashtra Police said, “An additional force will be needed for Mumbai Police as well as Maharashtra Police. We will have to make a demand. A final decision on this will be taken on Monday.” 42 FIRs on Friday for lockdown violations Mumbai Police registered 42 cases on Friday for lockdown violations. On average, 150 cases were registered in April, while this month the number has dropped to less than 50 cases. Twenty cases were for gathering in one place and 13 were for not wearing masks. Most of the cases are in central (20) and west (09) regions which are the worst-affected by Covid-19. 4th city cop dies of virusAn assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted at the Vinoba Bhave (VB) Nagar police station succumbed to Covid-19 in Kurla on Friday. On May 5, the officer fell sick and showed symptoms of the disease, after which he was admitted to Rajawadi Hospital. The BMC collected his samples on May 6 but by the time his results came back on Friday, he had died. Six more personnel at JJ Marg police station tested positive on Friday, taking the station’s count to 33. 110 migrants stopped from leaving city During a nakabandi near IIT Powai on Saturday afternoon, Powai police stopped two trucks and found 40 migrants hidden inside the vehicles. “We have lodged FIRs against both the drivers for violating lockdown rules. The migrants told us they had paid ₹3,000 to ₹4,000 each for transportation out of the city,” said an officer. The Pant Nagar police in Ghatkopar on Saturday intercepted a truck carrying 70 migrant labourers who were destined for Uttar Pradesh. The investigation revealed that the truck driver charged ₹3,000 per head from the labourers.”The migrants had boarded from Kurla and were to go to Lucknow,” said Suhas Kamble, senior police inspector, Pant Nagar police station. The truck was stopped at a nakabandi on the eastern express highway. A check revealed that the labourers were cramped inside the truck, defying social distancing norms. Police have a registered a case in this regard against the truck driver under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) among others. Covid patient kills himself at hospitalA 60- year-old Vikhroli resident, suffering from Covid-19, died by suicide at Seven Hills Hospital on Saturday. The incident came to light around noon when a doctor came to the ward and found him missing. Jagdish Shinde, senior inspector MIDC police station confirmed the incident.Cops provide ration to senior citizens in needA patrolling police team from Wadala TT police station went out of their way to help a disabled senior citizen and his wife, who were forced to sell potatoes in Sangam Nagar, a slum near Antop Hill, as they had no money to buy food. After listening to their problem, the team arranged a month’s ration for them and apprised them that selling vegetables is not allowed in the area, which is a red zone. When contacted the team members – API Anil Jadhav, PSI Kolge, and constable Babar said they were happy to help.55-year-old arrested under POCSO for sexual harassment A 55-year-old man was arrested on Friday by the RAK Marg police for sexually harassing three teens, including a minor from his building. One of the victims, a 21-year-old woman, in her statement to the police, alleged the incident took place between May 3 and May 7 when she and her two friends – a 14-year-old girl and a 20-year-old woman, were playing on the fifth-floor staircase of the building. “The victim alleged that the accused was sitting on the sofa inside his house and flashed them his genitals and made obscene gestures. The accused also shown a pornographic video to them,” said a police officer. (Inputs from Faisal Tandel and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1l-cases-of-lockdown-violations-across-maharashtra-so-far-19k-arrested-3-76-cr-collected-in-fines/story-S1OfACeXD59ZIIm7zzUX8I.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar offers steps to support MSMEs||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday made several announcements to bring micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) back on the track for economic and industrial development.These announcements included setting up of bank complaint information centres for redressal of issues related to banks by the finance department, extending the date of depositing electricity bills without penalty till May 31, to provide guarantee to MSMEs for bank loans from small industries development bank of India by the state government, fixing the power rate at ₹4.75 per unit for agriculture-based industries up to 20KW and prefabricated housing for labourers in the factories itself.An official release said that the chief minister said that during the nationwide lockdown period, the economic activity of all the states was affected and now they were being reopened in a phased manner. He said that the revenue collected in the last two months had been almost negligible as the revenue was mainly collected from GST, excise, stamp duty, VAT refund from central government and mining contracts. He said these were now being operationalised in a phased manner. He assured that a separate nodal officer would be appointed for issues related to HSIIDC.Stating that the issues related to VAT refunds of 2017 were being resolved in a timely manner, he said that for about 1,300 applications, a refund of ₹162 crore had been made since April. He also assured to reassess MSME’s bank loans. The scheme to provide 10% working capital had also been announced by the central government, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-offers-steps-to-support-msmes/story-6dCqPYgy3luQ3SSodjn9CO.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant workers leave for UP in 30 buses from Jhajjar, Jind||Nearly 931 migrant workers — 700 from Jhajjar and 231 from Jind — left for Uttar Pradesh in 30 Haryana roadways buses on Saturday. Around 700 workers from Jhajjar were sent to Shamli cluster in Uttar Pradesh in 30 buses, while 126 migrant labourers left for Shamli from Jind in four buses. However, 105 workers departed for Saharnpur from Jind in three buses.Jhajjar deputy commissioner Jitender Kumar said that as many as 700 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh’s fourteen districts had left for their native places.“A total of 8,000 migrant workers had registered themselves on the government portal and we have been sending them back. We will send 1,200 migrant workers to Bihar by a special Shramik train starting from Rohtak on Sunday. All these workers were involved in agriculture-related activities”, Kumar added.The migrant workers boarded the buses after undergoing a medical check-up at shelter homes.Meanwhile, after a Shramik Special train from Bhiwani was cancelled twice, as many as 1,198 migrant labourers (486 from Bhiwani and 712 from Dadri) finally left for Bihar from Bhiwani in a special train at 11.30am on Saturday.Anil Marandi, a migrant labourer from Bihar’s Purnia district, said that after the Railways had cancelled their train on two occasions, he had given up hope.“I was a daily wage earner here but due to the lockdown was unable to earn any money. I don’t have any option other than going home. I will come back after the situation improves,” he added.Surender Lal Sharma, a construction worker from Katihar, said that he had come to Bhiwani before the lockdown to work at a construction site.“Now, I will have to go back home without having earned any money”, he added.RETURNING HOME WITHOUT MONEY A CHALLENGE Amid the happiness of being able to return home, the migrants are upset to be going back with empty pockets.As many as 342 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh left for their home from a Karnal-based relief camp in 11 Haryana Roadways buses on Saturday.Most of them alleged that the factory owners that they worked for had not paid their salaries.“This is the worst year of our lives as we are returning home without any money in our pockets”, said Sachin Kumar, a migrant labourer from Partapgarh of UP.“Yahan to sab theek hai, par wahan kya khayenge (Everything was fine here at the shelter home but what we will there)?” he wondered.Another migrant labourer from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, who had returned from Ludhiana, said, “I will never go to Punjab as the owner of a bicycle manufacturing unit did not pay me my 21 days’ salary,” he added.Similarly, a middle-aged labourer who worked in a hosiery manufacturing unit in Ludhiana said, “The owner of my factory refused to pay my salary and we were forced to leave without any money and I reached Karnal on foot”.THOSE CROSSING BORDER TO BE KEPT AT SHELTER HOMES A day after several migrant labourers at the Ambala-Patiala (Shambhu) border, who had come to Ambala from Punjab, were sent back by Haryana Police only to be refused entry by Punjab Police, Haryana home minister Anil Vij asked the administration to give them refuge at temporary shelter homes set up in Ambala. On Friday, they were stopped by the Ambala police and sent back to the border, but the issue couldn’t be resolved with the Punjab Police despite the intervention of senior police officials and Ambala City MLA Aseem Goyal.“I met minister Anil Vij and told him about the situation. He said that now onwards, all migrants crossing Ambala on their way back home will be given refuge at shelter homes and will soon be sent to their homes by buses and trains,” said Goyal. SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “Many migrants who were stranded at the border along with a few who were trying to cross the district on Saturday were brought to shelter homes already set up here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrant-workers-leave-for-up-in-30-buses-from-jhajjar-jind/story-As84t24ifPRhLfaDwJZLvJ.html
09-05-2020||City||KDMC records one Covid death, 25 new cases||A 67-year-old man from Dombivli died of Covid-19, taking the death toll to four in Kalyan-Dombivli.As per the KDMC health department, he had fever and his swab was collected on May 6. He died on May 7. “He also had high blood pressure and fever. His test reports came after his death on May 8,” said an officer of KDMC health department. “His cremation was carried out by the family by taking all safety measures. Eight of the close contacts have been quarantined and they will be tested too,” said the officer.Twenty-five new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 305.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation said that out of the 305 cases, 121 travelled to Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai for work and 41 are close contacts of these 121 cases.“A total of 162 cases are of those travelling for work and their close contacts,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-one-covid-death-25-new-cases/story-DF8GozUP8GBSI8RaHEoWXL.html
09-05-2020||City||Bihar, Delhi ministers lock horns over credit for migrants’ return||PATNAA day after the Delhi government claimed to have paid the train travel of 1,200 migrant workers to Muzaffarpur district, Bihar’s minister Sanjay Jha Saturday slammed the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government for politicking over the matter saying they had already shot off a letter to Bihar government seeking immediate reimbursement of the amount involved.Reacting to a tweet by Delhi minister Gopal Rai, Jha said it was resorting to “white lies” over the return of hapless labourers stranded in national capital due to the nationwide lockdown.“I saw a tweet by a Delhi minister saying they are paying for the tickets of 1,200 migrants who are travelling from Delhi to Muzaffarpur (but) I have a letter here sent by their government asking for the reimbursement of the money from the Bihar government,” the minister for water resources said.As soon as the Shramik Special train left for Muzaffarpur on Friday, AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh was quick to take credit for facilitating their return back home, while implying that Bihar government had failed to come to the aid of its workers. Jha also released copy of the letter and said, “On one hand you are taking credit, saying you are sending them back with your own money. On the other hand, you are requesting not to reimburse passengers but to reimburse the amount to the Delhi government.”“What kind of optics are you trying to create. See your minister Gopal Rai is lying on Twitter that your government will pay the fare, then (you) send a letter asking for money from us,” Jha tweeted.Union minister Giriraj Singh also attacked the Delhi government for taking recourse to “cheap publicity”.Later, Delhi’s health minister Satyendra Jain stepped in. “It is not fair to take money from them (migrant labourers), they have been staying in shelter homes for last two months. From where will they get money to pay for tickets, so the Delhi government paid for it. One shouldn’t do politics over it.”Earlier, the Bihar government had announced that the travel fare from originating station would be reimbursed by it after the completion of the mandatory 21-day quarantine, besides an additional sum of Rs 500 each. Railways is bearing 85% of the ticket fare, while the state governments concerned will have to pay the remaining 15%, as per Union health ministry.Meanwhile, another special train left Delhi for Muzaffarpur on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-delhi-ministers-lock-horns-over-credit-for-migrants-return/story-kOYY6ncWaK1Nh3vX3YFaUM.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Train to take migrants from Chandigarh to UP today||The first train to take stranded migrants from Chandigarh to Gonda in Uttar Pradesh (UP), carrying around 1,188 passengers, will depart from Chandigarh railway station at 6pm on Sunday. Station superintendent Anil Vijj said, “The train, having 22 bogies with 54 passengers each, will go to Gonda. Passengers will be provided free packaged food during the journey by the UT administration. All expenses will be borne by the administration.” An officer explained that migrants wishing to go back to their home states can apply at the website (http://chandigarh.gov.in). He/she must fill basic details and submit after giving a one time password. The registered passengers will be informed by SMS to report at centres for screening in UT . This SMS also serves as the ticket for the passenger. Then they will get to board buses to the railway station which will be strictly as per the messages they receive. These messages should not be forwarded or shared with others as these will be verified at the raiway station.Rajiv Tiwari, the nodal officer appointed by the administration, said that people going to Gonda will be screened in the parking lot of the railway station in the afternoon. He has also appealed to citizens that only workers going to Gonda must reach the railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/train-to-take-migrants-from-chandigarh-to-up-today/story-3bstVoLxaa1jWGGhPobnxK.html
09-05-2020||Patna||Ready to pay for 50 trains: Tejashwi slams Nitish over ticket fare row||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal ( RJD) Saturday accused the Nitish Kumar government of ignoring the plight of migrants following the controversy over Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal seeking reimbursement from the Bihar government for paying the train ticket fare of passengers coming from Delhi to Muzaffarpur.In a series of tweets, Opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav thanked the Delhi CM for paying the ticket fare of the migrants who reached the state by Shramik Special on May 9 and slammed the state government for dilly dallying on making advance payment for the ticket fare.“ Thank you so much @ Arvind Kejriwal ji. We are sorry for the insensitivity shown by the Bihar government. As a responsible opposition we offer our support in terms of financial contribution in taking back migrant Bihari workforce, Please let us know the modalities of transferring the money,”(sic) Tejashwi posted in a tweet, taking potshots at the state government’s reported stand that no reimbursement would be made to the Delhi government against ticket fare of the migrants.The Bihar government and Delhi government has come to loggerheads over the ticket fare payment of the migrant labourers who returned by the special train to Muzaffarpur from Delhi. While Delhi government claimed it had made advance payment as ticket fare for the special train and sought reimbursement, the state government has asserted that the reimbursement on the same would be done at the quarantine centres on their return as per the MHA guidelines.“Our party is ready to pay the ticket fare of passengers for 50 trains . We stand by words. The Bihar government should also make public how it will reimburse the train fare cost to Delhi government,” Tejashwi said.However, Tejashwi said that the latest episode of friction between Bihar and Delhi government has only exposed how the Nitish Kumar dispensation is not sympathetic towards the plight of lakhs of migrants stranded in various states and requesting for special trains at the bare minimum is a formality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/ready-to-pay-for-50-trains-tejashwi-slams-nitish-over-ticket-fare-row/story-mHwKI9nYPjgPEyZU6c23II.html
09-05-2020||City||Delhi, Bihar govts clash over train bill||PATNAThe Bihar government has objected to the Delhi government’s letter seeking reimbursement of fares paid by the latter for passengers travelling to Bihar by Shramik Special train from Delhi, which reached Saturday morning with 1,100-odd passengers. The state government, in reply to the letter written by Delhi government’s nodal officer on May 7, asking for reimbursement, said the request was a clear violation of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Railways.The reply, issued by Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary (disaster management department), Bihar, cited the clause 11 (c) of guidelines issued by Ministry of Railways (vide no. DTP/2020/05/17 dated 2nd May, 2020) which says, “The local state government authority shall hand over the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and handover the total amount to railways.”“In consonance with this policy, we shall reimburse the fare to the Railway, and not to the Delhi government,” the letter says.The Delhi government’s letter had sought reimbursement of Rs 6.5 lakh.As per guidelines of the central government, either the destination state or the origin state of the train concerned has to bear 15% of the ticket cost while the remaining 85% will be taken care of by the Centre. The tickets are to be charged by the railways at sleeper class rates plus an additional Rs 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-bihar-govts-clash-over-train-bill/story-UAdy1NVcbcN7oo16p33dAM.html
09-05-2020||Patna||70 migrants flee Bihar’s Nawada centre, DM says all traced, brought back||In what is emerging as a worrying pattern in Bihar, over 70 migrant workers fled from a quarantine centre in Nawada district, alleging poor facilities and lack of food, on Saturday morning before being traced and brought back later in the day.About 150 migrant workers, upon their return to Bihar earlier this month, were quarantined at Aadarsh Inter School at Sirdala block in Nawada district.According to the Nawada police, they were examined for Covid-19 symptoms on May 3 and all were found to be asymptomatic. However, on May 6, a 31-year-old truck driver, who had returned from Ahmedabad, tested positive, which triggered fear among the migrant workers at the quarantine centre, said Sirdala BDO Akhileshwar Kumar. He said after they escaped, the district administration promptly informed sarpanch and secretary of the village concerned, which helped trace them later.Nawada’s district magistrate Yashpal Meena claimed only 50 had fled and all were found and brought back to the centre. He said 16 of them, who lived in close proximity with the truck driver, have been sent to another quarantine centre and a medical team had collected their samples and sent the same for tests.Earlier, migrant workers sheltered at quarantine centres in Purnea, Araria and Kishanganj had attempted to escape, complaining of lack of proper sanitation and toilet facilities.Incidents of migrant workers throwing tantrums over food have also been reported from several quarantine centres, including in Bhojpur and Banka districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/70-migrants-flee-bihar-s-nawada-centre-dm-says-all-traced-brought-back/story-EINy7PekfQKoEyBCJCCLSP.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Patience, family support helped me, my family defeat virus, says Delhi constable||The villagers at Jhajjar’s Saloda welcomed the family of an infected Delhi constable (his parents, wife and daughter) after they were cured of Covid-19 and discharged from the hospital on Friday.On Thursday, the infected cop reached home after he recovered from the novel coronavirus. However, he heaved a sigh of relief after his family members were discharged from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak and arrived at their village on Friday evening.The cop, who hails from Jhajjar’s Saloda village, had tested positive in Delhi on March 26. His parents, wife and daughter too, were found infected the next day.The cop was infected while performing his job in Jahangirpuri area. He was admitted at AIIMS extension in Jhajjar’s Badsa while his family members were admitted to the isolation ward in PGIMS, Rohtak. Before testing positive, the constable was commuting from Delhi to his village on a daily basis.He said was sure that his family will defeat the virusWhile talking to the Hindustan Times over the phone, the constable said that all of them were asymptomatic and were surprised after testing positive for Covid-19.“The doctors at AIIMS, Badsa, my colleagues, and family support helped me defeat the virus. I motivated my parents and wife to be patient and follow doctor’s guidance and now finally we have won the battle,” he said.Jhajjar civil surgeon Randeep Singh Punia said that the family members of the constable were cured and sent back home.“I want to appreciate the PGIMS doctors for their efforts as all patients were cured in just 11 days. As a precautionary measure, have asked them to stay at home,” Punia added.The cop said he is willing to join duty after the completion of 14 days quarantine period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/patience-family-support-helped-me-my-family-defeat-virus-says-delhi-constable/story-EEjouML9PXepRkPAji4T8L.html
09-05-2020||City||Bihar: 96 migrant workers test Covid positive||PATNA: Around 96 migrant workers who recently returned to the state have so far tested positive for novel coronavirus, as 16 more cases were reported Saturday, taking the overall tally of cases to 595 across 37 of Bihar’s 38 districts.Muzaffarpur was the 37th district of Bihar the virus had extended its footprints to, after three migrant workers there tested positive for the virus from the Mushahari block quarantine centre on Saturday.The three people who tested positive from Mushahari blocks of Muzaffarpur district were all males, aged 14, 22 and 31, said Sanjay Kumar, Bihar’s principal secretary, health. “We are ascertaining their further infection trail,” tweeted Kumar.Arwal reported three cases, Nalanda, Munger, Begusarai two each, while Siwan, Sheikhpura, Vaishali and Bhojpur reported one case each on Saturday.On Saturday, health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 96 people from outside the state had tested positive during random testing of migrant workers, who came to the state after May 3.“Cases of migrant workers testing positive were reported from the block quarantine centres at Khagaria, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur and Begusari,” Singh added.Kumar had earlier on May 4 said, “Going by our experience over the past 10 days, almost 60% to 70% of the tested samples, which came positive, were of people who came from outside the state.”Bihar had then reported 374 positive cases between April 23 and May 3. Kumar’s statement then meant that at least 224 of these cases were attributed to the migrant workers, thereby implying that 42% of the state’s Covid-19 case burden then — 528 till May 4 — was due to the migrants.Prior to the 14-day lockdown 3.0, which commenced from May 4, around 1.80 lakh migrant workers had already reached the state.Around 78,706 migrant workers from outside the state had reached Bihar by 69 special trains operated so far since the first such train reached here from Jaipur (Rajasthan) on May 2.Twelve trains carrying 14,245 migrant workers reached Bihar on Saturday. Fourteen other trains, carrying 17,054 workers, were lined up for Sunday, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department.Bihar expects to operate around 137 special trains during lockdown 3.0. They would ferry around 1,55,423 passengers, said Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, disaster management department, also the state nodal officer to coordinate the evacuation of people from Bihar stranded outside the state.Meanwhile, the Patna district magistrate, Kumar Ravi, on Saturday notified 16 containment zones in the state capital. He, along with the senior superintendent of police, Updendra Sharma, also visited the barracks of Bihar Military Police (BMP)-14 after five of its jawans tested positive late Friday evening. He advised them to maintain social distancing, proper hygiene and sanitation, use of sanitisers and handwash, and be aware about the precautions that needed to be taken against the virus.The DM also advised officials to make arrangements for comprehensive screening of the BMP jawans there. He also ordered barricading of an LPG godown, adjoining the barracks.Eighteen patients had recovered on Saturday, taking the number of recoveries to 51 in the last 24 hours. A total of 318 patients had recovered so far in the state, with a case recovery rate of 49%. Five people, affected by the virus, have died so far.Munger topped with 104 of Bihar’s 595 Covid-19 cases across 36 districts. It was followed by Buxar (56), Rohtas (54), Patna (52), Nalanda (38), Siwan (33), Kaimur (31), Madhubani (24), Bhojpur (19), Gopalganj (18), Begusarai (16), Aurangabad, Bhagalpur (14 each), Katihar (12), West Champaran (11), East Champaran (10), Darbhanga (9), Saran, Arwal (8 each), Samastipur (7), Gaya, Sitamarhi (6 each), Jehanabad, Nawada (5 each), Lakhisarai, Banka, Vaishali (4 each), Sheohar, Muzaffarpur (3 each), Madhepura, Araria, Purnea, Saharsa, Sheikhpura (2 each), Kishanganj, Supaul, Khagaria (1 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-96-migrant-workers-test-covid-positive/story-ujyHbMsJ941M5BBgNEiwcJ.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||3 suicides in 24 hours in Dhanas||In the last 24 hours, three suicides were reported in Dhanas village, Chandigarh, the police said on Saturday.As per the police, a 40-year-old man working as a contractual employee at the post graduate institute of medical education and research (PGIMER), committed suicide by hanging himself from a fan ceiling at home on Saturday. Investigating officials said, the deceased—Madan Lal, a resident of Dhanas, allegedly had a huge quarrel with his family on Friday night. His family said he had locked himself up in his room and on the next day took the extreme step. The exact reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained, but at prima facie police have ruled out foul play. His body was discovered around 10 am.Dhanas is a village panchayat and home to several densely populated colonies of migrants.Nearly four hours later, a second suicide was reported from Aman Colony in Dhanas. Police said, the deceased—35-year-old Birbal—worked for a private company in Mohali and since the lockdown, he was alone at home. The police did not find any suicide note from the house.The third suicide case was reported late on Friday night, when 22-year-old Neelam, resident of EWS colony, allegedly jumped off the fourth floor of her house, after a dispute with her brother. Police said that the brother would get drunk regularly, and that night Neelam was persuading her brother not to drink so much. However, what began as a small argument led to a bitter quarrel and in the heat of the moment she jumped off the building. The police said the family is in a state of shock. Kachi colony in Dhanas also falls under the containment zone and so far, two positive Covid cases have been reported from the area. However, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said, “The three suicides were committed due to ongoing family disputes. So far, we cannot connect the three suicide cases to Covid, but we are waiting for the reports.”Sarangpur police station officials have initiated inquest proceedings in the three cases under Section 174 of CrPc, but are waiting for the post mortem reports from the hospital. In all three cases, hospital authorities are testing whether the deceased were Covid positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-suicides-in-24-hours-in-dhanas/story-xCnOOtM7bFmYGYWDgDjtTM.html
09-05-2020||City||Thane records 3 Covid deaths; cases double in a week||Three Covid patients died and 60 new cases were reported in Thane on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 671. This is the second highest single-day spike in the city.The number of cases too has doubled in a week from 300 cases on May 1 to 671 cases till Saturday.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “Two out of the three patients died at home. A 67-year-old man from Kausa died on Saturday in his house. He had diabetes and tested positive on Saturday itself. In another case, a 57-year-old woman from Ramnagar in Thane died on May 8. She had hypertension and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 9, a day after her death. The third case is also of a 57-year-old woman, a resident of Diva, who died on May 4 at JJ Hospital in Mumbai.”The number of deaths in the city is 24. Mumbra saw the highest increase on Saturday with 14 cases, followed by Wagale Estate (12) and Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar (11).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-3-covid-deaths-cases-double-in-a-week/story-P1VGTdeh9Rju2L36MMKOjJ.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old youth shot dead by friends in Jhajjar||A 20-year-old youth was shot dead allegedly by his friends at Jhajjar’s Chhuchhakwas village late on Friday, police said.The deceased has been identified as Sushil alias Sonu, who was residing in Police Lines area in Jhajjar along with his mother.In his complaint, Sushil’s uncle Vijender said that his nephew had gone to his friend Manish’s house in Achhej village last week.“When he did not return, my brother-in-law Ravinder Singh visited Manish’s house four days ago to enquire about his whereabouts. Manish’s mother told Ravinder that the duo had gone out somewhere. On Friday night, we were informed that my nephew was shot dead by his friends — Manish and Sombir — at the latter’s house in Chhuchhakwas village and his body was lying outside a private hospital in Jhajjar,” the complainant added.Sub-inspector Rajbir Singh of Chhuchhakwas police post said that Manish and Sombir had been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 34(acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act.“We are yet to ascertain the reason behind the murder. Teams have been formed to nab the accused and the investigation is underway,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-youth-shot-dead-by-friends-in-jhajjar/story-MKQIZHfW8Qhs3r18Nj6JqN.html
09-05-2020||City||Panchkula’s Rajiv Colony declared partial containment zone, after milk vendor tests positive||A day after a 44-year-old milk vendor-cum-confectioner at the congested Rajiv Colony near Sectors 16 and 17 tested positive for Covid-19, the district administration on Saturday declared some of the areas in the colony a containment zone and the rest as buffer zone. As per orders, the residential area near the house of patient as well as the area near his sweet shop have been declared a containment zone, while the areas nearby are a buffer zone. Police have barricaded certain entry and exit points of the colony.The 44-year-old Covid patient has a milk business in the colony and also runs a small confectionery shop. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “A containment strategy was immediately put in place and teams were deputed for surveillance in the colony, as the locality is sensitive. A list of his contacts was being assembled as he was involved in public dealing as a milk vendor and shopkeeper. The list will include his customers, neighbours and other contacts.”District Covid-19 officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the man supplies milk to six other vendors in Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh, the details of which have been shared with UT officials.“Currently 19 of his contacts have been traced, including 5 family members, who were isolated and tested. Their reports are awaited,” he said. The man’s family includes his wife, 65-year-old mother, 11-year-old son and 9-year-old daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-rajiv-colony-declared-partial-containment-zone-after-milk-vendor-tests-positive/story-Jkm27iwL0acjYZv7mRMalI.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for trying to run over Kaithal cop||The crime investigation agency of Kaithal police on Saturday arrested two men for allegedly trying to run over an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) at a naka on Dhand Road. As per the police, the accused have been identified as Sagar Kumar and Tarsem Saini, both residents of Kaithal.The police have also impounded their damaged Hyundai i20 car and recovered two bottles of liquor from it.Kaithal SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the accused had hit a barricade and injured ASI Satish Kumar on Thursday night. He said the driver of that car later managed to flee the spot. ASI Satish had sustained multiple injuries and is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram. The accused have been booked under sections 307, 332, 353 and 186 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-held-for-trying-to-run-over-kaithal-cop/story-YMAVxGpo8PRueIaCStCosK.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||₹411cr loan defaulters with Karnal link fled country: SBI to CBI||Three promoters of Ram Dev International, recently booked by the CBI for allegedly cheating a consortium of six banks to the tune of Rs 411 crore, have already fled the country before the State Bank of India (SBI) reached the agency with the complaint, officials said on Saturday.The CBI had recently booked the company engaged in export of basmati rice to the West Asian and European countries and its directors Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Sangita on the basis of complaint from the SBI, which suffered the loss of more than Rs 173 crore, they said. The company had three rice milling plants, besides eight sorting and grading units in Karnal district with offices in Saudi Arabia and Dubai for trading purposes, the SBI complaint said.Besides SBI, other members of consortium are Canara Bank, Union Bank of India, IDBI, Central Bank of India and Corporation Bank, they said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) did not carry out any searches in the matter because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the officials said.The agency will start the process of summoning the accused, in case they do not join the investigation, appropriate legal action will be initiated, they said.According to the complaint filed by SBI, the account had become non-performing asset (NPA) on January 27, 2016.The banks conducted a joint inspection of properties in August and October, nearly 7-9 months later only to find Haryana Police security guards deployed there, they said.“On inquiry, it has come to notice that borrowers are absconding and have left the country,” according to the complaint filed on February 25, 2020, over four years after the account had become NPA. The complaint alleged that borrowers had removed entire machinery from old plant and fudged the balance sheets in order to unlawfully gain at the cost of banks’ funds, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/411cr-loan-defaulters-with-karnal-link-fled-country-sbi-to-cbi/story-SBmQQC3WGGLowHfMMvTU7L.html
09-05-2020||City||Biker killed in bid to avoid collision with stray cattle in Zirakpur||A 36-year-old man was killed after his motorcycle slipped in a bid to avoid hitting a stray cattle on the Zirakpur flyover on Friday night.The deceased was identified as Sushil Kumar of Lalru. He is survived by his wife and a six-year-old child. He worked with the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) in Industrial Area, Phase 2, Ram Darbar, Chandigarh. Police said Sushil was on his way back home from work on his motorcycle on Friday night. “On the way, he spotted a stray cow crossing the flyover and applied brakes to avoid a collision, but slipped,” said ASI Jaswinder Singh.Sushil’s head crashed on the divider, killing him on the spot. The police have initiated inquest proceedings at the Zirakpur station. The body was handed over to the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-killed-in-bid-to-avoid-collision-with-stray-cattle-in-zirakpur/story-2dTIO4tNlo3GYiAVnkzQVL.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal; count now 52||Two more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 52. The number of active cases in the state is now 11.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said the new cases include a 32-year-old youth, a resident of Gheena panchayat in Nagorta Bagwan sub-division of Kangra district. He had returned from Delhi on April 26, where he lived with a man from Badsar of Hamirpur district, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The youth was under home quarantine and his sample was sent for testing after Hamirpur authorities alerted the Kangra counterparts. The district authorities have now started his contact mapping.The other patient is a 52-year-old man from Galod area of Hamirpur district. He also returned from Delhi three days ago and had symptoms of infection. Himachal Pradesh has seen 12 cases, including a fatality, in the past six days.A youngster from Jogindernagar of Mandi district, who had returned from Delhi on April 29, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Next, a 21-year-old man from Sarkaghat in Mandi who had also travelled back from Delhi after undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment, died of the contagion at Indira Gandhi Medical College, Shimla. His mother also tested positive for coronavirus.On Wednesday two people from Chamba and one from Kangra had tested positive for Covid-19. Chamba patients had a travel history to Baddi while Kangra man returned from Delhi.On Friday, four people had tested positive for Covid-19. They included a man from Hamirpur and another from Kangra. A two-year-old girl from Chamba had also tested positive. She is the daughter of one of the two Covid patients who tested positive on Wednesday. Apart from it, a 30-year-old woman also tested positive. So far 51 cases have been reported in the state, Una is the worst affected district with a total of 17 cases followed by nine each in Solan and Chamba. Eight cases have been reported in Kangra, three in Hamirpur, two each in Sirmaur and Mandi and one in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-count-now-51/story-whQB7jbCL51rpGkSp9jjQL.html
09-05-2020||Jaipur||Udaipur City declared containment zone after Covid-19 cases climb past 100||Udaipur city was declared a containment zone on Saturday after the number of Covid-19 cases jumped to 103 there.District collector Anandhi declared the municipal corporation area of Udaipur a containment zone, placing the city under strict curfew and imposing stringent restrictions on movement of people.The city of lakes, as Udaipur is known, has emerged as a new hotspot of coronavirus in Rajasthan with over 80 cases reported in the last two days after a home guard constable tested positive on Wednesday.Till May 7, Udaipur had 20 corona positive cases and of these, 13 had recovered. However on May 8, in a sudden spurt, 59 more cases were reported.Udaipur’s chief medical and health officer (CHMO) Dr Dinesh Kharadi said the cases came to light after sampling was done in some localities on Wednesday evening following a 30-year-old constable with the Home Guard living in Kanji ka Hatta area of the city testing positive for Covid-19. A day later, four members of his family including his wife, mother and father, cousin and two neighbours also tested positive. Since then there has been a sharp rise in the number of cases in the locality. Most of those infected are sanitation workers and the municipal corporation has given a two day leave to all sanitation staff as a precautionary measure.Dr Kharadi added that screening and survey of people is on and infected areas in the city are being sanitised. He said that since the super specialty wing of city’s RNT medical college which is ear-marked for Covid-19 patients is full, so new patients are being taken to other medical colleges.The CMHO said that since around 50 of the infected people were detected early on and isolated, so the chances are high that they will recover soon and it has lessened the possibility of them passing on the infection to others.On Saturday, another 23 cases were reported from the city. A pregnant woman who delivered in the morning was found to be corona positive. The entire staff at the Zenana hospital in the city was quarantined and the baby’s sample taken to test for Covid-19.District collector Anandhi said that after the municipal corporation area of Udaipur was declared a containment zone, all offices and establishments have been shut down. No one will be able to move out between 7 am and 7 pm without a pass. She said relaxations that were given under the modified lockdown have been suspended.She said that curfew has been imposed in 10 police station areas in the city. Containment zones have been made in 1 km and 3 km radius of the area where the home guard constable and his family live and movement of people has been stopped.Meanwhile, with 76 fresh coronavirus cases reported on Saturday, Rajasthan’s total infection count climbed to 3,655. The state has so far reported 103 deaths, reports PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/udaipur-city-declared-containment-zone-after-covid-19-cases-rise-to-103/story-se0voxTKUoWgZltyIUrXEK.html
09-05-2020||City||Panvel records 2 Covid deaths, 5 new cases||Two Covid patients died and five new cases were reported from Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Saturday. The total cases in Panvel are 143.A 39-year-old woman from Kamothe, who had been admitted to a hospital on May 4 in a critical condition, died on Friday night.A 57-year-old cancer patient from Kamothe passed away on Saturday.Those who tested positive include a 43-year-old nurse from Kharghar, a 45-year-old bank manager working in Mankhurd and living in Kamothe; two police sub-inspectors, aged 36 and 37, posted at Chembur; and a 44-year-old police personnel deployed at police headquarters in Marol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-2-covid-deaths-5-new-cases/story-PzIElnbiewZju1DSWG0KBP.html
09-05-2020||City||Covid-19 patient discharged from hospital without report||A 43-year-old Covid-19 patient was discharged from a hospital in Ulhasnagar on Thursday and welcomed by his housing society, only to be admitted to hospital again after five hours.When Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) let the patient go, he had not got his third test report.After getting the report, which showed the man was positive, the civic body admitted him to the hospital again.On April 23, the resident of Kalyan (East) tested positive. Since his test was done in Ulhasnagar, he was admitted to UMC Covid hospital.When the UMC health department tested him again on April 29, the report was negative. Almost a week later, he was tested again. Before the report was given, he was discharged and UMC took him to his Kalyan house on Thursday.His housing society welcomed him and clapped for himBut, four hours late, UMC officials returned to take him back to hospital after the third report showed him positive.This also created panic among the residents of his building. A resident said, “Some people went down to welcome him. We were shocked that five hours later we was again taken away. The civic body should have not discharged him before his test report was out.”The hospital blamed the patient as he was restless. “He did not follow the hospital’s instructions and used to roam around. He might have got infected again because of this. As soon as we got the result of the second test, we took him back to the hospital without delay,” said Raja Rijhwani, medical officer, UMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-discharged-from-hospital-without-report/story-2HCvBT9psSfe8B8NukEfFJ.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gujjar boy makes it to IIM Ahmedabad with 98.5 percentile||It was a dream for a 22-year-old man from the Gujjar community, Owais Choudhary who has been selected for admission to India’s premier business management school, Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad after securing 98.5 percentile merit in the Common Admission Test (CAT).Choudhary hails from a remote village along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district.“Though the results of the written examination were declared in January this year, the coronavirus enforced lockdown had delayed viva-voce that was held online in March,” said Owais.“Interviews were delayed due to the lockdown. While some colleges had conducted their interviews, the remaining took online interviews. I am selected for IIM Ahmedabad and Bengaluru,” he added.Chowdhary’s family shifted to Jammu where he studied in Army School, Kaluchak till 12th standard.“After my schooling, I did BTech from Delhi Technical University. For CAT, I relied upon online material and studied for two hours a day,” he said.His father Zubair Ahmad Raza, a district and sessions judge in Doda, said that his son was first from the Gujjar community in Rajouri and Poonch districts, who cracked CAT and got selected in country’s best institute IIM Ahmedabad.Around two lakh students across the country had appeared for CAT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gujjar-boy-makes-it-to-iim-ahmedabad-with-98-5-percentile/story-GGRBgiqR2ChZveqkButk5O.html
09-05-2020||City||From May 15, Mohali’s army aspirants can prepare online||The Centre of Punjab for Youth Training and Employment (C-PYTE) is all set to train Mohali’s army aspirants online from May 15 for two months. “Mohali’s youngsters, who are desirous of joining the Indian Army can contact the C-PYTE camp at Lalru for online training,” said additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Aashika Jain. The ADC said owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the army recruitment rallies have been postponed. “This initiative will help the aspirants to stay prepared as once the recruitment rallies are announced, the youth will get very less time for the preparation,” she added. Meanwhile, the deputy CEO of the District Employment and Entrepreneurship Bureau (DBEE), Manjesh Sharma, said the youth interested in joining the online classes can reach Vipin Kumar of C-PYTE at 9877480077.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-may-15-mohali-s-army-aspirants-can-prepare-online/story-z3VosaYRrpZm6Gf6wIlcgK.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mukesh Agnihotri asks governor to take action against Himachal govt for misusing corona fund||Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, in a letter to governor Bandaru Dattatreya, requested immediate intervention and appropriate action against state government’s misuse of Covid fund.Agnihotri has alleged that state government had purchased mobile phones worth ₹1,75,000 and questioned the need of the same.He alleged that there had been a scam in the purchase of hand sanitizers as they were purchased at higher rates than the prescribed and said that the matter should be investigated.He has asked the state government to state the reason behind deducting corona warriors’ salaries; to explain why the Covid patient from Sarkaghat of Mandi district was cremated in an inhumane manner and why was diesel used at the time of his cremation.He further enquired what action was taken against the officer who issued the notification for putting liquor in the list of essential goods and the cement companies which had hiked the prices of cement amid the pandemic. He also asked what action had been taken against officers who were letting their acquaintances enter the state without getting any health check-up done and against those nodal officers who were not responding to distressed people’s phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mukesh-agnihotri-asks-governor-to-take-action-against-himachal-govt-for-misusing-corona-fund/story-rfHeivYPJmxsrmaIOlYl7L.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sec 26 fruit, veggie market shifted to bus stand||In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, the UT administration temporarily shifted the Sector 26 vegetable and fruit market which was situated close to Bapu Dham Colony, city’s first major hotspot, to Sector 17 Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT).According to an order passed by UT adviser Manoj Parida, the shift was made to prevent congestion in Sector 26.The order mentioned that the bays at the bus stand will be allocated to the shopkeepers based on their shop numbers and any damage to the infrastructure of the bus stand will be recovered from the traders.After the Bapu Dham Colony and its buffer zone had been sealed, in another order, the market committee banned the wholesale of fruits and vegetables at the Sector 26 market.The committee will take action against anyone found selling vegetables or fruits there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-sec-26-fruit-veggie-market-shifted-to-bus-stand/story-xqBPtxuN45MlFEJbI4sXNJ.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Aurangabad incident reflects economic inequality in India, says BJP leader Shanta Kumar||Expressing grief over the death of 16 migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh in a train accident in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district, senior BJP leader and former Union minister Shanta Kumar said that the incident reflects the chinks in India’s economy, also dubbed as a fastest growing nation in the world.In a press statement issued here on Saturday, the 85-year-old said that impatience of people returning home on foot has opened the eyes of the entire nation.He said that labourers tired after walking 40km distance on foot were sleeping on the rail track and were crushed on death by a train in Aurangabad.He said that before Covid-19 it was being claimed that India is the fastest-growing economy in the world and figures among the top five richest countries and crores of people have been brought out of poverty but now coronavirus pandemic has brought out the truth.The former two-term chief minister of Himachal Pradesh said that though the Modi government launched various schemes for the welfare of the poor the system that is responsible for implementation is dishonest and inefficient.“Implementation of those schemes was not proper. The statistics that are presented as our success are damned lies,” he alleged adding that development happened but it did not help the poor.“The benefit did not reach the targeted population and inequality increased so exponentially that India today is the country with highest economic disparity,” he said.He said that India’s population increases by approximately 1.60 crores every year; an army of 1 crore unemployed are added. India is at the top of the hunger index and the number of deaths due to malnutrition.“The ever-increasing population will never let poverty elimination become a reality in our country and tough laws are needed to be implemented. Otherwise, Aurangabad like incident will be just the normal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/aurangabad-incident-reflects-economic-inequality-in-india-says-bjp-leader-shanta-kumar/story-aoRZV3ned2lzvQQG7NO0AP.html
09-05-2020||City||With 13 fresh Covid-19 infections, J&K tally mounts to 836||Thirteen more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 836, officials said.Of these fresh infections, 12 are from Kashmir’s Srinagar, Shopian, Kupwara, Ganderbal, Kulgam and Pulwama districts, while one case was reported from Kathua district in Jammu division.A government spokesperson said four more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in the UT—one in Jammu and three in Kashmir division.Meanwhile, Srinagar mayor Junaid Azim Mattu said he has tested negative for the disease. The tests were done after relative of a municipal corporation employee tested positive for coronavirus.Mattu tweeted:“Was tested for #COVID-19 along with 13 SMC colleagues. All 14, including me, have tested negative. Six positive cases from Srinagar today, including two nurses from Shireen Bagh Hospital, which is a matter of concern. We need to remain vigilant.” However, he later clarified that only two people are domiciled in Srinagar while rest are from other districts stationed here. On Friday, 30 new positive cases were reported in J&K. A 34-year-old man from Srinagar’s old city had died of the disease of Thursday while an elderly woman of Batpora in Dal Lake area had succumbed last week. So far, nine people have died in the UT.So far, 368 patients—313 in Kashmir and 55 in Jammu division—have recovered.Of the total 459 active cases, 446 are in Kashmir while 13 are in Jammu.Till date, 90,541 people have been enlisted for observation—20,092 in home quarantine, 459 in hospital isolation, 167 in hospital quarantine, 9,244 in home surveillance while 60,570 have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-13-fresh-covid-19-infections-j-k-tally-mounts-to-836/story-Et5Lq1mDSc1KvQv77li5yO.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Residents take offence to quarantine facilities in their areas||With Chandigarh administration extending quarantine facilities to hotels and schools to deal with mounting cases, residents living close to these facilities are protesting the move. They allege that by setting up isolation facilities in densely populated parts of the sectors, the administration is exposing them to danger. Residents of Sectors 10 and 46 have written to the UT administration to mark their protest.Recently, the UT administration opted for Hotel Mountview to quarantine patients, while milder and asymptomatic cases will be sent to the Sector-46 Dhanwantari Ayurvedic Hospital. The move has prompted residents of both sectors to point out to the administration that the places are uncomfortably close to residential areas, thus a source of threat to them.Hotel Mountview, in Sector 10, is situated in the midst of a residential area. Protesting this, president of the resident welfare association (RWA), Col Kulwinder Singh (retd), has written to UT administration asking them opt for some other hotel for quarantine. “Mountview is in the heart of the sector with houses of senior citizens all around it. The government only wants to make money for CITCO by charging exorbitant rates. What about the safety of residents?” he asked.Singh has asked UT adviser Manoj Parida to opt for another hotel or face retaliation from citizens. “We residents will form a chain around Mount View and stop their buses from entering if needed,” he said.The local area councillor here, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, said that rather than bring people to a centrally situated hotel, such as The Mountview, the administration could consider using hotels situated in Sector 17, or the Industrial area, or even the outskirts of the city for the safety of residents.Residents of Sector 46 also claim a similar problem with Dhanwantari Ayurvedic Hospital in the sector, being chosen as quarantine facility. Situated right next to the busy Sector 46 market and the residential area, the move has not gone down well with residents. President of Sector 46-D RWA, Kedarnath Sharma, said, “The hospital is situated adjacent to a temple and a school. A 24/7 supervision may not be possible. Patients may even roam around as they are mostly asymptomatic which is a cause of worry to residents.” He also said that a quarantine facility had been set up at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 46-D on Saturday which provoked a sense of panic. He said he had written to administration officials about the unsuitability of both places.The local area councillor here, Gurpreet Singh, said, “The city doesn’t have many hospitals, and I agreed with the administration after being assured that all precautions would be taken. I had even recorded a video for residents to pacify them. However, making a Covid quarantine in Sector 46-D government school is a bad idea as it is a crowded area. I have reached out to the deputy commissioner (DC) and the local MP as well, asking them to reconsider and opt for a building on the outskirts of the sector or another sector for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-take-offence-to-quarantine-facilities-in-their-areas/story-nt1Djllm0DRkvY7dE7aP9O.html
09-05-2020||City||Mum’s the word on Lockdown’s Mother’s Day||Trips to trot the globe – Guatemala to Gulmarg – are now history of the #OldNormal. So, which trips are the #NewNormal? Guilt trips, of course!In #lockdown’s zero travel, many a compulsive traveller is doing the next best thing – laying the guilt trip. Safest on the pulmonary socket, lightest on the pocket.What we’re witnessing is a new breed of “business” travellers – those making it their business to take you on a guilt trip, to kill time in #quarantine. India Quarantining could thus be in the throes of three types of guilt trips.OF PLANET WA & PANDEMICSWhy look far – not that India Quarantining can goggle farther than the laundry or lolling legs on neighbouring terraces or, for the luckier lawn-lounging ones, farther than the shrubbery or snobbery of their sprawling greens – Yours Truly was propelled on a guilt trip just the other day.Now, in a New Normal where the virtual is the only place for clubbing, pubbing or social shoulder rubbing, any netizen not navigating the social media mindlessly, WhatsApp (WA) in particular, is thought out of his or her mind.Now, certain Tweeple who’re good with the “mind” – how to mind other’s business better than their own – took it upon themselves to chide Yours Truly for no longer populating Planet WhatsApp. To put things in perspective, it may be recalled, dear readers, that one fine day upon finding my membership of WA group chats outnumbering my membership of clubs or credit cards, Yours Truly downsized – to Zero WA.Lo Behold, Biradri, BFFs & Co unlocked their guilt trip, left right and epicentre. “How on Earth can you survive Lockdown if you’re not on WA?” This compelled Yours Truly to apply the mind in a manner smacking of pondering profundity that can come only from having to don the “thinking cap” at a time when pyjamas, not caps, are New Normal’s National Dress and when the only caps consuming contemplative activity are Closedown’s “caps” on incomes, expenditures etc. Rolling my eyes heavenwards, not that in quarantine there were substantial spectators to savour my pupillary histrionics, save scoffing Brats and a couple of cats, I resorted to my sole serious exercise in ages – jogging my rusting grey cells for a repartee. Bingo, the way out-of-the world wisecracks are wont to hit Donald Trump like a truant tonne of a truck tearing into Lockdown’s barricades, Enlightenment embraced me, in utter violation of social distancing protocol.“Hey, well I’m surviving without WhatsApp the way William (Shakespeare) and Isaac (Newton) survived the plague ... Or the way, without WA, Walt Disney and Mahatma Gandhi survived the Spanish Flu!”Disclaimer – Evacuating from Planet WA in pandemics can be hilarious to health.OF #WFH MUMS & (S)MOTHERINGThe Mother of Guilt Trips may be of the parenting kind. For many a man or woman of the house who’ve earlier been at the receiving end of guilt trips for non-availability of quality-time parenting, #WorkFromHome seems a blessing in disguise. Ah, except where it’s seeing New Normal’s New “Business” Travel take off – Reverse Guilt Trips.Lockdown’s first Mother’s Day might find many a #wfh mum, who’s working overtime on her (s)mothering too, inviting free tickets for “business” guilt trips from piqued progeny, “Mind your business, mum… Gimme space!”Seeing the scarcity of ‘space’ for Middle Class Quarantining India, packed onto Planet Puny Living Room 24x7, this politely translates into a reverse guilt trip with a not-so-exotic destination – “Go to Hell!”Disclaimer – New Normal’s guilt trips are injurious to mommyhood’s health.OF QUARANTINE’S CALL OF THE HOURJust when you’re falling in love with Lockdown’s long silence – no pesky phone calls or constant trilling of the doorbell as noisy as Arnab & Co’s lubricated lungs – there come “calling” ‘n’ caterwauling Tweeple whose idea of social distancing doesn’t constitute telephonic distancing. Voila, you land in the throes of the third guilt trip – contacts you haven’t heard from since the Tsunami or their Great Depression (emotional not economic), call out of the blue to drive away their blues. “Why haven’t you called in ages?” calls Guilt Trip Three, as you mumble or fumble for retorts to the effect that but for Lockdown, they’d not have called in this century. It’s like a bored Trump, thirsting for a tête-à-tête, dialling for a chummy “hi-bye” not just the Queen but even the Chinese Premier.Disclaimer – Call of the Guilt Trips can be contagious to bye-lateral health!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mum-s-the-word-on-lockdown-s-mother-s-day/story-kmUiXjfjEpmyQZI8I8ffzK.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mystery shrouds death of sweeper at Sukhna Lake||A 39-year-old sweeper was found dead under mysterious circumstance inside toilet number 1 at Sukhna Lake on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Sarwan Kumar, who lived with his family in a room behind the toilet. “He was found lying unconscious inside the toilet on Saturday, when his family members, who were looking for him, noticed him,” said a police official, familiar with the matter.Police were informed and the body was shifted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, for autopsy.Health officials collected sample from the body for Covid-19 testing. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-death-of-sweeper-at-sukhna-lake/story-2ZvXaOf4gugXDt3uLa317O.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||HP govt’s wrong decision can prove harmful to people: Cong leader||Senior Congress leader and All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sudhir Sharma on Saturday said that the wrong decisions of the state government may prove harmful to people of the state during Covid-19 pandemic.In a press statement issued here, Sharma said that the state government must empower deputy commissioners of each district to make decisions related to restrictions and relaxations keeping in view the situation in their jurisdiction.“However, the opposite is happening in the state where the district administration issues an order and the state government issues a contradictory one,” he alleged.Sharma said that the opening of the state borders without scanning those entering the state reflected mismanagement on part of the government due to which the state is witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases.He said that the government is misusing the Covid fund by providing costly mobile phones to the officers. He said that sanitiser scam of the state secretariat is also a matter of concern.“The state government is receiving liberal donations but still, neither doctors nor the administrative officials have been provided PPE kits,” he said.He said that the lack of coordination among different departments during the cremation of coronavirus positive youth from Sarkaghat also exposed the poor preparedness of the state government.The Congress leader said that the government should also clear its position with regard to quarantine and isolation centres as these are being opened within the populated areas.Speaking on the isolation centre in Baijnath which was set up in the densely populated area, he suggested that the state government should consider setting up paid quarantine centres because there are many people who want to return from outside and are ready to pay for the quarantine facility.“The government should talk to hotel and guest house owners to convert their properties into paid quarantine centres,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-govt-s-wrong-decision-can-prove-harmful-to-people-cong-leader/story-auKoF4aTbMwgaLXwaC9QlM.html
09-05-2020||City||Services affected at Thane hospital after nine resident docs quarantined, seven seniors take sick leave||With two more resident doctors and one intern testing positive of Covid-19 at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa, nine resident doctors of the medicine department were quarantined while seven senior doctors have gone on sick leave, affecting the health services at the civic-run hospital. Moreover, the intensive care unit (ICU) and the isolation ward at the hospital are also shut for two days for disinfection. Patients are being admitted only in the general ward. On May 8, two resident doctors, aged 32 and 27, tested positive along with a 23-year-old woman intern. All of them had come in contact with the head of the medicine department and another 36-year-old intern, who had earlier tested positive at the hospital. Dr. Pratibha Sawant, the newly-appointed dean of the hospital, said, “Two resident doctors tested positive on May 8 along with one intern. One of the doctors was from the medicine department and other was from the chest department. Resident doctors refused to work and demanded quarantine, as they had worked with the infected doctors. All nine residents were quarantined and their swab samples were collected.”A senior doctor from the hospital informed, “The ICU and isolation wards will be disinfected on Saturday and Sunday and no patient will be admitted to these wards. We will admit patients only in the general ward, unless it is an emergency, for which some arrangement can be made. Nine resident doctors are quarantined, while seven senior doctors have gone on sick leave making it difficult to manage the hospital.”A resident doctor requesting anonymity said, “We had a meeting with the seniors, they were ready to quarantine us, however, they will put us in quarantine centres with other people and no separate provisions will be made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/services-affected-at-thane-hospital-after-nine-resident-docs-quarantined-seven-seniors-take-sick-leave/story-efuyuAx4gF3paMtkxQKgIM.html
09-05-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, or faking, news amid coronavirus lockdown||COVID-19 PANDEMIC KEEPING MOHALI BUREAUCRATS ON THEIR TOESMohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan and additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain have been rushing from one site to another, overseeing arrangements made for the return of migrant workers to their native places. Even before the Shramik Special trains started, people from Uttarakhand, who were stranded in Punjab, were sent home in buses. The DC ensured the operation went off smoothly by camping at the site. He was at the railway station when the first train with migrant labourers left for Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh last week. From making announcements to asking people to maintain social distancing, the officials are busy doing their bit to battle Covid-19.UT CHEERS ON GETTING PAT FOR 100% FREE RATION DISTRIBUTIONUT officials were all smiles after Union minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution Ram Vilas Paswan tweeted that the Chandigarh Administration has distributed 100% free ration for April to 2.75 lakh beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Kalyan Yojana. A senior UT police official retweeted, saying, “Great initiative by hon’ble PM and meticulously implemented in Chandigarh”. LOOKING FOR BREATHER, DGP PEDALS ACROSS TOWN WITH SONWith the surge in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, the police are beginning to feel the pressure and the soaring mercury has only added to their woes. The force, including director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Baniwal, are looking for a breather from their routine. In a recent tweet Baniwal said that happiness is exploring City Beautiful on bicycle with my son. “A much deserved short break from the regimental police routine.” Baniwal surely is making the most of the good and clean air that the city residents are breathing thanks to the lockdown.WHEN MOHALI POLICE WENT INCOMMUNICADOAfter the registration of a case against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini at Mataur police station of Mohali district, police officials in the district have become suddenly become inaccessible. Most police officials switched off their mobile phones, while a few who answered the call, refused to comment. “Out of syllabus,” was the reply of the station house officer (SHO) posted in Kharar sub division when asked about the case. LONG QUEUES FOR LIQUOR A THING OF THE PASTThe first day after the sale of liquor was allowed last week saw long lines outside vends in Sectors 9, 21 and 38 of Chandigarh. Over the days, the queues have gradually disappeared and the rush in markets has decreased considerably. Shopkeepers running non-essential businesses said that only liquor vends drew most customers, while their sales have remained dismal ever since the curfew was opened up from May 3. Even liquor vend owners admit sales have come down after the first day of the rush.DOCTORS OPPOSED TO EASING LOCKDOWN CURBSThe decision to partially open the lockdown amid the rising Covid-19 cases has not gone well with a few members of the doctor’s community. Few doctors in the city are upset with the fact the Chandigarh administration has not put across a message that categorically states what prompted them to ease the restrictions and that the public should not venture out unnecessarily.RENT ORDER LEAVES UT ADMINISTRATION IN A FIXAmid the Covid-19 lockdown, the UT administration is issuing so many orders everyday that it has failed to keep a track of them. On top of that, there are fresh directions from home ministry, time and again. This time, the UT was clueless about an order regarding the payment of rent by tenants. The home ministry order of March 29 said that one month rent is not to be asked for by landlords. If this skipped the UT administration’s attention, the order’s silence on the rents for April and May is adding to the chaos. PHARMACIST’S HOLIDAY PLANS DURING QUARANTINEHoping to get some time off, a pharmacist at the Panchkula civil hospital and a resident of Zirakpur cooked up a story, telling the hospital administration that he had come in contact with an acquaintance of one of his friends who has now tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh. Being a suspected contact, he was tested for Covid-19 but the hospital administration was in for a surprise when the pharmacist disappeared after being tested. A complaint was put up before the hospital administration and local police. However, the next day, he surfaced and tested negative. Sources said the pharmacist was hoping to be home quarantined for 14 days, but his sudden disappearance brought out the truth.Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Shub Karman Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh, Yuvraj Kaushal and Srishti Jaswal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-ATBDV7ujVOhB1vsFqXNBRI.html
09-05-2020||City||Punjab: Vans delivering de-addiction drugs at doorstep to ensure social distancing at OOAT centres||At a time when thousands of drug addicts are visiting de-addiction centres due to shortage of narcotics supply amid the lockdown, making social distancing nearly impossible, the Kapurthala health department has launched its second outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) van to provide treatment to the addicts at their doorstep.Besides delivering de-addiction drugs and screening addicts, the van will be equipped to conduct HIV tests on the patients along with consultations by experts. The HIV test was almost stopped in the district as most people were unable to visit the district hospital amid the curfew and the cases might have witnessed a rise with addicts using the same syringes due to shortage, said a doctor.Around 2,000 persons have been enrolled themselves for treatment at nine government OOAT centres in Kapurthala district in the past 40 days. After the launch of the first OOAT van on April 14, 300 more patients have enrolled for delivery of medicines at their doorsteps.“To ensure social distancing in OOAT centres, we decided to launch another van for visits to affected areas every three days in a week,” said Dr Sandeep Bhola, nodal officer, mental health and de-addiction centres.The nodal officer added that to create more awareness about this initiative, the health department was taking help from sarpanches and NGOs to identify addicts in their surroundings and ask them to get treatment through the van in their villages.Meanwhile, there has been a spike in the number of patients at de-addiction centres across the district. The centres used to receive an average of 30 to 50 admissions per month, but now the numbers have shot up to 200 due to the non-availability of drugs. The district has now over 8,400 registered addicts at the OOAT centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-vans-delivering-de-addiction-drugs-at-doorstep-to-ensure-social-distancing-at-ooat-centres/story-jlEUBg8i1ltWEWMqUUxU2I.html
09-05-2020||City||Week after Ludhiana nurse fell prey to robbers, man held with her scooter||Over a week after a civil hospital nurse was robbed of her two-wheeler and mobile phone, police have arrested a man and recovered the stolen items from him. Cops have also found seven other stolen scooters, two motorcycles and a sharp-edged weapon in his possession.The accused has been identified as Arun Kumar alias Soni Sharma of Dehlon. His accomplice, Dinesh Bhardwaj of Samrala, is yet to be arrested. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the police arrested him from Dehlon during a special checking on Friday. “The accused was passing by on a scooter when police stopped him for checking. When we asked him for the documents of the vehicle, he was unable to do produce it. Upon persistent questioning, the accused confessed that he had stolen the vehicle from a woman,” the ADCP revealed. The ADCP said that the accused told the police that he, along with his accomplice, used to steal vehicles from different parts of the city to meet their need for drugs. He was produced in the court and remanded to four-day police custody.The accused is already facing trial in five cases, including vehicle lifting and drug peddling. A hunt is on for his accomplice, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/week-after-ludhiana-nurse-fell-prey-to-robbers-man-held-with-her-scooter/story-eoQ5jSp6LZ4ymQ2iO215tK.html
09-05-2020||City||18% salary hike: 450 outsourced NHM employees in Punjab not covered under order||Around 450 outsourced employees of National Health Mission (NHM), including auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and staff nurses, are feeling betrayed as the state health department has left them out of its 18% salary hike order.They alleged that the Punjab government has excluded them from the benefits of hike in salaries after giving written promise.The state government had on Friday issued an order to hike the salaries of NHM employees by 18%, as appreciation of their work amid the Covid-19 outbreak. However, there is no mention of the outsourced employees in the order. The order states hike only for contractual employees of NHM.There are total 13,500 NHM employees in Punjab and 450 of them are outsourced.Tarun Kumar, an outsourced worker and member of NHM Employees’ Union said, “The state government is not treating us fairly. We all are doing the same work as regular and contractual employees. Our ANMs and staff nurses are also fighting Covid-19. Then why has the health department left us out.”“On April 28, our union had met health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and he had promised to hike salaries of all employees, including outsourced and contractual. The state department had also included this promise in the minutes of that meeting. However, the health department on Friday issued an order for 18% hike in salaries of only contractual NHM employees,” said Tarun.The outsourced workers have warned of protest if the state government does not give them 18% hike in salaries.NHM director Dr Parvinder Sidhu said, “We have given hike to contractual employees. We will think about the outsourced employees later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-salary-hike-450-outsourced-nhm-employees-in-punjab-not-covered-under-order/story-DzBPdzlsB3HJyyTkCjoGIP.html
09-05-2020||City||Wildbuzz: Falcons face ISIS-style butchery||Disturbing videos released online by Islamic State terrorists revel in the gory decapitation of humans. Nothing less than a ‘copy and paste’ model of such barbarism has caught popular fancy among rogue pigeon fanciers of Punjab. Irked by raptors such as the Shikra, Eurasian Sparrow hawk, and the migratory Tundra Peregrine and Laggar falcons preying on their expensive pigeons, the fanciers capture raptors and make videos that are posted on TikTok and YouTube. Some of these latest videos, which draw a huge number of views, ‘likes’ and ‘shares’, show gruesome beheading of the raptors or a muscular Punjabi hand wrenching off the falcon’s head. Pigeon fanciers also shoot down falcons and make videos of that illegal act.To trap falcons, fanciers resort to a cunning method of watching the perch of a falcon high up on a mobile or electricity transmission tower. Knowing that the falcon will sit only at a particular point on the tower, the pigeon fancier lays a trap by climbing the tower or layers the falcon’s regular perch with glue. When the falcon returns to the perch, the hapless bird is trapped and the pigeon fancier climbs and retrieves the raptor for a gory slaughter video that has raunchy and hubristic Punjabi songs playing as a backdrop.From the fanciers’ blinded viewpoint, the hapless raptor that has flown thousands of miles from the Arctic tundra to winter and feed in India is nothing more than a “flying wolf among their ‘bachhas’ (pigeons)”. Raptors cannot be killed under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and various migratory bird global treaties. I had provided evidence of raptor slaughter to the Union ministry of environment and forests and the Punjab wildlife preservation department in 2018. However, nothing seems to have changed on ground and the butchery continues unabated. A SWEET TOOTH FOR MOONLIT GULAB JAMUNS “O moon! Tell me how does it feel walking silently across the night sky alone? Are you not tired?” Can the moon ever tire of beaming its gentle smile on earth below and lighting the track for creatures of the dark? A most delightful discovery came the way of wildlife guards of the Sukhna Lake Nature Trail while on a night patrol. They focused their flashlights on a trio of Gular trees (Ficus racemosa). The upper branches came alive with scurrying creatures feasting on reddish-maroon Gular figs. On one tree there were as many as 10 Common palm civets (Bijjoo). When a flashlight is shone on a civet at night, its eyes shine like luminous pools of a full moon akin to those of a deer startled in car headlights. The abundance of civets indicated good breeding and a viable Sukhna habitat. Another good news is the birth of three Chital (Spotted deer) fawns bolstering the very tiny population of this species that dwells along the Nature Trail. Senior officers of the forests and wildlife department were delighted when the sightings were reported up the chain of command.The civet is a strange-looking creature that evokes comparison with a bear cub or a hybrid mongoose-cat. It is associated with unwarranted superstitions because it is seen so rarely during the day. Civets feed on mulberries and then Gular figs as the summer deepens. Ripening of Amaltas sweet pods after the golden showers brings a third sweetmeat in peak summer. The civets’ presence can be detected the next morning by their excreta dropped liberally under Amaltas trees. The Gular is a ‘gulab jamun’ for wild creatures. Chhatbir zookeepers collect fallen figs, knowing that deer species nurture a proverbial ‘sweet tooth’. When Gular figs are put out for Mouse deer, Barking deer, Manipur Brow-antlered deer and Hog deer, the melee would be evocative of migrant children in a Covid quarantine being distributed free chocolates!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildbuzz-falcons-face-isis-style-butchery/story-C10mHOdlmUafiIbyPlRxiP.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||HP CM seeks help from panchayati raj institution to combat Covid-19||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday sought help from representatives of the panchayati raj institution (PRI) to combat Covid-19 by ensuring that quarantine norms are strictly implemented in their respective areas.He was addressing the chiefs of gram panchayats of Kangra and Chamba districts through video conferencing.Thakur said that the panchayat chief should immediately inform the authorities about the arrival of any person coming from outside the state in their village and if required send them to a quarantine facility.This act of diligence would help the authorities to check the spread of the virus.The CM said that panchayat pradhans should also motivate the people to come forward and help in the task of preparing and distributing the masks.“Homemade cloth masks are equally effective in preventing the spread of coronavirus,” said Thakur adding that people should also be sensitised about the disease and not to indulge in spreading rumours.He said that panchayat pradhans have to play a crucial role in maintaining harmony in the villages and ensure that returnees are not stigmatised.“We have to fight the disease, not the patient,” he said adding that it was a viral infection no one should be stigmatised for being infected.He said that works under MNREGA must be started at the earliest and while ensuring that the social distancing norms are strictly followed at the workplace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-cm-seeks-help-from-panchayati-raj-institution-to-combat-covid-19/story-aUpQYnBtJ9RLX6hH05a7uI.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Strictly obey home quarantine orders: Himachal DGP to returnees||Director general of police (DGP) SR Mardi on Saturday warned people who had returned from other states to strictly obey home quarantine orders.In a video, Mardi said those found violating home or institutional quarantine can also be punished. “The people of the state have suffered a lot during the last two months to protect themselves from the coronavirus and now people who have returning from other states should not undo their efforts by violating home quarantine,” he said, maintaining that the people who had come from other states also had some responsibilities. Mardi said multiple complaints had been received, including a couple who came to Una from Moga and some people who had come to Bilaspur from Delhi. These complaints have been forwarded to the concerned superintendent of police (SP) for further action.As many as 18 cases of home quarantine violation have been registered in Shimla and 36 cases have been registered in Kangra district.The DGP has advised people who have entered the state from other states to practice social distancing and also take precautionary measures such as wearing masks, using hand sanitisers and using separate utensils. He has also advised people to download the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/strictly-obey-home-quarantine-orders-himachal-dgp-to-returnees/story-iCyohYlWe2P82LSVGgDj3O.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bee-keepers in Himachal lose business amid lockdown||Peripatetic bee-keepers are bearing the brunt of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.The bee-keepers traditionally bring their apiaries to Himachal during the flowering season of fruit trees and migrate to the plains during winter.This year, too, the bee-keepers travelled to the hills, having acquired permission to travel during the lockdown, only to be turned away by orchardists as many believe that bees may spread the contagion.The orchardists that did entertain them, offered them a pittance for their services, say apiarists. Bees are essential for both the state’s honey industry and fruit orchards as they help increase pollination, as such many orchardists pay a nominal price to put up bees hives in their orchards during blooming season. However, this year only a few people availed bee-keepers’ services. Finding no takers, Amar Singh, an apiarist, has put up his hives along the stretch between Kaharapathar and Shirthi village. “I came to Kotkhai from Paonta Sahib with my colonies but orchard owners turned my away as they fear that the bees may spread the virus.” HONEY PRICES PLUMMETWith the lockdown in place, bee-keepers are unable to sell honey, except locally, which has led to a drop in prices.Beekeeper Rohit Negi, who moved from Ambala to Rohru, can’t help but ruefully compare the prices of honey with last year.“Last year the apiaries in Punjab and Haryana paid us Rs110-120 but this year we are only able to fetch Rs 70-50 per litre,” he said.Bee-keepers are counting the days till the lockdown is lifted so that they can sell honey to factories.BEES VITAL FOR HIMACHALHimachal Pradesh is one of the biggest producers of fruits in the country with nearly 2.5 lakh hectares of land under fruit cultivation. As such beekeeping plays an important economic and ecological role in the state.The Himachal Pradesh government has encouraged beekeeping through the Mukhya Mantri Vikas Yojana. Under the scheme, 50 beehives per beneficiary will be provided 80% assistance through kail, pine, mango and other woods of specified standard.In each district, keepers with 300 bee colonies will be given Rs 3 lakh per breeder.The government had announced that it will provide 50% assistance up to Rs 50,000 to 100 bee keepers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bee-keepers-in-himachal-lose-business-amid-lockdown/story-URjTZQ9zS0KQ5RDhW4d22M.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Fire at Adharwadi dumping ground in Maharashtra’s Kalyan , 8 fire tenders at spot||A fire broke out at the Adharwadi dumping ground in Kalyan, Mahrashtra, on Saturday afternoon. Though fire-fighting operations are underway, fire officials at the spot said that it was becoming difficult to control the blaze due to the constant wind flow. Eight fire tenders had reached the site at the time of filing this report. The dumping ground sprawls an area of 16 acre near the Durgadi chowk in Kalyan (West). “The fire is massive and all our five fire tenders are at the spot. We also called three additional fire tenders as the fire kept spreading. Due to the wind it is becoming difficult to control the blaze. Our firemen are constantly working on it,” said Dilip Gund, chief fire officer, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation. The smoke spread around 5 kms radius from the dumping ground, making it difficult for residents to breath. Some people living in the nearby areas said they had been demanding closure of the dumping ground for many years but no action had been taken on their complaint.“I could see the smoke covering the entire sky nearby. We have been demanding the closure of the dumping ground for so many years but nothing has been done so far,” said Sajita Nair, who lives nearby and represents the Alert Citizens Forum that has been fighting for the closure of dump yard. The Adharwadi dumping ground has caught fire several times in the past as well. In January this year, there was a major fire which was doused after 15 hours of fire fighting operations. In 2019, the dumping ground caught fire twice – in March and June.Every day, around 650 metric tonnes of waste is dumped at Adharwadi dumping ground without any segregation and processing by KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-at-adharwadi-dumping-ground-in-maharashtra-s-kalyan-8-fire-tenders-at-spot/story-EtdvDDJtcWM82bGFD5Bi3N.html
09-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: K’taka govt announces financial aid to over 11k cobbler families||The Karnataka government has announced one-time financial relief of Rs 5,000 each to over 11,000 cobbler families in the state, whose daily life was affected by the Covid-19 induced lockdown. According to Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has announced one time financial relief of Rs 5,000 for each of these families. “Due to Covid-19 lockdown about 11,722 families involved in road side leather work, like mending chappals and shoes, are in financial distress and their daily life has been affected,” he said on Friday.The compensation will be distributed to beneficiaries through Babu Jagjivan Ram Leather Industries Corporation, Karjol, who is also in-charge of Social Welfare department, said.A delegation of opposition leaders led by the leader of opposition Siddaramaiah had met Chief Minister Yediyurappa yesterday and demanded that people belonging to sections like goldsmiths, carpenters, cobblers, tailors and ironsmiths be considered under the package announced by the state government.The Yediyurappa government had recently announced Rs 1,610 crore relief package for the benefit of those in distress due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown.The measures announced as part of the package included compensation of Rs 5,000 each to thousands of washermen, barbers, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, whose daily life has been affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-k-taka-govt-announces-financial-aid-to-over-11k-cobbler-families/story-n7MPbIbQJZXvWRqoPGSe8H.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC declines plea to link Metro card with address proof||A plea seeking linking of a metro card or token with a commuter’s address proof was not entertained by the Delhi High Court as no representation about the issue had been made to the DMRC before moving the court. A bench of justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula disposed of the plea, but gave petitioners liberty to move a representation before the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on the issues raised in the plea. In case the petitioners move a representation to the DMRC, it is supposed to dispose of the plea within four weeks by a reasoned order after taking inputs from authorities concerned. The petitioners had contended in their plea that it should be mandatory for metro travellers to provide proof of their identity and address while purchasing metro cards or tokens to establish ownership in case such items are lost. They also contended that in the prevalent situation of coronavirus pandemic, the DMRC should be aware about the details of commuters as it will help in preventing COVID-19 patients from travelling in metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-declines-plea-to-link-metro-card-with-address-proof/story-C85zk7V9Abx6gMQKWADKCJ.html
09-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata man becomes 1st Indian to beat Covid-19 after 38 days on ventilator||Nitaidas Mukherjee, a 52-year-old resident of south Kolkata who trumped Covid-19 after being on a ventilator for 38 days, returned home to a hero’s welcome by his neighbours earlier this week.Doctors said that it was a remarkable feat by the hospital authorities and nothing less than a miracle, because a Covid-19 patient remaining on a ventilator for so long has little chance of survival.“I thank the hospital and the team of doctors who gave me a new life. This is my second life, you can say. Without them, I would have been dead by now. They are the actual heroes,” said Mukherjee who returned home on Monday. He has become so weak, that he could hardly speak over the phone.It was in mid-March that Mukherjee - who had suffered a bout of pneumonia in 2017 - developed a severe cough and cold. His family thought that it was the mere return of an ailment that afflicts him frequently. Later he developed fever. “We didn’t have any travel history. But as the symptoms were matching with Covid-19, we decided to take him to a private hospital on March 29. As his condition deteriorated, he was put on a ventilator the same night. The next day, his test results showed positive and his battle with death began,” said Aparajita Mukherjee, Nitaidas’ wife. As his condition worsened, doctors performed a tracheostomy, a surgical procedure to make an incision on the throat and create a direct airway through another incision in the trachea.“Doctors had told me that his condition was extremely precarious. But they never lost hope and continued to fight. I was not sure whether I would be able to see him ever again and prayed to God. He is a social worker and runs a NGO. I believe that the prayers of all those he had helped in the past, worked and helped him to survive,” Aparajita said.In a statement, the hospital said: “He has created a record of sorts in India by being the first patient of Covid-19 to have defeated the virus despite being on ventilator for 38 days.”“This is indeed a remarkable feat. Staying on ventilation and then returning home is something uncommon,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, one of the doctors on the advisory panel set up by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-man-becomes-1st-indian-to-beat-covid-19-after-38-days-on-ventilator/story-kmOxoPp67Z156bY5rgmE8O.html
09-05-2020||Patna||5 Bihar Military Police personnel infected with Covid, total cases in state reach 579||Five Bihar Military Police (BMP) personnel have tested positive for novel coronavirus, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state to 579, a top health official said. All the fresh cases are from Khajpura area of Patna and their infection trail is being ascertained, Health Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar said. Kumar tweeted late on Friday evening, “5 more Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar taking the total to 579. 5-males 30,36,50,52 and 57 years from Khajpura Patna. All are BMP jawans. We are ascertaining their further infection trail.” Coronavirus has spread to 36 of the 38 districts in the state, officials said. Five patients have died so far and 307 people are still afflicted with the disease, while 267 have recovered, they said. One death each was reported in Rohtas, Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran and Sitamarhi districts. All the deceased were males and barring one, every one of them was below 60 years of age and with pre-existing medical conditions, the officials said. The highest number of novel coronavirus cases has been reported in Munger district (102), followed by 56 in Buxar, 54 in Rohtas and 46 in Patna, they said. A total of 32,767 samples have been tested so far at seven facilities in Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/5-bihar-military-police-personnel-infected-with-covid-total-cases-in-state-reach-579/story-7XVTl8VwG78tTvPe9aDncK.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi University hostels turned into Covid-19 isolation centres, students a harried lot||Around 2,500 Punjabi University students were asked to vacate hostels on Friday evening as a couple of hostels on campus are being converted into isolation centres on the directions of the Patiala district administration. The students were only given 24 hours to vacate their rooms. Students lodging at the Banda Singh Bahadur hostel for boys and Mai Bhago hostel for girls received a communication from the university asking them to vacate their rooms and collect their belongings by Saturday evening.The belongings of those who are unable to come to the campus will be stored and returned once the situation normalises. Students were asked to leave the varsity campus following orders of the state government to shut educational institutions across the state in wake of coronavirus pandemic in March.On Saturday, the university witnessed a heavy rush of students who had come from across the state to collect their belongings.Vikram Singh of Democratic Students’ Union said students from faraway places such as Muktar, Bathinda and Mansa were facing trouble adhering to the 24-hour window. “The students received notices on their mobile phones on Friday evening and were directed to visit the university and take their stuff within 24 hours in times when public transport is shut and there are restrictions on the movement of private vehicles,” he said.Amritpal Kaur, a student, said she had come all the way from Barnala with her father to collect her belongings.“Though we are cooperating with the authorities, we should have received a timely notification,” she said.Ajaib Singh, an activist of the Democratic Students Union, said there were many other buildings lying vacant on campus, and the authorities should have used them as isolation centres instead.Meanwhile, dean students’ welfare (DSW) professor Tara Singh said the varsity was helping the district administration tackle Covid-19.On students being provided a short notice, the DSW said, “Hostel wardens had contacted students before the notice was issued. We are assisting students who are visiting campus to collect their belongings.” Since the official residence of vice-chancellor professor BS Ghuman falls within 100m of the newly setup isolation centre at Mai Bhago hostel, Ghuman’s residence has been temporarily shifted, while wardens and other teaching and non-teaching staff residents have followed suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjabi-university-hostels-turned-into-covid-19-isolation-centres-students-a-harried-lot/story-q8jXr2a7k0ys0bwewVhQkJ.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Cong launches portal to lodge lockdown related complaints||The Uttar Pradesh Congress has launched a chat portal that will let people list the problems being faced by them amid the ongoing Covid-19-induced lockdown, the party said on Saturday. The complaints received from users of the ‘UP Mitr’ chat portal will be forwarded to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath so that the state government can help the people, state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said in a statement. “The portal has been made to help the common public during the Covid-19 pandemic. Through it, problems of the common public will be listed and the UP Congress will help the complainants. The list of complaints will be sent to the chief minister,” Lallu said. The Congress leader said that his party was committed to help every needy person in the state. “The party is running community kitchens at various places in the state including Ghaziabad, Hapur, Kanpur, Allahabad, Lakhimpur Khiri and Lucknow,” he said in the statement.  “The party’s district committee is making dry ration available to the needy persons. Help is also being given to the labourers of the state, who are stranded outside the state,” he added. This chat portal has been developed by a private company free of cost for the Congress party, Lallu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-cong-launches-portal-to-lodge-lockdown-related-complaints/story-Lz9eRzmc6GOdA8C5Vokm8K.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses doctor’s plea to complete illegal hospital building||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has rejected the plea of a doctor seeking permission for completion of an unauthorised hospital building at Beed in Marathwada region, even after he offered to make the facility available for running an OPD and dialysis unit for Covid-19 patients in the district.The petitioner, Dr Manoj Munde had moved the high court with a plea for urgent hearing for permission to complete remaining work of his hospital building at Beed and to start the OPD and make available a dialysis unit for the coronavirus patients from Beed district.He stated that he had purchased an old hospital building in the town and had on August 20, 2019 applied for construction permission. He had made payment of requisite development charges to Beed municipal council on November 8, 2019.However, in March 2020, the civic body noticed that substantial construction of the new hospital building was already done, even before building permission was obtained. On April 13, 2020, the civic body refused the building permissionDr Munde then on April 20, 2020, requested the district collector for permission to operate the hospital claiming that the new hospital building was already constructed and could be used for treating Covid-19 patients.He, however, moved high court after the resident collector on April 25 issued an order shortlisting the unfinished hospital building for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.On Friday, Government pleader DR Kale opposed the doctor’s plea stating the construction was illegal and could not be allowed to be completed.Justice Ravindra Ghuge accepted his contention and rejected the doctor’s plea for interim permission to complete the unfinished building and to operate an OPD and a dialysis unit from the building for Covid-19 patients. The judge said such an interim order “cannot be granted in the face of the illegality, prima facie, indulged into by the petitioner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-doctor-s-plea-to-complete-illegal-hospital-building/story-TVmXrD7VBJlwT3pyTUkP3N.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fazilka farmers unable to get MSP for mustard||Unable to get the minimum support price for mustard, farmers in Fazilka have been withholding the crop for a month. The minimum support price for the crop is Rs 4,425 per quintal.A progressive farmer Arvind Setia, who has sown mustard over nine acres in Toota Wali village, says private players are offering them between Rs 3,300-3,500 per quintal. This year his farm recorded a yield of around eight quintals an acre and Setia considers it to be a good harvest. However, he blames the state government for poor pricing of mustard. Setia said while boosting crop diversification, the state government should ensure that farmers get a good deal. “In Rajasthan, mustard is being bought at MSP. However, in Punjab farmers are not being paid fixed rates. I have been growing mustard for the last 25 years but farmers are never offered fair prices. The state government failed to ensure the purchase of the crop by a government agency,” said Setia.In the Malwa belt, Fazilka is the key mustard-growing district.‘TIE-UP WITH CENTRE NEEDED’Government officials say since no Central agency is operating in Punjab, farmers have to sell their crop to private players. Chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh says Fazilka has around 6,000 acres land under cultivation. He said the semi-arid Khuian Sarwar block has the maximum concentration of mustard.Singh said mustard is harvested by April-end and purchase was underway.After processing, mustard seed is used to extract mustard oil while cakes are used as cattle feed. Another farmer, Nikhil Kumar, said following the recommendation of the agriculture experts, he had sown mustard on eight-acres, an increase of five acres, at Patti Billa village near Abohar but ended up selling his produce to private players for Rs 3,400 per quintal.‘FARMERS BEING FLEECED’“We are advised to grow mustard to ensure a better yield of wheat and cotton. I followed the advisory but farmers are forced to sell the crop at a much lower price than fixed by the Centre. Farmers are being fleeced,” said Nikhil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fazilka-farmers-unable-to-get-msp-for-mustard/story-umfbVNvwTcjJhCepaDnGRI.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Not upset over not being nominated: Munde on Council polls||BJP leader Pankaja Munde has said that she was not upset over not being nominated by the party for the upcoming Legislative Council election.In a tweet, Munde asked her supporters not to get demoralised.“We both are there for each other and have the blessings of saheb (father Gopinath Munde),” she said.The former BJP minister, who lost the Parli seat in last year’s assembly polls to her cousin and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, said she was not upset over not being given a ticket for the May 21 biennial elections.“You called up my mother and sister (Beed MP Pritam Munde) to express your dismay. I did not take calls because I had nothing to say. I am not upset. My best wishes to the four party candidates,” she said.A party source said that senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse, who was keen on representing the party in the Council, is upset over not being considered.The BJP has fielded former NCP MP Ranjitsinh Mohite, lesser-known faces like Gopichand Padalkar, Praveen Datke and Ajit Gopchhade for Council polls. The four candidates filed their nominations on Friday.The Council election is being held for nine seats, for which the electoral college is the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.The election assumes importance as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be among the candidates from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/not-upset-over-not-being-nominated-munde-on-council-polls/story-yWoeOtskYJBqSJCpfwQnKJ.html
09-05-2020||Noida||Noida authority grants permission to around 850 companies, projects to resume work||The companies operating in Noida are gearing up to resume to their work after due permission was granted by the city authorities.Noida authority has given permission to around 850 eligible companies to operate with around 57,000 staff/ labour.Talking to ANI, Ritu Maheshwari, Chief Executive Officer of Noida Authority said that companies including Samsung, OPPO, Vivo, HCL, Haldiram were given permission to start their work.She said that companies who got permission are allowed to bring raw material from outside Noida.She said that around 20 builder projects allowed construction with 3300 labours and around 50 other industry/commercial construction were also allowed with around 3000 labours.She further added that around 30 projects have been given permissions to work with around 650 labour.According to Noida Authority CEO, around 1600 applications rejected so far as they are ineligible and come under the containment zone.Sudhir Shrivastava, Vice President, Noida Entrepreneur Association praised the effort of Noida Authority for this permission.He also said that after more than 40 days of lockdown now industries of Noida have started to resume their work, but it will take some time to streamline our work.Shrivastava also said that some factory owners who reside outside Noida are facing difficulty to enter in Noida due to sealing of Noida-Delhi Border.He further said that the administration should take notice of this problem. He said that many factories in Noida bring raw materials from Haryana, but as the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Faridabad border is sealed we will face the issue of raw materials. R K Arora, Chairman, Supertech, and President Naredco Uttar Pradesh said that his company has got the permission of some of their projects in Noida and Gurugram. Supertech has around 28 projects running in Noida, Greater Noida, and Gurugram.He said that construction work has been started in their projects where his company got permission from local authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-grants-permission-to-around-850-companies-projects-to-resume-work/story-S66AXoIEKtIOank0EoRB0H.html
09-05-2020||Gurugram||SIT formed to probe Sonipat liquor godown issue, illicit liquor sale in Haryana||The Haryana government said on Friday a three-member SIT, which will be headed by a senior IAS officer, has been constituted to investigate the huge stock of liquor going missing from two godowns in Sonipat, and the alleged sale of illicit liquor in the state. With several bootlegging incidents being reported during the lockdown when liquor vends were closed, the SIT will also probe sale of illicit liquor in the state during the period, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said. Liquor vends in Haryana were closed from March 27 after the lockdown was announced, but have now reopened from May 6 after the state government decided to open the vends. He said a senior IAS officer -- either Ashok Khemka,  Sanjeev Kaushal or T C Gupta -- will head the SIT while IPS officer Subhash Yadav and Additional Excise Commissioner Vijay Singh will also be its members and jointly investigate the matter. The scope of the SIT, which was earlier to probe the case of seized liquor going missing from the godowns in Sonipat, will now also investigate the sale of illicit liquor, Vij said, according to an official statement. A huge stock of liquor had gone missing from two godowns in Sonipat district and this could not have happened without the connivance of officials, Vij had said on Thursday. As liquor of other states has been found from the godowns, one can only guess that this place had become den of smuggling, Vij said. On May 6, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed all Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to constitute district-level teams to check liquor smuggling across the inter-state borders. He had asked them that these teams should be headed by a Magistrate and comprise of officers of police and the Excise and Taxation Department. Besides checking smuggling of illegal liquor across the inter-state borders, these committees will also work to prevent any supply of non-duty-paid liquor from the distilleries to the vends. PTI SUN VSD CK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sit-formed-to-probe-sonipat-liquor-godown-issue-illicit-liquor-sale-in-haryana/story-UPQsUL8y3l9aK6855sTjAK.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stepmother kills 8-year-old boy in Patiala, booked||A week after the body of an eight-year-old boy was fished out from a pond, the district police on Sunday booked his stepmother for murder.The accused, Kulwinder Kaur, 38, confessed that she had pushed the boy into the pond and had tried to make it seem that he had fallen while playing. Kaur is the second wife of the complainant, Vinod Singh of Gharam village. On May 3, Singh had told the police that his son had gone missing while playing in the village around 12.30pm. A search operation was launched to look for the missing child.“The victim’s slippers were found near the pond and his body was discovered in the pond. The boy was rushed to the local hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” police said. Police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on the basis of the family’s statements.“On Friday evening, a group of villagers accompanied by Vinod and his brother approached police and said they suspected that Kaur had killed the boy as he was seen roaming with her just before the incident,” police said.Kulwinder, later, confessed to the murder. A case has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Singh told the police that he already had two children when he married Kaur and that the kids were a source of contention among them.62-YEAR-OLD KILLED OVER LAND DISPUTE A 62-year-old man was beaten to death in Patiala’s Handiana village on Friday. The victim, Jarnail Singh, had an altercation with five people who had drained out the water from his fields. The accused, Jaswant Singh, Karnail Singh, Rohi Singh and Jit Singh thrashed Jarnail. “The victim was rushed to Rajindera Hospital, but was declared brought dead,” police said. A murder case has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/stepmother-kills-8-year-old-boy-in-patiala/story-83kxKEtNDhIbh25P89H81K.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||700 stubble burning cases reported in Punjab, PAU V-C condemns incident||A day after the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre recorded 700 stubble burning incidents from across the state, Punjab Agricultural University vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dhillon took to social media to condemn the occurrence.Addressing farmers through the Facebook handle of the university, Dhillon urged farmers not to burn stubble in haste as there was enough time to sow paddy and maize.“I was deeply anguished to learn that stubble burning incidents were reported at over 700 locations. The most disturbing aspect is that majority of stubble burning incidents were reported in the areas used for sowing paddy and maize,” said Dhillon.He said people were already reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, setting fields on fire would compound the problem.‘PEOPLE WITH WEAK LUNGS AT RISK’“Covid-19 poses a serious threat to people with weak lungs. By indulging in stubble burning aren’t we aggravating the risk? Those with weak lungs will not be able to handle the pollution caused due to stubble burning. It is time to make amends and shun the practice,” said Dhillon. He also recited a sermon by the Sikh master Guru Nanak: ‘Pawan guru, pani pita, mata dhart mahat’. Meanwhile, district agricultural officer Narinder Singh said two cases of stubble burning had been registered in Samrala area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/700-stubble-burning-cases-reported-in-punjab-pau-v-c-condemns-incident/story-8bwKmHZhPttjigQoYvHJsI.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Number of Maharashtra citizens quarantined for Covid-19 more than doubles in last 17 days||The number of people quarantined at homes and institutions in Maharashtra has more than doubled in the last 17 days as the state’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally inched closer to the bleak 20,000-mark, according to the state health department data.As of April 21, there were around 107,000 citizens quarantined in the state of which around 99,569 were home quarantined and 7,808 were institutionally quarantined. This increased to 2,39,531 citizens under home quarantined and 13,494 under institutional quarantine, as of Friday. However, in this period the number of cases and tests both increased drastically.The state health department has added a disclaimer to the data it released, saying that 146 patients from Mumbai have been added to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) number of cases on its portal on Thursday, but the reconciliation of that figure is yet to be done. It has also stated that since the collection of data is a progressive process, the numbers could vary.Maharashtra reported 1,089 new infections, taking the tally to 19,063 on Friday. The state also reported 37 deaths, taking the toll to 731. While on April 21, the state had 3,451 positive cases and reported 151 fatalities.Mumbai reported 748 infections and 25 deaths on Friday, bringing its case count to 12,142 and toll to 462. Of the day’s other deaths, 10 were in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Amravati. Seventeen of the patients who died on Friday were above 60 years of age, while 16 were in the age group of 40-59 years. The remaining were below 40 years of age. Twenty-seven of them had high-risk comorbidities.It is expected that Maharashtra may cross the bleak 20,000-mark on Saturday. If this happens, it would mean the state went from 10,000 Covid-19 cases to 20,000 cases in just nine days, after taking 53 days for the first 10,000. Maharashtra breached the 10,000-mark on April 30, 53 days after the first case was reported on March 9. The state took five days to cross the next 5,000.The mortality rate in the state stood at 3.86%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths is increasing, with 362 deaths in the past 10 days. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.35%.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 10,245 Covid-19 tests and 1,089 or 10.62% of the people have tested positive. The number of tests in the state touched 212,350 on Friday—192,197 of them were negative. The 13,552 teams of health workers have screened 526,400 people for suspected infection after they came in contact with patients. Out of which 3,470 patients have fully recovered, after testing positive in the past six weeks. Maharashtra has 1,139 containment zones earmarked for the strict lockdown owing to the high number of patients. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.After Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday transferred Mumbai municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi to the Urban Development Department (UDD), Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer IS Chahal took charge as the new chief of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) late on Friday. On Friday, Chahal met senior officials to discuss the way ahead for handling the coronavirus pandemic in the city. On Saturday, Chahal is expected to hold a series of review meetings with several ward officers via video conferencing.An expert committee of bureaucrats, including retired IAS officers, constituted to suggest the steps for the revival of the state economy, submitted its report to the state government on Friday. The committee said it will help boost business activities. It has suggested a list to be based on activities precluding social distancing and the activities that are not very critical for the economy.“The demarcation of containment zones should be done in a granular manner. Sector and activities must be opened to a maximum across non-containment zones. A robust web-based monitoring mechanism must be enabled to ensure adherence to these guidelines of lockdown,” the report states.The committee has recommended emphasis on Mumbai by launching a special project to re-start the state’s economy and has asp suggested a special programme to support vulnerable groups like street vendors, drivers, self-employed service providers.It has also recommended addressing individual sectors and activities and new business classes. Ajit Pawar, Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister who also holds the finance portfolio, said the report will now be present before the state cabinet for a final nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/number-of-maharashtra-citizens-quarantined-for-covid-19-more-than-doubles-in-last-17-days/story-Qnb3sqP8IiYHvqMKmZ0AUM.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kingpin of 532-kg heroin haul in Amritsar arrested in Haryana’s Sirsa||CHANDIGARH/HISAR: In a major catch, Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta on Saturday said Ranjeet Rana, alias Cheetah, who was wanted in the 532-kg heroin haul from Attari on the Indo-Pakistan border in June last year, was arrested in Haryana’s Sirsa town.He was one of the biggest drug smugglers of India.“Following up further on arrests of Hizbul operatives in J&K and Punjab, Punjab Police juggernaut moved further to nab Ranjeet of Amritsar, one of the biggest drug smugglers of India from Sirsa today,” Gupta tweeted. Ranjeet Rana & his brother Gagandeep@Bhola arrested from Begu village in Sirsa, Haryana.Ranjit Rana@Cheeta, suspected to have smuggled in heroin & other drugs from Pakistan, camouflaged in as many as 6 rock salt consignments through ICP Amritsar between 2018-2019. @CMOPb pic.twitter.com/2xcyl2VgkNCheetah was wanted in the 532-kg heroin haul from Attari in June 2019.In a joint operation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Punjab Police and their Haryana counterpart, Rana, the kingpin of the racket, and his brother Gagandeep were arrested from their hideout at Begu village in Sirsa.STAYED AT BEGU VILLAGE FOR 8 MONTHSSirsa senior superintendent of police Arun Nehra said that Rana had links with the Hizbul Mujahideen and was involved in terror funding.“Acting on a tip-off, the police swooped on a house at Begu village where he has been living with his family for the past eight months. He rented a room on the identification provided by his relative who belongs to Vaidwala village and has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, who is also wanted under the NDPS Act,” Nehra added.HEROIN HIDDEN IN ROCK SALT CONSIGNMENTSRanjeet is suspected to have smuggled heroin and other drugs from Pakistan, camouflaged them in six rock salt consignments through the integrated check post at the Attari border, 30 km from Amritsar, he said.In the biggest seizure of narcotics coming from Pakistan in recent years, the Customs department on June 30, 2019, seized 532 kg of heroin from the Attari border.The heroin was concealed in gunny bags of a rock salt consignment from Pakistan.Rana was caught following recent arrest of Hizbul Mujahideen operatives in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kingpin-of-532-kg-heroin-haul-in-amritsar-arrested-in-haryana-s-sirsa/story-9Wq4YZfATFZ9FnUPggpfiL.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh joins TikTok star Noor, urges people to stay indoors amid lockdown||The five-year-old girl, who shot to limelight for her social distancing messages on a phone application, has Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh vouching for the practice in her latest video. In her latest video, Noorpreet Kaur, aka Noor, who plays a Sikh boy, makes a video call to the chief minister to complain about some villagers going out to play cricket during curfew relaxation. “Eh curfew ghuman layee nahin khuleya haiga (Curfew relaxation is not for roaming around),” Noor, posing as a sardarji tells the offenders in the video. The boy then warns them that he will report the matter to the chief minister. “CM Sir, ever since the curfew relaxation, our village youths are roaming around,” he tells Singh.  If a little kid can understand that the lockdown has been lifted for only for doing very important things & not for fun activities, surely we all can understand it too! Do not step out unless necessary! @nsui @IYC @INCIndia @PMOIndia @DainikBhaskar @aajtak @thetribunechd @ANI pic.twitter.com/4qiBtOIG21The chief minister, in his reply, says, “I will definitely talk to them and you tell me who is not listening.” The video shows the chief minister asking the youngsters not to go out. He also praises Noor for urging people to stay indoors. The curfew in Punjab is relaxed between 7am to 3pm. Noor and her sister Jashanpreet Kaur feature in videos made by Sandeep Toor, a grocery store owner, who now has over a million followers on TikTok. Noor and Jashanpreet Kaur are the kids of a brick kiln worker.  🥰punjab police di respect kro🥰##sandeepsinghtoor99 ##sandeepsinghtoor ##sandeeptoor9 ##newdallateam ##varanbhinderawale ##viralvideo ##comedy ##duetIn an earlier video, Noor, in association with the Moga police, asked people to adhere to social distancing protocols and wear masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/capt-amarinder-singh-joins-tiktok-star-noor-urges-people-to-stay-indoors-amid-lockdown/story-GuhXKTVIfWPst0Q6Gy3w8O.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Good news for Capital’s bookworms: Bookstores will deliver to your doorstep amid lockdown 3.0||Do you remember the last time you went to your favourite neighbourhood bookshop, leisurely scanned through the shelves and retreated to your corner with a book? The silence only broken by the turning of pages or the purring of the owner’s cat? They say reminiscing won’t bring the past back, but a bit of logistical support, a government order, and a whole lot of love has revived independent book stores in the Capital. After certain relaxations in lockdown norms, some bookstores have started home delivery of books and are opening for certain hours through the day. “We are opening on alternate days for now. The response has been phenomenal and we have received orders from within and outside Delhi,” said an employee at The Bookshop in Jor Bagh. “We weren’t prepared for so many calls! It was very heartening. We sold approximately 450 books — both deliveries and in-store purchases — from our Greater Kailash store in one day,” said Priyanka Malhotra, director, Full Circle Bookstore.  This is what's up on our new arrivals shelves. If you'd like to place any orders, email, call, DM! We'll keep making curated selections and share them all! . . . . . . #shopindie #readmore #putyourcomputerawayA post shared by  The Bookshop, Jor Bagh Market (@_thebookshopjb) on May 7, 2020 at 2:43am PDTAt Midland Book Shop in Hauz Khas, Mirza Afsar Baig has seen the tides change many times since he opened the shop in 1973. “I never had any business sense. I am happy that the people are back and are meeting each other again at my shop. We get around 60-65 customers every day and we ensure that they are wearing masks,” he says. The store is open between 11am-6pm, but also takes orders on Whatsapp, which it delivers with the help of a delivery partner. “We have offered 20% discount on books, and the delivery charge by the partner is paid by the customer,” Baig explains.Read: World Book Day: Delhi’s good ol’ booksellers narrate their survival tales amid lockdownSince this is a first time for these bookstores in the deliveries market, teething problems are bound to surface. “The courier services are very expensive at the moment so we are giving the choice to the customer to bear the overcharge. Wherever possible, we are subsidising the courier charges. Within 10km of Jor Bagh, we are using our own car to make deliveries,” informs The Bookshop.This development also comes with a set of health risks, but they are mindful of the safety measures. “Every (Full Circle) bookstore is sanitized five times a day and we only allow two people inside at a time for approximately 15-20 minutes. No one can come in without a mask. We have a guard at the door with sanitizer for people coming in,” says Priyanka.Read: Book your quarantime: On World Book Day, here’s a peek into Bollywood’s bookshelvesAdapting to the new normal and faring against e-commerce giants, Rajni Bahri Malhotra, of Bahrisons, says, “The independent bookseller is still willing to go out of his way and cater to your needs. My staff is amazing — one person is answering the calls, another is taking orders on the messaging platform WhatsApp . Orders are consolidated upon checking our stock. Online payments need to be managed. The books are packaged and handed over to the delivery boys, and a route is charted for them because they can’t make multiple trips. It’s like a small assembly line. But they are thrilled to be back.” Logistically, there have been certain limitations. “Our delivery partner does not cover all of Delhi. Public transport is not available, limiting our staff’s movement,” she adds.  Whats your next weekend read ? Looking for some Classics - because we have a huge collection at our stores and are happy to help you with your wish list. Helplines: Saket store 01146152700 +91 9968457200 (Mithilesh) +91 8178930199 (Mamon) Gurugram Store 0124 4562264 ***** +91 9540610800 (Sikender) +91 7678609336 ( Devinder) #Booksareessential #SupportIndieBookstores #Readwithbahri #PenguinClassics @bahrisons_booksellers @penguinindiaA post shared by  Bahrisons Booksellers (@bahrisons_booksellers) on May 7, 2020 at 10:36pm PDTThe stores plan to make the best of the times and envision a future with social distancing. The Bookshop, which has been around for over 50 years, places faith in the physical act of interacting over books at a store. “There was a time when e-commerce markets were a novelty, but now we see a lot of our customers have come back,” their employee adds. “The mindsets are going back to the times where we didn’t rely on algorithms to tell us what we should read. It has been a reminder of how important places of community are,” concludes Priyanka.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/good-news-for-capital-s-bookworms-bookstores-will-deliver-to-your-doorstep-amid-lockdown-3-0/story-UNB7LrDwCVGCSC0RQ5afWO.html
09-05-2020||Bhopal||Lockdown3.0: 365 Kashmiri students to return home from Bhopal||Over 360 Kashmiri students stranded in parts of Madhya Pradesh due to the lockdown will be sent back to their native places in air-conditioned buses from Bhopal on Saturday, an official said.As many as 365 Kashmiri students stuck in different districts of the state will return home in 18 AC buses from Bhopal, a public relations department official said.The students are currently accommodated in a private school in Gandhinagar locality of Bhopal, he said, adding that they will leave at around 2 pm on Saturday.District collector Tarun Pithode and other officials visited the private school on Friday night to take stock of the arrangements there.Sources said that another group of Kashmiri students will also leave from Indore.Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had recently written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting him to make necessary arrangements for the nearly 400 Kashmiri students stuck in the state.He had said that as Jammu and Kashmir is under the central rule, it is the Centre’s duty to help the people from that region stranded in different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/lockdown3-0-365-kashmiri-students-to-return-home-from-bhopal/story-j3bFys37W2OowavjEvu0DK.html
09-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 57 new coronavirus cases, total cases in state surpass 3,600||Fifty-seven new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Rajasthan on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 3,636 in the state.According to official data, the death toll due to the fatal virus stood at 103.“57 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported today taking the total number of positive cases to 3636. The death toll is at 103,” State Health Department said in a statement.Meanwhile, with 3,320 coronavirus cases and 95 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 cases rose to 59,662 on Saturday, informed the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The total number of active cases in the country now stands at 39,834 while the number of cured/discharged/migrated stands at 17,847.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-records-57-new-coronavirus-cases-total-cases-in-state-surpass-3-600/story-fDqPXtfIADwZtCoq45K9tN.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 10 new cases, count climbs to 159||Chandigarh reported 10 Covid-19 cases on Saturday morning, taking the UTs count to 159. All cases are from Bapu Dham Colony. The congested colony, which has been declared a containment zone, has reported 96 cases so far.The city reported its second Covid-19 death on Friday, after a man from Hallomajra tested positive for the deadly infection two days after his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-10-new-cases-count-climbs-to-159/story-g9an4lg1oYsZ3OX8mdK7eO.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi court rejects bail plea of accused in north-east Delhi riots||A Delhi court on Friday dismissed the bail application of Shahrukh Pathan, accused in the north-east Delhi riots, stating that the fundamental right to protest against government policies cannot extend to disturbing public order.Additional Sessions Judge Sanjeev Kumar Malhotra rejected the bail plea stating that there is video footage that went viral where the accused can be seen pointing a pistol upon police officials and hence he is not inclined to grant bail at this stage.“The right to protest is a fundamental right in a democracy but this right of peaceful protest and open criticism of the government policies does not extend to disturb the public order.“….in the present case, the video footage of the applicant while pointing out pistol upon police officials went viral. Keeping in view the totality of facts and circumstances of the case at this stage, I am not inclined to grant bail to the applicant (Pathan),” the judge said.The court was hearing the bail application filed through advocate Asghar Khan in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea had contended that the incident happened at the spur of the moment and that the 23-year-old had no past criminal record.The plea also alleged that there was an unexplained delay of two days in registering the FIR. Khan said that the charge sheet has already been filed in the case and his counsel sought bail stating that his father has to undergo a knee surgery.However, the court said that the IO has verified from the hospital regarding operations of knee replacement of Pathan’s father Baldev Singh and as per the hospitals’ email, only emergency surgeries are being performed and total knee replacement is not one of them. A fresh date will be given at a later stage when the situation improves in Jalandhar, the hospital said.Opposing the bail application, the additional public prosecutor told the court that on February 24, several people had gathered illegally and were raising slogans against the amended Anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). According to the complaint, the members of the unlawful assembly had bottles, pistols and stones in their hands. In the meantime, Pathan came from behind and fired 3-4 shots at the people around. The complainant, head constable Deepak Dahiya, requested him (Pathan) not to fire. However, Pathan fired at the head of the constable with the intention to kill. The constable bent down and managed to save himself. When he tried to stop Pathan, he pointed towards the crowd and fired again, according to the complaint.The court, after, hearing the arguments from both sides dismissed the plea. Pathan was arrested on March 3.Last week, Delhi Police had filed the first charge sheet over the February riots in north-east Delhi, naming three men including Pathan, who was pictured pointing a pistol at a policeman in the Maujpur neighbourhood.The 350-page charge sheet was filed in the Karkardooma court against Pathan and two others who were arrested by the crime branch’s Narcotics Cell, said a senior police officer, adding that the three remained in jail.According to the charge sheet, Pathan was the first person to be formally arrested in connection with the riots after being booked by the Jafrabad police. He was initially booked for attempt to murder, assault on a public servant, disobedience of an order passed by a government servant and under the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-accused-in-north-east-delhi-riots/story-wrRVul6j4VZOLCCp9ufKgK.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Paid full train fare for all 1,200 migrants who left on train for Bihar: Delhi minister||Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai on Friday said the city government paid for the tickets of around 1,200 migrants who left for Bihar in a special train earlier in the day.Under the Centre’s guidelines, either the destination or the origin state of the concerned train has to bear 15% of the ticket cost – 85% is taken care of by the Centre. The tickets are to be charged by the railways at sleeper class rates, and an additional ₹50.“If the home states do not respond the Delhi government will bear the travel cost of these stranded workers,” said a statement issued by Rai’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/paid-full-train-fare-for-all-1-200-migrants-who-left-on-train-for-bihar-delhi-minister/story-kVj2IVsVKPW85Mk6hGIYHK.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||AIIMS may reopen OPD, surgical depts in phases next week||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), in Delhi is likely to open up its health care services in a phased manner from next week after it shut down all but its emergency services on March 24 following the Covid-19 outbreak.“We’re looking at restarting limited outpatient departments (OPDs) and surgical departments. The opening up will start in a phased manner,” said Dr. Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, Delhi.On March 24, the hospital had shut down all its non-emergency departments, including surgical departments and speciality clinics, and only kept its emergency open for non-Covid-19 patients.In early April, the hospital had started a teleconsultation facility for its follow-up cases, where a patient can book an appointment online.“The departments that are managing well through telemedicine will be asked to continue. We’ll begin with semi-emergency and comfortable day-care surgeries that don’t require too much manpower, and also minimal infrastructure,” said Dr. Guleria.In the first phase, gallstone removal, hernia, and other such surgeries will be conducted, as they require fewer number of hospitalisation days, ensuring beds are not occupied for long and also minimum use of ventillators.The hospital has set up its trauma centre and its cancer hospital in Jhajjar, Haryana, as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.“Dedicated Covid-19 facility goes beyond hospital infrastructure and largely involves nurturing human resources. We’ll have to divide our staff into Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 groups. Simultaneously, we need to keep a close watch on the surge in Covid-19 positive cases. Initially, we’ll start with opening up a limited number of departments, and depending upon how the situation evolves over the next few weeks, we may open up some more, if the Covid-19 curve remains under control,” said Dr. Guleria.“There’s a huge risk of a non-Covid-19 patient testing positive. We’ve had a similar experience recently, where a trauma patient tested Covid-19 positive. The challenge in the gradual opening up of departments is to factor these critical aspects in mind. We’ll have to monitor the evolving situation closely,” he said.“Everything has to be thought through. We’ve to redefine our new normal. The medical practice will undergo a paradigm shift soon,” he added.The central government-run Safdarjung Hospital also opened up its outpatient clinics for new patients from Wednesday.The opening up of more hospitals in the national capital will ease the burden on Delhi government-run hospitals, as most of them have been running on more than 100% capacity.The constraints were drawn to the Centre’s attention by the Delhi government earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-may-reopen-opd-surgical-depts-in-phases-next-week/story-sltIa4ZqfLkIlZ15Ii1c3O.html
09-05-2020||City||Finding a seat on trains a bigger challenge than an arduous trek back home||For the tech illiterate migrants, who are afraid of running from pillar to post to find a seat on a train home, a trek back to their native, no matter how arduous, is a rather viable option.Carrying heavy luggage on their heads and shoulders amid the scorching heat, a group of six papad hawkers started their 900km journey from Amritsar for Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh, five days ago. Finding cover under a tree near Dhandari Kalan, Ludhiana, on National Highway 44, they caught a breath before walking another 13km to reach Doraha by Friday evening.“We still need to walk 650km. As we covered 180km in five days, it will take around 20 days more to reach our destination,” said 50-year-old Ashiq Ali.The government did announce special trains, said Ali, but when he and some more men went to the nearby police station in Amritsar to apply for seats, the cops didn’t help them. “The policemen rather asked us to visit different offices. We are illiterate and did not know whom to approach, so we decided to cover the distance on foot,” he said.‘ONE CHAPATTI A DAY’Ration supply remains a struggle during this odyssey. Yunus Ali, 20, said though they started their journey with wheat and some pulses, the supplies were running out. “We are carrying utensils, so we cook once a day and eat one chapatti per person to regain our strength. Sometimes, we run across Good Samaritans distributing food among migrants,” he said.The group shared that truck drivers were clearly averse to giving them a ride. They had signalled many for a hitchhike, but no one stopped.Another group of five men was spotted cycling from Giaspura, Ludhiana, to Chandausi, Uttar Pradesh, nearly 450km away. They said they had no idea how to apply for the trains online. “We have suffered immensely since the curfew started on March 23. Remaining dependent on the government has not worked out well, so we have decided to cycle back home,” said Farooq,before raising himself back up to his cycle seat and pedalling away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/finding-a-seat-on-trains-a-bigger-challenge-than-an-arduous-trek-back-home/story-qQhPOqJnFXyFEZOxCe09JK.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Rewari too loses green tag, no Haryana district in safe zone now||With three fresh cases detected in Rewari on Friday evening, Haryana’s only safe zone lost its green tag. Though the official bulletin did not mention the cases, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) spokesperson Dr Varun Arora confirmed the development and said that they had tested 130 samples from various districts, of which three from Rewari were found positive. A PGIMS doctor pleading anonymity said that the cases include a woman, her daughter and another woman who lives in the same building at Sector 14 in Rewari.“The woman had visited a hospital in Delhi where her mother, cancer patient, is undergoing treatment. However, her brother was also tested positive for the virus in Gurugram,” said the doctor. A day earlier, Mahendergarh district also lost its green tag after two railways constables tested positive. Jhajjar, one of the three districts which did not have a single case till April end, has also become a hotspot in the state since.22 FRESH CASES DETECTED With 22 more positive cases, the Covid-19 tally jumped to 647 in Haryana on Friday. A maximum of nine cases were reported from Gurugram, four from Faridabad, three from Jind, two each from Sonepat and Fatehabad and one each from Jhajjar and Panipat, according to health department bulletin.The new cases in Gurugram included vegetable sellers or persons frequenting high-risk pockets of Delhi. In Faridabad, besides a vegetable seller, three persons, including a woman, who were in contact with different infected persons, were found to be positive.Three more cases of coronavirus were detected in Jind’s Ghaso Kalan village. The new cases include the mother, grandmother and nephew of an infected man. All of them have been sent to the isolation ward at the PGIMS, Rohtak. The two vegetable sellers, who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi were found infected with the virus in Sonepat’s Ganaur and a man linked with the mandi was found positive in Bahadurgarh of Jhajjar.NINTH DEATH IN PANIPATMeanwhile, a 20-year-old woman, hailing from Bihar, who tested positive in Panipat, died on late Thursday evening. Though the medical bulletin did not mention it, Panipat chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma confirmed that the woman died at BPS Government Medical College Khanpur Kalan in Sonepat. She was a tuberculosis (TB) patient and had tested positive on May 2. The chief medical officer said the body will be cremated by a special team of health department officials on Saturday morning.The state’s Covid death tally currently stands at nine. Earlier, two deaths each were reported from Faridabad, Ambala and Panipat, while Karnal and Rohtak saw one death each.14 CURED, DISCHARGEDMeanwhile, with 14 more patients getting discharged after treatment, the number of total cured persons so far has gone up to 279. With this, the number of active cases is at 360 in the state. Also, 49,746 samples have been tested so far, of which 43,974 have been found to be negative while 5,125 reports are still awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-rewari-too-loses-green-tag-no-haryana-district-in-safe-zone-now/story-SO8msKZBDBejVfer66ZlIP.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||54 Haryana residents arrive from Singapore||The first batch of 54 Haryana residents stranded in Singapore due to the Covid-19 situation arrived at New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport Friday morning. The Air India flight (AI381) from Singapore had 234 passengers onboard, all of whom were found asymptomatic during the screening at the airport, officials said. As many as 67 returnees, including four from Punjab, five from Rajasthan, three from Chattisgarh and one from Orissa were quarantined in Haryana. As many as 132 were quarantined at New Delhi and 35 sent to Uttar Pradesh. The second flight (AI 1242) with 165 on board including Haryana residents from Dhaka in Bangladesh will arrive at New Delhi on May 9 afternoon (3 pm). The third flight (AI 926) from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia carrying 145 passengers, including Haryana residents, will arrive on May 10 at 8 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/54-haryana-residents-arrive-from-singapore/story-AVyxU3b4lfhHyqybVvBENI.html
09-05-2020||City||Karnal opens sweet shops, bakeries, allows eateries to home deliver||The district administration has allowed opening of bakeries and sweet shops, besides home delivery of food from eateries and restaurants. As per the directions, the bakeries and sweet shops will be able to serve customers outside from 8am to 2pm every day, while restaurants can home deliver online orders up to 9pm.However, roadside dhabas and restaurants along the highways will remain closed.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said that following the demands from bakers and sweet makers in the district, it was decided that they will be allowed to open shops and sale counters from 8am to 2pm, while restaurants will deliver food at home.“Restaurants are only allowed to operate for home delivery through online platforms like Zomato and Swiggy,” the DC said. However, Yadav clarified that maintaining hygiene as per government norms is mandatory and strict action would be taken for any violation.The district administration has also allowed restaurant chains to deliver their products at home and accept the orders online only. They will not be allowed to open their eateries for consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-opens-sweet-shops-bakeries-allows-eateries-to-home-deliver/story-IdsZkMlPLd8c2oigqlHVCM.html
09-05-2020||City||Migrant UP woman sent home after childbirth in Yamunanagar||Two weeks after a migrant labourer’s wife gave birth to a baby boy, the Yamunanagar administration and hospital staff bade her farewell amid cheer and applauds on Friday.She has left for her native place in Uttar Pradesh.Shanti and her husband were living in a shelter home at Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan in Chhacharauli. She was eight months pregnant when the couple was trying to cross Yamunanagar to reach Shahjahanpur district in UP from Punjab’s Rajpura. On April 25, she gave birth to a healthy boy in Yamunanagar civil hospital.Sub-divisional magistrate Naveen Kumar Ahuja said, “The women and child development department, district health authorities and panchayat department took good care of the woman’s medical needs and her family. On Friday, she and her family were sent to their native place in Uttar Pradesh by the administration with a good memory. It was a privilege for Yamunanagar to help with the safe birth of the child amid the lockdown situation.”Ahuja also presented the woman with some gifts and other essential items, while the health staff gave the new mother a round of applause.While boarding the vehicle to go home, Shanti said, “I’m happy with the treatment I received here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-up-woman-sent-home-after-childbirth-in-yamunanagar/story-Q71BbLIihVqjlSy61zA0FM.html
09-05-2020||City||Shramik Special: Haryana’s 4th train leaves with 1,204 migrants from Rohtak||Haryana’s fourth Shramik Special train left with 1,204 migrant workers, who were staying at various shelter homes in the state, from Rohtak railway station at 5pm on Friday.To reach their native places in Bihar, 341 migrant labourers came in buses from Gurugram, 308 were from Rohtak, 280 from Kurukshetra, 163 from Sonepat, 42 from Yamunanagar, 37 from Palwal, 26 from Karnal and 7 from Panipat, and boarded the train at the Rohtak railway station.The train will touch six districts of Bihar — Araria, Katihar, Madhepura, Purnea, Saharsa and Supaul.Rohtak deputy commissioner RS Verma, along with superintendent of police Rahul Sharma and other officials, reached the railway station and asked the workers to stand in queues to board the train and maintain social distancing throughout their journey.Verma said the labourers were given water bottles, food, sanitisers and masks.“We have conducted their medical check-ups. The labourers have assured us of returning after the pandemic situation improves,” he added.Roshan Lal, a migrant labourer from Araria, said he came from Kurukshetra after officials informed them about the train movement on Thursday evening. He said he was happy to go home, rather than staying in shelter homes without any work.“My parents were worried and used to ask about my return every day. The state government had provided us with good food and accommodation at the shelter homes,” he added.Meanwhile, the migrant workers who had come from Sirsa were disappointment as they were sent back due to lack of space in the train.“We were excited to return home, but our hopes were dashed when the Rohtak administration told us the train was fully packed and we would have to wait for the next one. Why did the officials call us if the seats were already full,” the workers asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-special-haryana-s-4th-train-leaves-with-1-204-migrants-from-rohtak/story-uKJpAkaMYTG6HEHXPe6xEP.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: In the blazing summer, the amaltas blooms... and so does the gulmohar||The world economies are in shambles. Untold number of people worldwide have lost their jobs. A great many are dead. The pandemic is transforming the world. There’s no knowing when the nightmare will end. Everybody’s life has turned upside down.But one thing has remained unchanged. The blazing summer has begun and the amaltas has returned like a steady and steadfast guest. It is again starting to bloom, a brilliant, defiant yellow. As if its flowery branches were trying to whisper to these catastrophic times, “You can’t beat us.”Just yesterday morning, a small amaltas tree was spotted in a south Delhi neighbourhood, its branches newly loaded with bunches of golden-yellow flowers. And in a coincidence too fantastic to be believed, a young man was seen standing directly under these flowers, wearing a mask that had exactly the same shade of yellow.The sight was indescribably heart-touching. Throughout the year, trees of amaltas look rather unremarkable. But in the summer months, when the city gets so hot it is almost unbearable, they suddenly get sheathed with layers of shining blossoms, and their flowers keep falling on the ground in a kind of silent and magical shower.To experience amaltas at its most divine, a walk through central Delhi avenues such as Hailey Road and Amrita Shergill Marg makes for a necessary pilgrimage. Then there is North Delhi’s Bungalow Road... but sorry! The world has changed. One cannot freely navigate through the city any longer. Who knows when the coronavirus crisis will come under control. It might happen only long after the amaltas bloom is over, and that is June.Do not despair, however. Many of us are now obliged to start going to our workplace following the lockdown’s partial relaxation. And one anyway still has to walk to the shop around the corner to get necessary groceries. And each time you step out of the house, you are likely to be reassured by the sighting of at least one amaltas blooming in your area.And it’s not only about amaltas.The day a young man in a yellow mask was spotted admiring the yellow amaltas, this reporter also spotted a woman in red mask admiring the red flowers of a gulmohar (coincidence!).Those trees are in bloom too, and their beauty is as uplifting. And, much like the amaltas, the gulmohars are also popping up in various parts of the city—each tree looming up like a flame. The woman was staring up at the red flowers for a long time, while the late morning sun was tucking itself behind the foliage, its blinding glow as focused as a reading lamp. It was difficult to discern the woman’s expressions because of the mask, but she must have felt moved. For she took out her mobile and clicked a picture before moving on to a supermarket ahead.Indeed, some of these blossoming amaltas and gulmohars of Delhi’s are so overwhelming in their bright colours that a chance encounter might momentarily make the spectator forget about the everyday tensions, even about the raging coronavirus. And that must count as winning a battle, if not the war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-the-blazing-summer-the-amaltas-blooms-and-so-does-the-gulmohar/story-io3rGOIx0bMDUObXfUyaKM.html
09-05-2020||City||Ludhiana their karmabhoomi, migrants say they will return||For thousands of migrants leaving the city for want of money and food, their connection with Ludhiana is not over, as most believe they will return to their karmabhoomi once the lockdown is over.Around 4,500 migrants boarded four Shramik Special trains from Ludhiana on Friday. These were headed to Saharsa and Sitamarhi in Bihar, Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh and Daltonganj in Jharkhand.“Today, we are left with no work and money. Factory owners have made it clear they are not in a condition to pay salaries, while there is no regular supply of ration from the administration either. This has made it difficult for us to survive in Ludhiana,” said Nizamuddin Ansari, 28, who lived in Chhawani Mohalla and was travelling to Sitamarhi.Ansari said he had worked in Ludhiana as a tailor in hosiery units for the past four years, but it was not the end. “I will return after spending a few months at home. Hopefully, the factories will also reopen by then,” he said.Dinesh Yadav, 38, who lived in Sukhdev Nagar, has assured his employer that he will be back. “I have worked as a tailor in hosiery factories for 10 years. I know the business and understand that my employer cannot pay me. Therefore, I have informed my boss that I am going back home and will return when business resumes,” he said, adding that his employer had allowed him to leave.There are also migrants, who want to return home, despite job opportunities. Ismail Ansari, 35, of Jeewan Nagar said he needed to go home to look after his agricultural land. I had planned to go in March, but couldn’t due to the lockdown. “I will return after handling pending work back home,” he said.DELAYED TRAINS: MP BITTU HOLDS MEETINGLocal member of Parliament chaired a meeting at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Friday to take a stock of the Shramik Special trains.The meeting was attended by MLAs Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal, municipal corporation commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar and several other senior officials from various departments.DC Agrawal shared that 11 trains had departed from Ludhiana for various states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh since May 5. Over 12,000 migrants had left the city on these trains.He said the operations were being streamlined and more trains will run in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-their-karmabhoomi-migrants-say-they-will-return/story-i859dGlXJDzqh4pi05puPK.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||SIT formed to look into liquor sale during lockdown: Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday said that a three-member special investigating team (SIT) has been constituted under the leadership of a senior IAS officer to investigate all cases regarding the sale of illicit liquor in the entire state, including Kharkhoda in Sonepat district, during the lockdown period and this SIT will submit its report within a month. An official release said that an additional director general of police and additional excise and taxation commissioner will be members of this investigation team. Vij said that one IAS officer from among Ashok Khemka, Sanjeev Kaushal and TC Gupta along with IPS officer, Subhash Yadav and additional excise commissioner, Vijay Singh would jointly investigate the matter.He said that so far, no FIR has been registered by the excise department for theft of liquor. The police will investigate only after an FIR has been registered, he added. He said that the owner of Kharkoda godown was known to have been involved in illegal liquor sales earlier too. As many as 5,000 boxes of liquor are missing from Kharkhoda godown.ON NRIs RETURNIn response to a query about Haryana NRIs living abroad during the Covid-19 pandemic, the home minister said that about 5,000 NRIs of Haryana have registered on the webportal for return. He said that after reaching Delhi Airport, the NRIs would be kept in institutional quarantine near Gurugram and later be quarantined in their home districts. They will not be allowed to self-quarantine in their homes, he added.On the arrangements being made by the Haryana government to send migrant labourers to their home states, Vij said that as soon as no-objection certificates are received from the home states of migrant labourers, they would be sent home with all precautionary measures. So far, one lakh labourers have registered for their return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sit-formed-to-look-into-liquor-sale-during-lockdown-vij/story-CILJKaR27vrWlFtAJphi7M.html
09-05-2020||City||Arguments between BJP Zila Mahamantri and Hansi SDM go viral on social media||High drama was witnessed in Hansi after heated arguments were exchanged between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Zila Mahamantri Sujeet Kumar and the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) over a parking issue here on Friday.In a video of the incident that appeared on social media, Kumar is seen warning the SDM of taking up the matter with higher authorities.As per sources, when the BJP leader reached Ambedkar Chowk, where SDM Jitender Ahlawat was checking vehicles, he was stopped by the police and told to park his car at a designated space as no four-wheelers were allowed beyond that point.However, Kumar resisted and asked the cops to let him take the car ahead. On this, the SDM reached there and asked Kumar to cooperate. This led to a heated argument between the two.When asked, Ahlawat told the media that he was on duty there when the cops stopped Kumar’s car and asked him to park it at a spot, but the latter started arguing with them. “When I asked him to comply with the rules, he threatened to report to my senior officials. If needed, the department will take action against him accordingly,” the SDM said.Kumar, on the other hand, said he was going towards Barwala town where his office is situated. “I was going for work, but the officer stopped me. I will take up the matter with senior officials of the administration,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/arguments-between-bjp-zila-mahamantri-and-hansi-sdm-go-viral-on-social-media/story-qeWSKzeJlGyTToRC9SK4KK.html
09-05-2020||City||2 Karnal cops suspended in bribe case||Two cops in Karnal have been suspended for allegedly taking bribe in a land dispute case. The suspended cops have been identified as assistant sub-inspector Rajender Kumar and constable Sulakkhan Singh, who were posted in Biana police post. The action was taken after a video surfaced on social media, showing them purportedly demanding bribe from some farmers of Biana village to settle a land dispute case.According to the official spokesperson of Karnal police, superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria has suspended the two cops with immediate effect and handed over the investigation to Indri deputy superintendent of police Randhir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-cops-suspended-in-bribe-case/story-kxlO7fmqUsFUQhienvtlGO.html
09-05-2020||City||Restaurants in Ludhiana allowed home delivery from 7am to 7pm||Closed since the curfew was clamped on March 23, food businesses in the district have been allowed to resume home deliveries between 7am and 7pm without curfew passes from May 9.However, no dine-in or takeaway services will be allowed in these establishments, including restaurants, eateries, ice-cream parlours, juice shops and sweet shops. Restaurants were shortly given relaxation in the second week of April as well, but the permissions were rolled back on April 16 after a delivery boy was found Covid-19 positive in Delhi and 72 families were quarantined. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said no special pass will be required to open the establishments. “But, only home delivery has been allowed. There will be no dine-in or takeaway services,” he added.The owners of these businesses will have to abide by all precautions while running the operations and delivering food, he said.This includes checking the temperature of the employees and maintaining a record; frequent cleaning/disinfection of workplace; wearing of face mask, which should be changed daily; social distancing; hygienic packaging of food items; and frequent cleaning of delivery vehicle.The administration has also directed the businesses to conform to zero contact delivery, which entails not touching any points at delivery location, including doorbells. All delivery boys need to wear gloves and masks.Any violation will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code.CONCERNED OVER MIGRATION OF WORKERS, HOTEL BODY HAILS MOVEMembers of the Ludhiana Restaurants and Hotels Association, who had opposed the relaxation in April, have now hailed the move, while raising concerns over reverse migration of workers.Association president Amarvir Singh said while restaurant owners were already reeling under losses due to the lockdown, migrants leaving for their home states had compounded their troubles.“How will the businesses run if there are no workers? The prolonged lockdown has also affected the restaurant industry,” said Singh, adding that restaurants owners will comply with all guidelines. Hailing the decision, Narinder Pal Singh Pappu, president of Halwai Association, Punjab, said reopening businesses will help retain workers, who were out of jobs and money.CONGRESS DECRIES RELAXATIONCongress councillor Parvinder Lapran said the decision seemed to have been taken in haste even when Ludhiana was listed in red zones. “Business owners should themselves think about the risks involved and avoid resuming their operations. Residents should also avoid ordering food, and take all precautions if they cannot help it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restaurants-in-ludhiana-allowed-home-delivery-from-7am-to-7pm/story-MV7prEY1J71FpkXXgT5YlJ.html
09-05-2020||City||Macchiwara farmer found positive in Ludhiana, tally up to 125||A 28-year-old man from Machhiwara tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the district count to 125. A farmer by profession, the man was suffering from nasal congestion and shortness of breath for the last few days and reported to a health facility in Nawanshahr. There, the attending doctor suspected him of being infected with Covid-19 and asked him to undergo a test, which returned positive results.MOVED AROUND DESPITE GIVING SAMPLEAccording to the health department, the patient did not observe isolation before his results were confirmed. When health authorities reached Machhiwara village to pick him up after his results arrived, he was found present inside a commercial bank, where he had secured a loan to buy a tractor. Consequently, the bank was sealed and CCTV cameras were scanned to determine people who came in contact with the patient. He was moved to the Ludhiana civil hospital, where he has been admitted in the isolation ward. Further contact tracing is underway.TWO PATIENTS DISCHARGEDMeanwhile, two more patients were discharged in the district on Friday. Among them was Basti Jodhewal SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, 28, and a 15-year-old boy from Chowki Mann area of Jagraon.While the sub-inspector was discharged from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital amid a rousing welcome from the police department, the teenaged boy was given a farewell from the Ludhiana civil hospital after spending 20 days there.With this, eight of the 125 cases confirmed in Ludhiana district have recovered. Five patients have succumbed to the disease, leaving 112 active cases in the district.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said till date, 3,813 samples had been collected, of which 3,348 samples were negative and 125 positive. Besides, 21 patients from other districts were also confirmed infected in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/macchiwara-farmer-found-positive-in-ludhiana-tally-up-to-125/story-o94tnfCqWAOKO6dxDsrtGI.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid care centres for cops to come up at Santacruz, Marol||With help from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Mumbai Police is setting up two Covid-19 care centres specially dedicated to police personnel. This is aimed at reducing the pressure on civic-run Covid-treatment centres.A 300-bed Covid care centre is being set up in police housing quarters in Santacruz and another Covid care centre, with a capacity of 250 beds, will be set up at Marol. This was confirmed by Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration) and nodal officer designated by the state for the healthcare of Mumbai Police. The Covid-care centres in Santacruz and Marol are for asymptomatic carriers and those with mild cases of Covid-19. Family members of police personnel would also be eligible to stay at these centres.Deputy commissioner of police (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police Pranay Ashoka said on Friday that 309 police personnel are infected with Covid-19, which is 59 more than the number that commissioner of police Param Bir Singh had announced on Thursday. Across Maharashtra, between March 22 and May 8, 618 (547 constables, 71 officers) police personnel have tested positive. Five constables have succumbed to the disease.Cops test positive On Friday, eight constables and four officers from Nirmal Nagar police station in Khar (East) tested positive for Covid-19 and nine others were been quarantined. A constable, assigned to the joint commissioner of police (economic offences wing), also tested positive and was admitted to Seven Hills Hospital.Lockdown violationsOn Thursday, 52 first information reports (FIRs) were registered in the city against 105 people for lockdown violations and 73 were arrested. Twenty FIRs are from the central Mumbai and 18 in the western region. Seventeen cases were for gathering in public and 17 for not wearing masks. Fourteen cases of illegal use of vehicles were registered. Bandra police also booked seven autorickshaw drivers and two taxi drivers.Four cases against operating shops selling non-essential services were filed on Thursday. On May 6, two wine shop owners in Vile Parle and Juhu were booked for operating their shops in violation of the order issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to shut down shops selling liquor.Between March 22 and May 8, Maharashtra Police has registered 98,774 FIRs against over 1 lakh people for lockdown violations across the state and 19,082 have been arrested. In the same period, 54,148 vehicles have been seized and fines amounting to Rs 3.66 crore have been collected.10,000 stranded people get permits; 1 lakh on ‘waiting list’Mumbai Police has given permits to 10,000 people — mostly migrant labourers, tourists, pilgrims and students — allowing them to return to their home states. Another 1 lakh people have been given permits and are on the “waiting list” till trains and buses are arranged by the state government. Gutkha worth Rs 53.48 lakh seized On Friday, Mumbai Police arrested three men for illegally transporting gutkha and tobacco products — which are not listed under essential products — in Govandi. The arrested accused are Gaus Zahur Khan, 38; Shaizad Kutchi, 31; and SN Khan, 27. All three are from Shivaji Nagar, Govandi. The total value of the seized material and tempo is Rs 53.48 lakh.Newborn girl dumped in nullah, parents booked Kurar police filed a case against the unknown parents of a baby girl whose body was found in a nullah in Shivaji Nagar, Malad (East) on Friday morning. The police were alerted by a citizen who tweeted about the body to Mumbai Police. A case has been filed under section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code.Dairy owner booked for flouting lockdown rules Bhoiwada police booked a dairy owner for violating lockdown rules by not maintaining social distancing among his customers. On Thursday morning, the police saw a crowd outside the dairy in Dadar (East) and booked owner Manish Tiwari under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. (With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Manish K Pathak, Faisal Tandel and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-care-centres-for-cops-to-come-up-at-santacruz-marol/story-saE2FYr68z0Saj2I8ixTnK.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||TB, HIV patients in Arthur Road prison are at a greater risk of contracting Covid, say experts||With several inmates at Arthur Road Jail infected with tuberculosis (TB) and HIV, health experts are worried that the number of Covid-positive people at the premises can increase. The jail has currently 103 Covid-19 cases. Deepak Pandey, inspector general of police (south region) of state prisons department, did not respond to repeated calls and messages. Arthur Road prison has a capacity of 800 but houses 2,600 inmates currently. The situation is the same at the city’s other major jail at Byculla, where over 500 prisoners are squeezed into a space meant for 200 people. As per data procured from the Mumbai District Aids Control Society (MDACS), there are 22 inmates with HIV at Arthur Road Jail while 29 HIV patients are at Byculla Jail, including 14 from the women’s jail. There are 18 TB patients at Arthur Road Jail as per the state tuberculosis department. Due to overcrowding in the jails with common bathrooms and mess rooms, it is difficult to stop the spread of the infection, say health experts. Prisoners living with HIV and TB have higher chances of contracting the infection due to low immunity. “There is a need to make special arrangements for such vulnerable prisoners. Jail authorities should have followed the international guidelines to stop the spread,” said Blessi Kumar, of the Delhi-based Global Coalition of TB Activists (GCTA).During the outbreak of the virus in China, prisons had turned into a breeding ground for the disease. As of February 25, there were 555 confirmed infections in five prisons of three provinces — Hubei, Shandong, and Zhejiang.Taking note of it, the World Health Organization released prison guidelines—Preparedness, prevention and control of Covid-19 in prisons. It recommended screening of all inmates and special provision for patients with blood-borne viruses, TB and drug use disorders. “Particular attention should be paid to persons with contagious diseases...refined allocation procedures should be considered that would allow prisoners at highest risk to be separated from others,” read the guidelines. But when HT contacted recently released prisoners from both the jails, they claimed that there is no provision of hygiene, social distancing and lack of sensitisation at the prisons. A 42-year-old HIV-positive inmate, who recently got discharged from Byculla Jail, said, “For over 500 prisoners, there were only 4 common bathrooms. We bathed together and slept with over 30 prisoners in a cell.” He was at the jail for three months. Avinash Roy, a state lawyer, spoke about one of his clients who is infected with TB and is an inmate at Arthur Road Jail. Despite getting approval for his bail, due to the lockdown, the inmate’s family couldn’t complete his security procedure to bring him out of the jail. “When my client’s family tried talking to the jail authority, they said that his being inside the jail is safer. Who will take responsibility if anything happens to him?” he said. Dr Pranita Tipre, head of TB department, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “The jails have isolation facilities where they will keep the suspected patients. But so far, we haven’t received any instructions from the jails for testing all the TB patients.”Health activists have criticised jail authorities for not taking provisional measures. Eldred Tellis, executive director, Sankalp Rehabilitation Trust said, “These prisoners should be given preventive medicines like HCQ or Ayurveda. They keep using the same mask for days without sanitising it. Plus, they aren’t even given gloves. The food given in jails is of poor quality which doesn’t even boost immunity.”As per experts, as these inmates have already compromised health, conditions, if they contract the infection, the mortality rate can become higher. “Their early diagnosis is necessary for timely treatment, increasing their chances of recovery,” said Ganesh Acharya, a TB/HIV activist. During the initial days of the nation-wide lockdown, there was a gap of 7 to 8 days in the procurement of HIV drugs in jails. Taking note of this, MDACS provided medicines for a month in advance to the prisons. “It is important to keep the viral load (presence of HIV in blood) in the body under control. With regular intake of medicines, the patients are at a lesser risk of contracting the infection,” said Dr Srikala Acharya, additional project director of MDACS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tb-hiv-patients-in-arthur-road-prison-are-at-a-greater-risk-of-contracting-covid-say-experts/story-cq0E99f2UscTWiJY9V2j6K.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delay in Covid-19 reports of pregnant women putting staff, other patients at risk at Chandigarh’s GMSH-16||Within a span of eight days, three asymptomatic pregnant women who delivered babies at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 have turned out to be Covid positive.The delays in test reports of the pregnant women has not only given a tough time to the doctors, but also put other pregnant women and staff at the hospital at risk.On April 30, a woman from Bapu Dham Colony delivered a baby in the hospital and the next day reports revealed that she was infected. She became the first positive pregnant woman of Chandigarh.A week later, on May 5, a 20-year-old woman from Maloya delivered a baby. The same day, a 24-year-old from SBS Nagar was admitted and her C-section took place at 12:29am on May 7.A highly placed source within the GMSH-16 said: “Following the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research, which recommend that every pregnant woman in a containment zone should be tested, the samples of both women were sent on May 5 itself, but reports came on May 8.” Both tested Covid positive. By that time, however, both women had undergone deliveries.LABOUR ROOMS ARE OVERCROWDED“Labour rooms in government hospitals are overcrowded. No matter how many precautions we take, there are always chances of spread. We must know on time whether the patient is positive or not, so that we can isolate them,” said a staffer, wishing not to be named.The staff member further said: “The samples of positive women should be treated on priority and reports should come within 6-7 hours. But we are getting reports after 48 hours, which is too late, and by the time deliveries are done.”According to experts, the ICMR guidelines came on April 20 and after that they started taking samples of all pregnant women (except those who come in emergency and their deliveries can’t wait).Another GMSH-16 official said: “One of the infected women was given intubation, which is quite risky as chances of getting infection are more.”ALL WOMEN ASYMPTOMATICTalking about precautionary measures, an official said: “The worrisome part is all women are asymptomatic. So we have to fumigate the operation theatres after every C-section. We raise an alarm so that corridors are vacated when a suspected mother is brought to the OT and then sent back to a separate room. We are trying our best to isolate suspects but due to patient rush, we have to keep two in one room.”An official said: “Patient load is more at a government hospital, staff is limited and now we have to quarantine them, fumigate OTs, so we cannot take additional burden from other states, who should manage their own patients.”Daily, there are around 15 admissions from Chandigarh and around eight from the adjoining states.An official added: “This afternoon, an ambulance from Nalagarh dropped two pregnant women at the door-step of GMSH-16 and when a guard ran after the ambulance to stop it, it fled. The card they were carrying read, ‘There is no C-section facility at Nalagarh’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delay-in-covid-19-reports-of-pregnant-women-putting-staff-other-patients-at-risk-at-chandigarh-s-gmsh-16/story-puRfEyIEfRFLMQrA7H9QPL.html
09-05-2020||City||1,301 migrant workers leave Mohali for UP||As many as 1,301 migrant labourers boarded the second special train to leave Mohali for Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Running right on schedule, the non-stop train left the Mohali railway station at 10am. The passengers adhered to all the guidelines related to social distancing while the train where packed food was provided to them. The district Red Cross Society catered biscuits and water to them. Earlier in the day, these migrant workers were screened thoroughly at eight designated collection centres, from where they were ferried to the railway station via buses.The buses were also sanitised before and after use. The Mohali administration also facilitated the return of around 91 migrants workers from Mohali to Uttarakhand in three buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-301-migrant-workers-leave-mohali-for-up/story-EHcs9N0Dn8gTeHSgOwzBFJ.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||8 out of 9 Covid-19 deaths at PGIMER due to other co-occurring illnesses||Out of the nine deaths that have occurred due to Covid-19 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), eight persons had co-morbid conditions.Co-morbodity refers to the presence of one or more additional medical conditions co-occurring with a primary condition such as coronary artery diseases, diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney diseases.Among the persons who died, two had both hypertension as well as chronic kidney disease; another two had diabetes; one had hypertension as well as diabetes; and two persons had only coronary artery disease. The youngest among the deceased was a six-month-old girl who had congenital heart disease.The average age of the patients who died due to the virus was 48 years. Dr Digambar Behera, senior professor, department of pulmonary medicine, PGIMER, said when a virus like this infects a person it causes a cytokine (small proteins important in cell signaling) storm in the body. Thus, other illnesses alter the defence system and a number of reactions take place which cannot be easily managed.“When people with underlying diseases like diabetes develop a viral infection, it can be harder to treat them due to fluctuations in blood glucose levels. Same is the condition with other diseases,” Dr Behera said.He added, “The immune system of such patients is compromised making it difficult to fight the virus. We need to make sure that persons with such problems are taken care of and medicines are available to them.”Dr GD Puri, head of anesthesia and intensive care, said that the institute was trying to decrease the mortality due to the virus. “In patients with other diseases we try to contain the underlying disease which ultimately can save a life. Basically it is also done in anticipation of what may go wrong in the patient with such diseases and that is why we try to control it before it gets worse.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/8-out-of-9-covid-19-deaths-at-pgimer-due-to-other-co-occurring-illnesses/story-Nag27mSCEi49UtyJi9hlAP.html
09-05-2020||City||Parents of students stranded in Kyrgyzstan appeal to government to bring their kids back||The parents of three Kalyan students, pursuing their MBBS course from Kyrgyzstan, have appealed to the government to bring their children back home amid the coronavirus crisis. Kalyan Shiv Sena corporator Ravi Patil on Friday spoke to the chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde on the issue. There are 203 students from Maharashtra, who are stranded in the Central Asian country.“The parents are worried as Kyrgyzstan is not mentioned in the central government’s list of countries from where the armed forces will get the stranded Indians. Some parents from my ward had called me asking for help. I have requested the CM to look into the matter as there are around 203 students from Maharashtra who are studying there as per a list compiled by the students,” said Patil.The parents of the students claimed that due to the pandemic, the institutes have been closed in Kyrgyzstan, but students are attending online classes and giving exams.“My son Pratik, who is in his second year of MBBS course, said students can’t move out of the campus due to the lockdown. They are worried about getting back to India after the exams. There is no proper process undertaken to ensure they return home. We want our government to take the issue up and make arrangements for their return,” said Titwala resident Sunil Diwan, 50, Pratik’s father.Another parent claimed that his son is facing difficulties in finding food as there are no shops in his area.“Students are unable to get timely supplies as there are no such shops around. My son told me they filled up some forms. But there is not clarity about their return,” said Ravindra Waje, 51, a resident of Kalyan (East), whose son Deepak, 24, is in his fourth year of MBBS degree at Osh University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parents-of-students-stranded-in-kyrgyzstan-appeal-to-government-to-bring-their-kids-back/story-qLxKG6UvvVoLpwH5fQ9Q7J.html
09-05-2020||City||1,316 migrants leave for Bihar in second ‘Shramik Special’ train from Ambala||The second ‘Shramik Special’ train from the Ambala cantonment railway station left for Bihar’s Bhagalpur on Friday evening carrying as many as 1,316 migrants from various districts of Haryana. The train carried around 85 passengers from Ambala, 173 from Jhajjar, 20 from Karnal, 102 from Narnaul, 12 from Sonepat, 196 from Kurukshetra, 121 from Bhiwani / Tosham, 76 from Rohtak, 404 from Jind, 50 from Charkhi Dadri, 37 from Panipat, 8 from Gurugram, 3 from Yamunanagar, 2 from Faridabad, 3 from Mewat and 24 from Hisar.Nodal officer Satinder Siwach said, “Among those sent were migrant labourers from Khagaria, Munger, West Champaran, Begusarai and Bhagalpur districts. They were brought to the cantonment station from across Haryana using roadways buses.” “Besides, travel tickets, the migrants were also provided food packets, sanitisers, water bottles, and masks,” said the officer while adding, “We followed the same protocol, which was followed on Thursday when the first train carrying 1,188 migrants departed from the station for Bihar’s Katihar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-316-migrants-leave-for-bihar-in-second-shramik-special-train-from-ambala/story-y2Eej3VBhHqbirEcSFveLJ.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cooler mat makers return to Chandigarh’s Sector 22 market to try their luck||Even though street vendors were relocated by the municipal corporation in December 2019, the cooler men of the city are back to their usual spots in Sector 22 behind the government hospital here.The curve of the road behind the market was frequented by the vendors where they used to put large mats and window coverings on display. On Tuesday, however, only a few mats could be seen.“Business is over for us now; ever since we were relocated we have barely earned anything. People still associate cooler mats with Sector 22, and we are back on our spots in the heat of May,” says Sheetal Kumar whose family has been making and selling cooler mats in Sector 22 for the past 60 years.“We are mindful of the Covid-19 crisis and maintain all standards of hygiene,” he says, pointing towards a bottle of sanitizer. He was allocated a spot at the Sector 15 vending zone, but he says it was of no use going there as customers didn’t come to the vending zones to buy cooler mats.The mats made of vetiver grass (khus khus) that were the specialty of these mat makers remain absent, while only a handful of bamboo and straw mats can be seen now. “We are selling only 10% of the mats that we used to, so we’re only making the simplest and most inexpensive ones,” says Sanju, another mat maker. The mats that used to sell for ₹400 last year are being sold for ₹350 now. Balwinder Singh, a third generation mat maker, says they aren’t making even 10% of the money they used to back in the day. “Due to the coronavirus outbreak and because of the delayed summer season, not many customers are buying the mats. We have to stay mindful of the MC vehicles passing by as any moment we can be asked to leave. I haven’t been allotted a vending space since December so I came back to set up shop here,” he said.Local area councillor Ravikant Sharma said he hadn’t passed by this area in the past few days, however, he said that the mat makers are unauthorised and he will coordinate with the MC teams to get them relocated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cooler-mat-makers-return-to-chandigarh-s-sector-22-market-to-try-their-luck/story-9S2Hy4XT3XZnM1LGUWiT0I.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Final-year exams for undergraduate courses in Maharashtra between July 1 and 30: Minister||After weeks of confusion, higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Friday clarified that the state will hold exams of all final-year undergraduate (UG) courses between July 1 and 30, while all students in other years of their UG courses will be promoted to the next academic year. “All the university students, except those in the final year of their graduation course, will be promoted to the next academic year by their respective universities. Final-year students, as of this date, will be appearing for their exams between July 1 and 30,” said Samant during a Facebook Live session held in the afternoon, after several students posed across the state posed the question. The development has come less than a week after a University Grants Commission (UGC)-appointed committee released a report recommending similar directives to universities across the country.During his interaction, Samant said the final-year exam dates will be clarified in the coming days and but if the lockdown, owing to the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak, is extended beyond June 30, the state will again hold a meeting between June 20 and 25 to confirm their next decision on the status of final-year exams. “As of now, we expect the respective universities to ensure that a timetable is ready for all final-year students and the results for all exams are announced by August 15 so that the next academic year can begin by first week of September,” he said.For the first and second-year students, the state has decided to adopt UGC’s recommendation and promote students based on a 50-50% gradation formula, in which 50% will be allocated for a student’s performance in internals and other projects in the current semester and 50% for the student’s performance in the previous semester. “Students who have allowed-to-keep-term (ATKT) remarks for any subject from the previous semester will be promoted for the time being, but will have 120 days once the new academic year starts to appear for an exam and clear the subject,” added Samant.“We may have to cut short the exam time from 3 hours to 2 hours, or we moght also decide to take a 50 mark theory exam instead of 80 or 100 marks, but such decisions will be left to the university. We also suggest each of the university decide on the summer vacation dates and inform students accordingly,” said Samant, and added that any practical exams, including VIVAs should be taken online in order to maintain social distancing rules.All university and professional course examinations has been held back due to the ongoing lockdown situation but all state governments were asked to clarify their stand recently by the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry, based on UGC recommendations.Samant also pointed out at the UGC’s minimum compulsory attendance rule for students and said that the 45 days of lockdown should be considered by institutes as time spent in college by all students and added to the current attendance record of students. The education minister has also requested universities to set up help desks and call centres in their respective districts to ensure that all queries of students and parents are answered and to also set up online counselling helplines for the benefit of students and parents affected by the lockdown.Calming nerves of Class 12 students who are waiting to hear the news on the entrance examination dates for professional courses, which is to be conducted by state common entrance test (CET) cell, Samant clarified that the CET officials along with officials from the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) are currently working on the schedule, which will be shared within the next eight days.What did Uday Samant say during the interaction||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/final-year-exams-for-undergraduate-courses-in-maharashtra-between-july-1-and-30-minister/story-6hMAKLDP34lO0CCcUs8mvO.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Mathematical model by IISER predicts dip in nationwide Covid cases by mid-May||A new mathematical model by Kolkata-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) has predicted that if the current nationwide lockdown continues, active Covid-19 infections in India are likely to start decreasing by the second week of May and the cycle of the disease in the first phase is likely to end between early to mid-July.This means the number of those infected - denoted by the reproduction number R0 - will drop to 0.5 under the scenario of stringent lockdown or quarantining all infected individuals. R0 (R nought) is a measure of the number of individuals who may contract the infection from one Covid-positive patient. IISER’s model has calculated Covid-19’s reproduction number at R5 at the start of the lockdown.Active infections simulated by the model comprises individuals tested positive for the novel coronavirus as well as those who are asymptomatic - the latter are not considered in official infection numbers.“Assuming the strength of the lockdown is not relaxed and continues till early July, our prediction is that active infections will keep rising and reach a peak before beginning to fall around May 17. The first wave will end by mid-July when patient recovery rates reach saturation point,” said Dibyendu Nandi, professor and lead researcher, IISER. “If the numbers don’t start falling in the next seven days, it will imply that the lockdown saw relaxations this week. However, if the lockdown is relaxed, active infections will peak early August and the numbers will be catastrophic.”The model’s algorithm has calculated 60,000 active infections (best case scenario) as the peak, and the upper range at 1.35 lakh as the worst case scenario, assuming transmission rates will be higher.Had the lockdown started end of February, the model estimated that the total number of active infections would not exceed 20,000; the peak would be less than 10,000; and India would be nearing the end of the first wave.With vulnerable groups such as daily wage labourers and migrants impacted the most, IISER researchers said the best strategy to bring the pandemic’s first wave under control is to undertake active testing, contact tracing quarantine and containment of serious hotspots and slowly relax lockdown.“Since India has not reached peak infections, the situation is more dangerous now than the beginning of the lockdown because of the higher number of infected individuals in the system. Completely lifting the lockdown therefore will remove any advantages that the country has so far achieved,” said Nandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mathematical-model-by-iiser-predicts-dip-in-nationwide-covid-cases-by-mid-may/story-2NHWKyNppOuds1Tq1DQPBJ.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi launches app to connect migrants with schemes, jobs||With 56 trains, carrying 70,000 migrant labourers, having already arrived and 79 more expected to reach the state by Saturday, measures to provide the labourers further relief have been stepped up, with the state government launching an app for their benefit.The app, developed in coordination with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to keep a watch on the migrants’ health, will also connect them to government schemes and collect their data to help them get a job in accordance with their skills.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched the ‘Pravasi Rahat Mitra’ app on Friday at a programme.With the help of this app, the government will be able to know about the status of Covid-19 screening, bank account number, educational qualification and other details about migrant labourers put up in shelter homes and those who have reached their homes directly. The app will also help in working out schemes for their welfare.Yogi, who later reviewed the lockdown situation and progress made about bringing back migrant labourers at a high level meeting, said the largest number of trains carrying migrants have reached the state.The chief minister said the list of returnee migrant labourers should be obtained from the states they have returned to check any unauthorised entry. He said all migrant labourers should be treated with respect in the state.Yogi said the lockdown should be strictly implemented and no one, except medical and health teams, sanitation workers and delivery boys, should be allowed in hotspots. He said the districts should remain connected with IAS and senior PCS officers sent there to help district magistrates in monitoring quarantine centres and community kitchens etc. He said fire tenders should be used for sanitisation work in their respective districts. The chief minister said the state had been able to keep Covid-19 cases under control by setting up Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 hospitals, separately. He said availability of all medical resources should be ensured in all hospitals 24X7.Yogi said medical history of Covid-19 patients should be maintained. He also said fodder banks should be established to ensure availability of fodder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-launches-app-to-connect-migrants-with-schemes-jobs/story-v9NIJvOD5DDzcNrxsKIw3M.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Praveen Pardeshi out: Split within bureaucracy to blame?||When the coronavirus pandemic first hit Mumbai on March 11, the then civic chief of the country’s financial capital, Praveen Pardeshi, was seen in the political and bureaucratic circles as the right person for the job on hand.A 1985-batch IAS [Indian Administrative Service] officer, Pardeshi had cut his teeth in administration as a young collector in Latur in 1993, when he oversaw the relief and rehabilitation efforts in the district, after the devastating earthquake that year.Seen as an efficient and a politically suave bureaucrat, Pardeshi had moved to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) last year in May, after heading the chief minister’s office (CMO) for four-and-a-half years in Devendra Fadnavis’s regime. As the principal secretary, and later as the additional chief secretary in CMO, Pardeshi ran the state secretariat from his sixth-floor office, often calling the shots, rather than the incumbent chief secretary, and was even derided as the ‘second CM’ by those in the Opposition.He was not replaced as the civic chief even after Uddhav Thackeray took over the reins of the state, breaking away from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and joining hands with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Until Friday, when he was unceremoniously transferred smack midway from tackling the pandemic, Pardeshi had a good run in administration.While one year is a short time to assess his performance as the BMC chief, he seemed to have done reasonably well. As the city civic chief, he had focussed on completing ongoing infra projects, rationalising expenditure, taking up environment-friendly measures such as planning urban forests, incentivising BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) revamp and exploring more tourist venues for the entertainment-starved Mumbai. His 2020 budget included even a rather ambitious and lofty notion of a happiness index for the citizenry.And at the beginning of the pandemic, he seemed to be on a strong footing. Pardeshi took a stand to increase the number of tests and successfully did that in Mumbai (current testing stands at 7,000 per million). The city was also one of the first to start stringent contact tracing and undertake containment strategies to stop the spread of the virus. Things however, started going awry for the former civic chief, as the as the coronavirus cases continued to rise in Mumbai, breaching the 10,000-mark this week, with the disease curve refusing to flatten. It didn’t help that he did not get along with the state’s chief secretary, Ajoy Mehta, Pardeshi’s predecessor in the BMC.With increasing pressure from the Centre to tackle the pandemic in Mumbai better, and complaints increasing from various quarters on the ground against hospitals, testing protocols and relief work, the political leadership decided to shift out the sitting bureaucratic leadership in favour of newer leadership, said a senior bureaucrat.Sources within the state administration blamed the ongoing cold war between Pardeshi and Mehta, as one of the central reasons for the former’s transfer orders.“The CM was receiving complaints from various quarters about mismanagement in hospitals, testing protocols and overall confusion within the BMC ranks, as well as the apparent lack of co-ordination between the BMC and the state administration,’’ added a bureaucrat, who did not wish to be namedThis week, the lack of co-ordination between the state and BMC was on display, as the state government issued a notification on extending the guidelines in Maharashtra, amended it the next day to have it over ruled in Mumbai by the BMC chief the same evening. The BMC chief also amended his notification a day later after nudged by the state. The split within the bureaucrats in the state was evident for a while now. Earlier, a team of bureaucrats from the state, including Manisha Mhaiskar and Ashwini Bhide, were appointed as a part of the Covid-19 taskforce to the BMC.Leader of Opposition in the legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, said, “It has been evident for the past many days that there is no co-ordination between the state government and the civic administration and this was impacting on ground response to Covid-19. We had pointed this out to the CM in the meeting on Thursday. I don’t know if the war between Mehta and Pardeshi is over but it did expose the weak chinks in the administration and governance while tackling coronavirus. Generally, there is no precedent to undertake such transfers midway during an emergency situation.’’Thackeray, who gave a wide berth to the issue of transfer in his direct address to citizens on Thursday late evening, did indicate that he was upset over the incident at Sion Hospital this week, where patients were being treated next to a dead body.“This kind of shoddiness and mismanagement will not be tolerated in the hospitals,’’ he said.With Iqbal Chahal, former urban development department (UDD) secretary as the new civic chief, Mehta, it is said, has got his man to helm the BMC. With both, former Thane commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal and former Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) chief Ashwini Bhide, seen as competent bureaucrats, appointed as additional commissioners in BMC, Mehta hopes to bring in better co-ordination between the state and the civic body.Whether, this can in any way flatten the Covid-19 curve in Mumbai, is yet to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/praveen-pardeshi-out-split-within-bureaucracy-to-blame/story-0KiU0rKYpVKvZpNePFR7sO.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Laxmi Bai hospital closed as patient tests positive||Rani Laxmi Bai Hospital was closed for three days for sanitisation on Friday after a woman who came for treatment there, tested positive for coronavirus.This is a non-Covid hospital and the first government hospital to be closed under such circumstances.The destitute woman, who was mentally unwell and was brought here by cops on May 2, tested positive on Wednesday. Nearly 50 staffers of the hospital were put under quarantine, admissions were stopped and the woman was shifted to Lok Bandhu hospital, which is a Covid hospital. The staff under quarantine is in the hospital. All patients of the Rani Laxmibai hospital admitted here were shifted to other non-Covid hospitals gradually.The hospital has several departments including medicine, ophthalmology, cardiology and orthopaedics.In all, seven private hospitals in the state capital have been closed so far after patients admitted there tested positive for coronavirus. One of them in Mahanagar area was closed for three days on Friday. The emergency unit of KGMU trauma centre was also closed for 36 hours after a similar incident.“All staff under quarantine will be monitored and sampling will be done as per the requirement,” said chief medical officer Dr Narendra Agrawal. The hospital will now open either on Monday or even later if the number of staff is not sufficient to run facilities there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-laxmi-bai-hospital-closed-as-patient-tests-positive/story-5sW6hroXBcErslIOvsAzNO.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||No communication with families, Kashmiri students head home in worry||As many as 600 labourers and students of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) were evacuated from Chandigarh on Friday. Around 25 buses sent by the J&K administration had on Thursday night arrived in the city to evacuate hundreds of students and labourers stranded in the city amid the nationwide lockdown. One of the students Mohammad Saleem, 21, who hails from Baramulla district in J&K and studies biotechnology at DAV College on Sector 10 here, said he was not able to inform his parents about the evacuation due to suspension of internet and mobile services in the valley on Wednesday. These services were suspended after Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naiko was killed by security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday.Mohammad Saleem further said, “My parents don’t know that I am coming back from Chandigarh because I was not able to communicate with them since the day the communication was suspended.”A Panjab University student, Junaid Maqbool, who belongs to Kashmir’s Budgam district, said, “It will take more time to reach Srinagar than usual due to screening process going on at many places. My family was worried about my evacuation and now they don’t even know that I am returning.”“Though I have yet not been able to share the news of evacuation with my family, I have asked a known, who is already on his way to Kashmir, to tell my parents about it,” said Junaid Maqbool.Manager at JK house in Chandigarh, Dr Inderjot Singh, who is also the liaison officer for students in the region, said, “We have evacuated around 600 labourers and students from Sector 29, Sector 26 grain market, Manimajra and Sector 17 in Chandigarh.”“All the persons sent from here will be taken care of by their respective local administrations,” he said.However, later in the night mobile phone services were restored in valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-communication-with-families-kashmiri-students-head-home-in-worry/story-CUfIWW1Vs3pOlAb0CklJmO.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Maurya, Priyanka condole death of journalist in Agra||Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi have condoled the death of senior journalist, Pankaj Kulshrestha (50), who died due to Covid-19 infection in Agra on Thursday night.Kulshrestha, a senior journalist from print media was on ventilator support for 36 hours and breathed his last in isolation ward of SN Medical College and Hospital where he remained admitted for three days.In his condolence message, the deputy chief minister Maurya stated that he was deeply saddened by untimely demise of senior journalist Pankaj Kulshrestha and held it an irreparable loss for journalism.“Pankaj Kuldrestha (50) was a soft spoken and a sober man, leaving his mark in journalism and also setting an example for others while fighting his battle against Covid-19,” said Maurya while praying for eternal peace to the departed soul and also adequate strength to his family members to bear the loss.Deputy chief minister urged journalists, working in field as frontline warriors, to be extra cautious about their own safety and security while accomplishing their professionals tasks. He stressed on the need of self discipline in the fight against Covid-19 and also on maintaining social distancing while performing duties.Pankaj Kulshrestha was on ventilator support for 36 hours after facing respiratory distress, informed Dr Ashish Gautam, the nodal officer for Covid-19 treatment at SN Medical College and Hospital. “The journalist was under quarantine for some time and was admitted in SN Medical College and Hospital after his health started deteriorating. He was suffering from respiratory distress and fever, the common symptoms of coronavirus and was thus kept on ventilator for 36 hours during his 3-day day stay in the isolation ward of SN Medical College and Hospital,” stated Dr. Ashish Gautam.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also expressed her sorrow on demise of journalist Pankaj Kulshrestha in her tweet. She applauded the tough task being undertaken by journalists in these times of coronavirus outbreak and advocated an insurance cover for journalists in Uttar Pradesh beside financial relief for family members of the Agra based journalist.Kulshrestha is survived by his mother, wife and a teenager son.Meanwhile Agra continued to be on top in the state with 678 Covid-19 positive cases.“The total of Covid-19 positive cases in Agra district stands at 678 after 8023 samples taken till date. As many as 275 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after being cured. According to an audit conducted, there have been 19 deaths of Covid-19 cases. In all, active cases are 384 in Agra,” informed district magistrate Agra Prabhu N Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/maurya-priyanka-condole-death-of-journalist-in-agra/story-T3peSFax5YOAUzDvkj6btN.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||25 cases push Dharavi’s coronavirus count to 808||Twenty-five new cases of coronavirus were reported from Dharavi on Friday, taking the total number of cases in Asia’s largest slums to 808. This is around 7% of the city’s total tally of 12,142 coronavirus cases. The death toll in Dharavi also escalated to 26, with five new deaths reported on Friday. Despite the cases surging, this is for the first time in the past few days, that the number of new cases have been low, as Dharavi recorded around 90 new cases every day. With 222 patients recovering, the slum’s recovery rate is 27%.Meanwhile, the residents of Dr Baliga Nagar, where the first Covid-19 patient from Dharavi was found on April 1, heaved a sigh of relief as the area ceased to remain a containment zone.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G North ward, which comprises of Dharavi, said, “We have also released 38 other containment zones until Thursday. However, on Friday, 51 new containment zones were also added, taking the total containment zones/sealed buildings in Dharavi to 253.” The BMC has now chalked out a plan to open Mumbai’s first containment zone at Worli Koliwada. Sharad Ughade, assistant commissioner of G South ward, which comprises Worli Koliwada, said, “We have kept the koliwada under supervision, and have a de-containment plan for it. It will be released gradually.”G South ward recorded around 730 Covid-19 cases, of which 369 patients have recovered. Ughade said, “The situation is under control in Worli, and we do not have the kind of outbreak as we had in the first few days when the cases came to light. Every day, there are 17-18 new cases in the whole of the ward.”SION Hospital acting dean transferredA day after a video from Sion Hospital showing coronavirus patients lying next to dead bodies in a ward went viral, Dr Pramod Ingale, the acting dean of the hospital, has been transferred back to biochemistry department. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, the former dean of BYL Nair Hospital will now take charge of Sion Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/25-cases-push-dharavi-s-coronavirus-count-to-808/story-mviblfHDLCwFRcYwU1HqvI.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hallomajra man Chandigarh’s second Covid fatality||A man from Hallomajra was tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, two days after he died at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, taking the number of fatalities due to the disease in Chandigarh to two.Meanwhile, a 20-year-old woman from Maloya who tested positive after giving birth at GMSH was among 10 other Covid-19 cases that took Chandigarh’s count to 147 on Friday.Health authorities said the Hallomajra man, who remained unidentified till Friday evening, was referred to GMSH from the civil hospital in Sector 45 on May 2, with the condition of severe anaemia. He was also suffering from severe acute respiratory illness. He breathed his last in the intensive care unit of GMSH on May 6 and was tested Covid-19 positive on May 8. Meanwhile, while seven fresh cases, including a two-year-old child, were reported from the Bapu Dham Colony hotspot in Sector 26, a seven-year-old boy from Sector 40 also tested positive and a 35-year-old woman became the first patient in Sector 27. She had earlier reported at the flu clinic of GMSH and was tested for the virus, health officials said. While tracing her source of infection, the officials also found a lead from Bapu Dham Colony who had visited the patient’s house. She has eight household and four community contacts.Meanwhile, the new mother from Maloya has three family contacts at home and four family contacts in colony number 4 in the village. More worryingly, she has 35 community contacts.In last two weeks, the test positivity rate (TPR) of Chandigarh has increased from 3.8% to 10%. From March 18 to April 25, the city recorded 28 cases detected through tests of 734 persons, indicating a 3.8% positivity rate. However, after April 25, UT conducted 1,179 tests, of which 118 were positive, which means a TPR of 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hallomajra-man-chandigarh-s-second-covid-fatality/story-gVcsp9NqKh6fC7JtjdKSFM.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder writes to PM; seeks MSP of Rs 2,902 for paddy||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider fixing a Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs 2,902 per quintal for paddy and Rs 100 per quintal to be given as incentive bonus to check stubble burning. The CM has cited challenges faced due to labour shortage and the need for ensuring food security in view of the covid-19 pandemic.In his letter to the PM, the CM said that the state had already written to the Union agriculture ministry seeking the new MSP, as calculated by Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, against last year’s MSP of Rs 1,835 per quintal.“Given the need to ensure food safety in the time of the present pandemic, it is imperative that farmers may be given the appropriate price signal by announcing a remunerative MSP for paddy,” Amarinder’s letter says, adding, “It is unlikely that we will see much seasonal labour coming from UP and Bihar for paddy transplantation due to covid.” The CM expressed concern at the serious challenges this could pose for farming operations in the paddy season, besides leading to escalation in labour costs. He also underscored the importance of providing farmers a non-burning bonus at the rate of Rs 100 per quintal to meet their expenses in handling of paddy straw, thus preventing its burning. In this context, he also pointed to Supreme Court directions, asking the Centre and the states to work out an incentive structure to check paddy stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-amarinder-writes-to-pm-seeks-msp-of-rs-2-902-for-paddy/story-yMzUTqbXaIdlu1mwrHPICM.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Amid labour shortage, Punjab advances paddy transplantation by a week||Amid labour shortage caused by ongoing exodus of migrant workers, the Punjab government has decided to advance the start of paddy transplantation by a week from June 20 to June 13.The matter was discussed by the state cabinet on Friday and approved by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who is also in-charge of the agriculture department. A notification in this regard is likely to be issued on Saturday.Officials said the decision has been taken to facilitate staggered paddy sowing in view of the Covid-9 pandemic, when labour is scanty and social distancing protocol has to be maintained.Additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna said the issue was discussed threadbare and the decision to advance paddy transplantation was taken due to shortage of labour.However, the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), which drives the research related to the crops, has been educating farmers to prepare for start of transplantation at the stipulated time (June 20).The PAU was not in favour of changing the transplantation schedule keeping in view the acute fall of sub-soil water table across the state.“Water is important, but we also can’t afford to jeopardise a season’s crop when we are passing through tough times as a pandemic has engulfed the entire world,” Khanna said while talking to HT.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal had demanded advancement of paddy transplantation to June 1.Gunbir Singh Sodhi, a farmer from Ferozpur, said, “We are facing acute shortage of labour. We are not getting labour to transplant paddy saplings. Most of the labourers have left for their home states. We have asked the government to advance paddy transplantation by three weeks.”PAU vice-chancellor (V-C) BS Dhillon told HT that due to the unprecedented scenario, it was decided to take a chance this time with early transplantation. “This shouldn’t be made a yearly practice as water is precious,” he cautioned.By an estimate of the state agriculture department, 12.5 lakh labour heads are required to sow paddy in 30 days.Paddy is a major kharif crop in the state, which is expected to be sown over 70 lakh acre in the coming season.DSR VARIETY ON NOT MORE THAN ONE-THIRD AREA The agriculture department also decided that out of the total area under paddy in the coming season, direct seeding rice (DSR) variety should not be sown over more than one-third area. “No doubt, trials with DSR variety have shown good results, but the total area with the new method can’t be more than one-third of the total cultivated area. We have to be on a safe side,” said Khanna.1,386 WHEAT STUBBLE FIRES IN TWO DAYS Meanwhile, a sudden spurt in cases of wheat stubble burning on Thursday and Friday took the number of farm fires in the state to1,615 so far. As many as 722 cases of stubble burning were reported on Thursday, followed by 664 on Friday. “We never imagined the cases would rise so fast and farmers wouldn’t understand the gravity of situation, especially when coronavirus has also spread its tentacles,” said Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) member secretary Krunesh Garg.On Friday, most of the farm fire cases were reported from southwest Punjab: Bathinda (104), Barnala (85), Ferozepur (67), Mansa (48), Hoshiarpur (32), Kapurthala (28), Ludhiana (26), Patiala (23), Muktsar (21) and Fazilka (18).Additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna said he has asked deputy commissioners to act tough against the errant farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-labour-shortage-punjab-advances-paddy-transplantation-by-a-week/story-mECeYolt4LIgVl8mTInD7L.html
09-05-2020||City||Mumbai saw 26% of coronavirus cases in past 100 hours||The city saw 3,017 more cases – 26% of its total – in the past 100 hours, according to the data published by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). In this period, from May 3 to May 7, Mumbai recorded 194 new deaths. Also, by Thursday evening, 2,435 people were discharged from hospitals, bringing the percentage of recovered patients to 21.70.The city saw 411 cases on May 3, 510 on May 4, 635 on May 5, 769 on May 6 and 692 on May 7. The death rate stayed in the 3.83%-3.89% range in this period. Mumbai’s case count on Friday was 12,142, with 462 deaths.On Friday, Dharavi, India’s largest slum, recorded 25 new cases, taking the tally to 808 with 26 deaths. In the past three days, a team of 14 doctors has screened more than 15,000 people for possible coronavirus symptoms, of which 86 samples have been sent to the laboratory, said a BMC official.BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi, who was ousted on Friday, told HT on Thursday: “Coronavirus cases are increasing, but we have to check the doubling rate. The cases are now doubling in 10 days, which was earlier 3-4 days. The numbers are also increasing because a lot of pending reports are coming out now.”Dr Daksha Shah, deputy executive health officer, BMC, said more than 70% patients are asymptomatic. “The number of positive cases is increasing day by day because the BMC is conducting tests at a daily average of 4,000-4,500.At the same time, we brought down the death rate to 3.86%, which is near the national average of 3.35%.”She said most of the deaths are from the age group of 50 years and above. In this group, patients have comorbidities such as high blood pressure, cancer and diabetes.Meanwhile on Friday, the BMC cancelled its April 30 order and issued a fresh order allowing only 75% of its staff to attend office to maintain social distancing. The April 30 order made 100 % attendance mandatory for all employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-saw-26-of-coronavirus-cases-in-past-100-hours/story-KVC8MHtv51Qph48mWYGHWK.html
09-05-2020||City||Fresh case in Panchkula after 18 days, count reaches 19||Haryana’s Panchkula district reported a fresh Covid-19 case after 18 days, as a 44-year-old milk vendor was found infected at the congested rehabilitation Rajiv Colony near Sector 17 on Friday. It has taken the total number of confirmed cases in the district to 19, though 17 of the patients have already been discharged. The last case was reported from Pinjore’s Nava Nagar village on April 20. Civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said containment strategy has been immediately put in place at Rajiv Colony so that the virus does not spread further. “We conducted random sampling in Rajiv Colony, during which the case surfaced. The patient’s condition is stable and he has been been moved to the isolation ward of the civil hospital,” she said. “His five family members have also been shifted to the civil hospital for testing.” Dr Kaur said the man is into milk vending business in the colony and also runs a small confectionery shop.“We are identifying his contact list and accordingly quaratine exercise will follow,” she said.Congested colony a new challengePanchkula, like Chandigarh, got its first case in mid-March, but the number of cases did not spike after a family of nine in Sector 15 and seven people with Tablighi link were tested positive. However, Rajiv Colony poses a new challenge, even as the Panchkula health department and district administration have been strict in enforcing rules. It is a densly populated area, where social distancing is hard to enforce as people stay in very small houses, very much like Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for 60% of the UT’s cases.A health official, who did not wish to be named, said Rajiv Colony would definitely pose a challenge as all resources need to be diverted to it to screen individuals, identify high risk persons and restrict movement within the colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fresh-case-in-panchkula-after-18-days-count-reaches-19/story-GraoFWJVzKy5gYcdgvKerM.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Prayagraj: District court opens after 48 days; no signs social distancing||District court of Prayagraj opened after for 48 days due to lockdown here on Friday. The first day saw just 55 bail applications being listed for hearing but no proper arrangements to ensure social distancing among lawyers or staff inside the compound was seen. “More than 500 lawyers were allowed entry inside campus though only 55 cases were listed for hearing,” complained many lawyers.An official with a temperature gun was standing on the main gate who was testing the temperature of everyone entering the compound.However, no arrangements were made to cross check whether any lawyer who was entering the compound had his cases listed before the court or not. Also, many were not even wearing any mask or covering their face as is mandatory as per set guidelines. “High Court had recently issued guidelines in which it was specifically said that only those advocates must be allowed entry inside court premises who had their case listed for hearing but no steps were made to ensure compliance. Anyone was allowed entry inside the compound after checking his temperature,” said advocate Manish Khanna, who practices at district court.On the other hand, lawyers in high court were facing another problem. Court administration had set up a temporary counters for e-filing of cases but due to the limited number of counters, infrastructure and staff, case filing was taking more than usual time and no arrangements were made to ensure social distancing among lawyers or their staff who were standing in queues.“I waited for more than an hour in the queue to file a bail application, it was an urgent matter but then I decided to return as neither social distancing was maintained in the queue nor any official with a temperature gun was there to check symptoms of COVID-19 in people who were standing in the line. I felt as if I am not only risking my life but also the life of my family member, “said advocate Susheel Tiwari, an advocate of Allahabad high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/prayagraj-district-court-opens-after-48-days-no-signs-social-distancing/story-8EZeSbkNesaGisMkqp4AkO.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: CBI gets custody of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan till May 10||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday extended the CBI custody of Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, arrested in connection with Yes Bank fraud case, till May 10.The CBI on Friday told the court that the accused when they left the city on April 8 for Mahabaleshwar, carried several mobiles which were of their employees and also of their relatives. The agency is now checking what these phones were used for and also if there were any exchange of emails or messages from these phones. The plea was objected by the defence lawyers.The court, however, after hearing prosecution granted custody of the two for two more days till May 10.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), which is till date not redeemed. It is further alleged that Yes bank had sanctioned loan to RKW developers, where Dheeraj is a director and the whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil. CBI has alleged that In return, Wadhawan allegedly “paid a kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-cbi-gets-custody-of-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhawan-till-may-10/story-Xdd7uSXZ6EvVaSt9FTtXQP.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Munde, Khadse, Tawde and Bawankule left out of BJP Legislative Council nomination||Sidelining party seniors including former ministers Pankaja Munde, Eknath Khadse, Chandrakant Bawankule and Vinod Tawde, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday nominated four candidates to the legislative Council polls to be held on May 21.Those who were nominated include `Dhangar’ leader (shepherd community), Gopichand Padalkar; Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP, who joined the BJP ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Pravin Dakte, Nagpur city chief of the party and Ajit Gopchade, a doctor from Nanded and president of BJP’s state medical cell. A BJP party communication confirmed the development.While Munde lost the assembly polls, Khadse, Tawde and Bawankule had been dropped by the party leadership from contesting polls. All the four leaders were hoping for rehabilitation and it was widely expected that at least one of them would get accommodated given that the BJP lacks experienced leaders in the Upper House.The selection of the candidates also indicates that the BJP top brass has endorsed state leadership led by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.“Fadnavis continues to have a say in the state matters. The nomination of these four candidates points to that. At the same time, this is also a signal from party top brass that it won’t overlook rebellion within the party. While Munde had held a mega rally in Beed, where she criticised the party, Khadse has openly voiced his discontent,” said a senior BJP functionary.Padalkar joined the BJP at the behest of Fadnavis and contested polls against NCP leader and incumbent Deputy Chief Ajit Pawar from his pocket borough in Baramati. Mohite Patil was promised MLC post last year when he joined BJP with his father, VijaySinh by Fadnavis.Datke, seen to be close to Union minister Nitin Gadkari as well as Fadnavis, has got an opportunity instead of Bawankule. This is despite feedback that the BJP lost some of the seats in Vidarbha in the state assembly polls as a direct result of dropping Bawankule, a `Teli’ community (one of the OBC castes) leader. Gopchade’s nomination has come as a surprise. He is from Nanded, where the BJP has fielded several leaders to combat Congress leader and former Chief Minister Ashok Chavan.Khadse post-state assembly polls had alleged that he had lost poll ticket due to Fadnavis and former minister Girish Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/munde-khadse-tawde-and-bawankule-left-out-of-bjp-legislative-council-nomination/story-tmspj3w3aY6bqMxXjDD2DK.html
09-05-2020||City||Miles from home, 90 Kashmiris stuck in Ambala wait for their chance to return||In hopes of earning livelihood for a family of five, a 32-year-old Jaiveer Dar from Kashmir’s Baramulla came to Ambala in November to sell shawls during the winter season. “Never did I imagine to be stuck here and exhaust all my profits over rent and ration,” he said. Migrants like Dar have been in this business for the last 15 years. Every year, they come to the district when winters are about to commence in November and return home in the beginning of March. With the lockdown imposed due to the novel coronavirus, around 40 Kashmiri shawl sellers have been stuck in the city.“We rent a room for a few months and roam around in the district selling winter clothes. This time, it was a good season and I expected to earn a handsome profit which would contribute to my family’s growth. But I’m stuck here and have exhausted all the profits. I haven’t been able to send home any money and my mother is a diabetic patient,” said Dar.“We have tried to meet the deputy commissioner (DC) at least thrice, but to no avail. We also tried to meet the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), but there was no response from her side as well,” he said, adding “We’re illiterate and don’t know about the online registration procedure. But a few locals helped us and we are expecting to receive a message.”On May 5, some local Congress workers met a group of migrants staying in Baldev Nagar and helped them by registering their details on the online portal for their travel-related permissions. District coordinator Devender Verma said, “We raised the issue before the administration and an IAS-ranked officer asked us to help the migrants in registering online. But they have not received any response yet.”Meanwhile, DC Ashok Kumar Sharma and Ambala city SDM Gauri Midha could not be reached for an official comment despite several attempts.50 STUDENTS STUCK IN MULLANAIn Ambala’s Mullana area, around 50 Kashmiri students, including 20 females, from different educational backgrounds have been stuck due to the lockdown. Most of them are studying at Maharishi Markandeshwar University (MMU), with some staying in the hostel and others in nearby PGs. Many have applied for travel passes with the district administration and the UT (Kashmir) administration, but they have not received any response. “A few students had managed to leave for their homes. We have been staying here since the lockdown was announced and most of us could not leave at that time because of pending assignments, exams and financial constraints. Earlier, it was very difficult to sustain and even get a proper meal. Now, the situation has comparatively improved, but we are broke and need to be with our families,” said Zahoor Abbas, 27, a research scholar at the university.He further said, “We have applied for passes with the district magistrate office and the nodal officers in Kashmir, but I feel that there is a communication gap between both the administrations. The officers in Kashmir told us that they are waiting for an evacuation order and the local officers told us that they are waiting for a response from Kashmir.”The chief warden of the university, JK Sharma, said that the students are yet to receive a response from both the authorities. “Our only concern is that whenever there is any evacuation plan from the authorities, we want our students to reach home safely. Till now, we are providing online classes and mess facilities to them,” Sharma said.‘PROCESS HAS STARTED, EVACUATION WILL TAKE TIME’Akhil Pilani, IAS, (under training) at the DC office said, “We met the migrants at the office and they have been registered on the state portal. There are a lot of registrations on the site at the moment, but their details have reached. We expect their return after a few days as the process to send migrants home is going on in phases.” He added that the same process will be followed for the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miles-from-home-90-kashmiris-stuck-in-ambala-wait-for-their-chance-to-return/story-c9PVmJnu1x2T12Mdx8PqsK.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||155 fresh cases, UP’s Covid-19 tally reaches 3,214||Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported 155 fresh coronavirus cases even as 137 more patients were discharged and four people died during the day, according to official data. The spike came after the cured patients had outnumbered the fresh cases for three days in a row. The total number of positive cases in the state now stood at 3,214 and the total number of discharged patients was 1,387, said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer.The state has reported 66 deaths till now. Among the latest deaths, one each was reported from Jhansi, Gautambudh Nagar, Meerut and Firozabad on Friday, a health department bulletin said.Agra reported maximum cases (36) on Friday followed by Gautambudh Nagar (18), Meerut (12), Ghaziabad and Lucknow (10) each among others, the same bulletin said.Since the Covid-19 outbreak, one death each has been reported from Prayagraj, Basti, Varanasi, Shravasti, Bulandshahr, Etah, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Mainpuri, Bijnor, Bareilly, GB Nagar and Lucknow, two from Aligarh, four from Mathura, two from Ghaziabad, two from Jhansi, ten from Meerut, four from Firozabad, six from Kanpur, seven from Moradabad and 16 from Agra, according to health department data.In all, 68 of UP’s 75 districts have reported cases till now, the same data showed. These districts include Agra (706), Lucknow (247), Ghaziabad (126), Noida (211), Lakhimpur Kheri (4), Kanpur (294), Pilibhit (4), Moradabad (120), Shamli (29), Jaunpur (9), Baghpat (21), Meerut (196), Bareilly (11), Bulandshahr (61), Basti (36), Hapur (54), Ghazipur (6), Azamgarh (9), Firozabad (184), Hardoi (2) and Pratapgarh (12).The other districts on the list are Saharanpur (205), Shahjahanpur (1), Banda (18), Maharajganj (7), Hathras (9), Mirzapur (4), Rae Bareli (47), Auraiyya (13), Barabanki (2), Kaushambi (2), Bijnor (35), Sitapur (22), Prayagraj (18), Mathura (47), Badaun (17), Rampur (28), Muzaffarnagar (26), Amroha (33), Bhadohi (2), Kasganj (4), Etawah (3), Sambhal (27), Unnao (3), Kannauj (7), Sant Kabir Nagar (30), Mau (1), Etah (12), Sultanpur (4), Aligarh (53), Mainpuri (11), Gonda (11) Shravasti (9), Bahraich (17), Balrampur (2) Ayodhya (1), Jalaun (10), Jhansi (20), Kanpur Dehat (2), Siddharthnagar (20), Deoria (3), Mahoba (2), Kushinagar (2), Amethi (5), Gorakhpur (3) Chitrakoot (3), Fatehpur (2) and Varanasi (78).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/155-fresh-cases-up-s-covid-19-tally-reaches-3-214/story-qe4Z7qGKmRgOgKigugnAfI.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic chief Praveen Pardeshi transferred, IS Chahal replaces him||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday transferred Mumbai municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi and two other additional commissioners amid the rising number of coronavirus cases in the city.IS Chahal will take charge as the new chief of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), while Sanjeev Jaiswal and Ashwini Bhide have been appointed additional municipal commissioners, replacing Abasaheb Jarhad and Jayshree Bhoj, said a senior official. Pardeshi will now take position as the additional chief secretary of the urban development department.The state government has been facing criticism for the rapid rise in cases, especially in Mumbai. Till Friday evening, Mumbai accounted for 12,142 of the state’s 19,063 cases. The Thackeray government is under tremendous pressure to control the outbreak in Mumbai, the financial capital of the country. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had recently expressed concern over the rise in cases in the state. Although Pardeshi and his team were seen as working hard to counter the outbreak, cases have been spiralling for quite some time. The decision is being seen as an attempt to show that the state government is taking tough measures. Pardeshi has a reputation of being a hard-working and efficient official and has handled several significant assignments, which is why Thackeray’s decision has surprised many in the state government circles. Before Friday’s developments, Chahal was the principal secretary of the urban development department. Jaiswal’s last posting was as the Thane civic chief, while Bhide was head of the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation, which is building the underground Metro-3. Both officials had been appreciated for their work during their previous postings.Jarhad has been appointed as secretary, relief and rehabilitation department, and Bhoj has been posted as managing director, Maharashtra Small Scale Industries Development Corporation (MSSIDC).A 1985-batch officer, Pardeshi was a key member of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s core team since he became CM in November 2014. Pardeshi took charge as the civic chief last May and held on to his post, despite the change in the state’s regime in November last year. Jaiswal, former chief of the Thane municipal corporation, was awaiting a posting, while Bhide was already working with the BMC as member of the task force to contain the epidemic. Jarhad has replaced Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, who has been posted as secretary, public works department. Chahal is a 1989 batch officer who was appointed as principal secretary of urban development department only in February this year. Before that, he was heading the water resources department as principal secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-chief-praveen-pardeshi-transferred-is-chahal-replaces-him/story-ygXRn4N03TuQIDd7H3N4eL.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||State inches towards 20,000 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Friday inched closer to the bleak 20,000 mark for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as it reported 1,089 new infections, taking the tally to 19,063. The state also reported 37 deaths, taking the toll to 731. Mumbai reported 748 infections and 25 deaths on Friday, bringing its case count to 12,142 and toll to 462. The state health department has added a disclaimer to the data it released, saying that 146 patients from Mumbai have been added to the ICMR data of cases on its portal on Thursday, but the reconciliation of that figure is yet to be done. It has also stated that since the collection of data is a progressive process, the numbers could vary.Of the day’s other deaths, 10 were in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Amravati. Seventeen of the patients who died on Friday were above 60 years of age, while 16 were in the age group of 40-59 years. The remaining were below 40 years of age. Twenty-seven of them had high-risk comorbidities.Expecting the state to cross the 20,000 mark on Saturday, it would mean the state took just nine days to go from 10,000 to 20,000 cases, after taking 53 days for the first 10,000. The mortality rate in the state stood at 3.86%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths is increasing, with 362 deaths in the past 10 days. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.35%.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 10,245 coronavirus tests and 1,089 people have tested positive, which is 10.62% of the total people tested. The number of tests in the state touched 2,12,350 on Friday. 1,92,197 of them were negative. 1,39,531 people are currently under home quarantine, while 13,494 are under institutional quarantine. 13,552 teams of health workers have screened 52.64 lakh people for suspected infection, after they came in contact with patients. 3,470 patients have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past six weeks. State has 1,139 containment zones earmarked for the strict lockdown owing to the high number of patients. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.Maharashtra breached the 10,000 mark on April 30, 53 days since the first case on March 9. The state took five days to cross the next 5,000.Meanwhile, the tragic rail accident where 16 migrant workers were mowed down by a train in Aurangabad on Friday morning led to a blame game between governments. The state government has blamed it on the Centre for the delay in response to the state’s demand for special trains to evacuate migrants. But at the same time, the authorities are facing criticism within for the failure of the district administration in putting migrants in shelter camps.“Allowing the migrants to walk on the highways and railway tracks was a big flaw in the system. They were walking for the past four-five days on the highways in the absence of means to travel back to their homes. They should have been given confidence about the travelling arrangements to return,” said a minister, requesting anonymity.Ruling Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have criticised BJP-ruled states like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, alleging that the states have been refusing entry to the migrants going back from Maharashtra. Congress leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said on Friday that that owing to the delay in permissions from other states, the evacuation has been delayed. “We have more than 10 lakh migrant workers who want to go back to their respective states. 32 Shramik trains have so far departed from various stations in Maharashtra, but a few states are not giving permission as quickly as expected. The entire process of sending these migrants is intricate and time-consuming and needs quick response from the receiving states,” Thorat said.An expert committee of bureaucrats, including retired IAS officers, constituted to suggest the steps for the revival of the state economy, submitted its report to the state government on Friday. The committee said it will help boost business activities. It has suggested a list to be based on activities precluding social distancing and the activities that are not very critical for economy. “The demarcation of containment zones should be done in a granular manner. Sector and activities must be opened to a maximum across non-containment zones. A robust web-based monitoring mechanism must be enabled to ensure adherence to these guidelines of lockdown,” the report believably states.The committee has also recommended emphasis on Mumbai by launching a special project to re-start the state economy and has also suggested a special programme to support vulnerable groups like street venders, drivers, self-employed service providers. It has also recommended addressing individual sectors and activities and new business classes. Deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar said that report will now be kept before the state cabinet for a final nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-inches-towards-20-000-covid-19-cases/story-4d8dbkwo2QrlHo0Wk1pf1J.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Active Covid-19 cases declining in UP: Govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday said the number of active Covid-19 patients was coming down in Uttar Pradesh. There were 1,939 active cases in the state on May 4 but the number fell to 1,862 on May 5, 1,831 on May 6 and 1,821 on May 8, principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Friday.The figures clearly indicated that the state government’s effort to check the spread of coronavirus was paying dividends, he said. The 40.9% recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in UP was higher than the national average of 29.35%, he added. So far, 60,147 surveillance teams of the health department surveyed 50.48 lakh houses and 2.53 crore people, he said. While 1,885 people are admitted in isolation wards, 9,575 people are in quarantine wards in hospitals, the principal secretary said.Till now, 1,16, 030 samples were tested in government and private laboratories in the state. On Thursday alone, 4,848 samples were sent for laboratory tests.The pool test of 1,779 samples was conducted on Thursday by dividing samples into 373 pools. Eighteen of these pools tested positive. In all, Covid-19 cases were reported in 68 districts while there was no active case in nine districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/active-covid-19-cases-declining-in-up-govt/story-UhTnlGhnYtreOABbichHVN.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Stay fee hikes, allow parents to make partial payments: Edu department tells schools||After days of confusion over the payment of fees for private schools across the state, the education department on Friday released a government resolution (GR) listing out guidelines for the same. In the GR, the department has asked schools to allow parents to make partial payments of fees for academic years 2019-20 and 2020-21 considering the current situation. Schools have also been asked to stay all fee hikes and have in fact been advised to reduce fees in cases where the expenditure has gone down due to the lockdown. The GR is applicable for all schools under the state irrespective of the board they are affiliated with. “Parent-teacher associations of the schools can be told about the status of spending and fees can be cut down with their consent. Similarly, parents should be allowed to pay fees online and schools should not insist on physical payments,” read the GR. “It is a good move considering that most schools are saving a lot on electricity and other maintenance-related work due to school closure. The question, however, is whether these schools would be honest enough to accept it and reduce fees,” said a parent from a Dadar-based school. On March 30, the education department had issued a circular to all the schools asking them to not insist for payments from parents. After the circular, however, several schools told their teachers that they could not pay them their dues as parents had not paid fees. With many teachers writing to the department to come up with a solution, it has now decided to allow schools to collect partial payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stay-fee-hikes-allow-parents-to-make-partial-payments-edu-department-tells-schools/story-4xKZ6Zcp2CRu0HZHv1uXvI.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid outbreak: Haryana chief secretary urges top bureaucrats to tighten belts||Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora has urged all administrative secretaries to explore austerity measures urgently by identifying the areas where the departments can squeeze the expenditure.According to the chief secretary, the economy of the state is enduring an “enormous setback” due to the lockdown and the state is facing an “unprecedented resource crunch.”Before the lockdown was imposed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Haryana was a revenue surplus state. Now, the state is struggling to release salary and pension on time. Till Friday, a major section of the employees, especially above Class-III, had not received the last month salary. In this backdrop, the chief secretary, on May 6, wrote letters to all the top-ranking bureaucrats, asking them to inform the finance department as well as her office by May 11 about the steps taken or proposed to be taken to reduce expenditure.“...I request all administrative secretaries to identify areas in which expenditure could be curtailed or rationalised by holding detailed discussions with your head of departments and all other officers concerned,” said Arora in her communication. The finance department will circulate comprehensive instructions on austerity measures to all the departments and autonomous bodies.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief secretary has said, “The state government machinery is functioning under extreme stress to provide relief measures. On the other hand, there has been a manifold increase in expenditure on account of upgrade of medical facilities...financial assistance and supply of free ration to the poor and stranded labour.”As per the letter, the state government has decided to take a slew of austerity measures to curb the revenue expenditure due to “extreme resource crunch.” Arora said: “The state government has imposed a ban on the purchase of new vehicles and has decided to defer all new recruitment for government jobs for a year.”The chief secretary has advised against purchase of luxury items such as air conditioners, expensive furniture, unnecessary domestic or foreign travel, promotional activities, including holding seminars/workshops in luxury hotels, expenditure on avoidable repair works etc “unless it is very essential.” “This will save scarce resources for priority and more productive use,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-lockdown-haryana-chief-secretary-urges-top-bureaucrats-to-tighten-belts/story-45elUXv6C4I0QhSRebYiNI.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Punjab CM to provide separate stay facilities to health staff||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday asked Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to intervene immediately and ensure safe and secure accommodation facilities for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff working at Covid-19 centres, to ensure that their families are not put at any risk.In a statement here, former state education minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said that it is depressing to see that the Punjab health department has not done its duty towards the medical staff who are dealing with the Covid-19 patients, by allocating rooms to them in hostels, guest houses and hotels.“Doing this will ensure that the medical staff and their families are not at risk,” he said. He added that this demand is being raised repeatedly, but since state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu seems resistant to it, the chief minister should intervene in the matter, immediately.Dr Cheema said that many health workers do not have separate accommodation and are unable to maintain adequate social distancing from their near and dear ones, including small children and elderly people.He said that many health workers are even ready to live separately from their families, keeping in view the need for safety. They should be provided alternate accommodation by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-asks-punjab-cm-to-provide-separate-stay-facilities-to-health-staff/story-ebad06TyrvbOcwVQixmg8I.html
09-05-2020||Lucknow||Now, UP woos European nations for investment||Minister for MSME, NRI, textile, investment and export promotion Sidharth Nath Singh on Friday interacted with 74 members of the European Business Group Federation, including the ambassadors of Italy, Belgium, Denmark and Lativa, through video conference.The interaction was part of the Yogi Adityanath government’s effort to attract those foreign companies which want to relocate to Uttar Pradesh from China after the Covid-19 pandemic.During the interactive session, Singh informed them about labour reforms, the progress of work at the Jewar international airport, set to be Asia’s biggest, and 11 other small airport projects to improve air connectivity in Uttar Pradesh.The minister also apprised the European delegates of the expressway projects designed to improve road connectivity across the state.Singh stressed on efforts being made by the state government to bring companies migrating from China to Uttar Pradesh.He assured the European delegates that all suggestions given by them would be implemented. During the session, the European Business Group president suggested creating a dedicated European Union desk in Uttar Pradesh for the convenience of European entrepreneurs.The state government has already decided to set up a dedicated Japanese helpdesk for assisting Japanese companies willing to relocate to Uttar Pradesh from China Representatives of companies like Coca-Cola, Dow Chemical International Pvt, IBM India, KPMG India, Microsoft Corporation, Panasonic India, PepsiCo and Red Bull among others participated in the webinar.In another webinar, industrial development minister Satish Mahana interacted with Moradabad Export Association, assuring it of early resolution of all its problems. The minister said revival of industry was the state government’s priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-up-woos-european-nations-for-investment/story-kL6EOq5A2ATGSTbaxzNQwK.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Pune city records highest Covid-19 deaths in single day||The city on Friday recorded 12 deaths of Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive patients, highest in a single day. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data, Pune city has reported a maximum of eight deaths in a single day which is on April 8 and April 23.On Friday the city also reported 99 fresh positive Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases caused due to Sars-Cov-2 virus.The death count due to Covid-19 in the city is now 137 and there are 2,245 active positive cases in the city, according to officials.Meanwhile, 61 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals, said officials. The total number of patients who have been completely cured and discharged is 732.Out of the 1,377 people admitted in the hospital, 76 are in critical condition including the 12 on the ventilator.The deaths reported in the city include that of an 85-year-old female from Yerawada, who was admitted at district hospital Aundh on May 7 and also declared dead on the same day at 10 pm. She was also suffering from bilateral pneumonia and diabetes.The second death was reported from KEM hospital of a 70-year-old female, a resident of Kasba peth who was admitted on Thursday and declared dead on the same day. Along with Covid-19, she was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome.The third death is that of a 76-year-old female from Ghorpadi peth which was reported at Sassoon hospital. The patient was admitted on May 2 may and declared dead on Thursday at 7:30 pm. She was also suffering from acute respiratory failure with cardiomyopathy, hypertension and COPD nephropathy.The fourth death was reported of a 59-year-old male from Nana peth who was admitted at KEM hospital on Thursday and declared dead on the same day, at 12:20 am. He also suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest.The fifth death was reported of 82-year-old female from Padmavati at Sassoon hospital. She was admitted on May 3 and was declared dead Thursday at 9:15 pm. She was also suffering from an acute pulmonary embolism, diabetes and lactic acidosis.The sixth death was reported at KEM hospital of a 48-year-old female resident of Nana peth. She was admitted at the hospital on May 4 and declared dead on Friday at 4:45 pm. She was also suffering from severe ARDS, pneumonitis and hypertension.The seventh deceased reported was a 67-year-old male from Padmavati who died at Rao Nursing home due to cardiorespiratory arrest. He had pneumonia with ARDS and hypertension. He was admitted on May 4 and declared dead on Friday.Another 48-year old, male, from Tadiwala road died at Sassoon at 9 am on Friday due to acute respiratory failure. He had pneumonitis, chronic kidney diseases and other morbid conditions. The patient was admitted on May 6 and declared dead on Friday.A 60-year-old male from Kondwa died at Bharati hospital due to refractory shock and MODS. He had pneumonia and was undergoing treatment since April 15 at the hospital.The tenth deceased was a 67-year-old female from Rasta peth who died at Jehangir hospital due to ARDS and MODS. She was undergoing treatment since April 22 and had bilateral pneumonia.Similarly, a 70-year-old female from Shivajinagar died at Naidu hospital due to ARDS and a 60-year-old female, who was diabetic, died at Aundh district hospital on May 7 at 4 pm, said, officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-city-records-highest-covid-19-deaths-in-single-day/story-q5s8IfcRmX2CezI5mFR9PO.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation to distribute ration kits to 70,000 families in containment zones||In a bid to limit the movement of people in containment zones, the Pune Municipal Corporation will distribute ration kits to 70,000 families in the containment zones, an official said.According to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, the main reason for the covid spread is that people form slum areas venture out to purchase essential items. Another source of the spread is community toilets.“To control the citizens’ movement in containment zones, we decided to give free ration kits. The door-to-door distribution of the kits will begin from Saturday. Each ration kit contains grocery worth Rs 800. These kits will have the PMC logo on it,” said Mohol.“We want people in the containment zones to stay indoors and not venture out even to buy essentials. We will distribute one lakh ration kits to 70,000 families in these areas,” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said.These kits will contain five kg of flour, three kg of rice, pulses, oil and other essential items that can last up to a week. Along with the kit, masks and sanitisers are also being distributed, he said.Mohol said that all the elected members contributed Rs 10 lakh from their ward development fund for this cause. The MLAs and MPs also contributed from their respective funds. “Earlier, the administration did not permit us to distribute kits free to a large population, but, as elected members we forced the administration to supply kits in every home as it would help curb the spread, said Mohol.”“The PMC has asked grocery shop owners to supply these kits at a fixed rate along with the packaging at a fixed rate. Instead of floating a tender for this initiative, the PMC is directly purchasing goods from open market as there is time constraint. Community workers and civic employees will distribute these kits,” added Mohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-distribute-ration-kits-to-70-000-families-in-containment-zones/story-VURXELFUfwwTnKAgHzLpYJ.html
09-05-2020||Mumbai||Superintendent opts for self-quarantine after his attendant tests positive||The superintendent of police (SP) at Arthur Road Jail self quarantined for 15 days after his attendant tested positive for Covid-19. About 77 inmates and 26 jail officials, tested positive on Thursday, a day after a 45-year-old undertrial was diagnosed with the novel coronavirus disease.The attendant is among the 26 jail employees who tested positive, said prison sources. Sources added that the SP has quarantined himself in the bungalow allotted to him inside the jail premises.“The attendant used to serve him food, tea and also did administrative duties like handing over files and documents. Thus, the officer needed to be quarantined,” said a senior police officer, on condition of anonymity. On Thursday, after results indicated that 103 people in the prison were infected , Sir JJ Hospital authorities took swabs of 200 more people at the prison, results of which are awaited.Jail authorities are yet to identify how the virus entered the premises, as no new prisoners were admitted since the first week of April, particularly due to overcrowding in the prison.“The possibility of the virus spreading via the civic cleaning staff, sanitisation workers, or through essential service providers who visit the jail cannot be ruled out,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/superintendent-opts-for-self-quarantine-after-his-attendant-tests-positive/story-gsC3v7fPCVwfyjWaESd7tJ.html
09-05-2020||Gurugram||Two vegetable vendors from Khandsa Mandi go missing after testing positive for Covid-19||Two vegetable vendors who had tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) allegedly went missing from Khandsa Mandi on Wednesday, the police said. According to the police, their samples were collected by a team of health officials last Saturday along with other people who work at the wholesale fruit and vegetable market.The police have lodged an FIR in the matter based on a complaint by a medical officer.The police said one of the vegetable sellers is from Haryana, while the other is from Uttar Pradesh. On May 2, a team of health officials had collected samples of multiple people for tests against the deadly disease.In the police complaint, Dr Rahul Aggarwal said that reports of 10 people, including the two suspects, whose samples were collected on Saturday came back positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The complaint said when the team of health officials went to the mandi on Wednesday to take the positive patients to an isolation center the two men were found missing. “The two men are roaming around freely and they might be infecting other people too,” the medical officer added in the FIR. “As precautionary measure, we do not tell the results immediately to anyone who tests positive for Covid-19. We do not want to scare them off. However, in this case, both men ran away even before they were told about their condition,” Dr Aggarwal said. Ashok Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Shivaji Nagar police station, said, “The men had tested positive for Covid-19 and have been missing since Wednesday. They are yet to be located and arrested. We are investigating the case.”A case was registered against the two suspects under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Shivaji Nagar police station on Thursday, police said.According to the health department, a total of 21 people have tested positive for Covid-19 at Khanda Mandi so far. The vegetable market was shut down on Tuesday for sanitisation and will reopen on Saturday.This is the second incident of a coronavirus patient running away to be reported since the beginning of May. An 18-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly running away after testing positive for Covid-19 and hiding at his relative’s house in Sector 10. According to the police, he also worked at the Khandsa Mandi as a vegetable vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-vegetable-vedors-from-khandsa-mandi-go-missing-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-wDxzorvXubgKCUn8RjVWJM.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Criminal action likely against 567 foreign Jamaat attendees; Indians to be released||The Delhi government on Friday said criminal proceedings was likely to be initiated against 567 foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat who were staying at various quarantine centres across the city, while it also started the process of releasing Indian members of the Jamaat.More than 3,000 Tablighi Jamaat members, who were evacuated from the Nizamuddin Markaz in mid-March, have been under institutional quarantine, after finishing their mandatory 28-day quarantine. On Friday, while 2,446 Indian Tablighi Jamaat members were allowed to start preparing to leave for their homes, trouble started brewing for their foreign counterparts, who too have been in the city’s quarantine centres.“Foreign members of the religious outfit will be handed over to the police for criminal proceedings as per law. There are 567 of them and all of them will face criminal charges since there were passport as well as visa violations. So, we are not going to release them yet,” said a senior Delhi government official. A second official in the Delhi government said that out of over 2,400 Tablighi Jamaat members who will be released, 191 are from Delhi.“The chief secretary today (on Friday) issued directions to the additional chief secretary (home) to ensure that the Tablighis of Delhi are released forthwith. Those from other states are being allowed to return via privately arranged transport as per standard operating procedure laid down by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA),” the official said . For those who are unable to arrange transport on their own, the Delhi government will provide them with DTC buses, with all necessary precautions, for their inter-state movement.“Today, there was no movement with regard to their release from the quarantine centres. The Indian Tablighis were apprised that they can leave once they have arranged for their own transport. They will have to give the vehicle number and the route to the district administration, who will issue travel passes after scrutiny,” the official said.“Indians from the Tablighi Jamaat are being released on orders. But foreigners related to Jamaat will be handled by the Union ministry of external affairs. This is because their visas have also expired and the matters is beyond the jurisdiction of the Delhi government,” Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said . Jain added that necessary orders have been issued for the release of Indian Jamaatis. A March gathering of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in Delhi has been blamed by health authorities for the spread of Covid cases across the country. As of Friday, Delhi had witnessed 6,318 cases of Covid-19. Of these, at least 1,080 are linked to the markaz.On May 3, Delhi’s health department had written to the MHA seeking directions for the release of the Tablighi Jamaat members citing “mounting pressures”.“Since a month has already passed after the completion of Markaz evacuation, the persons shifted from these masjids to various hospitals and quarantine facilities are restless to go back to their respective states/countries. As on today, all the 3,013 persons have not only tested negative but also completed more than 28 days of stay in hospitals/quarantine facilities. Administration is having a tough time convincing these persons for their extended stay, more so during the holy month of Ramzan,” Delhi secretary (health and family welfare) Padmini Singla had written to the additional secretary (UT), MHA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-446-indian-tablighi-jamaat-members-to-be-released-others-may-face-criminal-proceedings/story-CZyMPcQwGc5qfP6yClkSgN.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||By offering alcohol delivery, fake websites defraud many in Delhi||While the Delhi government is still considering whether or not to allow the home delivery of liquor in the Capital, the idea has already opened a window of opportunity for fraudsters who are cheating customers through fake websites that promise doorstep delivery of alcohol.Over the last few days, officials in the Delhi excise department say they have found about 20 incidents of people being tricked into making online payments for the home delivery of liquor bottles, which never arrived.On Wednesday, the department -- through its assistant commissioner Alok Kumar -- filed a complaint with the Delhi Police listing several fake websites that were offering the home delivery of liquor. “We have come across nearly 20 similar frauds despite the excise rules in Delhi not allowing any individuals or websites to sell liquor online, or accept orders for home delivery. There is no such approval from the Delhi government. We have filed a complaint with the city police, seeking registration of a case and investigation to nab such fraudsters,” Kumar said.The complaint has been forwarded to Delhi Police’s crime branch. “We have received the complaint and are looking into it. A first information report (FIR) would be registered as soon as we complete our initial inquiry,” said Praveer Ranjan, special commissioner of police (crime).Almost 20 people have been duped, each for varying amounts between Rs 1,000 and Rs 10,000, totalling to over Rs 1 lakh, the police said. A crime branch official familiar with the matter said that some of these websites came up in the last couple of days, soon after a discussion in the Delhi government started over the possibility of home delivery to reduce crowding at liquor shops and avoid the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The people running these websites promised to deliver alcohol, of different kinds and brands, within two-three hours of the orders being placed. However, after accepting online payments, no such delivery was made to the customers. When the customers tried contacting the cellphone numbers listed on the sites, they were either switched off or out of order, the officer cited above said, explaining the modus operandi.“The websites were also later found unavailable. Some people who were duped complained about the excise department about it. As many such complaints arrived, the excise department filed a complaint. We are trying to identify and nab such mischievous elements,” added the officer, who asked not to be named.Amit Singh, a student from west Delhi who was duped of Rs 1,760, said that he had seen a website link for the home delivery of liquor on a social media group. Singh visited the website and got in touch with its executive through online chat. The executive tricked him into believing that the government had authorised them to deliver alcohol. “They were charging double the original rate of the alcohol, attributing it to the tax hike and home delivery charges. I paid Rs 1,760 for six bottles of beer and shared the screenshot of the payment. He promised to deliver the consignment within a day. But it never came. I filed a complaint with the excise department,” Singh said.Liquor shops opened this week after a 43-day hiatus owing to the national lockdown, and have been overrun, with long queues, and frequent violations of social distancing norms.Though the home delivery of liquor has not be cleared yet, the Delhi government on Thursday announced an e-token system to avoid crowding. The tokens -- specifying the store and time slot for purchase -- can be procured from a web link (https://www.qtoken.in/) set up by the excise department, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/by-offering-alcohol-delivery-fake-websites-defraud-many/story-s8X7Te5IfX3gnpHMvjEvXM.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt may set up a web page, app for home delivery of liquor||The Delhi government is working on setting up a web page—and deliberating on creating a mobile phone application—to enable the home delivery of liquor in the Capital, as a measure to reduce the massive crowds outside the limited number of open liquor shops. With the scaling down of the lockdown measures earlier this week, people started thronging the few liquor shops open for business.“We are drafting a standard operating protocol. So far, the excise department has had three meetings on this with the chief secretary and at least one with the finance minister (Manish Sisodia),” a senior government official said on Friday.Another senior government official said, “The weblink is in progress but the app will need several technological changes. So, we require more time. The process would need to include a tie-up with a reliable payment gateway as well. The government has plans to launch the link by Monday.”On Friday, the Supreme Court observed that states should consider the indirect sale of liquor, either online or through the home delivery mechanism to ensure social distancing norms are not violated. So far, several states including Punjab, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal, have initiated the process of enabling the home delivery of liquor.Currently, the guidelines of the Union home ministry state that the e-commerce delivery of goods is limited to essentials (which does not include liquor) in red zones (all 11 districts of Delhi are red zones). Also, the Delhi Excise Act 2009 prohibits the buying and selling of liquor online.“However, a temporary provision can still be made under the ambit of other laws, such as the Disaster Management Act,” the official said.On Friday, the Delhi government also rolled out a web link with which it started issuing e-tokens, specifying the stores and timings, for residents to avoid crowds outside the shops and pick up liquor during allotted time slots.“Any person can apply for an e-token through the link ‘https://www.qtoken.in/’. His/her name and phone number will be required while applying. The e-coupon will be sent to the registered mobile number. With that e-token, the person will be allowed to buy liquor from the nearby shop,” a statement issued by the government read.Getting the tokens via the web link on Saturday, however, was a distant dream for most people with the page constantly reporting a ‘server error’. There were problems in the back-end too, due to which, a senior government official said, the excise department could not summarise the data on the total number of e-coupons issued on the first day.Government officials maintained that it was because of too much traffic on the page and the issue would be resolved at the earliest. Excise commissioner Ravi Dhawan did not respond to phone calls and messages for comment on the issue.Delhi has 864 liquor shops, of which only 172 have received permission to open so far, as they are ‘stand-alone shops’—which means they are not located in markets, malls and commercial spaces, which the central government guidelines prohibit for red zone districts.The government is open to the idea of allowing private liquor shops to operate too, but a survey by the municipal corporations showed that only 30 of them across the city qualify as ‘stand-alone’ shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-set-up-a-web-page-app-for-home-delivery-of-liquor/story-OhvACyJIQ787VCBhqSe2AM.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||RWAs cannot restrict activities allowed under relaxed norms||Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev on Friday clarified that government authorities and Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) are not permitted to restrict any activity allowed under the relaxed lockdown norms in the Capital. The clarification was issued in a new order in which Dev stated that no fresh or separate permission, including passes, is required for any activity, such as movement in private cars or two-wheelers.It reiterated that all rules and relations laid down by the government on May 3 remain intact. In cars, a driver and two passengers are allowed and no one is allowed to ride pillion on two-wheelers. No relaxations are allowed in containment zones. The clarification came in the wake of complaints from several quarters, where it was reported that RWAs were not allowing domestic helpers, electricians and other self-employed service providers to enter residential colonies or housing societies. The order also stated that all offices are allowed to operate, “irrespective of their location (except shopping malls)”, with 33% employee strength while the rest work from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rwas-cannot-restrict-activities-allowed-under-relaxed-norms/story-ytQeaj5WVtsw5A4W2n9J7H.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||234 Indians land in Delhi from Singapore||An Air India aircraft carrying 230 Indians from Singapore landed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on Friday morning, the first flight to land in the city as part of the Union government’s ambitious Vande Bharat repatriation programme. A second flight from Dhaka in Bangladesh, earlier scheduled to land in Delhi on Friday as well, was re-routed to Srinagar as all passengers on-board were from Jammu & Kashmir.While passengers who landed in Delhi said it took most of them only around 30 minutes to complete their medical screening, immigration check, collect luggage and clear customs at the airport, some complained of long waiting hours, and said there was no social distancing on board the flight.After completing their checks at the airport, passengers were sent to hotels around the city for mandatory 14-day quarantine.A Delhi resident, whose 74-year-old father-in-law and friend’s 68-year-old father were travelling, said the two left the airport only around 4pm, even though the flight landed around noon.“Their flight had landed before 12pm, but there was a long waiting time. My father-in-law has blood pressure problems and my friend’s father is diabetic. They had left Singapore at 8am. They said they were only offered a packet of biscuits, some chocolate and juice, a bun and some fruit during the flight. But nothing was given after the flight, even though by the time they reached the hotel, it was almost 6pm,” said the woman, who wished not to be named. She said after arriving in Delhi, the two men were put in separate groups, based on their home states. “Since both of them are old, we wanted them to stay together but one of them is from West Bengal and the other from Uttar Pradesh, and based on this they were sent to different hotels, in Dwarka and Noida,” she said.Some passengers also took to social media. One of them tweeted to the government of Rajasthan requesting deputation of an executive from the state at the airport. The passenger said that while there were representatives of other states, there was none from Rajasthan. He requested arrangements for him to be sent to Jodhpur, Rajasthan.However, according to special secretary (health and family welfare), Shilpa Shinde, who is also the nodal officer for the operation, the entire process “went smoothly”.“The passengers did not have to wait for long hours to get through the entire process. It all went smoothly. From the airport, they are being ferried in government buses to the paid quarantine facilities,” she said.Shinde added that the passengers were given an option to choose from a set of hotels, which have been roped in to set up quarantine facilities.An airport official, wishing not to be identified, said it took them not more than 25 to 35 minutes per person on an average for screening the passengers, escorting them to dedicated immigration counters for clearance, helping them collect their luggage and then reaching the triage area passing through the customs.At the triage area at the airport, the director-general of health services (DGHS) had deputed as many as 20 health teams, comprising doctors and paramedical staff, to conduct screening of all passengers.The CISF, which led the escort team, had also made additional deployment to streamline and expedite the process, officials said, on condition of anonymity. Senior officials involved in the movement of the passengers, requesting anonymity, said that most of them were taken to hotel IBIS and hotel Red Fox in Aerocity. Some opted for Le Meridian in Central Delhi.“We have received around 15 people so far and have readied dedicated floors for them with separate entries. The rooms have been kept minimal so that the dedicated housekeeping team does not have to visit them frequently,” said Meena Bhatia, general manager of the Le Meridian. When it comes to food, Bhatia said the hotel has kept the menu “close to home cooked food”.“Since they have been away from home for a long time, we are starting with fresh, homely meals for them which will be served in disposable boxes in their rooms. Because of the lockdown, we are working with limited services. To ensure our guests are comfortable, we are keeping in touch with them on WhatsApp. If they need anything, they alert us on WhatsApp,” she said.About 200 rooms at the Le Meridian hotel, 200 at Sheraton and 250 at Vivanta by Taj in Dwarka, have been reserved for the purpose, besides rooms at Red Fox and IBIS in Aerocity, Welcome Hotel by ITC and Red Fox in Mayur Vihar Phase 1. Rooms are being offered for prices between Rs 2,000 plus taxes and Rs 4,800 plus taxes, depending on the overall rating of the hotel and the choice of room (single or double bed).Sylvain Laroche, director of operation, Ibis & Ibis styles India said, the team at ibis hotel in Aerocity received 34 guests for quarantining on Friday. “While we continue to maintain the same structure with separate entry & exits paths, food served in takeaway boxes and delivered outside their rooms, we are also implementing new ideas like sharing the menu on their TV screens with no physical contact. As done in the past, the hotel team will be in touch with the guests via calls to check on them and ensure that their stay is made as comfortable as possible,” Laroche said. “We will be serving Indian/Chinese/Western vegetarian meals. In case there are any requests from these guests, we will look into it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-social-distancing-aboard-plane-long-wait-with-little-food-say-passengers-of-first-evacuation-flight-to-capital/story-0y8PQvGDH4SPDl1cnFHS8J.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||1,200 migrants leave for Bihar on 2nd special train from Delhi||Around 1,200 stranded migrants — men, women and children — left for their homes in Bihar from the New Delhi Railway station in a second special train arranged by the Delhi government on Friday afternoon.The train, senior government officials said, was headed to Muzaffarpur in Bihar, where it is likely to reach by Saturday evening. It will travel non-stop.The first such train had left Delhi on Thursday, taking 1,075 stranded migrants back to Madhya Pradesh. In both cases, the Central government paid 85% of the ticket price. The remaining was paid by the destination state (Madhya Pradesh) in case of the first train, and the origin state (Delhi) for the second train, a senior Delhi government official said.In the next couple of days, more such special trains are likely to leave for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.“The future is uncertain,” said Jai Kishan, a 20-year-old daily wager from Bihar’s Arah. Asked why he wanted to return home when the government had eased the lockdown and allowed people from certain sectors to restart working, he said, “I have to go home to see my mother and three sisters. I am the only breadwinner of the family… I have not been able to send money and they have run out of whatever savings they had. Right now, I can’t think of anything else.” Back in the village, he said, he has a small patch of land for farming. It is the time of harvest and he was anyway supposed to go home at this time, but had been stranded due to the lockdown. “I will think of other livelihood alternatives later… I don’t feel like coming back but, if need be, I will have to come again,” said Kishan, wiping his forehead with his scarf as the high temperature on Friday contributed to the discomfort for the travellers. But, most of them said that now that they were headed home, nothing bothered them any longer. Mohammad Amir, 29, who was a mason in a factory till recently, said the last one-and-a-half months have been very tough on him. “Earlier, we used to earn and have our meals with dignity. Here at the shelters, food is distributed to us like we are prisoners… I won’t come back now.” When the news broke about Friday’s train to Bihar, scores of migrants rushed to the station to get reservations done. However, they returned disappointed later on learning that it was under a state arrangement and one had to apply for the process. The news was circulated widely on WhatsApp which give them hope, said several migrants whom HT met at the New Delhi Railway station on Friday.Around 10,000 stranded migrants in Delhi, out of around 18,000 who are currently staying in shelters and temporary government-run centres are learnt to have applied under the government initiative that aims to enable inter-state movement of stranded people through buses and trains as per Union home ministry guidelinesA senior government official said, a large number of migrants decided to stay back, as of now, in the light of industrial and construction activities restarting to some extent this week .Delhi is also in talks with other states that include Rajasthan, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/relieved-say-migrants-as-second-special-train-to-bihar-chugs-out/story-0e46oh4IfU9J74fSAG4CCM.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||As MHRD announces new dates for CBSE exams, Sisodia says Delhi wasn’t consulted||While the Union ministry of human resources development (HRD) on Friday announced that the pending Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 10 and 12 examinations would be conducted between July 1 and July 15, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said the government was not consulted before the dates were announced, even as Delhi has the most papers pending across the country.Delhi had earlier requested the HRD ministry to cancel the remaining CBSE class 10 and 12 exams, saying it was unfeasible to conduct them under the prevailing circumstances. Sisodia had also asked the ministry to pass students on the basis of their marks in internal examinations.Schools across the country have been shut since the end of March, owing to the nationwide lockdown in place to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). All schools in the national capital were shut even earlier, from March 19. After HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal’s announced the new dates on Friday, Sisodia told HT, “I don’t think it’s a good idea. I had already suggested that the MHRD cancel the exams. It’s unfortunate that they have not even consulted us before taking a decision.”The maximum number of pending papers will be held in northeast Delhi, where exams were curtailed due to the communal riots in the last week of February. Exams for the entire country were postponed on March 19, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While the exams for 12 subjects of class 12 will be held across the country, the exams for class 10 will be held only in northeast Delhi. Overall, the CBSE will conduct 27 exams.A Union government official said that while the board and HRD ministry are keen that exams be held, the situation is an evolving one and will continue to be monitored.Significantly, while the HRD ministry and CBSE are hoping to get the exams conducted in July, there have been studies which point out that COVID-19 may not thaw completely by that time.Sisodia, however, said that AIIMS Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria had recently suggested there can be a possible peak in the Covid-19 curve in the city in June and July. “It’s still difficult to ascertain that what the situation in June and July will be,” he said.Meanwhile, principals of schools said that at least there is a clarity about the exams. “It’s a relief for students as well as for us. The kind of uncertainty we had in mind has gone. However, the CBSE has to come up with proper plan to conduct exams taking all precautions,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School in Rohini. The school is also a CBSE examination centre.Arsh Malik, a class 12 student at a government school in northeast Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar, said, “We were not feeling like studying till now because there was no clarity over dates. Now at least we can study with focus.”Many parents, however, expressed concerns over the move. “It’s going to be very risky to send our children for exams in the prevailing situation. We just hope things get better by July. There is already speculation of the peak in Covid-19 cases in July in Delhi,” said Mahima Khurana, mother of a class 12 student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-mhrd-announces-new-dates-for-cbse-exams-sisodia-says-delhi-wasn-t-consulted/story-Ml7TOcFjF0OUg5xO7Ty8VI.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster with Pakistan link among seven held with cache of arms in Kapurthala||In a major breakthrough, the Punjab Police have arrested most wanted gangster and drug smuggler Baljinder Singh Billa Mandiala and his six accomplices from Kapurthala district with a large consignment of highly sophisticated weapons smuggled from Pakistan.Billa Mandiala had close links with the now dead Pakistan-based Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) chief Harmeet Singh Happy. The police also recovered Rs 3 lakh drug money from the gang that reportedly smuggled consignments from Pakistan at different times through several modes, including drones.Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the arrests were made in a joint operation by the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) team from Chandigarh, counter-intelligence Jalandhar unit and Kapurthala police on Thursday evening. The accused were nabbed in Dadwindi and Mothanwala area under Sultanpur Lodhi police station. Billa, who hails from Mandiala village of Gurdaspur, has been a notorious drug smuggler, but it has now emerged that he had been involved in supply of arms for past few years.During preliminary investigations, Billa Mandiala has revealed that he was in contact with various Pakistan-based weapon and drug smugglers, including Mirza and Ahmdeen, and had already received many consignments of weapons and drugs from them, mostly in the Ferozepur area. Mirza was allegedly working as courier on Indo-Pak border for operatives of KLF.Others arrested in the operation included Sukhjinder Singh from Kamoke village of Amritsar, Kapurthala-based Mohit Sharma, Lovepreet Singh, Mangal Singh, Maninderjeet Singh Happy and Lovepreet Lovely of Amarkot village in Tarn Taran. Billa Mandiala was wanted in more than 18 criminal cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder and smuggling of weapons/drugs.All the accused have been kept separately as they are being tested for Covid-19 by a special team of doctors, police said.THE RECOVERYThe DGP said the police have recovered highly sophisticated arms and ammunition smuggled from Pakistan, from the accused.These include two 30-bore drum machine guns, three pistols (Sig Sauer made in Germany), two Glock pistols (made in Austria), two 30 bore pistols, one 32 bore pistol, one .315 bore rifle and 341 live cartridges. Besides, over Rs 3 lakh and 100 Australian dollars were recovered from them. Terming it as one of the biggest caches of highly sophisticated weapons from a criminal gang, Gupta said Sig Suaer pistols are used by members of US Secret Service. The police are investigating the role of militants in the supply chain of illegal weapons from Pakistan. A case has been registered against all the accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Arms Act at police station Sultanpur Lodhi, Kapurthala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-with-pakistan-link-among-seven-held-with-cache-of-arms-in-kapurthala/story-Y336KHPTcwtQc3LZKUnurL.html
09-05-2020||Chandigarh||Over 130 Haryana, Punjab illegal migrants in US to be deported soon||Nearly 160 illegal Indian immigrants, including 132 from Haryana and Punjab, will be deported from the United States in the coming few days. The US authorities have communicated the details of 161 Indian detainees to New Delhi for deportation following the initiation of air evacuation operations for stranded Indian nationals due to the Covid-19 situation. These details were shared by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) with the states following a recent meeting between foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and the top brass of Haryana and Punjab governments, top officials said.Officials who did not wish to get quoted said that there are 76 illegal migrants from Haryana and 56 from Punjab who are in the custody of the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at detention centres in Texas, Arizona, California, New York and Washington, and being readied for deportation. The ICE air operations, the air transportation arm of the US agency, facilitates the removal of aliens to destinations worldwide using air charter services.A ministry of external affairs (MEA) official authorised to answer media queries said the illegal migrants will be flown in by the US authorities. “Though the transportation of deportees is not part of the evacuation operation to bring stranded Indians back from abroad, the MEA is making all necessary arrangements, including documentation, for the arrival of deportees. The deportees will be put at the disposal of the respective state governments after their arrival and will have to undergo 14-day mandatory quarantine,” MEA’s press relation officer said. WHITE HOUSE ORDER ON REPATRIATION OF FOREIGNERSThe hastened deportation process is clearly the outcome of an April 10 executive order of US president, Donald Trump imposing visa sanctions on countries that deny or unreasonably delay the acceptance of aliens who are their citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents after being asked to accept those aliens from the United States during the Covid-19 pandemic. Such an action, the executive order said, created unacceptable public health risks for Americans. “The United States must be able to effectuate the repatriation of foreign nationals who violate the laws of the United States,” said the presidential order which will cease to apply on December 31, unless extended. The presidential order would apply to illegal migrants also, officials said.The US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) had earlier in March evaluated its detained population for high-risk cases to determine whether their continued detention was appropriate. Of this medical risk population, ICE released over 900 individuals after evaluating their immigration history, criminal record, potential threat to public safety, flight risk, and national security concerns. ICE’s detained population has also steadily dropped by more than 7,000 individuals since March 1, 2020 as a result of the decrease in book-ins compared to this time last year, combined with continued repatriations of illegal aliens, as per a statement issued by ICE. INDIA DETAINEES CROSSED OVER FROM SOUTHERN BORDERStatistics show that 92 Indian migrants were detained by US Customs and Border Protection personnel in Texas after making illegal crossovers from the southern border abutting Mexico. There were 21 detentions in New York, 22 in Atlanta and 22 in San Francisco. Oregon-based immigrant rights activist, Navneet Kaur who often works as an interpreter for the Indian detainees said that most of the asylum pleas of Indian detainees have been rejected in the past one year. “I have heard about only one positive outcome,” Kaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-130-haryana-punjab-illegal-migrants-in-us-to-be-deported-soon/story-iEtjooLzWEaq2incpGvbkO.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Pune-based Kabaddi coach, athlete turn tutors help aspirants crack police exam||A city-based kabaddi coach and his student-athlete are using lockdown time to help needy students with fitness, mathematics and general knowledge to clear the police recruitment test. Sagar Khaladkar is a coach at the Abhijeet Kadam kabaddi association in Kothrud and his student-athlete Siddharth Limhan is also appearing for the police recruitment test. Limhan believes there are many students who cannot afford classes due to high fees and is, therefore, sharing his proficiency in maths and general mental ability with other students. “We decided to give them a free of cost guidance. Khaladkar sir gave an idea and now it is benefitting to me as well. As I am teaching these students, it is also helping me revise the topics,” Limhan said.Limhan conducts maths classes thrice a week and focuses on general mental ability on other days. Khaladkar conducts fitness classes every day in the evening.“In one batch there are 15-20 students. It is a 1-hour class, and then I give them homework. There are many who don’t have proper internet and cannot join the class, so I provide them with notes over WhatsApp,” added Limhan. Khaladkar and Limhan have received a good response for this initiative and now they are planning to continue these classes even after the lockdown is over.“I have seen students who are eager to learn but could not go to classes, so we have decided, to help the needy students,” added Limhan.Khaladkar, has trained students since 2006, has always helped players in academics along with sports.“Job security is very important and players who are playing kabaddi mostly don’t have financial stability at home so I always tell them to focus on government jobs,” Khaladkar said.Many women players of the Dr Patangrao Kadam kabaddi team and players from Raigad district and Mumbai are also joining the sessions.Khaladkar posts updates on his sessions through Facebook which has given the duo a lot of traction. “Many times, we conduct conference calls and arrange various sessions from dietitians and even some players, who are now police sub-inspectors,” Khaladkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kabaddi-coach-athlete-turn-tutors-for-the-needy/story-uRxX1INKTGlA4hT9SG2oXJ.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment reimposes complete lockdown for next two days||The Pune Cantonment Board ( PCB) has reimposed complete lockdown for two days, on May 9 and 10 to curtail the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection in the Cantonment area.The area has witnessed a spike in the number of cases after which the Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO) issued an order declaring that the entire Cantonment area will be a containment zone.So far, 56 positive cases and one death have been reported from the area. While six persons have recovered, all others have been quarantined and are undergoing treatment. Kumar said the step has been taken to curb the outbreak. “The board has taken several steps to curb the spread of the disease and the health department is working hard to provide medical relief to the residents. We appeal to the people to stay indoors and observe social distancing, “ he said.Areas comprising Bhimpura, Modikhana, Dastur Meher road, Ghorpadi, Fatimanagar and Solapur Bazaar area have been reporting a rising number of Covid-19 positive patients.Vinod Mathurawala, elected member, said, “The board administration and elected members are visiting the localities to provide relief and succour to the area residents. Spraying of disinfectant is also underway and ration kits are being widely distributed so that residents stay indoors and maintain social distancing.”“The health department workers and hospital staff are also playing a very important role in providing relief to the Cantonment residents ,” he said.According to the board administration, only medical shops will be allowed to operate while all other business establishments have been asked to shut down. The district collector has designated PCB chief executive officer as an incident commander to tackle the emerging crisis like situation. Senior military officers led by Brigadier Kuljeet Singh, president, PCB, took stock of the situation and visited the affected areas and extended full support of the army authorities to the cantonment authorities in resolving the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-cantonment-reimposes-complete-lockdown-for-next-two-days/story-aJwqdfdq4AoQAv9vQCNoTM.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Implement 2008 law for unorganiser workers, says activist BJ Kerkar||In order to meet the challenges faced by labourers in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, city-based labour activist B J Kerkar has demanded the implementation of the Unorganised workers’ social security act of 2008. The act passed during former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s era mandated benefits for unorganised labour, mostly women, such as social securities, national minimum wage, and a smart identity card.“Our all India movement had demanded that each of the unorganised worker be provided with a smart card for identity, so that benefits could reach them whenever and wherever they may be working. Even that too has not seen the light of day till now,” Kerkar said.The 85-year old is the vice president of the Maharashtra state sarva shramik mahasangh and the general secretary of Insurers pensions association. Kerkar who has spent his life crusading for the empowerment and justice of the working class said it was high time that the provisions of the law for the welfare of unorganised labour were implemented, especially in these times of distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He noted that the legislation was passed by the Indian parliament in 2008 and much credit was due to the Arjun Sengupta commission for attempting to bring the unorganised sector of the economy into the mainstream.According to Kerkar, the commission had recommended technological, credit and marketing support for this sector and if accomplished, it would go to a great extent in solving the country’s major problems, like unemployment, backwardness and poverty.Kerkar regretted that there had been no implementation of the recommendations so far.The veteran labour activist said the central government had proposed a labour code for social securities which has been referred to a standing committee of parliament and has been pending since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/implement-2008-law-for-unorganiser-workers-says-activist-kerkar/story-D9OXn3N1Iq21uA7p9V6bgO.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Migrant workers leave for native places on foot||Many migrant workers residing in Pune began leaving for their native places on foot, cycles and motorcycles on Friday without caring for the lockdown, police action and COVID disease outbreak. Eyewitnesses said that they saw people with backpacks on two wheelers leaving as early as 3 am for their native places. However, none of them were stopped by the police or the administration.A family of seven labourers belonging to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh was found walking in blistering sun towards their destination near Lullanagar chowk . When inquired , the family members said that they were fed up with the lockdown and no state help forthcoming, they decided to scale the mammoth distance on foot.“ Idhar bhi marna hain and udhar bhi. Isse accha hain ki gaon jakar mare ( Whether it is here or there , we have to die. Its better that we die at our native place) ,” said Raju Paswan, one of the family members who carried a two year old baby on his shoulders covered in a piece of cloth.Another of his relative who identified as Sanjay Singh said “ We hoped that things will improve but nothing has improved. So we are going to Gorakhpur on foot ,” he said.Arunkumar Yadav, a resident of Baner who left for Moradabad on his two wheeler said “ There is no need to fear anybody. My parents need me as they are alone. Police and government cannot understand the problems of the people. Now we are on our own and we will reach our destinations by hook or cook ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/migrant-workers-leave-for-native-places-on-foot/story-VCqCNXeQZTC7wbRv7hrphK.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Pune civic body issues death certificates via email||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun issuing of birth and death certificates on an urgent basis through email for those who need it.PMC health chief Ramchandra Hankare announced the initiative and appealed citizens to use the online facility instead of rushing physically to the PMC office.Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC stopped the physical facility for issuing birth and death certificates to citizens from the Citizens facility centre (CFC) on April 1, 2020.However, it was found that many citizens required the death certificate for various services including pension, insurance and mediclaims.“The PMC is issuing death certificates for those who really need it urgently. The PMC is sending soft copy of the death certificate on email. Citizens can scan that certificate and produce wherever they need it,” assistant medical officer Kalpana Baliwant said.The civic body appealed to citizens that those who need the death certificates urgently should send an email on - birthdeathpmc@gmail.comAfter an examination of the urgency, a soft copy will be issued on the email from where the application is sent. For more information on online death certificates, the PMC has shared a number for citizens, 020-25508408.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-issuing-death-certificates-via-email/story-Wb2CGHiRJe7Q5eVK20s47O.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Pune civic body uses digital tools for uninterrupted learning in 274 schools||Due to the lack of clarity around opening of schools in the city, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has begun the ‘learn from home’ initiative for 70,000 students studying in PMC-run schools.“Edumitra, the mobile app has already been installed on each parent’s phone. The login ids and passwords have been created and the school board had also given a training to students on how to use the app and learn from home,” additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said. 186 Marathi-medium schools, 51 English-medium, 35 Urdu-medium schools and two Kannada-medium schools are run by the PMC administration. The ‘learn from home’ initiative has been started for all languages. According to a PMC official, 70 PMC schools have been turned into shelter homes for people living in high-density areas. Some schools have been reserved for migrant labourers. Considering these factors, the PMC decided to start the ‘learn from home’ initiative. “Through the Edumitra app, students can start studying for their respective classes. Even interactive sessions in English are on the app. For Mathematics, an interactive Math lab has been provided to students,” Agrawal said. Most students in PMC schools belong to the low-income group, but according to an official in the PMC education department most students or their parents have a smart phone. Before lockdown, teachers had formed Whatsapp groups for their classes, the Edumitra app link were sent in these groups which were successfully downloaded.The school board shared the numbers for a Whatsapp group to be created for parents who weren’t a part of the class group, the app link was sent to every parent. For increasing the reading habit among students, at least 1,000 books have been made available on the e-library. The school board claimed, 70,139 students have been registered online and the remaining will register very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-uses-digital-tools-for-uninterrupted-learning-in-274-schools/story-WzopGcnTCzHRE6TpanMC7L.html
09-05-2020||Pune||Almost all clinics, hospitals open in Pune despite obstacles, IMA writes to PMC||Indian Medical Association (IMA), Pune chapter, has written to Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad that almost all clinics and hospitals in Pune are open in spite of many obstacles.The IMA letter dated May 7 was issued after several private doctors protested about the notices received by them from the PMC warning stern action if their clinics were found to be shut during regular hours.The notices issued by Gaikwad said that the civic body had observed that many private hospitals and dispensaries were being kept closed. The commissioner ordered these hospitals and clinics to function normally failing which PMC would be forced to file an FIR (first information report) under section 188 of Indian Penal Code, 1860, the notices said.“Many members have expressed their anguish to IMA Pune about such notice without verification and the language used from your side. In fact, we expect some good words about these doctors practising for the cause,” the IMA letter signed by the chairman of its Pune action committee, Dr Aarti Nimkar, president and secretaries, Dr Rajan Sancheti and Dr Sunil Ingale said.While appreciating the hard work put in by the PMC to control the Covid-19 pandemic, the letter said that IMA Pune was also trying to contribute by keeping all clinics and hospitals running as per the civic body’s instructions.The IMA said that it tried to join PMC flu clinics, but had problems with coordination. They were, therefore, running at least three to four mobile clinics daily for needy people along with the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana (BJS).A helpline for people in need of medical consultation was also launched, the letter saidThe IMA said that during a meeting at the PMC on May 4, it was decided that personal protective equipment (PPE) would be supplied to private doctors by the PMC, but there was no progress on this assurance.There was also no progress on the District Coordination Committee that was supposed to be established in association with the IMA, as per the directives from the central government, the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/almost-all-clinics-hospitals-open-despite-obstacles-ima-writes-to-pmc/story-tyA8DouXAsC0ssfcmE9K9M.html
09-05-2020||Delhi||2 minors among 3 run over by car in Delhi’s Mundka||A car that was allegedly speeding in outer Delhi’s Mundka on Wednesday evening ran over three people—two 10-year-old boys playing on the street and a meat seller who tried to come to their rescue—the police said.The car dragged the two boys for a brief distance and they died on the spot while the 22-year-old meat seller succumbed to his injuries at a hospital, A Koan, deputy commissioner of police (outer district), said. The driver, 43-year-old Udayraj (identified by his first name only), abandoned the car and fled the spot, but the police apprehended him later. The public thrashed his friend, Rajeev (identified by his first name only), who was in the car, before the police could rescue him. “Rajeev, who works at a footwear manufacturing unit, was drunk. The car driver, however, was sober,” a police officer said.The family members of one of the dead boys are daily wage labourers. “His parents are so poor that they don’t have money to even buy food, let alone arrange an ambulance or any other vehicle to take his body to the burial ground. The local police took his body for burial in their emergency response vehicle (ERV) and pooled in money to provide the family with ration to help them for a few weeks,” DCP Koan said.The other boy lived with his family in the Lekhram Park neighbourhood of Mundka, the same area where his friend lived.“Around 3.30pm on Wednesday, the two boys were playing on the street in Murga Market near their home when a speeding Maruti Celerio car ran over the boys. A meat seller, Mahesh, who was near his shop at that time ran to save the boys, but he also ended up getting mowed down by the car,” another investigator said.The police said the car juddered to a stop and Udayraj abandoned his vehicle and friend to escape from the scene. He left an allegedly inebriated Rajeev behind.The three victims, meanwhile, were rushed to a hospital, but they couldn’t be saved.At Rajeev’s instance, the police were able to arrest Udayraj. “The duo had driven into Delhi from Bahadurgarh via an offbeat road. They were found to have flouted lockdown rules and have been booked under the Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a government servant),” the officer said.Udayraj, meanwhile, has additionally been booked for causing death due to negligence and rash driving, the DCP said. He runs a factory and lives in the nearby Geetanjali Enclave.While the families of one of the boys and Mahesh were able to cremate them, the second boy’s family had to approach the police for help. “Apart from providing them with our ERV to take his body to the burial ground, the local police also pooled in ₹7,000 for their ration. We have also promised to pay their rent in the coming months,” Surendra Sandhu, station house officer of Mundka police station, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/speeding-car-kills-two-boys-meat-seller-who-tried-to-rescue-them/story-KNAN2mCYlfKRq5l06Xi0WP.html
09-05-2020||City||Woman SHO seventh patient to recover from Covid-19 in Ludhiana, gets rousing welcome from police||Sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 17, has become the seventh patient in the district to recover from the disease.Kaur, 28, who is the Basti Jodhewal SHO, got a floral welcome from the district police department after being discharged from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Friday. She spent 21 days in the hospital and will now have to quarantine herself for another 14 days before joining duty.After being discharged from the hospital, the SI expressed gratitude towards the police department, her senior officers, and especially chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who contacted her through a video call and encouraged her during her hospital stay.Her father, Gurmeet Singh, showered flowers on the doctors who treated her.Kaur said she was confident she will beat the virus. “When I tested positive for coronavirus, I was more worried about my family and friends. Thankfully, no one, except my driver assistant sub-inspector Sukhdev Singh tested positive. He has also recovered now.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, PBI) Sachin Gupta, who reached the hospital to welcome Kaur, said the woman officer was a warrior. “She did not only keep herself enthused during treatment, but also motivated people by releasing a video and asking them not to be afraid of the virus and to take necessary precautions.”‘READ BOOKS, EXERCISED’About her time in the isolation ward, Kaur said she had not talked to her family members and friends as much in five years as she did during her 21-day stay at the hospital. “I exercised, read books and played ludo online with my friends to pass time in the hospital. I am now mentally and physically fit to serve the department and society again,” she said.Kaur was a primary contact of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli, who had tested positive on April 11 and succumbed to coronavirus on April 18.Besides Kaur, six patients have recovered in the district that has so far reported 125 cases. Five patients have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sub-inspector-seventh-patient-to-recover-from-covid-19-in-ludhiana-gets-floral-welcome-from-police/story-GES4XwGeaonhrsLJcFXOcL.html
09-05-2020||Pune||State government’s decision to promote students evokes mixed reaction||The wait to know whether university exams will happen or not in the state got over after Uday Samant, state minister for higher and technical education, on Friday clarified that all final year students will be appearing for exams between July 1 and 30. The first and second year students will be promoted to the next academic year. While Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has welcomed the decision, college principals in the city choose to differ.Prof Nitin Karmalkar, SPPU vice-chancellor, said, “We will be conveying to our students about today’s decision announced by the honourable minister about the university exams to be held in July. All queries and issues of students related to exams will be addressed. We are also taking steps to counsel students as we are going through a crisis situation and all necessary information will be provided to them. District-wise arrangements will be done from our side for students. An action plan for exams will soon be prepared and declared by the varsity.”Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said, “Today’s decision taken by the state government is good looking at the current crisis situation and it is according to the recommendations given by the University Grants Commission (UGC). We are planning for exams as per social distancing and precautionary norms. Exam halls that accommodated 50 students will now have seats for 25. Answer sheets and papers given to students will be sanitised. All these arrangements will be planned in our subsequent meetings.”Sanjay Kharat, principal , Modern College of Arts, Commerce and Science at Ganeshkhind, said, “After the announcement of exams to be held in July this year for the last year students, it is necessary for the university to start the implementation process. It is the first time in the history that students are going to be promoted for undergraduate courses. Once a student gets graduated there is a transcript of that student and if promoted is written on it then it reflects adversely on his/her career.”Anwar Shaikh, principal of Anjuman E Khairul Islam ‘s Poona College of Arts, Commerce and Science said, “We are a highly populated country and promoting students directly to next year is beneficial for some and not for others. I am getting calls from students demanding that even third year exams should have been cancelled. It means students are not willing to study and just want to get promoted. And students who are sincere about studies and career are disappointed. Exams should have been conducted for all the years in some format by taking precautions looking at the current situation.”Student groups have also welcomed the decision. Kuldeep Ambekar, president, Students Helping Hand, said, “Today’s decision announced by the education minister to promote the first and second year students is appreciated, but educational institutes to return the exam fees already collected from students. Clarity should also be made regarding students who have backlog subject or have failed in first or second year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-government-s-decision-to-promote-students-evokes-mixed-reaction/story-ndxb8ymhaRnzUVqT2Paz4K.html
09-05-2020||City||Bring migrants back with better incentives, salaries and guaranteed accommodation, say HT Chandigarh readers||Clear all their dues and salariesThe migrants are suffering tremendously due to the Covid-19 lockdown. In order to help them, everyone, especially the industrialists and administrations, have to ensure that all their dues and salaries, even for days not worked, are cleared. Any medical or financial help needed by them should be provided. They should also be tested for Covid-19 free of cost and leave for treatment should be with pay.Saikrit GulatiLet large-hearted Punjabis show others the wayAll administrations at various levels in different states and union territories should draw up a comprehensive master plan of paying bonuses to all daily wage/migrant workers to secure their future. Funds for their welfare should be spent from the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) especially created for controlling Covid-19 in India. Farmers and industrialists should come forward voluntarily to contribute to the fund. This would be real acknowledgment of the services provided by these daily wage/migrant workers to the farming or industrial sectors. In this respect, people of the state of Punjab, famed for their proverbial magnanimity, must come forward with a large-hearted initiative to show the way to the industrialists and the administrations. This would be a valuable lesson in national unity, humaneness, and social camaraderie.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhMake poor aware of welfare schemesThe government should ensure that industries offer full wages to labourers to enable them to provide food and shelter to their families. The poor should be made aware of the benefits they can enjoy under various welfare schemes. To sum up, no migrant should go to bed hungry without a roof over his or her head in a welfare state.Usha Verma, ChandigarhMajor stimulus package neededSteps by farmers, industrialists, local administration to secure the future of migrants and daily wage workers will yield little without a major stimulus package by the government to protect their interests and that of their employers. Prioritising halting of the exodus and workers’ return and rehabilitation can salvage the situation.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaMandatory savings a mustThe migrant story has been one of the biggest learnings of the Covid-19 pandemic. These are the people who build our cities, huge structures, keep our economy growing. Their lot has been the worst. The onus is now on the governments to ensure not just a minimum wage of more than Rs 20,000 for them, but also make sure the people hiring them guarantee the education of their children and provide them accommodation with adequate cooling, ventilation and hygiene. Most of them should be given financial advice and asked to put their savings in a bank mandatorily. Educating each worker to not have more children will also ensure population control. After one project finishes the contractor hiring them will also have to guarantee them work in other projects.TejeshwarProvide them with work and foodThe government should make every effort to ensure the workers stay put where they are and ensure their employers provide them work and food. Full salaries should also be paid to them during the entire duration of the lockdown. Industrialists, farmers and contractors, who hire them for work, should look after them like their own family members for these people have supported them when they needed them. Giving them advance payment, or a loan or gift to go back home or survive in this lean period can also help.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliSupports for migrants vitalThe first priority of the government should be to instil confidence in the migrants and daily wage workers by effectively supporting and feeding them till the return of normalcy, and persuade them to stay wherever they are. Focus must be on restarting construction and transportation activities, giving a fillip to industrial growth, and other miscellaneous services to ensure they get jobs.SC Luthra, ChandigarhComplete exodus will lead to catastropheA complete exodus of migrants will lead to catastrophe that will have a rippling effect on the entire economy of the nation. Their movement out of towns and cities spells total failure of the Central government in taking care of their needs. An exercise to make an estimate of their needs before the lockdown would have worked out. It can be done now.DP GautamWelfare of workers crucialThe government’s orders that migrants have to be housed within industrial premises if they are called in to work should be followed strictly with regular checks by authorities. Sanitised, cool rooms, clean toilets, bedding, hygienic food, every possible comfort for the workers should be ensured by the industrialists. The moneyed have no problems splurging on expensive cars and homes, so feeding the people who labour for them, making sure they are comfortable, should not be a problem. In fact, the industrialists should be proud to help improve the lifestyles of these people. They should also set aside certain percentages from their profits for their welfare.Richa Khullar, ChandigarhGuarantee workers’ right to a dignified lifeThe migrants and daily wage workers have to be treated with trust and compassion and for that the government must embrace the new “politics of responsibility,” guaranteeing their safe and healthy survival and an economically secure future. They have remained at the socio-economic margins of our society, silently supporting urban economies and languishing in invisibility. This crisis has made them visible so the time is ripe for the state to exercise its true responsibility of guaranteeing their right to a dignified life. To devise policies and provide services for seasonal migrant workers, the state needs to have a realistic statistical account of their number and an understanding of the nature of their mobility. The challenges are still complex and have to be fully addressed. They have to be provided work security, income and health facilities as well as clean and comfortable shelter. Pension policies also have to be created for them. Unless we view migrant workers as a dynamic part of a changing India, we will not be able to solve the problem of urbanisation.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhSocial security, good income should be prioritisedThe trauma that the migrants and daily wage labourers are going through is tragic. They have been left in the lurch and not given any priority. I don’t think it will be an easy task to get them back to work outside their home states in the near future. The nightmarish experiences during lockdown, including abrupt loss of livelihood, will haunt them for a very long time. The first priority of their employers and administration should be to win over their confidence. Guaranteed social security, good income and boarding and lodging arrangements will perhaps persuade them to come back.Paramjeet Singh, ZirakpurEnsuring their safe return can help tooMigrant labour is the lifeline of all industrial and agriculture activity, but due to Covid-19 everything is under lockdown, which has created problems for the labour force and left them without any financial means. People who hire them and Central and state governments should ensure they are provided all necessities. If they want to go home then their train and bus tickets should be paid for to ensure they return safely. Enough incentives should be given to them after the lockdown is over and the Covid-19 spread is controlled to ensure they will be able to secure their future and will find it worth their while to return to the cities.Avinash Goyal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bring-migrants-back-with-better-incentives-salaries-and-guaranteed-accommodation-say-ht-chandigarh-readers/story-uObDrfbI2EN6AZEqFFu2CN.html
