10-05-2020||City||Religious event held at Amritsar police station, social distancing goes for a toss||A station house officer (SHO) organised an event on the premises of the Kot Khalsa police station in Amritsar, defying the social-distancing norms imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak prohibiting gathering of more than 10 persons at religious or ceremonial functions. The religious function organised on Saturday morning was attended by nearly 100 people, including women and elderly people.A bhajan party was also called to sing religious hymns. In a video clip of the event, SHO Sanjeev Sharma is seen dancing to the tune of a bhajan with his fellow policemen some of who were not wearing masks. Social distancing norms were not followed either. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP licencing) Narinder Singh was also present in the event that continued for around two-and-a-half hours, it is learnt.Some workers of the Bharatiya Janta Party, Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress were also present on the occasion.Additional deputy commissioner (ADC-general) Himanshu Aggarwal said religious functions are banned in Amritsar. “I can’t verify the video clip at this time but it shows social distancing was not followed. We will bring the matter to the notice of senior police officials,” he added. SHO Sharma said the function was organised to distribute free ration to the needy. Whether he took permission for organising the event from the administration, he said, “I had informed my senior officials about it. Social distancing norms were followed.”ACP Narinder Singh claimed, “I repeatedly appealed to people for maintaining social distancing,” he said.Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh said he was not aware of the matter. “I will look into it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/religious-event-held-at-amritsar-police-station-social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss/story-NawAmdr4D799GusISEg2wK.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||North Delhi Municipal Corporation teacher who died last week had Covid-19||A 45-year-old employee of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation who died last week has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the civic body said on Sunday. Her husband had died of the disease on May 3 — a day before her. Both were being treated in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. Her first Covid-19 test had returned negative, north corporation officials said, without giving out any further details.The woman was a teacher employed with the north corporation. Spokesperson of the civic body, Ira Singhal, said, “We have passed the file requesting compensation for the teacher.” She was engaged in food distribution at her school in Jahangirpuri and therefore entitled to ₹1 crore compensation announced by the Delhi government for those working on the front line against Covid-19, municipal officers said.Corporation officials said she had stopped coming to the school due to ill-health at least 18 days before her death and so staff members associated with her didn’t need to be quarantined. “She had last come to work on April 18. Her next duty was on 25th, which she did not attend,” Singhal said.They are survived by two sons. The north corporation also said that one of its malaria inspectors in the Karol Bagh zone has reported Covid-positive. “He was taken to Lok Nayak Hospital on Friday and discharged after a preliminary check-up, and advised to isolate at home. At least 19 of his contacts have been traced, and all of them have been advised home quarantine. The Karol Bagh office where he worked has been sanitised,” Singhal said.So far, 16 health care workers working in three of the north corporation’s biggest hospitals — Hindu Rao, Kasturba and RBTB — have contracted Covid-19 and are under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-delhi-municipal-corporation-teacher-who-died-last-week-had-covid-19/story-F8P2MmSEf0TBSPd97dnggL.html
10-05-2020||City||Brought on production warrant from Amritsar jail, undertrial tests positive||An undertrial of the Amritsar Central Jail, which is packed with around 3,000 inmates, has tested positive for coronavirus after being brought by the police on production warrant.Partap Singh, who had been lodged in the jail in a robbery case registered against him in Tarn Taran district, was brought on production warrant by Chatiwind police for questioning in a murder case on May 6. According to the jail authorities, he had been living with around 200 inmates in a barrack of the jail. Chatiwind police station SHO Suhail Qasim Mir said, “Partap tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. He is now admitted to Guru Nanak Dev hospital here.”After coming out of the jail, Partap came into the contact of around 24 people, including two judges and four policemen. ADGP (jails) Praveen Sinha said, “This is the first Covid-19 positive jail inmate in the state that had been living in a jail for a long time. Earlier, three cases had surfaced but these inmates were those who were sent to the jails after being arrested by the police recently.”Earlier this week, Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, a dreaded gangster, had tested positive for the contagious disease in Gurdaspur, but his second and third reports were found negative. He was brought on production warrant by Batala police from the Patiala jail.Meanwhile, Punjab jail minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was not available for his comments despite HT’s repeated phone calls. Chatiwind police station SHO Suhail Qasim Mir said, “Four policemen had come into Partap’s contact. They have been isolated. As Partap is asymptomatic, we have requested the health department to go in for his retesting.”Partap was also produced in local courts twice — on May 6 when he was brought from the jail and later on May 8. According to a letter issued by a chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Amritsar, the copy of which is with HT, as many as 20 persons, including two judicial magistrates of first class (JMIC) and lawyers, had come into Partap’s contact during the hearing. Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said they have taken the samples of the two JMICs for testing and other persons have been called for testing on Monday. He said, “The doctors deployed in the jail have been directed to screen all those inmates who had come into the accused’s contact. After their screening, all the inmates will be quarantined for 15 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/brought-on-production-warrant-from-amritsar-jail-undertrial-tests-positive/story-Iswz35HO0jAf0RiMxzGFlO.html
10-05-2020||City||Covid-19: Implement new discharge policy to reduce load on hospitals: Docs to govt||The Punjab government should implement the new discharge policy for the coronavirus patients as proposed by the Union health ministry to reduce unnecessary load on Covid hospitals, doctors in Amritsar said on Sunday.The doctors believe that asymptomatic patients can be home quarantined for 14 days or can be isolated in Covid-19 care centres so that they can focus on severe cases in hospitals.As per the revised policy, mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic patients admitted to a Covid care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse monitoring. They can be discharged from hospital after 10 days of symptom onset and if they have no fever for 3 days, it says. There will be no need for testing before discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow home isolation for 7 more days.“Since hospitals are jam-packed with Covid-19 patients, most of whom are asymptomatic, the doctors are facing a difficult time to concentrate on severe patients. The asymptomatic patients are not being given any treatment in the hospital because they are healthy,” said Dr Shiv Charan, head of medicine department at Government Medical College and hospital (GMCH), Amritsar.“The government should admit only those Covid-19 patients in the hospital who are severely infected and have co-morbidities,” Dr AP Singh, dean, Sri Guru Ram Das (SGRD) University of Health Sciences.State health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, he said, “Punjab government is conducting meeting with union ministry about the new discharge policy. It will take two to three days to decide upon its implementation in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-implement-new-discharge-policy-to-reduce-load-on-hospitals-docs-to-govt/story-983bvTbHlW4ZhdFwGoSMRN.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||DU hostel asks 13 students to vacate hostel, backtracks after Union minister intervenes||The administration of a Delhi University hostel on Friday asked 13 female students from the Northeast to vacate their rooms and leave for their homes, notwithstanding the ongoing nationwide lockdown, prompting severe criticism and an intervention by a Union minister.Union Minister of state for development of northeast region, Jitendra Singh, intervened in the matter after the students wrote to the minister seeking his help. Following Singh’s intervention, the hostel authority on Sunday said it has allowed the students to stay back.The residents of DU’s North Eastern Students House for Women were on Friday asked by the hostel administration to vacate their rooms at the earliest, citing the fact that their contact with the mess will get expired by the end of this month. While other residents of the hostel had managed to leave for their homes before the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25, these 13 students had got stuck and are were staying in the hostel.The hostellers on Saturday had written to the minister seeking his help. On Sunday, Singh contacted the administration and tweeted about it saying, “Students from #Northeast in Delhi University hostel, please note. The issue that arose last night as a result of eviction notice to some of you to leave the hostel, has been sorted out. You can continue to stay where you are, comfortably and safely. Have spoken to VC #DU Prof YogeshTyagi.”Hostel provost Rita Singh also sent a mail to the students allowing them to stay back. “Please do not worry, we will help you in safe stay here till you decide to leave in a safe environment. We will try our best to provide you basic mess facility,” she said.The provost in her email said that one of their guards was sent for self-quarantine on Saturday after someone tested positive of Covid-19 in his locality. “We are worried about three other guards who are staying in the same area or colony. We have asked two gardeners to do guard duties. We are worried about your safety and security,” she added.The hostellers, on their part, appreciated Union minister Singh’s intervention. “It will be easier for us to stay in the hostel amid the lockdown,” said a resident. Hostel provost Singh did not respond to calls and messages for a comment on Sunday.Delhi University administration also issued a statement saying, “The residents of northeastern students’ house for women have been contacted and assured that the university is with them in the testing time. They are safe and secure in the hostel premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-hostel-asks-13-students-to-vacate-hostel-backtracks-after-union-minister-intervenes/story-LVyclyotvw9xiYHwZCBUBL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ministers to seek explanation from officers for liquor revenue shortfall||A day after Punjab ministers and state’s top officers, including chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, indulged in a showdown over excise policy in a pre-cabinet meet on Saturday, the ministers have decided to seek an explanation from excise officials for revenue shortfall. The issue will be raised with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at a cabinet meeting on Monday. This meeting had been deferred after Saturday’s face-off. The department is under the CM.There was a revenue shortfall of around Rs 1,000 crore at the end of 2018-19 fiscal. Last fiscal that ended on March 31, the shortfall was around Rs 650 crore.HT has learnt that the ministers would also oppose compensating liquor contractors for the lockdown, imposed from March 23, with vends remaining shut for 45 days, nine in 2019-20 and 36 this fiscal.“There is no justification to extend the current financial year into 2021-22 as it would spoil the entire revenue generation calendar. The idea of compensating contractors by giving them more time in the next year is not good,” said technical education minister Charanjeet Singh Channi.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal has also opposed this proposal. The department has also proposed to compensate contractors by reducing revenue targets by 10%, in proportion with the 36 days lost this fiscal. This will mean the state foregoing Rs 620 crore, as the annual target for this year was Rs 6,200 crore.“The loss this year, however, is huge. Of 750 liquor groups opened for sale, only 500 were sold, with the rest 30% unsold. Who will compensate for this loss which runs into Rs 2,000 crore,” questioned Channi. “The excise department wants the cabinet to give clearance to compensate contractors for 45 days. Why were the stocks not sealed when lockdown was imposed on March 23? Now, the department doesn’t talk of the stock audit. There are the reports that contractors have liquidated their stocks during the lockdown,” said cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Radhawa. “No one questions officers, revenue in other states is picking up and we are sliding down,” said Randhawa. Ministers want chiefsecretary to apologiseThe ministers have taken a serious view of chief secretary’s comments on Saturday and would seek an apology from him. He did not initially come for face-to-face meeting, and he turned up for it on the insistence of ministers. The ministers have also objected to this. “This shows he’s very arrogant and wants to prevail upon elected representatives. We want him to tender an apology,” said a minister.********************Strap/BlurbPunjab CM to chair cabinet meeting today after a show-off between ministers and state chief secy led to its deferment on Saturday; ministers also question proposals to compensate liquor contractors for losses incurred during the lockdown&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&QuoteOf 750 liquor groups opened for sale, only 500 were sold this year, with the rest 30% unsold. Who will compensate for this loss, which runs into Rs 2,000 crore?Charanjit Singh Channi, cabinet minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ministers-to-seek-explanation-from-officers-for-liquor-revenue-shortfall/story-o7BIkOVHKocid6ado8eeHP.html
10-05-2020||City||Punjab’s excise revenue growth from liquor has dipped under Cong||Patiala Even as Punjab’s politicians and bureaucrats are engaged in a turf battle over excise policy for liquor amid the pandemic, an analysis of data shows its increase in revenue from the trade (in terms of percentage) has dipped over the past two fiscal years. The period corresponds with the Congress taking charge of the government in March 2017. The state registered negative growth in excise revenue for fiscal 2018-19, collecting Rs 5,072 crore, against Rs 5,135 crore in 2017-18. For the fiscal-ended March 31, there has been a slight increase (2.5%) in revenue over the past year at Rs 5,200 crore. The figure of Rs 5,200 crore, however, is a whopping Rs 1,000 crore short of its target of Rs 6,201 crore that the state had set in the budget. The excise revenue from liquor was clocked at Rs 5,135 crore for 2017-18, against target of Rs 5,422 crore. Revenue dipped to Rs 5,072 crore in 2018-19, before dipping to Rs 5,200 crore (not the final figure) last fiscal that ended on March 31 this year. The state’s Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has listed out the data in its accounting reports. Even though the actual target were also not met in SAD-BJP regime, but there was significant growth of revenue.Some of the reasons for the dipping revenue are flawed policy, poor implementation and interference of politician-contractor nexus, sources said. Politicians never ask for actual realised revenue, ensuring that some in the officialdom take them for a ride, they claim.Contrary to negative cumulative excise revenue growth under the Congress, the SAD-BJP had recorded 46% growth cumulatively. Under them, from a base of Rs 3,000 crore in 2012, the revenue collection rose to Rs 4,796 crore in 2015-16.A state government official admitted, on condition of anonymity, “Even though the actual target was not even met in SAD-BJP regime, but there was a significant growth of revenue. They almost jacked up revenue from Rs 1,800 crore in four years of SAD-BJP regime. However, now either there is no growth, or negative growth. We are falling short of targeted revenue in budget by 15%.” Admitting that revenue collection had dipped and growth had halted, an official said, “We usually see a dip in revenue in an assembly election year. However, a dip every year is a cause for concern.”He claimed contractors had been able to manipulate policy, with liquor sold in large quantity in the state even during curfew and lockdown, and on top of that there was demand for relaxation. The official added, “The government needs to seal all liquor godowns and conduct a physical verification of stock. It must also be probed that how is an illegal distillery functioning in Khanna.”Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh, who holds the charge of excise and taxation department, could not be contacted for comments. Excise and taxation commissioner Vivek Partap Singh did not respond to repeated calls on his phone.***********************STRAP/BLURB Targeted revenue has also not been achieved, with just a slight increase in collection seen for the fiscal that has just ended, an analysis of CAG reports showGRAPHIC WITH RAVI PLEASE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-excise-revenue-growth-from-liquor-has-dipped-under-cong/story-AhwBWfPFv45gsyVAlMAOrK.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Focus on contact-tracing, better coordination: BMC chief to Covid task force||After two back-to-back review meetings on Saturday and Sunday with the Covid-19 task force in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) comprising top bureaucrats, senior most municipal officials, and assistant commissioners of wards, Mumbai’s new civic commissioner IS Chahal outlined a strategy to battle Covid-19 in the city which includes enhanced contact-tracing efforts, decentralisation of work to administrative wards, careful identification of high-risk contacts, better inter-ward coordination, and optimal usage of beds.A civic official said, “Two review meetings with similar agendas were conducted on Saturday and Sunday. All civic officials and top bureaucrats working on Covid-19 were divided in two groups for the meeting to maintain social distancing norms. Twelve ward officers attended the first meeting, and the remaining 12 attended the second meeting.”Chahal has asked the administration to increase the average number of contacts traced for each Covid-19 positive person to six people, from the present average of 3 people. Once these contacts are identified, they are to be moved to institutional quarantine facilities immediately and are to be closely monitored over 14 days, which is the number of days for incubation period of the virus according to the present official protocol. Chahal also asked officials to channel maximum efforts toward tracing high-risk contacts of positive patients. Saying that each assistant commissioner is equivalent to the municipal commissioner in their respective ward, the BMC chief said they have complete responsibility of all developments and activities in their respective wards. Assistant commissioners are tasked with delegating dedicated responsibility to ward staffers and ensuring the delegated work is done as per schedule. They have also been asked to conduct periodic review meetings with staff members at their ward, equivalent to the municipal commissioner’s review meetings for the entire city. The officials present in the meeting were told to “be aware of even the minute details of Covid-19 related developments and trends in your ward”, according to one official.After BMC earned flak for the incident at Sion hospital, wherein a video showing bodies of dead patients wrapped in black body bags were seen lying on beds alongside patients went viral on social media, Chahal told all assistant commissioners that the sole responsibility of everything that goes on in the hospitals under a ward’s jurisdiction lies with the respective assistant commissioner. The assistant commissioners have also been asked to look at bed management and ensuring availability of beds at each hospital.Regarding containment zones, Chahal has ordered result oriented management in each containment zone with fever camps and strict lockdown protocol. Each containment zone will get a ‘Covid warrior’ for better management of activities, including essential supplies. Local elected representatives will also be roped in for help.For inter-ward coordination, Chahal is known to have told assistant commissioners of wards, which are witnessing over-burdened usage of beds, to coordinate with wards where beds are available for better management. The city will also get new ambulances as BMC plans to give each of the 100 Covid centres in the city two ambulances each. All 24 wards will be individually reviewed by the new municipal commissioner in the upcoming week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/focus-on-contact-tracing-better-coordination-bmc-chief-to-covid-task-force/story-y3fZZFzUBtBVHZcyCGCQ5N.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia sends 22 students back to Kashmir||Around 22 students from union territory of Jammu and Kashmir stranded in the hostels of Jamia Millia Islamia on Sunday left for their homes in a special bus arranged by the University administration.In a statement issued on Sunday, the University said that students will be dropped till Srinagar from where the officials there will help them reach their homes .“Students belonging to Jammu & Kashmir staying in boys and girls hostels of the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Sunday left for their homes by a special bus arranged by the university. Two university guards are also accompanying students in the bus. These students were stranded in hostels due to sudden lockdown and could not go to their homes,” said Jamia media coordinator Ahmed Azeem in the statement.The bus was sanitised before it left the campus and thermal screening of thr students and staff members were done. “The students were provided with water, food packets, hand sanitiser and masks,” he added.The University had last week asked students stranded in the hostels to vacate rooms and leave for their homes, saying several areas near the campus had been declared Covid-19 hot spots. The University has already announced its revised academic calender according to which it will reopen only in August. The university is now making travel arrangements for the students of other states including Jharkhand, Bihar and Rajasthan and West Bengal. “We are in touch with the governments of all these states to decide how to send the students back to their homes,” Azeem said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/jamia-millia-islamia-sends-22-students-back-to-kashmir/story-Ch4fokypD7tlxzufas0L3J.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Need more testing: Scientists on social media||Scientists and researchers from prominent institutes flooded social media websites on Saturday with videos and posters demanding that more Covid-19 detections be conducted and better protective gears be given to frontline workers. This comes three weeks after state chapters of the India March for Science (IMFS) – an informal association of people from the scientific and academic community advocating increase in funding for research and scientific temper – wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In their letter dated April 19, the scientific community made eight demands and suggestions for strengthening India’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from asking for better protective gear for frontline workers and an increase in number of tests, scientists have suggested that science graduates be recruited for the job of exhaustive contact-tracing.On Saturday, IMFS launched a social media initiative to further emphasise their demands and suggestions. Eminent scientists from organisations such as the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER), and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) have posted short videos on social media sites reiterating these demands. “We have written to the Prime Minister, but there has been no response yet. However, some state governments are paying heed to our suggestions. Through this social media initiative we want to increase our reach and let people know of our demands and suggestions,” said Soumitro Banerjee, a professor from IISER Kolkata. As part of their suggestions, the scientists have offered their laboratories to state governments for Covid-19 testing. “Institutes, which have BSL2 (biosafety level-2) facilities, can get Covid-19 tests done if they have a real time reverse transcription – polymerase chain reaction (real time RT-PCR) machine. These machines can detect the virus from the RNA samples extracted from the patient’s swabs,” Banerjee explained. He said the West Bengal government has written to IISER Kolkata to use the RT-PCR facility for testing. “We are awaiting a nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the same,” he added.The scientists have also demanded an increase in funding for research in medical sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/need-more-testing-scientists-on-social-media/story-MuaqKWnQOQ4jVeCXNErmSO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Former dean of university instructions at Panjab University, Shankar Ji Jha, dies at 59||The former dean of university instructions (DUI) at Panjab University, professor Shankar Ji Jha, died here on Sunday. He was 59. A spokesperson for the varsity confirmed the development. It has been learnt that Jha suffered a cardiac arrest at his residence in Sector 14, and later died there. Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) have expressed grief at his death. In a media statement, the PUTA said, “We are shocked at his sudden demise and pray for peace of the departed soul. We have lost a wonderful colleague, scholar and friend. Great loss to the teaching fraternity at Panjab University.” Aside from being the DUI, Shankar Ji Jha was a professor at the Sanskrit department of the university. After serving as the DUI for two years, his term had ended on April 30 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-dean-of-university-instructions-at-panjab-university-shankar-ji-jha-dies-at-59/story-yaKmEYRvUb9IlS9TSMcEwK.html
10-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Poor internet connectivity, limited resources not a deterrent for these ITI students||Where there’s a will, there’s a way. Many industrial training institute (ITI) students across Punjab, who are residing in villages and facing connectivity issues in attending online classes, are exemplifying this proverb as they are taking the lectures while sitting on rooftops, under water tanks and even in fields. The online classes have been a big hit among these students. Majority of them said that earlier, they used to spend a lot of time on social networking sites, but now they make use of the technology to either study online or watch course-related videos.A student, Gurveer Singh, who is pursuing welder trade course from ITI, Gill Road, Ludhiana, said, “Earlier I was facing many connectivity issues in attending online classes. To resolve this problem, I was asked by my parents to check the connectivity at the rooftop and when I went there, I was able to join the lectures without any hassle.” “During free hours, I help my parents in the household chores, but at 10am sharp, I reach the rooftop of my house to attend online classes. I have told my friends residing in the neighbourhood to call me up only after 5pm as the internet gets interrupted if someone call up in between the online lectures,” the 21-year-old student said. ‘POOR CONNECTIVITY A HINDRANCE’Sandeep Kaur, who hails from Teja Kalan village, Fatehgarh, said, “I never miss online classes, but due to poor connectivity issues, the mobile internet gets disconnected several times while attending the lectures. I attend the classes atop the roof of my house by sitting under the water tank because the lectures begin at 11am and by that time of the day, it becomes very hot.” “But as I am very fond of this course, I have decided to sit on a brick under the water tank and attend the classes,” said Sandeep, adding that she is pursuing embroidery course from ITI, Fatehgarh Churian. Nowadays, she is stitching a kurta pyjama for a 10-year-old and will embed embroidery as part of an assignment given to her by her instructors. Lovepreet Singh, another ITI student, who hails from Barwali village, Mansa, said, “Due to the peak season of rabi harvesting last month, I helped my father and spent the entire day at the grain market daily. I do not want to miss my online classes, so, I used my phone for the same while taking care of the grains at the market.” Lovepreet is pursuing wireman trade from government ITI, Bathinda. The 19-year-old students said, “I joined this course this year as I enjoy attending online classes. I always read the material send by our instructors a day before the scheduled lectures so that I can have a better understanding while attending the classes online.”The directorate of technical education and industrial training, Punjab, started the online teaching process on April 14 with an aim to sustain the teaching learning process throughout the lockdown. The online classes are conducted for all 44 trades and the most popular among students are -- electrician, welder, fitter, turner, machinist motor mechanic, diesel mechanic, plumber, sewing technology, surface ornamentation and cosmology. ‘STUDY MATERIAL SENT VIA WHATSAPP’Additional director Daljit Kaur Sidhu said, “The e-learning material is sent to the trainees one day before the scheduled lectures via WhatsApp and the next day, the instructors take online classes of 40-60 minutes and give assignments to the trainees. The instructors also conduct a test every weekend to know the effectiveness of online classes.”For proper coordination of online classes, assistant director RP Singh, principal of ITI, Ludhiana, Baljinder Singh, and principal of ITI, Patiala, Varinder Bansal, send the trade-wise material to all heads of the institutes and supervise the online data.Principal secretary (technical education and industrial training), Punjab, Anurag Verma, said, “We started these online classes to engage students, otherwise, they would have missed the course. I must appreciate the team members, including ITI principals and teachers, who worked hard to prepare the online content.” “Now, the classes are running smoothly. At times, I also attend classes and take feedback from the students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-poor-internet-connectivity-limited-resources-not-a-deterrent-for-these-iti-students/story-UDas4RbVgD7F0JqDZ1ARjI.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||First Covid case in Byculla women’s jail||The Byculla women’s prison reported its first Covid-19 case with a 54-year-old inmate testing positive on Sunday. This is the second jail in the city to get infected after 103 people – 77 inmates and 26 staffers – at Arthur Road jail tested positive on May 7. A jail official said a doctor attached with the jail had tested positive a few days ago, but added that the doctor was on leave for more than two weeks and was at home when his reports came positive. According to the official, the prisoner was arrested by Kharghar police in a cheating case in 2017 and has not secured bail till now. It is still not certain how the woman contracted the virus. The woman fell sick on May 7 and was referred to JJ Hospital as her oxygen saturation level had fallen below 90%. Her first Covid test came negative on May 8, but as her condition did not improve, a second test was conducted on May 9 and it came positive. “The inmate was then shifted to St George Hospital where she is currently undergoing treatment” said Deepak Pandey, inspector general of police (prison).The prison houses several high profile inmates including Sheena Bora murder accused Indrani Bora, activists Sudha Bharadwaj and Shoma Sen who were arrested by Pune Police in 2018 for their alleged connection to the Elgar Parishad case. Byculla women’s prison is the only jail for women inmates in the city and also has a male barrack.“Byculla jail originally had a capacity of 262 inmates, but after construction of new barracks inside the jail, it has increased to 400 inmates. Currently, there are 325 inmates lodged in Byculla jail,” said a jail official.Last week, 276 people were tested in Arthur Road jail, of whom 103 people – 77 inmates and 26 jail staffers – tested positive for Covid-19. A jail official said, “All 77 inmates have been shifted to a quarantine facility in Mahul near Chembur under proper police protection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-covid-case-in-byculla-women-s-jail/story-oyj3LzUZufwbfQ7W9b1LPM.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi University mulls over open-book, online exams, passing 1st, 2nd yr students based on previous evaluations||The Delhi University (DU) is thinking about conducting exams only for final-year students while promoting first and second-year students on the basis of the scores of their internal assessments and previous semester’s exams, persons familiar with developments said, adding that the varsity’s examination committee has proposed to conduct final-year exams through the open-book, online process.The proposal, however, was criticised by several faculty members and students.According to officials, who asked to not be named, the newly-formed working committee on examinations, in a meeting Friday, discussed options for conducting exams amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The university had in March cancelled exams till further notice in view of the nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the disease.A member of the committee said that online open exams are under consideration. “The university is considering several options for conducting exams of third-year students. It will not be feasible to conduct exams for all students in DU in the present scenario. We have around 9,00,000 students, including those in the school of open learning (SOL) and non-collegiate women’s education board (NCWEB). Of these, over two lakh are in the final year and they are the priority now as they would need their results for admission to Master’s courses or for jobs. We are considering holding exams for only third-year students in the online mode,” the member said, requesting anonymity.The University Grants Commission (UGC), in its recommendation to universities, had suggested that educational institutions may promote intermediate-year students on the basis of their internal exams and last semester’s exam scores.Explaining the open-book format, an official, who asked not to be identified, said that the students can be allowed to use books or notes during the open book exams. “In such exams, students are evaluated on the basis of their understanding of concepts. We are yet to take a final call on this,” the member cited above said.While other central universities in Delhi -- Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Millia Islamia -- have already announced their revised academic calendars with details of examinations and admission, DU is yet to come up with a mechanism. The varsity has formed several committees to take a call on the matter. DU’s dean of students Rajeev Gupta said, “The structure of DU is very different and it will take us some time to decide on how to conduct exams for so many students. Besides colleges and departments, we have SOL and NCWEB as well.”A group of teachers on Sunday wrote to DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi opposing the proposal. “In the present situation, both the students and the teachers are struggling. The students are already stressed with online classes. This would add unnecessary pressure on them. The open-book, online exams need a totally different-patterned question paper. Neither students nor teachers have been trained for this process of conducting exams at our university,” said Pankaj Garg, one of the teachers who wrote to the VC, in his letter.The teachers suggested that the final year students should also be promoted based on the UGC recommendation. Meanwhile, a section of teachers suggested that exams should be conducted only after the situation becomes normal. “A big chunk of our students are from rural parts of the country; they do not have proper access to the internet. So any kind of online exams is not feasible for them. And it will be unfair for the first and second-year students if we do not conduct their exams. It is better that the university holds exams in a traditional manner only after the situation becomes normal,” said Rajesh Jha, a member of DU’s academic council.Despite several attempts, the varsity’s vice-chancellor did not respond to calls and texts for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-mulls-over-open-book-online-exams-passing-1st-2nd-yr-students-based-on-previous-evaluations/story-SFgyX4DBJzEE6aFKNwjQ3N.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||20% of city’s Covid cases reported in Kurla, Byculla, Andheri West||After G South (Worli) and G North (Dharavi) wards, three other administrative wards in the city have witnessed a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, with the count in each ward inching closer towards the 1000-case mark. Among the 24 administrative wards in Mumbai, those including areas of Kurla, Byculla, and Andheri (West) account for 20% of the total cases in Mumbai. While the city’s count reached 12,689 as on Saturday, the cases in these three wards tallied up to 2,544.The E ward (Byculla-Mumbai Central) has reported a total of 945 cases and 77 deaths; L ward (Kurla-Sakinaka) has 807 cases and 61 deaths so far; K West ward, which covers Andheri West, Versova, Irla, Juhu, Oshiwara and parts of Jogeshwari, has reported 792 cases and 30 deaths in total.These wards, which have dense slum populations, old buildings, and congested chawls, are likely to have witnessed a spike in the number of cases on Sunday as the city recorded 875 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 13,564. The ward-wise break up of cases for Sunday is yet to be released.The city also recorded 19 more deaths, crossing the 500-fatality mark. So far, the city has lost 508 people to the novel coronavirus.E ward, covering areas like Madanpura, Mazagaon, and Nagpada, has a significant number of Mhada-owned cess buildings and several congested chawls. The number of cases in this ward jumped from 466 on April 25 (the last time BMC released ward-wise data) to 945 on May 10. Civic officials said that on average, 30-32 cases are reported in the ward daily. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of E ward (additional charge), said, “We have intensified lockdown measures, are conducting fever screening in door-to-door surveys and increased the testing capacity because of which more cases are being found. The number of cases in the ward is reaching its peak and shortly, it will stabilise and start decrea.”However, local representatives say that the ward is being neglected by the authorities. Rais Shaikh, MLA from Bhiwandi and a corporator from Madanpura in Byculla, said, “It is utter chaos due to administrative mismanagement. The civic body is falling short on proper contact tracing and is responding slowly to symptomatic patients found in the ward. There have been cases where positive patients have not been isolated for days. This is a serious lapse and the authorities are not as bothered about the cases here as they are concerned for VIP areas.”K West and L wards, which comprise dense slum pockets and congested areas, are also reporting a rise in the number of cases. Ranjeet Dhakane, deputy municipal commissioner of K West ward, said, “We are identifying symptomatic and suspected cases in slums and shifting them to quarantine centres as much as possible. We have formed teams of BMC officials, police, local representatives, and NGO workers, and deployed them in containment zones for strict observation of social distancing.”Civic officials from these wards say that attempting to maintain social distancing in slum pockets is difficult. In the L ward, for instance, nearly 70% of its cases are from slum areas, an official confirmed. “The ward also has a significant number of migrant workers as several small-scale industries are housed here. We are providing food packets in these areas but the workers have no option but to step out to collect food. However, more than 400 health camps have been set up in the areas so far and fever screening is being conducted,” the official said.Cases in the neighbouring wards of G south (Worli) and G North (Dharavi) have crossed the 1000-mark already. Dharavi has reported 1,087 cases and over 1,000 have tested positive in G South. Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of G South ward, was unavailable for comment.Meanwhile, of the 875 cases reported on Sunday, 197 had tested positive on May 7 and 8 but were added to the tally later. Of 19 deaths (10 men, 9 women) reported on Sunday, 13 patients had co-morbidities. One victim was below 40 years and five others were above 60 years; the remaining 13 victims were aged between 40 and 60 years. BMC quarantines 331 Indians returning from London, SingaporeIndian nationals who landed in the city via two special flights on Saturday night and Sunday morning were quarantined at various hotels by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Of the 337 passengers who landed from London, 248 are from Mumbai, along with 53 from the Singapore flight. They will be quarantined for 14 days before they are allowed to go home. Another 33 travellers from the Singapore flight are from out of Maharashtra and have not received onward passes to travel home. They have been quarantined in Mumbai and if any of these passengers develop symptoms, they will be tested on the seventh or eighth day of their quarantine.Passengers are paying between ₹1,500 and ₹4,500 per day for accommodation based on their choice of hotel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-of-city-s-covid-cases-reported-in-kurla-byculla-andheri-west/story-MQJbfeSQUBJEQh5ETM3lIL.html
10-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records highest single-day spike with 82 new cases||Navi Mumbai saw the highest single-day spike with 82 new Covid 19 positive cases on Sunday. The total cases recorded in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is 674. Among the 82 positive cases, 21 are from Vashi, 20 from Turbhe, 14 from Kopar Khairane, eight from Airoli, seven from Nerul, five from Ghansoli, four from Digha and three from Belapur.Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “Most of the positive cases are of those working in Mumbai and their families or those related to APMC market. The APMC market will be shut from tomorrow. We are also appealing to those working in Mumbai to stay there for now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-82-new-cases/story-REokpcwqnEgs0g3C9gyGdM.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GMCH-32 to test all patients for Covid-19||The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 will be testing all patients for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure to ensure its staffers don’t pick up the infection.The move follows an in-house committee’s recommendation to test all patients after a 30-year-old operation theatre assistant from Bapu Dham Colony tested positive on April 24, following which nine other healthcare workers were infected and more than 150 other such workers were quarantined. The committee said all patients admitted to medicine emergency will be tested according to government guidelines. This includes patients being admitted to departments of psychiatry, obstetrics and gynaecology for childbirth and surgery and others requiring angioplasty or endoscopy.“The hospital administration has accepted the recommendations to save healthcare workers from infections. This also includes patients who are brought by the police and their background is not known,” said Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal, GMCH-32. With the implementation of the new hospital guidelines, sampling is also expected to increase significantly, for which the panel has stressed on the requirement of automatic extraction machines. The manual sample extraction process followed currently is cumbersome and automatic machines can remain in use even after routine medical services resume, it said. The brief standard operating procedure prepared by the panel states that the condition of the patients will be assessed in the emergency following which they can be tested.Another panel will now be coordinating the testing process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-gmch-32-to-test-all-patients-for-covid-19/story-m2Nb4HrTtg3IcHmk2A0qSO.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||‘CT scan of chest mandatory for Covid patients before discharge’||Following the footsteps of China, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made chest CT scans compulsory for Covid-19 patients during discharge, for better identification of any presence of the novel coronavirus in the body. Though CT scan is more expensive and also exposes patients to a low dose of radiation, it became popular among Chinese doctors in quickly identifying cases. The technology helps in identifying borderline suspicious cases, asymptomatic patients along with Covid-positive people, whose swab test reports came negative, said radiologists.“The CT scan can help identify small, patchy translucent white areas in the lungs that we call ‘ground glass opacities’. These cotton-like spots are indicators of the presence of Sars-Cov-2,” said Dr Natasha Nanda, a radiologist from Dr LH Hiranandani Hospital.The same observations have been made in the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital. Following which, BMC made changes in their discharge protocols. “According to experts, these scans help in ascertaining Covid-19 cases better. Thus, we decided to add this new rule of compulsory CT scan of recovered patients during discharge,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.In a recent study— ‘Correlation of Chest CT and RT-PCR Testing in Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in China’ published in journal— Radiology, stated that chest CT scan found 97% of Covid-19 infections. The study conducted among 1,014 patients in China also revealed that 48% of patients who had negative results on the swab test, actually still had the disease.Dr Nanda added, “It is important to do a CT scan on the patient before discharge even though the swab test is negative. If a doctor finds any white spots, it means that the virus is still active.”Many radiologists and epidemiologists also stated that the CT scan is safer for medical staff than collecting swab samples from suspected patients. “Collecting the swab can trigger coughing, making the technician or nurse more vulnerable to acquiring the infection. A CT scan is safer but it requires proper sanitation after each patient’s scanning,” said a radiologist from Nair Hospital. In China, considering the success rate of these scans in early and more evident findings, all fever clinics installed the machines. “For aggressive disease identification, we need to involve both swab tests and CT scans to ensure the highest authenticity,” said Dr Om Srivastava, a city-based epidemiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ct-scan-of-chest-mandatory-for-covid-patients-before-discharge/story-Wm5bOAfLV8ALVYZU40buKK.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD seeks CBI probe in ‘illicit liquor sale scam’ in Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday alleged that a constitutional crisis has erupted in Punjab with cabinet ministers expressing loss of faith in the government even as it demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the alleged “multi-thousand crore scam” involving sale of illicit liquor in the state during curfew by “distilleries owned by Congress leaders and their friends”. In a statement, SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “It was unfortunate when every state was doing its utmost to combat COVID-19, the Punjab cabinet was fighting with bureaucrats as witnessed in yesterday’s pre-cabinet meeting.”He said, “With the cabinet not trusting the bureaucrats and vice versa, there is a leadership crisis due to which Punjab and Punjabis are suffering. The Punjab government should stop questioning the Union government everyday to divert attention from its failures and tell the people why its leaders and their friends were allowed to loot the state exchequer.” Meanwhile, former deputy speaker of Punjab assembly Bir Devinder Singh also said that “sordid developments that emerged from the pre-cabinet meeting” has pushed the state into a constitutional crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-seeks-cbi-probe-in-illicit-liquor-sale-scam-in-punjab/story-mby6kKF44i229gBqXHOgMP.html
10-05-2020||City||Woman commits suicide; stepmother and stepbrother booked for abetment||Gurugram: A week after a 26-year-old woman allegedly hanged herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Sector 23A, the police on Saturday booked her stepmother and her minor stepbrother for abetment and for allegedly harassing and assaulting her. The police said the victim’s biological brother, a complainant in the case, had alleged that the victim had written on her body that she was leaving behind a suicide note in her room. However, the police said that the alleged note could not be recovered from the spot. According to the police, the victim, who was pursuing a post-graduate degree through distance learning, was found hanging at her house on May 2 around 10.45am. No suicide note was recovered at the time of the incident and the police had initiated inquest proceedings. The victim’s brother and her father, who is a police official with the government railway police, had gone for work at the time of the incident. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that the victim’s brother filed a police complaint on Saturday, alleging that his stepmother and his stepbrother had been harassing his sister for several years. In the complaint, the victim’s brother alleged that she was assaulted and harassed, which provoked her to commit suicide. “Our stepmother often reprimanded my sister, imposed restrictions on her and made her feel inferior. My sister had been upset for the past few months due to frequent altercations with my stepbrother and stepmother. She had confided to a relative that she was extremely upset. A night prior to her death, my stepmother had scolded her after an argument,” the victim’s brother stated in the complaint.He also alleged that his sister had written on her hand that she was leaving behind a suicide note in her closet. “I suspect that my stepmother and stepbrother have hidden the suicide note since they were the first to discover her dead body,” he alleged. The police said they were verifying the allegations mentioned in the complaint. Rajender Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Palam Vihar police station, said, “The suicide note is yet to be recovered. We are verifying the allegations and have initiated the probe. No arrests have been made so far,” said SHO. A case was registered against the accused under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Palam Vihar police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-commits-suicide-stepmother-and-stepbrother-booked-for-abetment/story-Zg6d86TdwLyCNIlqO8OfVJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Dust storm hits Gurugram, weather warning issued till May 14||Gurugram: Dust storms, light showers and gusty winds of upto 40kmph lashed the city on Sunday in a sudden change of weather. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday also issued a warning predicting extreme weather conditions over the next 72 hours.According to Kuldeep Shrivastava, spokesperson, IMD, the changes in weather had been foreseen about three days ago. “It is yet another western disturbance (WD), of which we have seen several over the past few months. The disturbance was accompanied by squally winds which went as much as 70kmph in some parts of the national Capital region, with hailstorms in isolated pockets.”Shrivastava added that the WD has significantly brought down temperatures in the city. From a maximum daytime reading of 40.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday, Gurugram on Sunday recorded a maximum daytime temperature of 36 degrees Celsius, according to IMD data.Light showers also had a positive impact on air quality in the city, with Gurugram’s air quality index (AQI) bulletin recording a value of 130 (in the ‘moderate’ category), down from 249 (in the ‘poor’ category) on Saturday.In Gurugram, “generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers” is expected to persist till at least May 14, according to the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city. As per the IMD’s weather warning for northwest India, “Thunderstorms and lightning with gusty winds up to 40kmph” are expected over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi next week, with a higher probability of extreme weather on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dust-storm-hits-gurugram-weather-warning-issued-till-may-14/story-WsKqQzxY5cFmRpcwApB9ZM.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Missing liquor: Anil Vij says case needs in-depth probe||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Sunday said a huge stock of liquor missing from a godown in Sonepat district is not an ordinary theft case and an in-depth probe is needed to uncover those involved in it.“This is not any ordinary theft case. Since when all this has been going on, with whose backing, from where the liquor was coming, how much excise theft took place as liquor from other states was also found, who all officials are involved, all this needs an in-depth probe,” said Vij.This is why I have recommended a senior IAS officer to head the SIT to probe the case, the minister reasoned.Vij said he has already recommended to the chief minister that the three-member SIT should be headed by a senior IAS officer for a thorough probe looking into all possible angles involved in the case.Vij has given names of senior IAS officers Ashok Khemka, Sanjeev Kaushal and TC Gupta, requesting CM Khattar to pick up any one of these officers to head the SIT or suggest a name on his own.Besides, Vij said other members of the SIT will be IPS officer Subhash Yadav and additional excise commissioner Vijay Singh.Meanwhile, a day after main accused trader Bhupinder surrendered before police, he was produced in a local court, which sent him in four-day police remand. Sonepat DSP (headquarters) Jitender Kumar said, “We will ask him how such huge quantity of liquor went missing from the godown. We will also investigate the involvement of policemen, excise officials and other traders behind this scam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-liquor-anil-vij-says-case-needs-in-depth-probe/story-EPyvwGfBADmTex4GefsfUM.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||Ggm: 60 lakh food packets distributed to the needy||Nearly 60 lakh food packets and one lakh dry ration packets have been distributed in Gurugram jointly by the district administration and non-government organisations (NGOs) till Saturday evening to migrants and underprivileged families in the district. The beneficiaries are being given flour, rice, pulses, oil and salt as dry ration, while cooked food is being distributed to the needy through the 24 relief centres that have been set up across the city, said the district administration.To ensure that the relief in terms of food and other materials reached the targeted section, authorities have also surveyed over 44,000 households to identify those who are in need of assistance both in cash and kind.Authorities said that 5,806,605 food packets and 97,164 dry ration packets have been distributed to the needy in the district till Saturday evening.The Haryana government on Friday said that beneficiaries of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY), those below poverty line (BPL) and other priority families (OPH) were being given five kilograms of wheat and one kilogram of pulses per member per month across the state, including Gurugram. The government is distributing ration free of cost for the month of April, May and June. For this purpose, supplies worth ₹154 crore have been given to the needy, said a spokesperson.“Food and dry ration are being made available to the needy and arrangements are being made to provide safe passage to migrants. Due to coordinated efforts, the procurement of wheat and mustard is also going on smoothly , This will benefit the farmers of the state,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner(DC), Gurugram.A spokesperson for the district administration said that while all efforts are being made to help the needy, an equal emphasis is being put on maintaining the law and order situation and curbing violations of the lockdown. In this regard, the district has witnessed 73 FIRs and an arrest of 1,099 people for violations.The data collected by district authorities revealed that fine of ₹63 lakh from the penalties imposed on violators has been recovered and 654 vehicles have been impounded since the lockdown was imposed. 1,415 vehicles were issued challans for violating rules and action was taken as per the rules, officials said.To facilitate the return of migrant workers to their home states, the authorities said that they have designated officials for this job and a standard operating procedure(SOP) has been put in place. “Workers from Uttarakhand and other states are being sent to their homes in a safe manner. Today 3,553 passengers boarded 110 buses and left for Uttarakhand after being screened by health officials,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-60-lakh-food-packets-distributed-to-the-needy/story-6icG25q6ZAnbNvaSU9iD2J.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||SC questions Haryana govt over remission policy||The Supreme Court has questioned the Haryana government over a policy of granting remission to life-term convicts aged 75 years or above, saying it appeared to be in “conflict” with a provision of law.The apex court has directed the state government to respond within two weeks on whether such a policy, which the court said appeared running counter to section 433-A of the CrPC, could be framed under Article 161 of the Constitution.Section 433-A of the CrPC also says that a convict shall not be released from jail unless he had served at least 14 years of the imprisonment, if he has been sentenced to life for an offence that entails maximum of death sentence or in cases where capital punishment has been commuted.The issue came up before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Dinesh Maheshwari which was hearing an appeal in a criminal case. The bench was informed about a policy which stated that on the occasion of August 15, 2019, the governor of Haryana had granted special remission to certain prisoners who were undergoing sentence.As per the policy, special remission could be granted to those, including male convicts of 75 years or above who were sentenced for life and have completed eight years of the actual sentence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sc-questions-haryana-govt-over-remission-policy/story-icRxfLZWOkzoozgKowd5VM.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||No new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram after 11 days||In what comes as a slight relief for the district after 11 days, no new case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was reported in the district on Sunday. The development comes after 16 new cases were reported in the district on Saturday, which was the second-highest spike in the number of cases recorded in a single day (after May 6, when 17 new cases were reported in the district). The last time the district reported zero Covid-19 cases was on April 30.The total number of new samples tested, however, recorded a decline on Sunday. Only 195 samples were tested for Covid-19 in Gurugram on Sunday against 239 samples tested on Saturday. A total of 7,796 samples have been tested in the district so far. Out of these samples, around 1.8% of them have tested positive for Covid-19.A total of 128 new samples were also collected on Sunday, of which 73 samples were sent to government labs, and 55 to private labs for testing. As of Sunday, the test results of over 421 samples collected from the district are awaited.With no new cases on Sunday, the district’s total count of Covid-19 positive cases stays at 142, up from 51 cases recorded 11 days ago. Of these, 78 are currently classified as active cases, and 64 cases have been discharged so far, according to the district health department’s daily epidemic bulletin. However, the state-level bulletin issued Sunday evening showed 91 active cases in Gurugram, with 51 cases recovered. Health department officials said they would investigate the discrepancy, which was likely due to a lag in processing district-wise data.Gurugram has the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana.Meanwhile, 11 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Sunday from the neighbouring district of Faridabad, bringing the district total to 95 cases. The highest number of positive cases in the state were reported from Sonepat, where 23 more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Bhiwani district reported three new cases, and Panchkula reported two new cases.Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, and Kaithal districts also reported one positive case each on Sunday, taking the state total to 703. Out of the total cases in the state, 300 people have recovered and five persons have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-new-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-after-11-days/story-4d28IELfw7wJor276fo3cL.html
10-05-2020||City||22-year-old Thane woman ends life||A 22-year-old woman killed herself at her rented house at Kopri in Thane. Her parents, who are fruit vendors, had gone to the market when she ended her life. The police did not find any suicide note. After they came back from work, they found their daughter dead. G Agarkar, senior police inspector of Kopri police station, said, “We are yet to know the reason on why she took her life. We will take her parents’ statements. We have registered an accidental death report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-thane-woman-ends-life/story-XzE3j5BtjlrG2YfUAPrdAP.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||CM tells factory owners to pay April wages, refuses to open borders||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday, in a video conference with people running city-based micro small and medium enterprises (MSME), asked them to pay workers’ wages for the lockdown period. The owners said they were disappointed by the direction as the chief minister also failed to allow inter-state movement.“Consider workers as your family members and you pay them the wages of the lockdown period as per the standing order of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) of the Union government,” said Khattar.He said the government on April 29 had announced an interest subsidy scheme, considering financial stress on industries, for the MSME to catalyse their revival. As per the scheme, Khattar reiterated, the Haryana government will pay the interest at 8 per cent a year for six months on the loan amount taken by the MSME from the banks, equivalent to ₹20,000/employee.The scheme, however, failed to satisfy those involved in MSMEs.Khattar also rejected a proposal to allow inter-state movement, especially to Delhi, after some industry owners raised the issue. “The government will continue to restrict the inter-state movement of people and will issue weekly inter-state movement passes for entrepreneurs staying outside the state (Haryana) so that they can come to Haryana, stay here to do work and go back home for the weekend,” said Khattar.“We raised the two issues — interstate movement and wages — with the CM, drawing his attention to the fact that the Gurugram industry owners are badly hit by these two problems. We requested the CM to allow inter-state movement passes and de-seal borers with Delhi. However, this issue has landed in court and we would like to be a part of the discussion as well, as, despite resumption of factories, border sealing has hit the business,” said JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association, one of the two representatives who attended the meeting.The labour department had sent a notice to industry owners on Thursday, to pay wages to workers by Monday.Pawan Yadav, president of IMT industrial association, who also attended the meet, said, “We do not want a rift between workers and owners, but we want the government to consider our financial constraints and help us accordingly. The government announced an interest subsidy for six months but that is not adequate to help us. We want government help in extending our loan tenure, at least by two years, such as from five to seven, seven to nine and likewise, as this will reduce the financial burden of every industry owner. We have brought this to the CM’s notice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cm-tells-factory-owners-to-pay-april-wages-refuses-to-open-borders/story-SQXn8vsTRWwfQm6OkTcOVP.html
10-05-2020||City||Vegetable vendor escapes after testing positive for Covid-19, comes in contact with 100 people; arrested||Gurugram: A 34-year-old vegetable vendor, who was found positive for coronavirus at Khandsa Mandi on May 4, was arrested on Saturday after he allegedly did not report to the Civil Hospital and remained hidden at his friend’s place at Hira Nagar in Sector 10. The man and his friend have been isolated at a quarantine facility in Sector 9, the police said.According to the police, the Hira Nagar house has been sealed, and the health department has placed all 20 people, including children, who were living there under quarantine and their samples have been taken.The police said that the suspect, despite knowing that he is Covid-19 positive, was roaming around freely and was visiting the market and grocery stores. He came in contact with more than 100 people, police officials said.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said that they are investigating the matter and trying to trace all the people who came in contact with the suspect.According to the police, on May 1, a team of health officials took samples of multiple people and shopkeepers at Khandsa Mandi for testing.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that when the results came on May 4, the team found that nine people, including the suspect, had tested positive for Covid-19. “The Civil Hospital staff informed him regarding his reports over phone and asked him to get admitted, following which he switched off his mobile phone and vacated his room in Sector 10A and took shelter in his friend’s house. He did not tell anyone regarding the test report,” he said.Sangwan said that the hospital complained against the suspect and a case was registered at Shivaji Nagar police station. “The case was handed over to crime investigation agency (CIA), Sector 17. The CIA team took out the suspect’s call detail records and checked about his whereabouts. After questioning more than 100 people, the team got a tip-off that he was living with his friend in Hira Nagar,” Sangwan said.The CIA team led by Narender Chauhan conducted the raid at the Hira Nagar house and caught the suspect. “He surrendered after seeing people in protection gear. We called an ambulance and informed the hospital regarding his arrest,” Chauhan said.During an interrogation, the man told the police that he was scared about being isolated, the officials said. “Once he recovers from the disease, we will take necessary action against him,” said Sangwan.According to the health department, a total of 24 vegetable sellers have tested positive for Covid-19 at Khandsa Mandi so far. The wholesale vegetable market was shut down for four days for sanitisation and had resumed operations on Saturday. More than 1,600 people in the mandi were placed under surveillance and 128 samples were taken, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetable-vendor-escapes-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-comes-in-contact-with-100-people-arrested/story-kjMVRoVAlUasNP7ijyDjlI.html
10-05-2020||City||Strong winds, rain hit Noida; mercury to remain below normal for next four days||Noida: Strong winds with an average speed of 74 kmph and light rain hit the national capital region (NCR) on Sunday, bringing down the day temperature in Noida and Ghaziabad by at least five degrees Celsius. Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the rainy conditions of lesser intensity may continue for a few more days. On Sunday, Noida received an estimated rainfall of 5 to 7mm, the officials said. According to the weather department, a strong western disturbance – a weather phenomenon that causes rains in the NCR – led to rains and winds in the region. The western disturbance will continue its effect in Noida and Ghaziabad for the next few days. While the maximum temperature of the region dropped by five degrees Celsius on Sunday, it is expected to hover around 35 to 36 degrees till Thursday (May 14), the officials said.“The NCR may see patchy rains for the next two days which will keep the temperatures under check. However, the intensity of winds will be lesser as compared to that of Sunday. Another fresh western disturbance is likely on Wednesday and Thursday, which will bring rains and strong winds of good intensity,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.He said that while the average rainfall in the NCR was 1mm, the rains were of higher intensity across the eastern part of NCR, and eastern Uttar Pradesh.“The average speed of the winds was 73kmph. So, we can expect it to be higher in some places like Noida and Ghaziabad,” Srivastava added.On Sunday, the maximum temperature in the region was 35.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below the season’s average, against 40.9 degrees a day earlier which was two notches below the season’s average. The minimum temperature was recorded at 27.1 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier.“The region is expected to see some patchy rains on Monday and Tuesday as well. The wind speed may drop to 30 kmph. However, the temperatures will remain below the season’s average,” said Mahesh Palawat, director of Skymet, a private weather forecaster.Meanwhile, complaints of disruption in power supply were reported from some parts of Noida, including Sector 92 and surrounding areas following the heavy winds and rains, power department officials said.“We did receive complaints of fault in power lines at a few places in Noida. It could have been due to rains. We are looking into it,” said VN Singh, chief engineer, Paschimanchal Vidhyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strong-winds-rain-hit-noida-mercury-to-remain-below-normal-for-next-four-days/story-hAwTt2PpfrJEJDBsWQAdSP.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Missing liquor case: Main accused sent to four-day police remand||A local court on Sunday remanded trader Bhupinder, the main accused in missing liquor case, in four-day police custody. He had surrendered before the police after 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing from a godown belonging to his mother in Sonepat’s Kharkhauda.Sonepat deputy superintendent of police ( headquarters) Jitender Kumar said that Bhupinder was produced before a local court, which sent him to four-day police remand.“Will question him about the involvement of other persons, including some traders, two former SHOs, some policemen and excise officials. Two former Kharkhauda SHOs, who were suspended earlier this week for their alleged role in the case are on the run, and efforts are on to nab them,” Kumar said.The DSP said that they have launched a manhunt to nab three aides of the main accused Bhupinder.A police official privy to the development said that during the course of investigation Bhupinder revealed that he along with his accomplices was involved in selling Haryana-made liquor in Punjab by using fake labels.“The accused also confessed to carrying a spare key of the godown, from where 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing. We have also recovered 1,400 boxes of illicit liquor from the same godown,” the DSP added.The police also seized ₹97 lakh in cash, two pistols and three mobile phones besides a sports utility vehicle following a raid in a house to nab the prime accused.The two godowns in Sonepat from where a huge stock of liquor had reportedly gone missing early this week are stated to belong to accused Bhupinder’s mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-liquor-case-main-accused-sent-to-four-day-police-remand/story-8KGXg7jBwKsivQKfmEs2vJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Trees older than 100 years to get ‘heritage’ tag; UP orders mass plantation drive on July 1||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered the forest department to gear up for a massive plantation drive on July 1, and recognise all trees which are 100 years or older across the state to protect them as ‘heritage trees’.According to a government order, a total of 25 crore trees are to be planted across the state on July 1, of which the Noida district will see 8.5 lakh trees planted. Hoping that the national lockdown would not be extended further beyond April 17, forest officials said they have already started reviewing their preparations for the mass plantation and will soon start checking their records to ascertain the number of trees which are a-century-old in the district.“The forest department nurseries had been working during lockdown as well in order to ensure that the saplings stocked in our nurseries are maintained for the massive drive, which had been planned last year. This year’s target is 8.5 lakh trees for the district while we have maintained a stock of over 12 lakh healthy saplings across five departmental nurseries in the district,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Speaking on heritage trees, officials said the department will have to go by older records to assess the locations of these trees.“We will visit the records soon to analyse how many trees in the city are older than 100 years. This may take some time. The idea is to protect them as heritage trees, which means they will be protected either by fencing or other means, and in no case would their axing be allowed,” said Srivastava.According to the government order dated May 8, the concerned departments involved in the mass-plantation drive shall also employ migrant labourers for the plantation work.“We will have to work out a plan to employ migrant labourers with plantation workers like digging pits for the plantation and other works during the massive drive. The duration of employment and wages will have to be worked upon,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trees-older-than-100-years-to-get-heritage-tag-up-orders-mass-plantation-drive-on-july-1/story-ZQgGhq62N7nnGAOvoN8beP.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Allow cottage industries to resume ops: Bajwa to CM||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday urged chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to allow cottage and small-scale industries, including those in mixed land-use areas, to resume their operations.In a letter to the CM, Bajwa said the government has instituted standard operating procedures (SOPs) for medium and large-scale industries and the same can be extended to cottage and small-scale industries.“These industries need to be allowed (to operate) as some of them are ancillary industries for the medium and large-scale industries and the sole means of income for many households in the state. If this cannot be allowed, then I suggest these businesses are given permission to function between 7am and 7pm,” he wrote, terming it a winning compromise.The Rajya Sabha member also reiterated his demand to exempt traders, cottage industries, small-scale enterprises, offices and commercial establishments from fixed electricity charges. “This step should be taken to protect businesses that may not be able to survive the situation otherwise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-cottage-industries-to-resume-ops-bajwa-to-cm/story-IOzGEfYZ1BXzjkta9d36yK.html
10-05-2020||City||Two more found Covid-19 positive, total count reaches 218 in GB Nagar||NOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar reported two more Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally of positive cases to 218 in the district. However, 14 patients, undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease, were discharged on Sunday from a private hospital after being cured, health officials said. District surveillance officer Dr Sunil Dohare said that out of 33 reports received in the last 24 hours, two were positive. “Till Sunday evening, the number of positive cases reported in the district is 218. Of them, 135 people have been discharged from different hospitals, while two others lost their lives. We now have only 81 active cases,” he said.Dohare further said that a 40-year-old man and 80-year-old woman, both residents of Sector 22, were found Covid-19 positive on Sunday. “As many as 452 persons have been kept under the institutional quarantine at different centres. So far, samples of 4,034 persons have been collected by us,” he said.Meanwhile, 14 Covid-19 positive patients, including six women, have been cured and discharged from the isolation ward of Sharda Hospital, the officials said. So far, 135 out of 218 Covid-19 patients have been cured, bringing the recovery rate to approximately 62%, which is much better than the state (43%) and national (30%) recovery rates. Incidentally, the GB Nagar district had emerged as a major hot spot for of deadly virus.Expressing satisfaction over the high recovery rate, district magistrate Suhas LY said that strict enforcement of precautionary measures like social distancing and restricted movement has helped contain the Covid-19 spread in GB Nagar. “It is really encouraging that 14 more patients were discharged today. Now, there are only 81 active cases in the district. We hope that all of them will also be cured soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-found-covid-19-positive-total-count-reaches-218-in-gb-nagar/story-tIjSYgAy0SaWvMCGrLiKML.html
10-05-2020||City||UP to bring changes in MSME Act to generate more jobs||NOIDA: As the Covid-19 lockdown has severely affected the micro, small and medium enterprises in Uttar Pradesh, the state government has planned to amend its MSME Act, 2006, which will give the required push to the sector, officials said on Sunday. The proposed policy will help create more employment in the sector and attract foreign investment, the officials said, adding that the new amendment is about easing the norms for entrepreneurs. Navneet Sehgal, UP secretary of MSME and export promotion department, said since this sector plays a pivotal role in the economic development of the state, the government is paying considerable attention to the growth of industries by creating necessary infrastructure to ensure sustained industrialization in the state. “In order to attract foreign investment on the lines of small countries like Taiwan and Thailand, we are planning to create more competitive environment for our entrepreneurs here. To generate more employment along with ensuring rights for workers, setting up more MSME units is the need of the hour. We are planning changes in the MSME Act, under which the new units will not need to take any permission or no objection certificates at the time of their establishment. These new enterprises will get all their essential papers automatically in the last 100 days of their 1,000 days of establishment,” he said.Sehgal further said that the proposed rule will put a big positive impact on the MSME sector. “It will not only give MSME units the required push to recover the huge economic loss caused due to the Covid-19 lockdown, but will also ensure the growth rate of 12% per annum for the sector. It will also double the export from the state in the next five years. It is also going to benefit the ‘one district one product’ (ODOP) programme,” he said.The entrepreneurs associated with the sector of apparel, Gautam Budh Nagar’s ODOP, are very optimistic about the government’s vision to bring back the industry on track.Lalit Thukral, president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said that since the garment industry is the second highest employment provider after the agriculture in the state, it will create millions of jobs. “With apparel as ODOP, Noida alone provides employment to approximately 20 lakh people. Majority of our workers, who are weavers and have returned home in other districts due to Covid-19 crisis, will certainly be reconnected to the textile industry to make UP a hub of weaving and textile mills. Also, by setting up industries nearer to villages, the government will boost confidence of the entrepreneurs,” he said.Thukral also said that the provision of single window system in the proposed Act will ensure qualitative development of the MSME sector in the state. “It is like reviving the old glory of the state, by providing jobs to each pair of hands,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-to-bring-changes-in-msme-act-to-generate-more-jobs/story-9aSdbWXOjH9qB2RLBqMQ1J.html
10-05-2020||City||Gzb health department plans shuffling of manpower to deal with any rise in Covid-19 cases||Ghaziabad: Anticipating a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in coming days, officials of the district health department are now in search of bigger isolation and quarantine facilities and planning to reshuffle available manpower for optimum use. The Ghaziabad district added another four positive cases to its total tally, which stood at 137 till Sunday night. The new cases include two patients from Vaishali, the officials said.At present, the district has 166 Covid beds in two L1 category hospitals and 100 beds in an L2 category hospital. Besides, a 400-bed L3 category facility has also been approved by the state government. “Since we have limited manpower, we wish to make its optimum use in case there is a sudden rise in number of positive cases. We have planned that some teams comprising 25 doctors and other staff each, who till now were looking after patients at 30-bed L1 category hospital at Muradnagar, will be shifted to the new 200-bed L1 category facility at Niwari,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.The health department has also identified 76-bed ESI Hospital at Sahibabad which is taken care of by the staff of the same hospital. To fine tune the St Joseph hospital in Nandgram, another L1 hospital with 60 beds, the CMO said that four government doctors will be sent there while the rest of the staff of the hospital will suffice.“In all, we have 166 beds of L1 category hospitals and 100 beds of L2 category government hospital at Sanjay Nagar. The teams at Sanjay Nagar hospital are not being used currently as there are no patients admitted. Besides, a 400-bed L3 category facility has also been approved by the state government and we will make use of their doctors and staff members,” Gupta said.Officials of the Sanjay Nagar government hospital said that they have two teams comprising 53 members each to look after complicated cases of Covid-19. “At present, we have no cases. A government doctor who has turned positive was with us for few days at our isolation ward and another female patient was here for three days. But our teams are undergoing training regularly. The teams are on standby and ready to be deployed if the situation demands,” said Dr Naresh Vij, chief medical superintendent of the hospital.Apart from the L1 category dedicated Covid hospitals, the health department has also identified a 100-bed facility as L1 attached hospital at Kadrabad and another 500 bedded facility at Modinagar, which will also function as L1 attached hospital.Under the UP government’s three-tier hospital set-up to deal with Covid-19 positive patients, the L1 hospitals are for normal patients while the L1 attached hospitals are meant for dealing with asymptomatic patients. The complicated cases are referred directly to L2 hospitals, while L3 category hospitals deal with patients requiring critical care.“With the identification of these hospitals, we have reached a level where optimum use of manpower available with us can be used. Similarly, we are in search of bigger quarantine centres with capacity of 500-1,000 beds. In all, we have about 1,683 beds available at our different quarantine centres. But the same manpower has the capacity to cater to bigger facilities. So, we have requested the administration to search for bigger centres as Ghaziabad has a number of engineering, medical and management colleges,” the CMO said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey could not be reached despite repeated attempts for a comment. The UP government had recently asked the districts to arrange for 15,000-20,000 capacity quarantine centres in each district and also directed building of about 52,000 Covid beds across the state to deal with any crisis.The CMO also said that they have about 260 teams comprising three members each who are taking up survey and surveillance in hots pot and containment areas.“On this count, we have limited manpower as we have to divert our staff meant for carrying on vaccination drives directed by the government,” Gupta added.Overall in UP, the tally of active cases of Covid-19 stood at 1,884 till Sunday evening and 1,504 patients were discharged so far. Overall, 9,003 people are in different quarantine centres across the state, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-health-department-plans-shuffling-of-manpower-to-deal-with-any-rise-in-covid-19-cases/story-F89rB5I5RGgkWS8eKSuHFJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Parked car stolen from Nerul||A parked car was stolen from a service lane at Nerul on Saturday. Nitin Pujari, 27, a tourist driver, had parked his car along the Palm Beach Road since the lockdown was imposed on March 22.The car, valued at ₹2 lakh, was locked and parked along the service lane. Pujari told the police that he would often visit the spot to check the car. When Pujari went to check on Saturday, he could not find his car. The Nerul police have registered a case of theft but said they have not found any CCTV footage of the theft.“We are investigating if the car crossed any checkpoint. We are checking the CCTV footage in the area for further leads,” said Rajendra Chavan, senior inspector at Nerul police station.In another case, unknown people stole alcohol bottles worth ₹21,113 and ₹5,000 cash from a wine shop in Kopar Khairane. The liquor shop manager had made markings for social distancing on May 4, ahead of the orders to reopen wine shops. When he came to the shop on Thursday, he found the shutter lock broken and the alcohol bottles and cash stolen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/parked-car-stolen-from-nerul/story-NyC5XuSupghLXMjCZvNK9I.html
10-05-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Khoda ‘sealed’ to contain spread of Covid-19; thousands stuck||The Ghaziabad administration on Sunday afternoon decided to barricade 50 of the 52 entry/exit points in Khoda that lead to Delhi and NCR, restricting the movement of all general public not involved in providing essential services.The move, officials said, was necessitated in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases which have emerged from Khoda since April 22.“We have 52 entry/exit points in Khoda, which lead to Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida. Only two point — ‘Gajji Bhati Dwar, which opens near Ghazipur in Delhi and Vir Vijay Singh Pathik Dwar which opens at NH-9 — will remain open, while the rest have been barricaded and police deployed. The decision was taken in order to check the spread of Covid-19 cases. Otherwise, the problem could have become major, considering Khoda’s population and demography,” said KK Bhadana, the executive officer of Khoda Nagar Palika.According to estimates, Khoda is spread across an area of about 5 square kilometres and is located between Noida, Ghaziabad and adjoining Delhi. Officials said Khoda’s population is about 2.85 lakh but it’s estimated that the actual population may be more than 4 lakh.“No entry/exit will be allowed to and from Khoda. Only personnel involved in providing essential services will be allowed through the two points that are open. There are five police posts and it has been decided that police will identify and allow entry of vendors by giving them special passes Inside Khoda, grocery shops and those selling milk and vegetables will be allowed to open till 4pm, while medicine shops will be allowed to open 24x7,” he added.According to health department officials, Khoda has seen about 15 cases since April 22.Khoda also figures in the list of category 1 (area having at least one positive case and bound by 400 metres of perimeter area) and category 2 (area having more than one positive cases and bound by a perimeter of about 1km) containment zones in Ghaziabad. Rajiv Vihar, Indira Garden and Shiv Park areas of Khoda figure in the list of category 1 containment zones, while Hayat Nagar figures in the list of category 2 containment zone.Hindustan Times had on May 9 had reported on the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Khoda.Khoda serves a vital link to the three neighbouring cities of Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida and most of its populace work as workers, as domestic helps or are engaged in small time jobs in these three cities“Joining work will become difficult now. I work in a small private company in Noida and somehow managed to come back home after work today in a vehicle that was headed to Khoda. I have told my office that I may not be able to join from Monday due to the sealing,” said Gopal Dixit, a resident of Prem Vihar , who works at as a security guard at a company in Noida Sector-58.“I also told my office that I may not be able to come to work from Monday. My office people told that they cannot help me in this regard. Even inside Khoda, there is no free movement as small lanes and bylanes have been barricaded,” said Arun Kumar, another resident who works as daily wager at a company in Sector-65, Noida.According to executive officer Bhadana, an estimated 20,000 people from Khoda go to delhi, Noida nad ghaziabad to work daily. Around 1.5 lakh people from Khoda, he said, had already left for their hometowns after the lockdown was announced.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and sub-divisional magistrate Aditya Prajapati did not respond to calls for a comment on the issue.“Khoda has not been sealed as such. There are many people who work in Noida . They have been told to stay at their places of work. Noida being in the Red zone, their inter-district movement has been stopped. They can go to Ghaziabad as it is an Orange zone. If they wish to go to Noida, their factory owners will have to provide transportation services. They cannot again go to Delhi as it is also in Red zone,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-khoda-sealed-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-thousands-stuck/story-hUSB8j8c7sNlW9EMcSSOzN.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant labourer found murdered in Panipat||A 40-year-old migrant labourer was allegedly murdered as he was found with his throat slit at Khel Bazar in Panipat.The deceased has been identified as Dudhnath, a native of Uttar Pradesh. He worked in a factory in Panipat and was living in a rented accommodation at Khel Bazar.As per the police, the incident came to light when the landlord went to his room and spotted his body.He informed the police and a police team with forensic science laboratory (FSL) experts reached the spot.According to Sandeep Kumar, incharge of Kila police station, Panipat, said that a case has been registered against the unknown person under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.The body has been sent for postmortem and investigation was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-found-murdered-in-panipat/story-uBLq6UaMEYZCOVLUxDd7FN.html
10-05-2020||City||Fire at yarn mill’s godown in Machhiwara||Yarn material worth lakhs of rupees was gutted after a godown of a yarn manufacturing unit in Machhiwara caught fire on Sunday.Over 100 fire tenders from nearby districts were pressed into service to douse the flames. The firefighting operation reportedly lasted for over 10 hours. It is yet unknown whether any worker was present in the godown when the incident took place. The reason behind the fire is also not yet ascertained. However, power short-circuit is suspected to be the reason behind the incident.Sub fire officer Atish Rai said, “The fire took place at Ahuja mill this morning. After receiving information, fire tenders, including from nearby districts, were rushed to the spot. The police and the fire department are conducting the investigation.”The owner of the unit could not be contacted to know about the exact loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-at-yarn-mill-s-godown-in-machhiwara/story-PbcSaytXs9NnCZuKSeFJBN.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Virus spares no Haryana dist as infections cross 700 mark||All districts of Haryana are now in the grip of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On Sunday, the virus infected 28 more people of nine different districts, raising the state count to 703.According to the health bulletin, at least 10 people have so far died of this disease in Haryana. The doubling rate of the infection has come down to nine days from 18 days on April 25.One case each was on Sunday reported from Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal, Rohtak, Nuh and Palwal, two cases from Panchkula and three from Bhiwani. In Sonepat, maximum 11 fresh cases were detected, followed by seven in Faridabad. In Panchkula, a truck driver, who recently visited Shimla, and a private firm employee who had returned to work in Baddi after the lockdown relaxations, were tested positive. While 300 affected people have been discharged after recovering from the infection, there are total 393 active Covid-19 cases in the state. THREE POSITIVE CASES IN BHIWANIA 42-year-old JBT of Haryana government, along with his 15-year-old daughter and 11-year-old son, of Vidya Nagar area in Bhiwani, has tested positive. According to Dr Jitender Kadian, Bhiwani civil surgeon, the patients are asymptomatic and their samples were collected on May 4 through random sampling after a BSF man of the same area died of the virus in Delhi. Family members of the infected patients said they did not come in contact with the BSF personnel. KURUKSHETRA VILLAGE SEALEDAfter Panchkula administration informed its Kurukshetra counterpart about the woman patient working as a cook in Sector-5 police station in Panchkula, her village was declared as a containment zone. Pehowa SDM Sonu Ram has been deputed to monitor the situation.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said the woman had come to Harigarh Bhorakh village on May 7. She was admitted to Covid-19 hospital in Shahbad and samples of her six family members were also sent for the testing. The CMO said since her sample was taken at Panchkula, her case will be added to the Panchkula tally. “As of now, there is no active coronavirus case in Kurukshetra district. Two people, who were earlier found infected, have already been discharged,” the CMO added. NINE CASES SURFACE IN JHAJJARNine Covid cases were detected in Jhajjar on Sunday evening, though the health bulletin didn’t mention them. Jhajjar civil surgeon Randeep Singh Punia said the patients include three family members of an infected person, five contacts of another carrier and one man from Bupania village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-spares-no-haryana-dist-as-infections-cross-700-mark/story-Uemlw7eM7WDrOur44qpLUI.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Row as workers transporting body of Covid-19 patient refuse to place it on pyre in Chandigarh||It’s meant to be a place of serenity, where souls leave for their last journey, but tempers rose high at the Sector 25 cremation ground on Sunday as a team deputed by the Red Cross Society to transport the body of a Covid-19 patient refused to place it on the pyre at the LPG facility.Workers at the crematorium lodged a protest with Red Cross, saying the team members, all in protective suits, did not help them carry the body.The family members of the deceased did not attend the cremation.In a video made by Hindustan Times, workers at the crematorium were seen arguing with the Red Cross team members, asking them to carry the body to the funeral pyre and not leave it on the floor of the facility.“The body was kept on the floor for half-an-hour as there was no one to carry it because only two persons at the cremation ground have protective gear. It’s the duty of the team sent by the Red Cross to carry the body to the pyre, but they didn’t do it,” a worker at the cremation ground said.Because of the incident another family wanting to cremate a loved one at the LPG furnace was asked to use the traditional wood pyre as the waiting period would have been long, the worker said.According to protocols related to cremation of remains of Covid-19 patients, the body, sealed at the hospital, has to be kept on the pyre by teams transporting it.Downplaying the incident, however, municipal corporation commissioner KK Yadav said, “There was a misunderstanding between the two parties. We have instructed Red Cross officials and employees at the cremation ground to be more cordial with each other.”There was no reason to fear infection while transporting bodies of Covid-19 patients as these were sealed carefully at hospitals, he added.It takes about two to three hours to cremate a body at the LPG facility and the next one is brought only after the place has been cleaned thoroughly after cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/row-as-workers-transporting-body-of-covid-19-patient-refuse-to-place-it-on-pyre-in-chandigarh/story-gbf8F7zn7PLccX4DjOPLgN.html
10-05-2020||City||Thane Covid cases cross 700 mark||The number of Covid cases in the city has crossed 700 with 41 new cases registered on Sunday. Two Covid patients died, taking the death toll to 26.The city’s total tally is 712. The highest increase of 13 cases was recorded in Mumbra; six positive cases were recorded from Rashid Compound and four from Kausa.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “The city reported 41 new Covid positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 712. Two people who had tested positive for Covid died, taking the toll to 26.”Three wards, Lokmanyanagar, Sawarkarnagar, Wagale Estate and Mumbra have more than 100 cases each.On Sunday, TMC took action against a mobile accessory stall in Mumbra which was operating despite lockdown orders for non-essential shops. Malvi said, “We have registered a case against the owner under the Epidemic Disease Act. He had set up his shop in a small tempo and was selling items from there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-covid-cases-cross-700-mark/story-pCVcGtRTfx1LFyLLwWcq4L.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||87% of Punjab’s Covid-19 cases in past week have Nanded link||Around 87% of the covid-19 cases in Punjab in the past week are linked to pilgrims who returned to the state from Nanded in Maharashtra.Of the 680 new cases reported in the state during this period, 596, or say 87%, were Nanded returnees who tested positive for coronavirus, according to an analysis of data shared by the state health department. Overall, their total count stands at 1,205, which makes them the biggest cluster of covid positive patients in Punjab accounting for 68% out of the total 1,780 positive cases as on May 9 even as the samples of all 4,178 pilgrims, except around 200, have been tested.The number of positive cases went up by 61 to 1,823 as per official data at 6 pm on Sunday, but the count of returnees whose samples tested positive was not available. So far, 58 have been discharged after recovery whereas one, a 56-year-old man from Manuke village in Jagraon who was asymptomatic, succumbed to the deadly virus on Saturday. These persons were mostly ferried in government buses or some of them travelled in private vehicles from the Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Nanded in the past 15 days. They were stranded there since March 25 when the national lockdown was announced by the Centre to curb the coronavirus spread. A large number of belonged to Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ludhiana, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur districts where the count of coronavirus cases saw a sharp spike as their test reports started coming out. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, health department’s official spokesperson for Covid-19 said the number of positive cases has stabilised in the past couple of days as the samples of most of them have been tested already. “Their contacts have also been traced and our contact tracing is more than 99%,” he said.64,000 REGISTER TO RETURN TO STATEPunjab stares at another serious challenge in the coming days as 56,004 Punjabis have registered on a government portal to return home in addition to another 8,111 who want to come back from abroad. “The number of such stranded persons who registered online to return to Punjab was just 20,000 a day ago, but then it jumped within hours as more people learnt about the app. This number is likely to go up further in the coming days,” an IAS official dealing with registration said.Among the migrant workers and other stranded persons who have registered to come back to Punjab from other states, the maximum 12,627 are from Uttar Pradesh, 8,836 from Bihar, 4,629 from Maharashtra, 2,402 from Gujarat, 1,454 from Uttarakhand besides others. The state government is aware of the challenge as chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had, the other day, also warned of another spike with 32,000 stranded persons returning in the next few weeks. The state has issued a detailed advisory regarding the screening and quarantine of returnees from within the country. Also, the number of migrants and other stranded persons who registered to go back to their home states has gone up further to 14.03 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/87-of-punjab-s-covid-19-cases-in-past-week-have-nanded-link/story-EULU6xKlRiMTaEgSoYGtIL.html
10-05-2020||City||Statistics department employee held for defrauding excise and taxation department of Rs 71 lakh||An employee of the state department of statistics was arrested here on Sunday for defrauding Rs 71 lakh from the state exchequer by hacking the website of Punjab excise and taxation department. According to the police, the accused defrauded this amount in 13 transactions from December 2019 to May 7, 2020.The accused, who has been identified as Nanak Dev, 31, of Mansa district, is a computer diploma holder. Inspector Goldy Birdi, investigating officer from the cyber cell, said, “The accused was initially assigned clerical work, however, later, he was given the extra work of updating reimbursement bills of his co-workers online two years ago. He managed to hack the website of the department during this period.”The inspector added there could be a loophole in the software related to failed transactions and the accused took benefit of that. When the department came to know about it, they lodged a complaint with the police. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) of the IPC and the IT Act has been registered at the Division number 5 police station following a complaint by assistant commissioner of the department Veer Prakash Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/statistics-department-employee-held-for-defrauding-excise-and-taxation-department-of-rs-71-lakh/story-azpaWwbV1ZYsmLblAgFVWK.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Reopening liquor shops can increase crimes against women: Javed Akhtar||The government’s decision of reopening of liquor shops amid the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown can escalate violence against women and children. Javed Akhtar, poet, lyricist and political activist, said this while speaking during a webinar on domestic violence organised by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. He said that to eliminate domestic violence, parents need to treat males and females equally. “Women should have equal share of properties and males and females should not be segregated in the society.”“It is not a problem only among the needy, but even rich people are facing the same issue,” he said.Indira Jaising, senior advocate and legal activist, who was also a panellist, said, “In most of the cases, I have seen women do not want divorce, but they want violence to end. They do not want to go to the court. It is the patriarchy which has to end and patriarchy resides in every religion.”Elizabeth Betsy Andersen, executive director of World Justice Project, said, “According to our study, most people do not access legal assistance as they do not understand their rights. We need to educate them about these rights,” she said.She said, “During the Covid-19 lockdown we have seen a delayed response in addressing these issues and there has been a problem in providing shelter to those who faced such issues.”“We have seen increase in cases of domestic violence during the lockdown. We are developing strategies to mitigate the violence against women,” said Sangeeta Rege, coordinator of Centre for Enquiry into Health and Allied Themes (CEHAT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/reopening-liquor-shops-can-increase-crimes-against-women-javed-akhtar/story-T1o076HXtHKxGC5SjcJ3UP.html
10-05-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Ludhiana meritorious school isolation centre converted into 500-bed hospital||In a step towards fighting coronavirus, the isolation centre set up at the girls’ hostel of Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students, Ludhiana, has now started functioning as a 500-bed hospital. Municipal corporation (MC) additional commissioner-cum-nodal officer for coronavirus, Ludhiana, Sanyam Aggarwal, said a number of facilities have been added to the isolation centre, including an operational laboratory where the samples of admitted people can be collected.MESS, LAUNDRY, PRIVATE SECURITY ADDED UP“All the beds are properly numbered and the hospital has an operational pharmacy, patient registration counter, laundry for washing of all kinds of bedding, mess and private security,” he said. Besides, the laboratory is equipped for testing of haemoglobin, sugar, urine and the sampling of coronavirus, the nodal officer said, adding that a private company is managing sanitation of the hospital, counsellors have been deployed to motivate the patients at regular intervals and plans are underway to organise yoga sessions.11 SENT HOME FOR 14-DAY QUARANTINEAggarwal also said that 11 people who had tested negative for the coronavirus have been shifted to their respective villages for 14-day home quarantine. Those who have been shifted include two each from Mukandpur village near Dehlon and Pohir, four from Lalton Kalan, and one each from Haibowal Kalan, Mazara Khurd and the area nearby Neela Jhanda gurdwara. “Now, only 80 people are left at the isolation centre. If their reports come negative, they will also be shifted either to quarantine centres set up in their respective villages or their homes,” the MC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ludhiana-meritorious-school-isolation-centre-converted-into-500-bed-hospital/story-4Qku9XbywqTpkar8pTNz0I.html
10-05-2020||City||4 booked for murder of 55-yr-old man over land dispute in Faridkot||Police on Sunday booked four persons for allegedly murdering a 55-year-old man over a land dispute at Kothe Nanaksar village in Kotkapura sub-division of Faridkot district. The police said victim Naib Singh was attacked with sharp-edged weapons outside his house on Saturday evening. He was rushed to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, where he succumbed to his injuries, they added. The accused were identified as Ramandeep Singh, Babbu Singh, Gurjit Singh and Gursewak Singh, all residents of Kothe Nanaksar. The deceased’s son stated in his police complaint that Ramandeep and Babbu had land dispute with their family and an FIR was already registered in this regard at Kotkapura city police station after his father lodged a complaint against the accused.Senior superintendent of police Manjit Singh Dhesi said, “Police teams are conducting raids to nab the accused, who are on the run,” he added. The accused have been booked under Section 302 (murder), 343 (common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). This is the second murder in the past three days in the district amid lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-booked-for-murder-of-55-yr-old-man-over-land-dispute-in-faridkot/story-0k7qcFFWRI3VHfO298KRqN.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||DSP, 4 docs among 101 more test +ve in Punjab, tally 1,893||A deputy superintendent of police (DSP), a senior medical officer (SMO), three other doctors, 45 health department employees and five more policemen were among 101 people who tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday, taking the state’s tally of those infected by the disease to 1,893.On the list of fresh patients are five pilgrims who recently returned from Takht Hazur Sahib, a Sikh shrine, in Maharashtra’s Nanded.The SMO and 45 health department employees are posted in the Rupnagar civil hospital, officials said.The DSP, aged 51, and a 43-year-old constable, who are posted at Punjab Armed Police (PAP), Kapurthala, had gone to Nanded as part of a 41-member team to evacuate pilgrims and are under quarantine since their arrival on May 1. Civil surgeon Jasmit Kaur Bawa said the two will be shifted to the isolation ward of the Kapurthala civil hospital.With this, the district has reported a total of 25 cases, including two deaths.20 found infected in Fatehgarh Sahib In Fatehgarh Sahib district, 20 persons, including a woman doctor and a 13-year-old, were tested positive. The boy, a resident of Khamano, returned from Himachal Pradesh recently. The district’s tally of positive cases has reached 48.Civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said contact tracing is on and teams have been deployed to find the source from where the doctor contracted infection,”The official said most of positive cases are of combine operators have returned after touring several parts of Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.12 fresh cases in Mansa distIn Mansa district, 12 persons, including four cops posted at the Budhlada city police station, were found positive. The district now has 27 active cases of Covid-19. The cops were deployed in a containment zone at Budhlada. Three of the patients, all students, returned from Delhi while five are labourers of whom one each came back from Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. Three returned from Rajasthan.12 more cases in GurdsapurIn Gurdaspur, the reports of 12 more persons, including 5 Nanded returnees, were tested positive on Sunday. Now, the number of infected cases in the district has rises to 134.Civil surgeon Dr Kishan Chand said of the 134 patients, 117 are Hazur Sahib returnees. Of a total of 1,788 samples collected in the district, 1,559 turned negative whereas the reports of 95 others are awaited, he added.Jalandhar count reaches 173Eight persons, including two doctors, as many paramedical workers tested positive for the coronavirus in Jalandhar on Sunday. Of the eight, a doctor is from Kapurthala while an 84-year-old is from Gurdaspur district. The other doctor, aged 31, is from doctor from Jalandhar’s Adampur. A total of 173 positive cases, including five deaths, have been reported in the district so far.A 91-year-old male patient from Kabulpur village is admitted at Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, after he was referred from Kidney Hospital, Jalandhar.Also, another positive case was reported in Ludhiana on Sunday. The fresh patient is 22-year-old youth whose father is already undergoing treatment at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, after being tested positive on May 7.(Inputs from Gurdaspur and Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dsp-4-docs-among-101-more-test-ve-in-punjab-tally-1-893/story-z56q4OLR0Ody4NAGLMh6KM.html
10-05-2020||City||Ludhiana DC sends show- cause notices to 266 absentee employees||Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agarwal has issued show-cause notice to 266 government employees who did not join emergency duty in the district amid the Covid-19 outbreak.These 266 employees are said to be in the education department, municipal corporation, education, DC office, cooperative societies and Greater Ludhiana Development Authority (GLADA).According to information, a majority of these employees, including government school principals, lecturers, sector officers of MCL, registrars cooperate societies, excise officer, labour inspector, cooperative inspector, head masters and mistress, peons and sweepers, who were deployed at police stations for the distribution of ration among the poor and other emergency duties.Instead of distributing ration material or remaining on emergency duties, these employees either remained absent from work and did not report on duty. Citing Section 57 of the Disaster Management Act which has a provision of one-year sentence or fine and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, which has provision of six months of prison or fine, the DC has stated that appropriate action will be taken if the reply was not found satisfactory.Confirming this, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said. “We are issuing show- cause notices to employees not coming for duty. Strict action will be taken against the defaulters,” stated the Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-dc-sends-show-cause-notices-to-266-absentee-employees/story-nnE8bDwzgdHiHGlXQwK3cN.html
10-05-2020||City||Punjab govt rolls back hike in minimum wages of labourers||The Punjab government has withdrawn its May 1 order announcing hike in minimum wages of the labourers, citing economic crisis in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. An order in this regard was issued by Parveen Kumar Thind, labour commissioner, Punjab, on Saturday.The order reads, “It has been observed that in view of the emergent economic situation arising out of Covid-19, it may not be appropriate at this stage to raise the minimum wages in the state. The letter issued on May 1 stands withdrawn with immediate effect and further decision is kept in the abeyance.”Principal secretary, labour, VK Janjua, “We are witnessing an unprecedented situation due to Covid-19 outbreak. We had issued the May 1 order as a routine matter. We didn’t look at its implementation aspect. It’s difficult to implement it in this grim situation.”On May 1, the state labour department had raised minimum wages of unskilled labour from Rs 338.05 to Rs 353.52 per day and those of semi-skilled labour from Rs 368.05 to Rs 383.52 per day. Similarly, minimum wages of skilled workers were hiked from Rs 402.55 to Rs 418.02 and those of high-skilled workers Rs 442.25 to Rs 457.72 per day.This is for the first time that the state government is not giving the biannual hike in labour wages, an official said, seeking anonymity.According to the experts, brick-makers and construction workers will be the worst-hit by this decision. It will also have impact on contractual, outsourced and regular employees of state government, who are working on probation period.On the other hand, the move will benefit industrialists and other employers of labourers.Vijay Walia, director, Centre for Social Change and Equity, alleged, “The labour department has taken this decision under the pressure of industrialists. It will hit the labour class hard in this time of inflation and Covid-19 crisis.”Hari Singh, president, Laal Jhanda Nirman Mazdoor Union, said, “The government has betrayed the labourers, who were already reeling under the lockdown and were not able to earn their livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-rolls-back-hike-in-minimum-wages-of-labourers/story-SFAIqq8dHlWRAj1zKTI02O.html
10-05-2020||City||Working hours in industrial units to go up from 8 to 12 hours in Bihar||PATNAThe Bihar government will allow working hours in industrial institutions to be extended from eight hours to 12 hours and give some more relaxations in the provisions of the Factories Act 1948, for higher productivity as well as to attract more investment in the state post the lockdown to tackle the slump in commercial activities, state’s labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said Sunday. The labour department is likely to issue an order in this regard on Monday. “We are also going to relax some more provisions in the Factories Act so as to make it more flexible in a bid to attract investment in the state in coming months and generate employment. We have taken the decision as per the guidelines issued by the central government. Our objective is to enhance productivity and also safeguard the interest of workers,” he said.Asked whether the shops would be covered as per new working hours schedule, the minister said the ambit might increase after weighing the situation in coming weeks. “ Once the situation eases a bit , we will be able to take a decision depending on the requirement,” he said. The Punjab government has already extended working hours in factories from nine to 12 hours even as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have amended labour laws for giving a boost to industrial activity and also encourage investors to come with big ticket investment in their respective states post lockdown.Reliable sources said the Bihar government’s labour and industries department has held discussions in the last few days to evolve a strategy for optimum utlisation of labour and to attract more investment in the state given the rise of unemployment after reverse migration from states during the lockdown period following outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.“A few incentives would be given for industrial units to enhance productivity,” said a senior officer in the industry department.The state government has already kick-started commercial activity after April 20 following some relaxations by the central government in the second phase of lockdown.As per official figures, 671 food processing units , 95 rubber and plastic units, 678 general services units and 408 industrial units under BIADA ( Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority) are working after being granted permission. In Bihar, there are 2800 micro, small and medium enterprises ( MSME) while four are large industries, including cement factories. Sources said a total of 32,000 workers are working in various industrial units .“The industry department will follow the order issued to any labour related issues,” said industry minister Shyam Rajak.Deputy chief minister and finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi said that several states had extended the working hours and state government was studying the relaxations given by other states in relation to labour laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-hours-in-industrial-units-to-go-up-from-8-to-12-hours-in-bihar/story-btMZnCqPL8cQHg8fqQx5KI.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration allots two new petrol pumps to CITCO||The Chandigarh administration has allotted two new petrol pumps to Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) near poultry farm at Hallo Majra and in Raipur Kalan, Industrial Area, Phase 3. CITCO is facing huge losses with no source of revenue amid the Covid-19 lockdown.As per sources, the newly opened petrol pumps will be run by CITCO in tandem with Indian Oil Corporation Ltd and their construction has almost been completed. The inauguration is scheduled for June 1.Presently, CITCO owns four petrol pumps in the city including the compressed natural gas (CNG) dispensing pump on Madhya Marg in Sector 17.Chief General Manager of CITCO, Rakesh Kumar Popli, said “CITCO needed a new source of income amid the Covid-19 lockdown. We are hopeful commercial operations will start by the end of May “Recently, CITCO had demanded ₹33-crore grant-in-aid from the UT administrator for its survival amid uncertainty on when operations in the tourism and hospitality industry will resume.With a yearly turnover of around ₹500 crore, CITCO owns some prime properties in Chandigarh including five-star hotels, restaurants bars, sales depots, lakes, gardens, and a petrol pump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-allots-two-new-petrol-pumps-to-citco/story-2avFo7BqaL1BQeZPh8zYpN.html
10-05-2020||City||Allow private vehicles for people stranded outside, BJP legislators tell Nitish||PATNAAfter holding a video-conferencing with his party JD (U) office-bearers and workers a few days back, chief minister Nitish Kumar Sunday interacted with legislators of his alliance partner BJP through video-conferencing.BJP has 54 MLAs and 18 MLCs in in Bihar.The BJP legislators, while extending their support to the works being done by the Centre and the state for the mitigation of pandemic, were unanimous in demanding permission to those who wish to come by private vehicles from outside. “With trains running for migrants, there are people stuck at places but can afford to come by private vehicles. The state government should permit them,” said one of the legislators.Some also suggested that inter-district transportation be allowed.At the moment, Centre and the state have arranged trains to bring back students and labourers who are willing to return.The legislators also raised the issue of effective and productive employment of migrants who are returning in large numbers to state.“We appreciate the efforts of government’s initiative of skill mapping and it should be done on a priority basis,” said a BJP legislator. “At local level (districts), this should be done on a priority basis,” said another. The CM assured the government that a detailed data bank of these migrants was being prepared.A BJP legislator complained about officials’ apathy towards their grievances and said they should be asked to be more responsive to their suggestions and grievances. A couple of days back, the CM, during a video conferencing, had advised officials to be more responsive and ensure proper redressal of grievances.BJP legislators also raised the issue of disbursement of funds for development projects and quick release of funds earmarked for MLAs. A BJP MLA from Patna raised the issue of waterlogging in state capital and demanded regular review meeting at district level.“The MLAs raised problems related to there are/constituencies and gave their feedback to chief minister on different issues including ration cards,” said senior BJP leader and minister Nand Kishore Yadav.The NDA is to contest elections under Nitish Kumar whose name was announced by former BJP national president Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/allow-private-vehicles-for-people-stranded-outside-bjp-legislators-tell-nitish/story-Zku0p5H5pfXDjZHdmRtzhP.html
10-05-2020||City||Separated from herd and rescued in Kaimur forest, lost fawns find doting ‘mothers’||BHABUA:Top officers of the Kaimur forest division area are all praise for the two female forest guards who voluntarily came forward to take care of the two fawns which were rescued by forest officials on Friday. The female guards feed them milk through bottles and take care of them like their own babies, said forest officials who rescued the two Chinkara - a male and a female - from Mohania and Ramgarh areas here on Friday. They had lost their herd and were roaming helplessly in the areas, said the forest officials who brought them to divisional office on the instructions of divisional forest officer (DFO) Vikas Ahlawat. The hungry fawns were desperately looking for their mothers, said the DFO. The forest officials had sympathy for them but they were helpless. At this, the female guards came to their rescue. The female forest guards, Puja Kumari and Priya Raj, offered their services to look after the helpless animals, DFO Ahlawat said. All the forest employees were praising the gracious gestures of the two female guards, Ahlawat said.As the babies are unable to graze, the female guards keep them in their houses in forest colony and feed them milk through bottles used for feeding own children. The benevolent act touched the top brass, including Dipak Singh, principle secretary, environment and forests, Bihar. Singh praised the female officers and Ahlawat for showing empathy towards the hapless babies. “The baby deer will be taken care of till they get sufficient strength,” said Ahlawat. It would take minimum 10 days, he added. PICTURES- Following||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/separated-from-herd-and-rescued-in-kaimur-forest-lost-fawns-find-doting-mothers/story-9c1GxDH5PnGflttc2EiEzK.html
10-05-2020||City||Rain affects procurement; tardy lifting worries arhtiyas, farmers in Haryana||The procurement operations in mandis and purchase centres in several districts of Haryana were hampered by moderate to heavy rainfall on Sunday morning. Due to the slow lifting process, lakhs of quintals of the procured wheat got drenched in the mandis, leaving the arhtiyas and officials associated with the procurement process high and dry.The arhtiyas alleged that even though over 2 lakh metric tonnes of wheat was reaching the mandis daily, the lifting process was not being carried out as per the procurement. According to them, slow lifting of grain and inadequate arrangements to keep the wheat covered had worsened the situation, especially at the temporary procurement centres.As per the figures given by the Haryana food and supplies department, out of the total 57.5 lakh metric tonnes of wheat procured in the state, around 40% or 23.22 lakh MT was still lying in the mandis.“My 500 bags of wheat are lying in the open. We have repeatedly requested the mandi secretary in Nilokheri to allow us to shift our wheat to the sheds but he did not listen us, even though the sheds were lying empty,” said a commission agent of Nilokheri of Karnal district.As per commission agents, it was the responsibility of the government agencies that had procured the wheat to protect it until it reaches the godown. In some grain markets, farmers were seen pumping out water from purchase centres to protect their wheat.The farmers are also facing difficulties in selling their produce as the rains have affected the procurement process.Shubhash Chander, a farmer of Shikarpur village of Hisar district, said, “My wheat is lying in open at the grain market in Hisar. We request the local administration to arrange for proper sheds to keep our produce safe.”Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said instructions have been issued to the procurement agencies in Karnal and 69.07% of the wheat has been lifted, which is highest lifting percentage in Haryana. Around 30% still remains in mandis, he added. Met officials predict change in weather The meteorology department at the Chaudhary Charan Singh of Haryana Agriculture University predicted that the weather had changed and asked the farmers to stop sowing the next cycle of crop.ML Khichar, head of meteorology and agriculture department, said that due to western disturbances the weather condition had changed from May 10 and will continue to be the same till midnight of May 13.(With inputs from Bhaskar Mukherjee in Hisar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-affects-procurement-tardy-lifting-worries-arhtiyas-farmers-in-haryana/story-cU3FYGsbWXMYUJ3enypMVI.html
10-05-2020||City||6th death in Bihar; 85 cases in 24 hours||PATNA Bihar reported its sixth death to coronavirus when a 60-year-old male died in Patna on Sunday, as the number of cases increased by 85 - biggest single-day spike so far - taking the overall state tally of the cases to 696.A resident of Belchhi block in rural Patna, the patient was admitted to the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on May 8.“Sixth death of Covid +ve patient… A case of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (end stage lung disease), [the patient] died of cardio respiratory arrest,” said Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, in a tweet.“The patient came from Delhi and was quarantined,” he added.The deceased tested positive for Covid-19 today.Earlier this week, a 70-year-old male died at Rohtas district on May 7. He was admitted to the private Narayan Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Rohtas with acute breathing trouble, after being referred to the Sasaram sadar hospital.A patient each from Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran and Sitamarhi districts infected by coronavirus, have died so far since the first fatality to the virus reported in the state on March 21.Of the cases reporting positive Sunday, Patna accounted for nine, followed by Kishanganj (8), Saharsa and Madhepura (7 each), East Champaran (4), Muzaffarpur, Arwal (3 each), Nawada, Gaya, Araria, Darbhanga (2 each) and a case each from Begusarai, Bhojpur and Aurangabad.Four of the nine cases from Patna were from Barh, two from Pandarak and a case each from Alamganj, Barh and Belchhi.Bihar has shown a sudden spike in cases of coronavirus after migrant workers from other states began returning by special trains from May 2.“#BiharFightsCorona of the 49 who tested Covid-19 +ve positive yesterday, 44 are migrants who have come from different parts of the country,” said Kumar in a candid tweet on Sunday.“Going by our experience over the past 10 days, almost 60% to 70% of the tested samples, which came positive, were of people who came from outside the state,” Kumar had earlier said on May 4. That meant at least 224 new cases already, given that 374 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state between April 23 and May 3.However, giving a bifurcation of positive cases among migrants, health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said, “Though the data is dynamic, 142 people from Bihar who have come from outside the state have so far tested positive. Of them, 85 cases have tested positive after May 4.”“Of the 85 migrants testing positive after May 4, 30 had returned from Maharashtra, 22 from Gujarat and eight from New Delhi. The rest of them had come from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan,” he said.Singh said samples of those who had come from red zones outside the state were being tested.Around 1.02 lakh migrants had reached Bihar by 83 Shramik special trains, operated this month till Saturday. All of the migrants had been lodged at block level quarantine centres and samples were testing samples, said Anupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department.“We plan to operate a total of 169 special trains, of which 83 have reached Bihar and another 86, carrying 1.20 lakh migrants, are scheduled to come over the next few days. We expect around 2.22 lakh migrants to reach the state by 169 special trains,” Kumar said.Fourteen special trains reached Bihar Sunday and 20 more, carrying 23,540 passengers, would operate on Monday, he said.The government was also planning to operate 2-3 trains on a daily basis from Mumbai.He said the government had given its consent to bring some more students who were stranded in Kota. Already, 13,472 students from Bihar have returned by 11 special trains from Kota.Meanwhile, Munger topped with 115 of Bihar’s 696 Covid-19 cases spread across 37 of its 38 districts. It was followed by Rohtas (59), Buxar (56), Patna (55), Nalanda (49), Siwan (33), Kaimur (31), Begusarai (27), Madhubani (24), Bhagalpur (23), Bhojpur (19), Gopalganj (18), Aurangabad, East Champaran (14 each), Katihar (12), West Champaran, Darbhanga, Arwal (11 each), Madhepura, Saharsa, Kishanganj (9 each), Saran, Gaya, Samastipur (8 each), Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur (6 each), Jehanabad, Nawada (5 each), Lakhisarai, Banka, Vaishali, Araria (4 each), Sheohar (3), Purnea, Sheikhpura, Khagaria (2 each), , Supaul (1 each).NOD TO PRIVATE LAB TESTINGThe state government Sunday gave its consent to two private laboratories, Dr Lal Path Labs in Patna and the Path Kind Diagnostics Pvt Ltd. in Khemnichak (Patna) and Jhuran Chapra (Muzaffarpur), to test people for Covid-19 in an effort to scale up testing in the state.The laboratories could charge a maximum of ₹1,500 for Covid-19 screening and ₹3,000 for confirmatory test.Bihar had so far tested 32,670 samples of Covid-19.Thirty-six Covid-19 patients had recovered during the last 24 hours taking the total number of patients to have recovered so far to 354.The recovery rate was 54% of the total Covid-19 cases in the state, said the health secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6th-death-in-bihar-85-cases-in-24-hours/story-3FdtuS4jCat6fwabRvA8HO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||3,900 leave for home towns from Bhiwani, Jhajjar||Nearly 3,900 migrant labourers — 2,800 from Jhajjar and 1,100 from Bhiwani —left for their native places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh on Sunday.The 1,100 workers from Bhiwani were sent to Shamli cluster in Uttar Pradesh in 30 buses, while those from Jhajjar left in 45 buses. Moreover, 1,109 workers staying in Jhajjar left for Bihar in a Shramik Special train from Rohtak railway station. Jhajjar deputy commissioner Jitender Kumar said 1,750 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh had left for their native places in 45 buses.“We had provided them packets of biscuits, masks, sanitisers and food. The workers boarded the buses and train after undergoing medical check-up at shelter homes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-900-leave-for-home-towns-from-bhiwani-jhajjar/story-AytxGqgJA6ELGjMAxFtR1M.html
10-05-2020||Patna||Bihar post leads in country, delivers ₹16cr cash in a day||The state has set a milestone by delivering highest cash relief to the lockdown hit people.On May 8, the Bihar postal circle delivered ₹16 crore in cash in about 1.94 lakh households — the highest cash delivered on a single day.Across the country, the postal departments had delivered cash worth ₹65.50 crore in 4.70 lakh homes til Friday. The deliveries were made by postal agents through the department-based Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AEPS) from the accounts of individuals.Bihar postal circle is followed by Uttar Pradesh in terms of cash payment made through AEPS. A sum of ₹15 crore cash was delivered among 1.10 lakh houses on the same day in UP.Post master general, Eastern Bihar region, Anil Kumar said “₹8.60 crore was delivered at the doorsteps of 92,000 households through AEPS system in eastern region of the state.This is the biggest AEPS delivery made by the postal department on a single day.”The cash amount delivered to the people mostly consisted of subsidy or honorariums paid by the government under various welfare schemes such as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Old Age Pension, LPG gas subsidy, Kisan Samman Yojna, payment of wages under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act among others as part of the lockdown relief.The postal offices intensified the home cash delivery of cash, letters, money orders and parcels after the state went under lockdown to fight Covid-19. The postal department has delivered ₹130 crore in cash among 7 lakh houses during the lockdown period.Impressed by the fast and efficient delivery in the time of crisis, Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi, who also holds the charge of finance ministry, had urged the postal department officials to expand their network so that the financial assistance offered by the government reaches the target at the earliest.Kumar said that over 16,000 delivery boys attached with around 9,100 post offices and India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) had been engaged across the state to ensure timely payment of cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-post-leads-in-country-delivers-16cr-cash-in-a-day/story-jf7fEqUStCC3377yX5WorN.html
10-05-2020||City||13 new cases in Panvel take tally to 156||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 13 new Covid cases on Sunday, taking the total cases to 156. Five members of a family from Kharghar have tested positive. One of the family members works at BKC in Mumbai and had tested positive. Two women from a policeman’s family living at Kamothe tested positive. The policeman had tested positive earlier.Some of the other new cases are a 49-year-old resident of Kharghar who works as a clerk in APMC fruit market; a 41-year-old NMMC nurse from Kalamboli; a 46-year-old KEM hospital nurse living in Kamothe has tested positive; a 49-year-old resident of Panvel, who works as a pharmacist in Mumbai, has tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-new-cases-in-panvel-take-tally-to-156/story-QPfFxZ6OMbHyGaOehlT4lO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, Covid patients at Khanpur Kalan medical college can watch TV, listen to music||The Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College for Women at Sonepat’s Khanpur Kalan will now be able to watch TV, listen to music and read magazines and newspapers.Director of town and country planning department, K Makrand Pandurang , who looks after Covid-related operations in Sonepat, said the decision regarding providing TV, music system, magazines and newspapers facilities was taken to reduce the stress levels of infected patients undergoing treatment at BPS.“The hospital authorities have been directed to provide 40 newspapers and various magazines to the patients. An electric kettle has also been given for hot water for the patients. We have asked the authorities to add more food items to the diet chart of corona patients,” Pandurang added.ARRANGEMENTS FOR DOCs, NURSESThe IAS officer said they have made arrangements for the doctors, nurses and other staff members working at the BPS and they will be provided an accommodation facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-covid-patients-at-khanpur-kalan-medical-college-can-watch-tv-listen-to-music/story-kPCPsFcQO6V1SXuUYSinJI.html
10-05-2020||City||Doctor among two Covid-19 patients discharged in Ambala||A doctor among two Covid-19 patients, who had tested positive for the virus on May 4 in Ambala, were discharged on Sunday. Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The 26-year-old doctor was discharged after her reports turned negative. Another patient, who had tested positive on the same day, has also been discharged and both will be quarantined for 14 days.”There are 41 cases in the district. The number of active cases has come down to 25 with two deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctor-among-two-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-ambala/story-lKiE4BHVo5UqJu9j7XCleP.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kurukshetra village sealed as woman tests positive in P’kula||The authorities have sealed the Harigharh Bhorakh village of Kurukshetra district after a 27-year-old woman tested positive for Covid-19.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Dheerender Kadgata confirmed the same.She is posted as a cook in Sector 5 police station in Panchkula. Soon, after the Panchkula district administration informed the Kurukshetra administration about the patient, her village was declared a containment zone.Pehowa SDM Sonu Ram has been appointed to monitor the situation.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sukhbir Singh said that the woman had returned to the village on May 7 but her samples had been sent earlier and on Saturday evening it was found that she tested positive.He said that she was admitted at a hospital in Shahbad and samples of six of her family members had also been sent for testing.The CMO said that since her sample was taken at Panchkula she will be counted in the Panchkula district and as of now there was no active coronavirus patient in Kurukshetra as two people who had tested positive have already been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kurukshetra-village-sealed-as-woman-tests-positive-in-p-kula/story-geB4SJZIfRbqwtDrEhtjFN.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University senator seeks action on college teachers’ pending salaries||A Panjab University (PU) senator wrote to the varsity’s vice-chancellor seeking action on the issue of pending salaries of college teachers.Inderpal Singh Sidhu, an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, and a PU senator, claimed that many PU affiliated colleges in Punjab have not disbursed salaries to their staff members from last many months. “During these difficult times, there are many colleges in Punjab which have not disbursed monthly salaries to the staff members for last many months. The situation is even worse for the teachers working on unpaid posts, as some of the college managements have unreasonably reduced their monthly salaries,” reads the letter addressed to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. Seek status report on salariesSidhu requested the vice-chancellor to pay attention to the situation and seek a status report of the salary disbursement from all principals of the colleges affiliated to the varsity.“It is a serious issue and the vice-chancellor should seek a status report from the colleges,” said Sidhu. Problem not due to COVID-19PU syndicate member HS Dua said, “The problem is not only due to the Covid-19 lockdown, there are many colleges who have not paid salaries to the teachers from last many months. I think 50% of the affiliated colleges have not paid salaries to their teachers which is a serious issue.”“The university should seek a report from the colleges on the matter,” said Dua.Dean of Panjab University College Development Council (DCDC), Sanjay Kaushik, said, “We have received a complaint from the senator regarding non-disbursement of salaries in many colleges in Punjab. We have taken the note of it and we will take action soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-senator-seeks-action-on-college-teachers-pending-salaries/story-pMQVN5BSP2gK9rwmZcb1nK.html
10-05-2020||City||Ludhiana legal services authority hands over face shields to police personnel||District and sessions judge-cum-chariman of district legal services authority (DLSA), Ludhiana, Gurbir Singh, handed over face shields to police post in-charge at court complex here for the use of police personnel. He said, “These face shields have been developed by Sukhjot Singh, a young engineer, at his factory to help those fighting against the Covid-19. They are reusable and would effectively protect personnel from viral infections.”DSLA chairman appreciated Sukhjot’s work and requested others to contribute in the battle against coronavirus. Earlier, DLSA had handed over face shields to civil surgeon Ludhiana for the use of health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-legal-services-authority-hands-over-face-shields-to-police-personnel/story-yJyWfiruqvhDPnolYPbAPL.html
10-05-2020||City||Bengal migrants throng Navi Mumbai police stations to train status||The police officers at Kalamboli, Kamothe and Panvel are witnessing an increased rush of migrants from Bengal who repeatedly throng the station premises to enquire about their return to their hometown.The migrants mostly comprise of house helpers, construction workers, and other daily wagers.Babasaheb J Tupe, senior police inspector, Kamothe police station, said, “There is still no clarity by the government regarding trains to Bengal. As of now, no trains are going to Bengal. We have no option but to turn them away. Despite this, they gather in large numbers to enquire sometime even twice a day.”“While seeing that migrants of other states are going back, there is a panic among those from Bengal. Most of them are losing patience and want to return back at any cost. Hence, are frequenting to the police station to hear some good news about their return,” said Satish Gaikwad, senior police inspector, Kalamboli police station.“My friends from other states like Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand have gone. Many are assures to board the train then why aren’t we sent back to our homes. We don’t want to stay back here at any cost,” said Ganesh Khutam, 34, a migrant from Bengal.“Here we have to depend on others for food, at our village we will not have to ask anybody at least for food,” said Khutam.Khutam resides at an under-construction building at Kalamboli along with few people from his village. They are dependent on NGOs, and individuals for daily supply of food.While many feel that the trains might start very soon, others are planning the journey on foot.“We know that a foot journey is impossible but this will now be a necessary step to draw attention to our issues. Maybe this will compel officials to start a train for us,” said Naman Mondal, 31, a migrant from Bengal who has been residing at a makeshift arrangement at Panvel with his wife and mother.“We don’t know who is at fault for not starting the train. Here it is difficult to maintain a safe distance from each other. Even if I had to get infected, I will prefer to be at home with my family,” said Mondal.Seema Firoz, 34 who is the sole bread earner for a family of four desperately wants to go back home.“I have to take care of my three daughters, I work as a house help and as of now, there is no work. We have almost exhausted all our savings,” said Firoz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengal-migrants-throng-navi-mumbai-police-stations-to-train-status/story-sZJNQMSVKr26L89cHMez6N.html
10-05-2020||City||Unidentified hunters booked for laying trap for leopard in Panchkula village||Police have booked unidentified persons for allegedly laying a trap for a leopard in Morni block of Panchkula district. The big cat was rescued on Thursday after it fell into an empty water tank and was found with its right paw cut off. The leopard which was sent to a zoo in Pipli, Kurukshetra after the rescue, succumbed to injuries on Friday, said officials.In a police complaint, Morni wildlife inspector Ramkesh submitted that his department’s guard had received a tip off from a local about a leopard trapped in a 15-foot deep empty ground-level water tank Tikri village on Thursday at around 10am. The guard had rushed to the spot and apprised him about the situation. After a rescue operation, the leopard was shifted to Pipli zoo.The wildlife department’s veterinary doctor, who conducted a medical check of the male leopard, had told the officials that the leopard was very fragile and exhausted after it lost its right paw to a trap. With broken nails and multiple injuries on its rear legs, left leg, face and its back, the leopard was having difficulty in walking, he added.“On the basis of the vet’s medical report and condition of leopard, it is suspected that hunters set up a paw-trap for the leopard. The report states that its right paw was cut off after getting caught in the trap,” said the wildlife official. Ramkesh further said that besides policemen, a special team of wildlife department has been set up to probe the matter. Chandimandir SHO inspector Deepak Kumar said that based on the complaint submitted by the wildlife department, an FIR under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-hunters-booked-for-laying-trap-for-leopard-in-panchkula-village/story-at4TKK12gft4hY09wucCcL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||At full capacity, first Shramik train leaves Chandigarh for UP with 1,188 migrants||The first Shramik train left the city for Gonda district in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday at full capacity with a total of 1,188 passengers. The passengers were first screened at Interstate Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43 before they were ferried to Chandigarh railway station for departure. Chairs had been arranged at Sector 43 to maintain social distancing. A passenger, Vikas, was sitting with his bag awaiting his turn, said he had been working as a helper at a shop in Manimajra. “The shop owner had given us enough ration for the curfew period, but I was missing my parents and they too, were calling me home. I’m glad I will be with them soon,” he said. Sonu, who worked as an auto driver, said he still had some savings left, but he wanted to be with his children and his wife who lived in Gonda district.17 CTU buses ferried the passengers to ISBT while 26 buses took them to the railway station, as per CTU’s general manager Yashjeet Gupta.The chief ticket inspector Rakesh Kumar said the train had 22 compartments. “The train can seat a maximum of 1,188 people if social distancing has to be maintained. The middle seats have been kept empty,” he said. The train left half an hour late at 6.30 pm for the 12-hour journey. Although no stops have been scheduled but three to four short stops will be made for maintenance, he added.Waiting for the train to depart, Munna from Mahu village, who had been working at a petrol pump in Manimajra said he wasn’t able to work enough shifts and had run out of money. “We have farms back home. It’s better to work there in the fields rather than wait for the government to provide us meals,” he said. Jai Prakash, a labourer living in Sector 25 said that rather than stand in crowds to get a meal, he would rather be working in his own fields.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, east), Dilsher Singh Chandel, was also present at the railway station to monitor the situation. He said nearly a 100 policemen were deputed to maintain accord.The Shramik train will run daily from Chandigarh. The next train is scheduled to depart the city at 2 pm on Monday for Kishanganj district in Bihar.While passengers waited for the train to depart, Congress and BJP leaders also reached the spot and got into an argument following which police had to intervene. Local Congress head Pradeep Chabbra said they had come to send off the labourers when BJP workers started sloganeering. “We also started shouting slogans, but the police intervened and asked us to leave,” Chabbra said.However, local BJP head Arun Sood said, “The sloganeering was one sided. We had come only to provide food to passengers.” Station officials said the situation was soon diffused and political leaders were escorted off the premises but nobody was detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-full-capacity-first-shramik-train-leaves-chandigarh-for-up-with-1-188-migrants/story-2B73eJSofvrGaemQ5B70XI.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||All arrested people to undergo Covid test in Haryana||Haryana director general health services has directed all civil surgeons of the state to test arrested people for Covid-19 before they are lodged in jails.Also, the prison staff returning from leave will be tested for the virus.The instructions were issued after the director general of prisons requested the health department in this connection.“You are hereby directed to ensure testing of all the arrested persons and prison staff on the request of prison/police authorities,” the communiqué says.Until the result of test is received, the arrested person has to be kept in isolation at the designated place, while the prison staff will be home isolated.And, in case the test result is positive for Covid-19, further action will be taken as per protocol, the letters adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-arrested-people-to-undergo-covid-test-in-haryana/story-uoIv19B2BpIms4ilASz4BN.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitation worker killed, another injured in Karnal accident||A 38-year-old sanitation worker was killed, while another sustained severe injuries, as a tractor trolley hit their bike near Bahlolpur village in Karnal district.The deceased has been identified as Jaina Ram of Chochra village of Assandh sub-division. Rajesh Kumar of the same village, who was injured in the incident, has been hospitalised.Both were contractual sanitation workers with the Karnal municipal corporation.According to the police, the incident took place late on Saturday evening when they were returning to their village from work. As they reached near Bahlolpur village, a tractor trolley allegedly hit their bike, following which they were rushed to Karnal civil hospital. However, Jaina was declared brought dead. The driver of the tractor fled the spot, police said.Investigation officer Karambir Singh said a case has been registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against the unknown tractor driver. The probe is on to nab the accused, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanitation-worker-killed-another-injured-in-karnal-accident/story-GrYnFo6BarSvmT6R2IrSzL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Diktat to restrict paddy cultivation amounts to denial of fundamental rights, says Congress||Haryana Congress on Sunday said the state government’s ‘diktat’ to restrict the paddy cultivation to half in 19 blocks amounted to denial of fundamental right of livelihood to the farmers.Addressing a joint press conference, state Congress president Kumari Selja and AICC communication chief Randeep Singh Surjewala criticised the BJP-JJP government for ordering farmers of Siwan, Guhla, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain, Ismailabad, Shahbad, Ratia and Sirsa blocks to restrict paddy cultivation to half.“The state government has not only asked the farmers to compulsorily switch to maize cultivation on half of their land without offering a better option, it has also threatened that all the farm subsidies would be taken away and there would not be any procurement of paddy. This is an insensitive regime that is imposing anti-farmers orders,” the Congress leaders said.They said the Congress was not against the crop diversification or water preservation, but was against the denial of ‘inalienable’ rights to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/diktat-to-restrict-paddy-cultivation-amounts-to-denial-of-fundamental-rights-says-congress/story-AxacRoMULe2OlWRfcn4WkO.html
10-05-2020||City||Working in the Times of Pandemic: ‘Disposing of waste from hospitals treating Covid-19 patients on same day key challenge’||The biggest contribution of the lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak is the cleanest and pollution-free environment not only in the region, but all over the country. Stating this, senior environment engineer, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), Sandeep Behl, said, “In my entire career of 32 years, I have never seen Ludhiana’s environment this much clean. Punjab’s industrial hub is witnessing pollution-free air and water after a long period. It is now our collective responsibility to maintain this environment even post-lockdown.”Behl said, “The air quality index (AQI) of Ludhiana had sunk to 27 on March 28 even below that of Toronto, whose AQI on the same day was recorded at 68. The AQI of Ludhiana used be generally between 170 to 180. At present, the AQI of Ludhiana is around 94.”Behl said, “While the PPCB is presently studying the database of clean Satluj river, Buddha Nullah, discharge of water at Ludhiana’s sewerage treatment plants, air and water quality during the curfew for future policy formation, the major challenge is the management of the biochemical waste from the health facilities treating Covid-19 patients and quarantine centres during the times of the pandemic.”“While the general waste can be preserved for 24 hours, the biochemical waste being generated from the facilities treating coronavirus patients needs to be lifted, transported and incinerated on the same day. We have signed an agreement with all hospitals and medicare service centres for providing a biochemical waste management facility, that has been functioning to treat the medical waste without any delay,” he said.Behl said, “Initially, the municipal corporation’s garbage collectors used to collect waste from the homes, where suspected Covid-19 patients have been quarantined, along with the waste of other homes. But, mixing quarantine centres’ waste with that of the general waste could have been risky, so we got details of quarantine homes from zonal commissioners and ensured that the waste generated from such residences, where patients have been quarantined, is collected separately,” said Behl.“The PPCB has been closely observing the massive changes in the environment during the lockdown. The nature has healed itself during this forced curfew, but people need to heed warning signs of the nature and make necessary changes in their lifestyle for a clean environment. We are a part of nature, we should not see ourselves separate from it for our overall well-being and for a better future of upcoming generations,” the environment official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-in-the-times-of-pandemic-disposing-of-waste-from-hospitals-treating-covid-19-patients-on-same-day-key-challenge/story-qFkHT63BA5ZWo4KWvVnW4J.html
10-05-2020||City||KDMC records one Covid death, 16 new cases||The twin city of Kalyan-Dombivli recorded the fifth Covid death on Sunday, after a 56-year-old woman from Dombivli (East) died at Thane civic hospital.The woman, a cancer patient, was taken to a private clinic on April 29 after she developed fever. On May 6, she went to nearby fever clinic and was sent to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli. She was shifted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj hospital in Kalwa, Thane, on May 7. She was tested for Covid but before getting the report, she took discharge against medical advice and went home.“The patient was severely ill. On May 7, when they were asked to go to Thane civil hospital, the family refused to get her admitted there,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).As per the KDMC records on May 9, she suffered from respiratory problem and the CT scan showed that she had pneumonia ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome). She was first taken to Shastrinagar civic hospital in Dombivli but as her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to Kalwa hospital. Meanwhile, her Covid test report showed she was positive. She was then taken to Thane civil hospital but she died there.“The Thane civil hospital carried out her cremation as per the protocol. Two of her close contacts are also being tested,” said Patil.Sixteen new cases were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 321. Fifteen of the new cases are of those who travel to other cities for work.“We have appealed to those who travel for work to self-isolate themselves for the safety of their family and others,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-records-one-covid-death-16-new-cases/story-wdceuB8QRdM21vfeliIH3M.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Man booked for threatening, hacking woman’s social media account||A 24-year-old Jogeshwari resident filed an FIR against an unknown person for allegedly blackmailing and hacking her social media account.The victim filed a complaint after her friends informed her about receiving her semi-nude pictures and messages from her social media account. The accused while chatting with her on her alternate account threatened her of posting more personal pictures of her online. The victim also alleged that he demanded sexual favours from her. Meghwadi police station has registered an FIR under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act and are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-booked-for-threatening-and-posting-nude-pictures-of-woman-on-social-media/story-PbGzk4j1k6qjsxxIJFComO.html
10-05-2020||City||5 trains carrying 6,000 migrants leave for UP and Bihar from Ludhiana||Five trains carrying 6,000 migrants left for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from the city railway station on Sunday.At 11am on Sunday, the first train left for Hardoi in UP with around 1,200 migrant workers, followed by another train that departed for Bettiah in Bihar at 2pm and later trains to Jaunpur, Azamgarh and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh left for these districts.As the number of passengers per train is more than 1,000, it has been taking around 2 to 3 hours from screening of passengers to make them board a train. Accordingly, the administration had decided to run five trains from 11am to 11pm, keeping a gap of three hours between departures of each train in a day.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said 20,000 migrants had left for their native places through Shramik Special trains in the last five days. He said more such trains will depart for other states in coming days.Over 6.5 lakh migrants in Ludhiana have registered on Punjab helpline portal to travel back home. Deputy commissioner clarified that only those migrants will be allowed to board these trains who had applied on web portal, www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in.He appealed to the migrants to cooperate with the district administration, so that their travel back home can be facilitated in a smooth manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-trains-carrying-6-000-migrants-leave-for-up-and-bihar-from-ludhiana/story-kQ9Y3414pbxKwuPI04qLVI.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Online platforms see unprecedented surge in demand||As schools and colleges remain shut for nearly two months, several online learning platforms have seen a surge in demand, with many schools and students moving to online learning.Online learning giant BYJU’S has seen nearly six million new students joining its learning application during March alone, data shared by the company has revealed. While students who were earlier registered on the platform would use it for two-three days a week, the company said that most students now use it every day as schools remain shut. “There is a 200% increase in online engagement on the app. This shows that with schools continuing to be shut and all other learning sources being unavailable, digital adoption has increased significantly during this time. There has been a big behavioural shift in the parents’ mindset towards learning online as they have witnessed their kids benefit from it,” said Mrinal Mohit, chief operating officer at BYJU‘S.Udemy, an online learning platform that offers different courses on its platform has seen an overall spike in enrolments of over 200% in India, with the content on its platforms seeing an increase of over 50%. The highest surge in enrolments was seen for courses on communication skills, art and coding for kids amongst others. “The trends over the last two months represent a significant acceleration in the transformation to a new future,” said Darren Shimkus, president, Udemy for Business.Another learning platform, Schoolnet India, which provides e-learning services to over 10,000 schools said that there was an increase in the traction after the shutting down of schools. In the first 4-5 days, the platform’s sign-up rate tripled. “Our call centre traffic has also increased proportionately, and demand for online classes is also growing every day,” said Shourie Chatterji, Head - digital initiatives, Schoolnet India.Ahana Sethi, a city-based parent said that while most schools have now started online classes, children still get a lot of free time. “They spend only three-four hours in the online classes and hence parents want to engage them in activities apart from studies. Since going out is not an option anymore, many are preferring online courses on art, language learning, etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/online-platforms-see-unprecedented-surge-in-demand/story-zHHbBLvqT3OMV8xxZNhUvL.html
10-05-2020||City||Women at Thane village provide sanitary pads to migrants||Women from a village in Shahapur area provided sanitary pads to migrants going to their hometowns. They have given 135 sanitary napkins so far. The women provided ready-made pads and also stitched cloth-based napkins for the migrants. The initiative was started by Vidya Farde, a home-maker, whose husband Sharad Farde is a member of Farde village gram panchayat in Shahapur. The couple has been providing food and other basic amenities to migrants. They also distributed 50 pairs of footwear among the women. “We realised that these families have to walk miles which can take months. I brought around 100 sanitary pads and distributed them among migrants on the Nashik highway. As the stock of pads finished at the medical shop in our area, me and five of my neighbours made 35 pads using cotton and distributed it among women who took shelter near our village,” said Vidya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-at-thane-village-provide-sanitary-pads-to-migrants/story-IzHNWmb0wYjUnIQGyZDVkM.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Kandivli man loses ₹1 lakh in debit card cloning fraud||A 27-year-old LIC officer lost ₹1 lakh to a card cloning fraud just five days after he withdrew ₹4,000 using his ATM card in Kandivli (W).The local Charkop police have received several complaints of card cloning and are probing the matter further.According to Charkop police, the complainant is a resident of Kandivli (W) and on May 2 he used his debit card at his private bank’s ATM kiosk in Charkop market. On May 7, the fraudster in ten transactions withdrew ₹1 lakh from his bank account using a cloned debit card.“I went to Charkop police station and saw several people lined up complaining about the same problem. One of the victims also made a video of the micro camera and skimmer attached in the ATM in Charkop market. He has handed it over to Charkop police.”Vitthal Shinde, senior police inspector of Charkop police officer confirmed that an FIR has been registered and multiple complaints regarding the cloning of cards have been filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kandivli-man-loses-1-lakh-in-debit-card-cloning-fraud/story-duOEUufOqfuusFeO2CfopN.html
10-05-2020||City||Truck driver, private firm employee with travel history found Covid positive in Panchkula||A truck driver who recently visited Shimla, and a private firm employee who had returned to work in Baddi after the lockdown relaxations, are the latest Covid-19 positive patients in Panchkula district.So far, 22 cases have been confirmed, of which 18 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital, one of them on Sunday. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said a 33-year-old man, resident of Majri village near Sector 1, and a 44-year-old male resident of Sector 19, were found positive for coronavirus on Sunday. She said both men were admitted in the isolation ward of civil hospital, Sector 6, and health teams were carrying out their contact tracing.The 33-year-old man was tested during random sampling of 10 drivers of the Majri Chowk Truck Operators Union on May 6. The other nine drivers are negative. The private firm employee patient himself approached the civil hospital on May 5 after feeling unwell. “Teams have been deputed to carry out surveillance in both localities. The process for making areas in Majri Chowk and Sector 19 as containment zones has been initiated,” said Dr Kaur.BOTH TRAVELLED TO HIMACHALDistrict Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said the driver had recently visited Himachal Pradesh. “He had gone to an area near Shimla on May 3 to unload some stock at a HPMC godown and returned thereafter. His family members will be tested and put in isolation,” he added.The private company employee had returned to work in Baddi in the hill state after relaxations in the lockdown. Dr Narwal said he travelled to work with 14 other employees, 12 from Panchkula and two from Zirakpur, in a company bus. “The company had arranged for a hotel accommodation for its employees. The positive man stayed in the hotel for few days before returning back on May 5 as he felt sick,” he said. Eight of his immediate family contacts have been identified and will be isolated. The employees who travelled with him in the same bus are being traced.FIVE KIN OF RAJIV COLONY MAN NEGATIVEThe five family members of a 44-year-old milk vendor-cum-confectioner from Rajiv Colony near Sector 17, tested negative on Sunday. The man had tested positive on Friday, following which a part of the colony was declared a containment zone and the remaining as buffer zone on Saturday. Those tested were his wife, 65-year-old mother, 11-year-old son and nine-year-old daughter. Around 100 contacts of the man, both primary and secondary, have been traced. These comprise his family members, customers, neighbours and other locals, who are also being tested. Meanwhile, a day after a 27-year-old female mess assistant at the Sector 5 police station tested positive, reports of five woman constables are awaited. The constables are her immediate contacts as they shared accommodation at the women police station.80-YR-OLD RECOVERS AFTER 30 DAYS IN HOSPITALAn 80-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who tested positive on April 9, has recovered after a month in the hospital. A resident of Bakshiwala village, Pinjore, the elderly man was discharged from the civil hospital on Sunday. He, along with two other men from Pinjore, had attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, in March. While returning home, he thanked the hospital doctors and staff, and invited them for an Eid feast. With this, the total number of active cases in the district is now four, with two cases reported on Sunday and one each on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-driver-pvt-firm-employee-with-travel-history-found-covid-positive-in-panchkula/story-IkuMlKFXonhrHPv0LQBedN.html
10-05-2020||City||24 test negative for Covid-19, discharged from Nicmar||At least 24 patients quarantined at the National Institute of Construction Management and Research (Nicmar) left the facility after 17 days. The patients were admitted to the quarantine facility in Balewadi from various parts of the city. Sameena Sheikh, a resident of Parvati, had tears in her eyes as she made her way outside the hostel building which was her home for 17 days. She had tested positive for Covid-19 after being a close contact of one of her neighbours. “The doctors really took care of us and we were constantly looked after,” she said, thanking the team of doctors led by Dr Jayant Kamble.In the group that left the facility on Sunday, four were children under 10 years, 15 were in the age group of 30 to 50 and five were above 55 years. The mayor of Pune Murlidhar Mohol, accompanied by Pune Municipal Corporation additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal; Dr Mangesh Korgaonkar, director general, Nicmar and manager C Joseph, lauded the doctors and the patients who were on their way home. Mohol spent time with the patients and also advised them to take care of their health and eat healthy.Nisha Waghmare lives on Tadiwala road and called her relatives immediately after leaving the facility.“My mother tested positive, hence, I was here with her. We were tested at Naidu hospital. But now I am worried about going back as we have healed ourselves, but I am not sure about others in the vasti,” Waghmare said. Each of the 24 patients that left the quarantine centre had nothing but appreciation towards the doctors and nurses that took care of them.“I thought I would not survive but the doctors here gave us the best of care, fed us good food and told us to constantly wash hands and wear a mask. I tested positive because I was not wearing a mask and my neighbours had tested positive,” said 60-year old Leela Salunkhe who is a resident of Parvati. She was in Nicmar with her daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-test-negative-for-covid-19-discharged-from-nicmar/story-oEO6WoCPpZOPGoAcxXJ7GM.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Open malls and save jobs of 30k workers, say owners in Pune||Even though the traders union is determined not to open small stores, mall owners in the city have demanded that the state government should give permission to restart the business establishments closed since the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25.Mall owners said that the fate of over 30,000 workers serving in various capacities at different malls is in the balance due to the longterm closure of the establishments. They stressed on the urgent need for reopening of the malls on lines of that of liquor shops to discourage workers from going back to their hometowns as a large number of migrants work in malls.Jehangir Dorabjee, owner of Dorabjee Heritage Mall, said “Wearing of masks can be made mandatory for entry into the malls and also inside the malls. There are sanitisers available which can be kept at all the touchpoints inside. Crowd control can be done easily as we have good experience in doing it for a long time.”“Similarly, social distancing norms can be strictly maintained. We can check the body temperatures at the entrance of the malls and we have trained staffers to execute these customer-centric initiatives. All the guidelines of the district administration, state government, police and health department can be put in place and adhered to strictly as a part of cautionary measures inside the malls,” he said.Malls along with cinema halls and public parks were among the first thing the state government closed on March 25. As per Centre’s guidelines issued on May 2, a day before lockdown 3.0 was imposed, malls and cinema halls will remain closed till May 17.Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, said, “The proposal for reopening of malls is under consideration and we are looking into it.”Prominent builder Satish Magar, national president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association, (CREDAI), said that he endorses the reopening of the malls stand taken by the Retailers Association of India.“Malls have a well-defined structure and culture of controlled access to the customers where social distancing and other health department norms can be easily observed and strictly followed inside all the malls,” said Magar.“We want the state government to permit the reopening of the malls at the earliest. Currently, the mall industry employs more than 30,000 workers and their future is also at stake,” he said.Another businessman Ikram Khan said, “ Malls have digital contactless payment systems that ensure minimal contact. Malls are the most controlled business establishments with dedicated entries and exits and entries. So, the customers can be checked, controlled and then only let in.”“ The government must consider opening up the malls for business and levy a guideline for the same as has been done with the opening of other business establishments,” he said. Pune has over a dozen big malls and several medium-scale malls which caters to the buying needs of a large number of population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/open-malls-and-save-jobs-of-30k-workers-say-owners-in-pune/story-vZ36zx77lrjiOiuhQCO9eI.html
10-05-2020||City||Return of stranded persons: Arrival through train starts in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has given green signal to the arrival of trains in the Union territory with its residents being evacuated from different parts of the country amid the Covid-19 lockdown.The inflow through trains was preceded by the regulated road transportation of the stranded persons via Lakhanpur.The trains entering the UT will disembark the passengers at Udhampur railway station. The first train is expected to arrive on Monday.The highly regulated homecoming of such persons aboard the trains has been initiated with elaborate preemptive arrangements. The authorities have framed intensive protocols and established detailed procedure for their district wise return.Udhampur district administration has created a fresh sample collection capacity of 1000 per day for train returnees as there will be 100% testing of the passengers for Covid-19.As per the administration, all arrangements for receiving, registering and sending the returnees to their destination by bus have been made.The returnees to Jammu, Samba, Kathua will be sent to Jammu where their samples will be taken and then quarantined (administrative quarantine).All returnees to Doda, Kishtwar will be sent to Doda and after the sample collections there, they will be then quarantined at the respective districts.Similarly, the returnees to Reasi, Rajouri and Poonch will be sent to their districts. Their samples will be taken at their respective districts and quarantined there.The returnees to Ramban, Udhampur will be sent to Udhampur where their samples will be taken. However, they will be quarantined at Ramban and Udhampur respectively.The returnees to Kulgam, Anantnag will have their samples taken at Udhampur. They will be then sent to Kulgam and Anantnag and quarantined in their districts.All other returnees to the remaining eight Kashmir districts will be sent to their respective districts. Their samples will be picked up in their own districts and then quarantined there.In case Udhampur has some spare capacity on a particular day, it will take samples of a few more districts in this order - Kupwara, Budgam, Srinagar. Udhampur will inform the concerned district accordingly.All returnees have to be 100% tested and undergo ‘administrative quarantine’ with no exceptions. Only if tests come negative, can they be sent for home quarantine for 14 days.All returnees will be sent by bus convoys with police escort till they reach quarantine facilities.Meanwhile, Divisional administration Jammu has facilitated the return of 97 Kashmiri residents who were stranded in Jammu.The stranded Kashmiri residents left for Srinagar and Ganderbal districts through special SRTC buses from Sunjwan, Bathindi and Sidhra.Officials informed that this process will continue for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/return-of-stranded-persons-arrival-through-train-starts-in-j-k/story-RkAkfep9Euzopu2VPWCV9K.html
10-05-2020||City||In 5 days, 11 cases of stubble burning reported in Mohali||While the state government machinery is busy fighting the Covid-19 outbreak, farmers in Mohali district have begun to burn wheat stubble. In the past five days, the district has witnessed 11 farm fires, for which one farmer has been challlaned.Last year, 206 farm fires were reported of which 190 were verified. While 19 FIRs were registered, seven violators were sent to court for prosecution. Surprisingly, in the past three years, only one farmer has been convicted in Mohali district.The cases have been registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which involves imprisonment for up to two years with a fine of ₹1,000. However, registering of FIRs for the offence, too, has failed to act as deterrent.The 11 farm fires reported in the past five days were reported from five villages–Bishanpura, Hassanpura, Basouli, Jhawanse and Rampur Sainian in Dera Bassi block, and villages–Rurkikalan, Shekan Majrim Hoshairpur, Bathalana and Manakpur in Kharar block of the district.Stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh has been an ongoing issue for the last several years. Last year on November 4, the Supreme Court had come down hard on the three states and asked their respective governments to check stubble burning, failing which the entire administrative and police hierarchy, ranging from the chief secretary to sarpanch and local policemen were to be held responsible for even a single farm fire.Ashok Sharma, the executive engineer (XEN) of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), said that in the past five days 11 fire cases were reported and one challan of ₹2500 issued to a Dera Bassi farmer. “We are still verifying them, following which challans will be issued. All our nodal officers will be active from May 11 and this time we will not spare anyone,” he said.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said directions have already been given to officers to file cases against violators. Even the revenue department has been asked to make red entries in the land records of guilty farmers. A red entry would bar the farmer from eligibility for any government facility or loan from any bank or institution, he said.Severity of challans depends on the farm area. If stubble is burned on less than 2 acres, a challan of ₹2500 will be issued, a challan of ₹5000 will be issued for 2 to 5 acres and for above 5 acres, a challan of ₹15000 will be issued.Seeking to tackle the issue of stubble burning by farmers in Punjab and Haryana, last year in December, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched a pilot project to produce green coal with paddy straw in National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI) and Center of Innovative and Applied Bioprocessing (CIAB), Mohali. According to NABI engineers, the coal produced at the centre will be supplied to thermal plants in Punjab at lesser cost. The plant with a production capacity of 150 kg per hour and one tonne per day has been set up on premises of NABI for research and development. NABI will be buying stubble from farmers in the vicinity at ₹1,500 per tonne and the cost of green coal produced will range from ₹6 to ₹7 per kg as compared to the actual cost of ₹8 to ₹10 per kg, depending upon the quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-5-days-11-cases-of-stubble-burning-reported-in-mohali/story-1GACipwcd77n0ARck5evPK.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University faculty files patent for cost-effective disinfectant||A faculty member of the chemistry department at Panjab University has filed a patent for a cost effective disinfectant which can effectively sterilise mobile phones and car keys.Dr Gurpreet Kaur, assistant professor at the department, has filed the patent through Technology Information Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC), DST, government of India, which deals with metallic vesicles (fluid filled micro particles) using photodynamic therapy (phototherapy involving light and a photosensitising chemical substance) to kill microbes.Dr Kaur said the disinfectant will be especially useful to disinfect malls, hospitals and institutes with large footfall as it was cost-effective and had no side effects.“We are making attempts to prepare screening cabinets using this process that can be installed at the entry of the departments to sterilise mobile phones, car keys and other things using this particular formulation. The team is working on inviting collaborations with some local industries,” she said.Dr Kaur has been working in this field of antimicrobial surfactants (a substance which tends to reduce the surface tension of a liquid in which it is dissolved) from the last nine years and has more than 50 publications to her credit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-faculty-files-patent-for-cost-effective-disinfectant/story-hi3OPHdhvw5fLFf6697UnO.html
10-05-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee’s brother files case against BJP minister Babul Supriyo for sharing ‘fake news’||Kolkata Police have registered a case against union minister Babul Supriyo for sharing a photo of Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha with a person, who Supriyo claimed to be chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s brother. Supriyo on Friday shared a photo on his Facebook and Twitter accounts showing Sinha having a drink with some people. The junior minister for environment, forests and climate change, alleged that one of the individuals in the photo was chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s brother, Kartik Banerjee. Supriyo added that he didn’t have a problem with people drinking in the picture, but was pointing out the nexus between the state’s ruling party and its top bureaucrats.“It’s Hon’ble WBCM @MamataOfficial‘s brother Kartik Banerjee with the Current Chief Seccretary of Bengal Rajiva Sinha! The Drinks r fine but this viral photo does raise many questions given who they are!! THIS sure IS NOT A NORMALPIX @BJP4Bengal @KailashOnline @BJP4India @JPNadda,” Supriyo Twitted on Friday.While Supriyo said that “everyone has the right to have a drink or get drunk” but questions about this photo would be raised because of their identities. “Why would this question not be raised, why the chief minister’s brother was drinking with the chief secretary? The whiskey in the photo is not the issue; the question is if the chief secretary has an unholy nexus with TMC,” he wrote. ”Also Read: ‘Mamata is scared’: BJP’s social media campaign after no press meet by Bengal CM in 9 daysAccording to a senior officer of Kolkata Police, Kartik Banerjee on Sunday lodged a complaint against Supriyo at Kalighat police station before it was transferred to the cyber crime cell of Kolkata police. Kartik Banerjee is also the state unit president of Jai Hind Bahini, a social work unit of Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC).In a statement issued on Sunday, Kartik Banerjee said, “I am not at all present in the photo.”He added, “I strongly oppose this act and condemn such a blatant lie by a responsible person who holds an important position in the Central Ministry. This again proves the failure and insecurity of Mr. Supriyo, both as a politician and as a minister. During this unprecedented exigency when we are struggling to meet the basic requirements of people, you and your party are busy throwing mud and propagating lies,” Banerjee said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He added he will file a legal suit against this attempt at “public vilification”.On social media, the south division of Kolkata police on Sunday shared a screenshot of Supriyo’s tweet and called it fake. “This post circulating on social media is a #Fake. The information shared in the message is false. A case has been started over this and legal action is being taken.”Following the tweet by Kolkata Police and the statement issued by Kartik Banerjee, Supriyo again took to social media to defend himself. “Fine, I will surely ask a question that is being asked by millions. I didn’t release the photo - It was already Viral. Everyone knows that #WestBengalPolice is an extension of @AITCofficial,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-s-brother-files-case-against-bjp-minister-babul-supriyo-for-sharing-fake-news/story-moOXgl78z8B3JdshE5BJLP.html
10-05-2020||City||Panvel’s Roadpali residents keep virus at bay||Roadpali, a node in Panvel off Sion-Panvel highway, and surrounded by Covid hotspots such as Kamothe, Kalamboli and Kharghar, has not recorded any positive case so far.Till Saturday, Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had recorded 143 cases.Residents claimed they have been taking all safety measures to ensure there is no spread of infection.More than 7,000 residents live in 78 housing societies at Roadpali.Roadpali Residents’ Welfare Association (RRWA) said they have made sure groceries, fruits and vegetables supplies reach residents.Deepak Khasturi, RRWA secretary, said, “A packet with 21 types of vegetables is delivered at the residents’ doorstep. The vendor is a resident of Roadpali itself. Vegetable vans were also arranged where people can buy vegetables by following social distancing. Bulk order of the grocery is placed online which is later segregated.”Most housing societies carry out disinfection and sanitisation drives regularly.They have thermal screening device and everyone who comes in is screened.“Nobody is allowed inside the society premises. All service providers have to through thermal screening,” said Khasturi.Residents conduct awareness drive regularly and tell people how to be safe.Those in essential services sector who travel to Mumbai every day too are extra careful.“All measures are in place everywhere. But, we make sure we follow safety precautions strictly,” said Vikesh Deo, 50, a Roadpali resident.Members from every housing society watch out for morning and evening walkers and ask them to stay indoors.Jamir Lengarekar, additional commissioner of PCMC, said, “If the residents are responsible, it means less burden on us. No positive case from the node is good news for us and we hope residents keep up the efforts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-s-roadpali-residents-keep-virus-at-bay/story-WIuBoUbycsIy2VcfbttcXI.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Train with 1,263 migrants from Vasai leaves for UP||Around 1,263 migrants from Vasai Road station in Palghar district, left for Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, in a special train on late Sunday evening. The migrants, who were staying in camps, were issued tickets and were charged around Rs 730 per person.“We took details of the migrants and also conducted tests for Covid-19 symptoms. Social distancing was followed. Around 48 passengers were in each coach of the train, which left around 7.10pm,” said an official of the district information office (DIO), Palghar. Around 5,000 migrants are still stranded in Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/train-with-1-263-migrants-from-vasai-leaves-for-up/story-Gk0LcQgrrnpc0J5Ck566UL.html
10-05-2020||City||Workforce crisis looms as 10,000 migrants leave Mohali||A workforce crisis is looming in the district with 10,000 migrants, including domestic helpers and others in industries, returning to their hometowns and villages in other states even as lockdown restrictions in the wake of Covid-19 are being eased.Though Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan says that around 40% of the one lakh migrant workers who had registered to go home have opted to stay back, 10,000 persons have already left by trains and buses. Some have walked back. More trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are scheduled in the coming week, he adds.According to a rough estimate around 3,000 domestic helpers living in Mauli, Jagatpura, Kumbra, Sohana, Shahi Majra and Mataur villages of Mohali have left by train. Most of them belonged to Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Champaran and Chapra in Bihar.‘Don’t want to come back’“At least we have our homes in UP. For the past two months we have been sitting idle with no work. The only food we ate was distributed by NGOs and welfare organisations. I don’t want to come back again,” Seema, aged 32, a domestic worker, told Hindustan Times on May 8 while boarding the train for Hardoi. According to JR Chaudhary, president, Mohali Senior Citizen Council, most of the domestic workers have already left the city. “We will be facing major problems as they have said they are likely to come back only after six months. Most couples here work and once the lockdown is lifted they have to go to office,” he says.Three projects delayedThree major projects of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) likely to be delayed because of lack of workers include one related to additional water supply under Phase 5 and 6 of Kajauli waterworks, expected to be completed in March next year. The new deadline is likely to be July 2021. Building of the eight km stretch from New Sunny Enclave to Mulllanpur, which was to begin from April 15, is now likely to start in July.Construction of a bridge dividing the Sector 80/81 road, already delayed by two years and expected to be completed by March this year, is now likely to finish in August.GMADA chief engineer Sunil Kansal says most of the authority’s workers have left for their homes with just 30% remaining. “Our project will be delayed by three to four months as we do not have any other option now,” he says.Industrialists who have opened up after partial lifting of restrictions are also worried about increasing productivity at a time when there is hardly anybody around to do the work. There are around 13,000 MSME units and 49 large industrial units in Mohali that employ 1.3 lakh persons, out of which 78,000 labourers have gone back to their states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/workforce-crisis-looms-as-10-000-migrants-leave-mohali/story-wxGwv7Ro1Ak2JmZc41ddzI.html
10-05-2020||City||Thane NGOs face funds crunch, ask govt agencies for aid||Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) distributing ration and meals to migrants and daily wage workers in Thane are running out of donations and have urged state government agencies for aid. They have also requested the government to set up a coordinating committee to help them provide provisions to migrants walking to their hometowns. Since the lockdown, many NGOs in Thane started helping the families of labourers and beggars living on the street.“We have been getting the list of labourers in the city from Thane municipal corporation and collectorate department. Based on the data, we have provided ration to over 3,500 people. However, due to the lockdown, we are not getting adequate donations as donors have reached their limits. Hence, if government agencies help us in providing essential commodities, we can reach more families,” said Nishant Bangera, 28, founder, Muse foundation, in Thane.NGO volunteers have been provided with special identity cards by the government to carry out the distribution of food packets and ration among the needy.“Other than labourers, there are many migrants walking on highways to reach their hometowns. We expect the government to set up a coordinating committee, to help us provide space at proper spots on the highways to set up water, food stalls and toilets for them,” added Bangera.“Since the lockdown, we have provided ration to around 350 people in Mumbra and Kalwa area. But presently, we have been facing a funds crunch,” said a 39-year-old volunteer associated with Childhelpline group in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-ngos-face-funds-crunch-ask-govt-agencies-for-aid/story-gBAzpbc98L08G3e8CcuM0H.html
10-05-2020||City||J&K reports 25 fresh infections, tally mounts to 861||Twenty-five more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 861, officials said.Of the fresh infections, 23 were reported from Kashmir division—Srinagar, Baramulla, Anantnag, Shopian, Kupwara and Kulgam districts—where the tally has risen to 790 and two people have tested positive in Jammu and Kathua district.Officials said 15 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in Kashmir. So far, 328 in Kashmir and 55 in Jammu division have recovered. Srinagar deputy commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said 1,627 residents from outside the state have arrived over the weekend in the district, of which 1,200 have been tested for Covid-19.“We have welcomed 1,627 residents back in Srinagar over the weekend. 1,200 tested; 236 reach home after testing negative. Please do report to TRC upon arrival. Our colleagues are there 24x7 to assist you,” he tweeted.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 454 and 15 are in Jammu.Till date, 93,344 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance— 21,760 in home quarantine, 177 in hospital quarantine and 9,615 under home surveillance. Besides, 61,314 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.On Saturday, 13 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the UT. A 34-year-old man from old city had died due to the disease on May 7 while an elderly woman from Srinagar’s Batpora in Dal Lake area had succumbed earlier this month. So far, nine people have died in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-25-fresh-infections-tally-mounts-to-861/story-jPhqEPLBT9NP14r7gqVxrL.html
10-05-2020||Ranchi||Two Shramik special trains bring back migrants to Ranchi from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka||Two Shramik special trains brought back migrant labourers to Ranchi from Vellore in Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru in Karnataka on Sunday. “The people who have returned here are really happy and thankful to the Jharkhand government. We have instructed them to stay in home quarantine. Some of the people coming from Karnataka were charged for the ticket, this is really unfortunate,” Amba Prasad, MLA Hazaribagh said.“Sonia madam (Sonia Gandhi) has said that it be ensured that none of them is charged for travelling. Congress will return their money,” she added. A labourer claimed that he was charged Rs 960 for the train ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/two-shramik-special-trains-bring-back-migrants-to-ranchi-from-tamil-nadu-karnataka/story-twH47WeONC7ct5EyaKNx6I.html
10-05-2020||City||Himachal govt to bear medical expenses of 2-year-old Covid-19 patient||The state government has decided to bear all the expenses of the treatment of a two-year-old Covid-19 patient from Chamba, who also has a hole in her heart.The two-year-old girl had come in contact with her father, who returned from Baddi on April 30 and tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. She is suffering from a ventricular septal defect (VSD).She is undergoing treatment at District Ayurvedic Hospital, Balu at Chamba, a dedicated Covid-19 treatment facility.Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said that his government has decided to bear all the expenses of her treatment. He said that this ailment could only be treated through major heart surgery.“Keeping in view the economic condition of her family, the state government has decided to bear all the expenses of the treatment within or outside the state,” he said.CM said that it was the endeavour of the state government to ensure that no one was deprived of medical treatment for any serious illness due to the shortage of money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-govt-to-bear-medical-expenses-of-2-year-old-covid-19-patient/story-jvrZtXP78adMeCt5RYy3FP.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rain, gusty winds hit Chandigarh, Mohali||With heaviest rain for any May day since 2014 recorded within an hour and wind speeds peaking at 88 kilometre/hour, Chandigarh and its satellite city of Mohali reported several cases of uprooting of trees and branches falling on parked vehicles on Sunday.According to India meteorological department (IMD), around 0.5mm rain had been recorded till 8:30am, post which 31.2mm was recorded till 9:30am. Hail fall was also reported at the airport observatory while high-speed winds lasted for only a few minutes.In Chandigarh, there were three reports of uprooting of trees, on Sector 33/34 and Sector 37/41 dividing roads and in Sector 20. Power cuts were also witnessed in many sectors, and it took a couple of hours for electricity to return in most of them.However, it was in Mohali that the gusty winds left a trail of damage with both trees and electricity poles being uprooted and roads turning into streams in many parts.Reports of vehicles being damaged due to branches falling on them were received from Phases 2, 7, 8 and many other parts of the city. Roads in Phases 2, 3, 7 and 11 and the Industrial Area besides in Zirakpur town were submerged under water, bringing to the fore poor drainage system. Even power was disrupted in Sectors 76 to 80 for around four hours.‘Freak weather occurrence’According to IMD records, Wednesday (May 10) was the wettest May day since 2014, when 57.1mm rain was recorded on May 5. This was also the second wettest May day this decade. Calling it a “freak weather occurrence”, IMD regional director Surender Paul said: “The rain was significantly high due to confluence of low level easterly winds with western disturbances. The moisture-laden easterly winds coming from the Bay of Bengal were also the reason why rainfall was on the higher side in April. More spells on similar lines can be expected this month.”With 47.8mm rain recorded in the first 10 days, this month has already broken May’s record going back till 2016, when 63.8mm rain was recorded.According to Paul, chances of up to 30mm rain will continue on Monday. Chances of light rain will continue throughout the week, with periods of sunny weather. However, another system of western disturbances is expected to affect the city the next weekend. Wind speeds can reach up to 50 km/hr during this period and rain is likely to be accompanied with thunder and lightning. Hail can also be expected in some areas.Meanwhile, maximum temperature fell from Saturday’s 36.1°C to 29.7°C on Sunday, nine notches below normal owing to the morning showers and cloudy weather throughout the day. Minimum temperature saw a marginal rise from 22.2°C to 22.6°C, four notches above normal owing to the cloud cover at night.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 33 and 35 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 21 and 22 degrees, stated the IMD weather bulletin for Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rain-with-gusty-winds-hit-chandigarh-mohali/story-KMLtmP5uKnlrlaQfGge2hM.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||HC grants lawyer extension till June 30 to pay for flat under CIDCO scheme||The Bombay high court (HC) has allowed a visually-impaired lawyer an extension up to June 30, to pay for a flat he had been allotted by the City and Industry Development Corporation (CIDCO) in 2014 , though the payment deadline was May 8 of this year. The lawyer claimed that due to the Covid-19 pandemic he was unable to arrange for the funds. CIDCO opposed the plea stating that the May 8 deadline was already an indulgence. The court, however, allowed the extension as a last chance on humanitarian grounds.A single bench of justice S C Gupte, while hearing the interim application of the lawyer, was informed that in 2014 he had been allotted a flat in the ‘Divyang’ quota under CIDCO’s housing scheme in Kharghar, Navi Mumbai. He was asked to pay nearly Rs 49. 7 lakh in instalments for the 600 square feet flat. However, in February 2018, the allotment was cancelled on the grounds of delay in payment and hence he approached HC.In December last year, HC quashed CIDCO’s allotment cancellation letter and allowed the lawyer to make delayed payments of nearly Rs 15.29 lakh in two equal instalments on humanitarian grounds. The first instalment was payable by February 7 and the second on or before May 8, 2020, after which the authority would handover possession to him.However, on May 5, advocate Nitesh Bhutekar filed an urgent application on behalf of the lawyer and informed the court that as Mumbai and Navi Mumbai were declared red zones and under lockdown, the applicant was finding it difficult to arrange funds and requested the court to grant him some time to make payment.Advocate Rohit Sakhdeo for CIDCO opposed the plea and said that the December order of the HC was already an indulgence, hence further extension should not be granted.After hearing the submissions, justice Gupte noted, “Considering unusual circumstances obtaining as of date, this court is of the view that a reasonable extension of time deserves to be granted to the applicant.” The court ordered that the applicant can pay balance instalment of Rs 7, 64, 974 by June 30 and stated, “This extension is granted only as an indulgence and by way of a last chance, and no application shall be made hereafter for further extension of time.”The bench added that in case of default, CIDCO would be entitled to cancel the allotment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-lawyer-extension-till-june-30-to-pay-for-flat-under-cidco-scheme/story-gHVkxRWABVSCLZzcwsRVnL.html
10-05-2020||Noida||218 Covid-19 cases, 135 discharged; Noida’s recovery rate at 61.92%||Two more people, including an octogenarian woman, have tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the number of cases in the district to 218, officials said on Sunday.On a brighter note, 14 more patients got discharged from a hospital after treatment for Covid-19. With this, the number of people cured of the disease in the district reaches 135 and that of active cases comes down to 81, the officials said. “Total 33 reports have been received in the last 24 hours of which two were positive and the rest negative for Covid-19,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said, adding that the number of confirmed cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar stands at 218. The new patients are a 40-year-old man and an 80-year-old woman, both from Noida’s sector 22, the officer said in a statement.Also, 14 patients – six women and eight men – were discharged from the Sharda Hospital on Sunday after successful Covid-19 treatment, he said.“So far, 135 of the 218 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 81 active cases in the district,” the surveillance officer said.The recovery rate of patients is 61.92 per cent, as per official statistics of the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/218-covid-19-cases-135-discharged-noida-s-recovery-rate-at-61-92/story-d2EheMOrIU4hoFVaU2MlDM.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||Khattar govt’s new scheme will discourage farmers from cultivating paddy: Cong||Opposition Congress on Sunday hit out at the recently announced crop diversification scheme by the M L Khattar government, saying there was a conspiracy to eventually stop the procurement of paddy at Minimum Support Price (MSP) by discouraging a large number of farmers from cultivating the crop. “Under the new autocratic order and scheme brought out by Khattar government, they now want farmers in eight different blocks which have been identified and 19 blocks in total to not cultivate paddy at all and punish the farmers by denying them MSP for paddy in case they still choose to grow this crop,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said.“They also want to deny farmers in 26 other blocks the right to grow paddy on Panchayati land. This is despite the fact that state government’s another (crop diversification scheme) ‘Jal hi Jeevan Hai’ scheme, launched last year, was surreptitiously closed and put under the table,” he added. Surjewala addressed a joint press conference with Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja through video conferencing. The Haryana government had on Wednesday announced Rs 7,000 per acre incentive to farmers for switching from water-guzzling paddy to other crops and said permission to sow paddy will not be given in panchayat areas where the ground water depth is more than 35 metres. The Congress leader asked if “punishing the farmers” by denying them MSP for paddy in case they continue to grow it in these blocks was the way forward. “By doing so, aren’t the farmers lives and livelihood being endangered by this government… What is the guarantee of success of this new scheme when their ‘Jal Hi Jeevan Hai’ scheme failed?” both Surjewala and Selja asked. Surjewala said under the ‘Jal Hi Jeevan Hai’ scheme, seven blocks in the state including Assandh, Pundri, Radaur and Ganaur were identified in which crop pattern over 1.37 lakh acres was to be shifted from paddy to other crops including maize. He said farmers were promised incentive of Rs 2,000 per acre, free hybrid seeds and payment of crop insurance premium, but the scheme failed and peasants were left high and dry. “Now, with this latest scheme, the government is again experimenting with the lives and livelihood of farmers in 19 new blocks, two of which fall in Kaithal district, four in Kurukshetra and one each in Fatehabad and Sirsa. Besides, there are 11 more blocks whose names have not been announced so far,” he said. “In addition, there are 26 blocks, largely of northern Haryana, where farmers do their cultivation on Panchayat land by taking it on lease have been prohibited from cultivating paddy. All this points out to a complete and inept government solely directing its schemes at eventually stopping the procurement of paddy at MSP, that is the main conspiracy behind it,” he claimed. He said Congress is not saying that crop diversification should not be done, “but how can farmers be deprived of right to till their land to sow the crop of choice”. Under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme, the farmers have to diversify at least 50 per cent of their cultivated paddy area by growing alternate crops like maize, cotton, bajra and pulses in those 19 blocks where ground water level has depleted to 40 meters. For these blocks, farmers will not be permitted to cultivate paddy in any new areas where paddy was grown during last year and they will be given incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre to switch over to other crops. Besides, in agriculture lands of Gram Panchayats in 26 blocks where ground water level has depleted to 35 meters, the Panchayat will not permit paddy growing in their lands. Surjewala said that with these orders, farmers will not be able to sow paddy in the 19 blocks spread across 2.30 lakh acres of land. He said that the previous Congress government had constructed Rs 400 crore Dadupur Nalvi canal, which would have proved to be a boon, especially to northern parts of Haryana by helping in water recharging, but the BJP led dispensation scrapped the project. “On one hand this government gives plea of water conservation, on the other hand they take decisions like scrapping the canal project which was to help raise water level,” Surjewala said. “Secondly, they have adopted stoic silence on SYL canal issue and despite court ruling in Haryana’s favour, no effort is being made by the government to ensure the state gets its due share,” said Surjewala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/khattar-govt-s-new-scheme-will-discourage-farmers-from-cultivating-paddy-cong/story-LHl1ZbPK6uiyimjxqBnYOJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Special train to ferry Himachal residents stranded in Goa||The Centre has agreed to run a special train from Goa to Una town in Himachal Pradesh to facilitate the return of state’’s residents stranded in Goa, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.Interacting through a videoconference from Shimla with those stranded across Goa due to the countrywide lockdown in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, the CM said that he had requested railways minister Piyush Goyal to ply a special train for them.He said that the special train would start from Goa on May 13 or 14.Thakur said 1,204 Himachal residents are stranded in Goa, including 398 from Mandi, 246 from Kullu, 241 from Kangra, 105 from Chamba, 70 from Shimla, and 43 from Solan districts.He said his government was committed to the welfare of its people working in various parts of the country.He said that the government will try to fully utilise the skill and expertise of people coming back to their homes. “Returnees will be home quarantined as Covid-19 cases are witnessing a spike in the state which is a matter of concern,” the CM said.More than one lakh people stranded in different parts of the country have already returned to the state. The government ran special buses to bring back Himachal residents stranded in Chandigarh. The rise in Covid-19 cases has set fresh alarms for the government. A total of 53 persons have tested positive for coronavirus.There are about 52,763 Himachalis stranded in different parts of the country that have applied for an e-pass, and about 63,044 people of different states are stranded in Himachal Pradesh who are keen to return to their native places. So far 30,219 people of other states have already returned to their native places.“I have directed the all the government officials concerned to persuade the workers from the different parts of the country to defer their plans to return back home on foot as it would hamper developmental projects in the state,” said Thakur who presided over a meeting of nodal officers appointed to facilitate the return of stranded Himachalis.Thakur said that his government has decided that people coming to the state from other parts of the country would be quarantined before allowing them to go home. He said that all the Himachalis coming from Punjab, Maharashtra and from other red zones of the country would be tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-train-to-ferry-himachal-residents-stranded-in-goa/story-p0m8e4b3knF1ZFeeVF7qpM.html
10-05-2020||City||Institutional quarantine mandatory for Himachal residents returning home: Jai Ram||All residents returning to Himachal Pradesh from others states will be medically examined and need to stay placed under institutional quarantine before being sent home, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.He was addressing a meeting of nodal officers appointed by the government to coordinate with other states to facilitate movement of stranded Himachal residents.The CM said the government is concerned about safety of both its people stranded across the country and those living in the state.“All Himachalis coming from red zones will be tested for COVID-19,” he said.Thakur directed the nodal officers to ensure that they keep a close liaison with their counterparts in other states so that stranded people could be brought back at the earliest.“Priority will be given to students as they are the most vulnerable in this time of distress,” he added.The CM said as many as 52,763 Himachal residents stranded in different parts of the country have applied for the COVID e-pass.Similarly, about 63,044 from different states are stranded in Himachal and want to leave, he said, adding that till date as many as 30,219 people from other states have been evacuated.He said a special train will ferry stranded Himachalis from Bengaluru to Una on May 11. “The state government will request the Centre to start similar trains from Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and Bihar to facilitate return of Himachal residents,” he said.The chief minister said adequate arrangement will be made at the Una railway station for ensuring proper social distancing. He added that proper arrangements of masks, sanitisers and food packages will also be made there. “District-wise counters will be set up to facilitate people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/institutional-quarantine-mandatory-for-himachal-residents-returning-home-jai-ram/story-ThsNcMSH9ImlyRSZjx296L.html
10-05-2020||Bangalore||Coronavirus warriors honoured in Bengaluru||Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on Sunday honoured the Covid-19 frontline warriors including sanitation workers, home guards, police and Asha workers for their service in Bengaluru.The ceremony was held at Rajajinagar area where Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner Anil Kumar and Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao were also present.There are a total of 847 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka so far, including 405 discharged and 31 deaths, the state health bulletin said on Sunday.According to the Union Health Ministry, the country has recorded 62,939 cases, including 19,358 cured and 2,109 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/coronavirus-warriors-honoured-in-bengaluru/story-dMpWm24ONBO3A3vbLVvm0I.html
10-05-2020||City||Online process for school admissions in Himachal to start from Monday||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to start the online process for admissions in the schools from Monday onward, said education minister Suresh Bhardwaj during the “Siksha Pe Charcha” programme held live on his Facebook page.The schools in Himachal are closed indefinitely due to the coronavirus crisis. Bhardwaj said that the parents, who don’t have the facility to fill online forms, may visit the schools for the purpose.He said that the government has already promoted the students of Class 1 to 8 into the next classes without declaring the results.The education minister said that only the school principal, headmaster, or non-teaching staff will be deputed in the schools for the offline admission process.Results of Class 10 and 12 to be declared in JuneBhardwaj said that the results of Class 10 and 12 may be declared in the first week of June. “The remaining two exams of computer science and geography of Class 12 will be held after the lockdown is lifted,” he said.“Evaluation process is underway and efforts are being made that the results are declared in the first week of June,” he added.The minister said that evaluation in vocational subjects will be done on assessment bases.College session to be postponedHe said that the academic session may be deferred to September. The examination of the current session will be held in July.The summer vacations will be preponed to May instead of June.“The practical examination in colleges will be held in June followed by theory exams in July,” said Bhardwaj adding that the evaluation process will start immediately.Earlier, the admissions were held in June.Private schools to charge tuition fee onlyThe minister said that the government will also make a decision regarding fee-wavier by private schools in the meeting scheduled on Monday.He said that private schools can only charge a tuition fee for three months from March to May due to lockdown in the wake of Covid-19.“The schools cannot charge other funds. The higher education department has sent a proposal to the state government in this regard and the final decision will be taken on Monday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-process-for-school-admissions-in-himachal-to-start-from-monday/story-5cOQa0pvVrlpQXnHx1IRoN.html
10-05-2020||City||Six more Covid-19 infections take Himachal tally to 58||Six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 58, officials said.With three fresh cases, the number of active cases has gone up to 17.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said the new patients are taxi drivers who were ferrying passengers to Himachal from other states.One of the patients, a 36-year-old man from Gujarat, brought five passengers from Ahmedabad to Baijnath in Kangra district. The other cabbie is 46-year-old from Delhi and had ferried three passengers from Gurugram to Mandi.They were quarantined at the state border in Bilaspur and their samples were sent to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla, for testing and turned out positive.“All the eight passengers have also been quarantined and their samples are being sent for testing,” said Dhiman.The third patient, a 19-year-old woman from Kangra, is the sister of the Shahpur (Kangra) man who tested positive for Covid-19 on May 8. Authorities are mapping her contacts now. The three patients have been shifted to hospitals.Three more people tested positive late in the evening. They are from Chamba and aged 24, 32 and 33. They are primary contacts of a man who returned from Baddi and tested positive on Wednesday.8 WARDS SEALED IN RURAL HAMIRPUREight wards of three gram panchayats falling under the Nadaun sub-division of the district were all sealed and declared as containment zones on Sunday. The move has come after a person from the area tested positive for Covid-19. As per the order issued by district magistrate Harikesh Meena, the sealed areas are : wards 6 and 7 (Hatli village), wards 2 and 4 (Nukhail village), wards 4 and 5 (Lahra village) — all under gram panchayat Lahra, ward number 1 (Khorar village) of gram panchayat Goes, and ward number 1 (Budhwin village) of gram panchayat Galore Khas. No movement will be allowed in containment zones till further notice.SPURT IN INFECTIONS IN PAST WEEKHimachal has witnessed a spurt in infections in the past week, recording 15 cases, including one fatality.A youngster from Jogindernagar of Mandi district was tested positive for Covid-19 last week.Following this, a 21-year-old man from Sarkaghat in Mandi, who was suffering from a kidney ailment, died of the contagion at IGMCH, Shimla. His mother also tested positive for the disease.On Wednesday, two people from Chamba and one from Kangra tested positive for Covid-19.On Friday, four people, including a two-year-old daughter of a Covid-19 patient from Chamba, tested positive and two cases were reported on Saturday.So far, the state has reported 55 Covid-19 cases, including two casualties. The first case in the state had been reported on March 20.Una is the worst-hit district with total 17 cases. Nine cases each have been reported in Solan and Chamba districts. Kangra, the most populous district in the state, also recorded nine cases. Four cases have been reported in Hamirpur, three in Mandi, and two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-covid-19-infections-take-himachal-tally-to-55/story-tCwqcUlAfolr6st77ATSWJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Covid-19: Several booked for spreading fake news on social media in Shimla||The police here have booked several people for spreading false information on social media about a Shimla-based chemist testing positive for coronavirus disease.The accused had circulated false information that the chemist has his shop near Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital (IGMCH) and due to his infection, the hospital had been sealed.Shimla superintendent of police Omapati Jamwal said the police were conducting the investigation. He said that nobody would be spared for spreading fake news. “The police cyber cell is preparing a list of people who were creating panic by sharing this fake information on social media sites,” he added.IGMCH medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said that the chemist’s samples had been taken, but he tested negative for Covid-19.Meanwhile, Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap has urged the people not to spread or believe in rumours, while assuring that the district administration will share correct information from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-several-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-on-social-media-in-shimla/story-HHqjtI8dXGfy49UmDbRQ2O.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Woman inmate of Byculla prison tests positive for Covid-19||A 54-year-old inmate of Byculla women’s jail has tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, jail authorities informed.According to Byculla jail authorities, the woman’s first test result on May 8 was negative but the second test conducted on May 9 has come positive. She is under treatment at St George’s Hospital, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-inmate-of-byculla-prison-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-nTqEBAzhAvdMbiUytBmGdK.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Khemka lauds Delhi HC order on Sonepat magistrate’s actions||Senior Haryana IAS, Ashok Khemka on Sunday said the Delhi high court order, terming the Sonepat district magistrate’s actions of obstructing the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat an infringement of the constitutional provisions, was welcome.  Job is challenging, trying to reduce transmission of Corona virus.Physical distance, personal hygiene, face protection helps. Barriers erected in public places, stopping economic activities may be excessive. Keep अन्त्योदय in mind. Judicial order welcome.https://t.co/sM2FUjYSxk In a tweet, the officer said barriers erected in public places and stopping economic activities may be excessive. Keep Antyodaya (uplift of the weakest sections) in mind. The job reduce to transmission of coronavirus was a challenging one. Physical distance, personal hygiene, face protection helps, he tweeted in response to the Hindustan Times story on the HC order.DM Anshaj Singh had on April 30 restricted movement on grounds that most Covid-19 cases in Sonepat have a Delhi connection.Following this, a public interest litigation (PIL) was moved before the court stating that as Sonepat is not only contiguous to Delhi but also a part of the national capital region, a number of Delhi residents have to travel to Sonepat for essential work and vice versa.Hearing PIL, a division bench of the Delhi HC comprising Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula said: “This court is of the prima facie view that April 30 order issued by the Sonepat DM constituted an infringement of Articles 19(1)(d) and 301 of the Constitution, especially when the entire national capital and Sonepat are not containment zones.”Article 19 (1) (d) allows every citizen to move freely throughout the territory of India and Article 310 provides for freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India.Issuing notice to the Union and Haryana governments to file responses, the HC has listed the case for May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khemka-lauds-delhi-hc-order-on-sonepat-magistrate-s-actions/story-V0NXVRbXfMUeel0e9JzlQJ.html
10-05-2020||Pune||65 people stranded in London arrive in Pune, put under quarantine||Sixty five passengers from Pune district stranded in London returned to the city on Sunday.A total of 326 Indians landed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai on Sunday morning as a part of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to bring back stranded Indians across the globe. Of the 326 Indians, 65 were from Pune district, and were brought to the city by four private buses and have been kept at an institutional quarantine at Hotel Sadanand Regency at Balewadi, said officials.These passengers were part of the special evacuation flight AI 130, a Boeing 777 plane, which departed from London on Saturday and landed at Mumbai at around 1:30am with 326 Indians.Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, said, “All the passengers from Pune who came back from London underwent a medical checkup at the Mumbai airport. Taking all the necessary precautions of social distancing they were brought in four private buses to Pune and have now been kept under institutional quarantine for 14 days at Hotel Sadanand Regency in Balewadi. “Once they complete 14 days, again their medical checkup will be done and if all are good, then, they will be allowed to go home,” he said.According to officials, all those who arrived in Pune did not have any symptoms for Covid-19 and therefore, were put up at a private hotel where they will complete 14 days stay following which they will be allowed to go home. “All the 65 passengers who arrived in Pune are stable and do not have any symptoms,” said Gaikwad. As per the protocol, patients with symptoms are isolated and assigned to an isolation facility, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/65-people-stranded-in-london-arrive-in-pune-put-under-quarantine/story-kV3gKeuoJ7dtuondyS2GwM.html
10-05-2020||City||Housing minister Jitendra Awhad recovers from Covid-19||Maharashtra state housing minister Jitendra Awhad, who had tested positive for Covid-19 in April, got discharged from the hospital after recovering from the disease on Sunday. Awhad tweeted that he will be back on the field in a month. “My fight with Covid-19 going on for the last few days is finally a success. I have now recovered and will be going home today. I will be back in a month with the same enthusiasm to work for the people of my state,” read his tweet. He also asked his supporters and party workers not to meet him for a month as per the doctor’s advice.He added, “I also would like to thank the hospital staff including nurses, ward boys, doctors and other employees for all they have done for me and I will be indebted to them all my life.”He was the first minister to get infected with the virus in the state. He had come in contact with a Covid-positive police officer from Mumbra during a food distribution drive. Along with him, 14 members of his staff and an ex-NCP MP and his wife too had tested positive. He was in self-quarantine since April 13 after 14 of his staff tested positive. He had tested negative initially but tested positive after his second test on April 21. He was admitted to a private hospital in Mulund after he complained of difficulty in breathing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-minister-jitendra-awhad-recovers-from-covid-19/story-yW8azPK8KxsO07cPu2Y6IM.html
10-05-2020||City||Shramik Express with 1,388 migrant workers leaves for Bihar from Bathinda||The first Shramik Express train from the south Malwa belt with 1,388 migrant workers left for Muzaffarpur, Bihar, from Bathinda railway station on Sunday at 11 am, deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said.The workers were returning to their hometowns and villages following the Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking to Hindustan Times at the railway station, many of them were emotional, saying financial concerns remained a major worry, apart from the virus outbreak.They said the authorities had provided them food, bottled water and free travel tickets. Mahesh Das, aged 38, said he was going back to Bhagalpur even though he had not lost his job as he was homesick and his wife and mother wanted him to come back. “I was working at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery (GGSR) in Bathinda and my job was safe. But I wanted to be with my family because of the pandemic. We have a small piece of agricultural land and what we get is insufficient to feed my family of five. I don’t know how I will support them now,” he said.Das’s co-passenger Sanjay Das, a mason, said he would like to return to Punjab once the situation normalised. “I had no work for a month because of the lockdown. We got dry rations from government agencies once and then I survived by borrowing money. I will stay put in my village at Bhagalpur with my family, including six children, till things get back to normal. I am the sole earning member of the family, but I have no work now,” he said.Anwar of Jaimangla village in Purnia district said the contractor he worked for in a construction business helped all workers and provided them food and essentials during the lockdown.“These are hard times but I know even my employer can support all his workers for a limited amount of time. Also, I wanted to be with my children. Opportunities are bleak at home, so I will have to come back once construction activities resume in Punjab,” he said.Meanwhile, Srinivasan said the administration had made elaborate arrangements for the safety of other migrant workers in the city, most of them from Bihar.About 27,000 persons had registered online to go back to the state, but only 3,000 had come forward for medical screening, he said.Another train would be leaving for Bihar on May 14, Srinivas disclosed.“As industries have resumed functioning now, many people are not that keen to go back now, he said.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-express-with-1-388-migrant-workers-leaves-for-bihar-from-bathinda/story-NCYOmgJhxTxAItwPM5YXxO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||4 fresh cases take Chandigarh’s Covid count to 174||With four new Covid-19 cases reported on Sunday, the total count in Chandigarh has reached 174, which is almost double the 88 cases reported at the beginning of the month.A Sector 40 resident, who is a doctor at the civil hospital in Rupnagar, is among the fresh cases. UT health officials said he was working in the hospital’s laboratory and was also involved in taking samples of Covid-19 suspects, the likely source of infection. This is second case in Sector 40. In fact, 46 health workers of the Rupnagar civil hospital, including seven from Mohali, tested positive on Sunday evening. The Mohali district count, now, stands at 105.The remaining three cases of Chandigarh are from Bapu Dham Colony, the Covid-19 hotspot in Sector 26 which now accounts for 75% active and 63% total cases of Chandigarh with 110 infections. Those tested positive on Sunday are a five-year-old boy, who is a family contact of an infected person, and two males, aged 45 and 11, who are community contacts of another positive person. This has led to 56 community contacts and four family contacts of these people being put into quarantine.TEST POSITIVITY RATE MORE THAN NATIONAL AVERAGEThe overall test positivity rate (positive cases per total tests conducted) of Chandigarh has shot up to 8% as against the national average of 3.8%. This rise can be attributed to the two congested pockets of Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30.Since the first case came to the fore in Bapu Dham Colony on April 24, the UT health department has conducted around 1,408 tests in which 143 persons have been found positive, accounting to a worrisome test positivity rate of 10%.The department on Sunday confirmed the death of a 62-year-old man of the colony, who had tested positive posthumously on Saturday. He had suffered a cardiac arrest three years back for which he had undergone angioplasty and angiography.COOPERATE WITH ADMN: IMAThe Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh, has appealed to the people to cooperate with the administration to limit the further spread of infection in the city.In a press statement, Chandigarh IMA president Dr Rajesh Dhir stressed that coronavirus was highly contagious and could spread through asymptomatic persons too. “Strict hand hygiene, maintaining social distancing norms and using face masks in public places have been found to be effective in preventive its spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-new-covid-19-cases-from-bapu-dham-chandigarh-s-count-173/story-7hyt23eCIHVnltnDraw0DL.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||1,916 labourers allowed to board train from Mumbai to UP: Cops||A total of 1,916 migrant labourers stranded in the coronavirus-induced lockdown were given permission by Saki Naka police station to travel on board a Shramik Special train that left Mumbai for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, a senior official said on Sunday.Zone X Deputy Commissioner of Police Ankit Goel said multiple buses were used to get these labourers to Central Railway’s Lokmanya Tila Terminus in Kurla area of the metropolis.“All details of the people traveling were taken, and documents analysed. The buses were sanitised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/1-916-labourers-allowed-to-board-train-from-mumbai-to-up-cops/story-uq9TiJXetdvBj89C5bEdDN.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus patient kills self at Mumbai hospital||A 60-year-old man who had tested positive for coronavirus committed suicide at a hospital in suburban Andheri on Saturday, police said.The patient was found to have hanged himself with his pajamas from a steel rod on the ninth-floor terrace of the hospital on Saturday afternoon, a police official said.He might have been suffering from anxiety or depression after being diagnosed with coronavirus, leading to the suicide, the official said.A case of accidental death was registered at MIDC police station and further probe was on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-patient-kills-self-at-mumbai-hospital/story-cVFWqULK6WPoDH1i7wE9AJ.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||75% of Delhi’s Covid-19 patients asymptomatic or have mild symptoms: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday nearly 75% patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Capital are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. As he said Delhi has to “learn to live with Covid-19”, the chief minister pointed out they have been asked to remain at homes following the Centre’s revised guidelines on the discharge of such patients.“There are 6,923 coronavirus cases so far in Delhi and 2,069 patients have recovered and 73 have died,” Kejriwal said during a video conference.“Out of the 6,923 Covid-19 patients, only 1,476 are admitted at hospitals. The rest or about 75% are getting treatment at their homes and Covid-19 centres. Our teams are visiting their homes to ensure that they are following all the protocols every day,” he said.Watch l Kejriwal on home treatment for mild cases & plight of migrant workers He said if such patients do not have separate rooms or toilets in their houses, the government is ensuring that they can get admitted to Covid-19 care centres.The chief minister said the government has also issued an order for the requisition of ambulances belonging to private hospitals, adding that the decision has been taken in the wake of shortage of state-run ambulances. “They (private ambulances) will have to be pressed into service when the government requires their service,” Kejriwal said. After Maharashtra and Gujarat, the national capital has recorded the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/75-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-are-asymptomatic-or-have-mild-symptoms-kejriwal/story-cjU4fTDI8nEURu7UxQxMNN.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||‘No special treatment, just honouring Covid-19 warriors’: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal amid Oppn criticism||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday deflected criticism over his government’s decision to allow healthcare workers, including government officials, on Covid-19 duty to be treated in hotels converted into medical facilities. The criticism came after the health department issued an order allotting three hotels in east Delhi, out of which two in the five-star category, for the treatment of officials of government offices, autonomous bodies, corporation and local body officers and their family members if they contract Covid-19.“The hospital is directed to provide healthcare facility at these hotels to the Covid positive officer/officials treating as if they are admitted in the hospital. Serious patients could be shifted to the main hospital area,” the order said about the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.On Sunday, Arvind Kejriwal said the government is responsible for those who are working on the frontline to fight Covid-19.“Frontline workers are risking their lives and fighting the coronavirus disease day in and day out. And it is our responsibility to take care of them if they fall sick,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said.“I want to ask you shouldn’t these Covid warriors be given special facilities. They must. What’s the harm if some money—Rs 1, 2, 3, 5, 20 crore—is spent. What’s wrong with it?” he asked.The AAP leader cited the example of Delhi Police constable Amit Rana, who died after contracting Covid-19, and said his family was given Rs 1 crore to honour him.“Why is the opposition so troubled? This is my request to everyone that this is no time for doing politics but for all of us to think about what we can do to fight against corona. We need to think about that,” he said.“Don’t indulge in issuing political statements and help each other,” he said.The Delhi chief minister also said there are 6,923 coronavirus cases so far in the national capital, 2,069 patients have recovered and 73 have died.He added that out of the 6,923 Covid-19 patients, only 1,476 are admitted at hospitals. The rest or about 75% are getting treatment at their homes and Covid-19 centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-special-treatment-just-honouring-covid-19-warriors-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-amid-oppn-criticism/story-3rI7NBUuXdSWaR2EpwRy3J.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Sunday’s earthquake was third to hit Delhi in a month, with same epicentre||An earthquake of 3.4 magnitude struck Delhi on Sunday afternoon with its epicentre at Sonia Vihar. This is the third earthquake to hit Delhi in about a month.On April 12, a 3.5-magnitude quake had struck Delhi and its neighbouring region. Interestingly, the epicentre of that earthquake was also near Sonia Vihar in North-East Delhi (near Wazirabad) at almost the same location.According to officials at the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) helpline, people had called and reported tremors from near the epicentre on Sunday. The quake occurred at 1.45 pm at a depth of five kilometres, said the NCS.The location coordinates of the event is latitude 28.7 N and longitude 77.2 E. Seismologists said it’s too early to say why there is another earthquake with the same epicentre.“There are many faults in and around Delhi. There is the Sohna fault, Mathura and Mahendergarh faults which can contribute to earthquakes. There are several lineaments (an expression of an underlying geological structure such as a fracture) also. One lineament could have activated other lineaments. But we need to refine our recordings and findings to see what happened,” said AP Pandey, seismologist at NCS.The location coordinates according to NCS for the previous earthquake was also latitude 28.7 north and longitude 77.2 east, and the depth was 6.5 kilometres. On April 13, another low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.7 shook parts of Delhi. The quake occurred at 1.26 pm at a shallow depth of 5 kilometre in North-East Delhi (near Wazirabad).It’s not unusual for epicentre of these relatively small earthquakes to be in Delhi and neighbouring Haryana, seismologists said. But in April the experience was much more intense for people in Delhi because of less noise associated with traffic movement due to the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown.Of the seismic zones in India, Delhi falls under the fourth-highest zone, making it vulnerable to earthquakes. But it is rare that Delhi has been the epicentre of a quake. It, however, experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.An earthquake of magnitude 2.8 had hit the national capital in 2004. Another quake of magnitude 3.4 was recorded in the city in 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sunday-s-earthquake-was-third-to-hit-delhi-in-a-month-with-same-epicentre/story-2fAwnI1iIwobFyJFPD5CjO.html
10-05-2020||Patna||44 out of 49 who tested positive for Covid are returnee migrants: Bihar govt||Forty-four out of the 49 people who tested coronavirus positive on Saturday in Bihar are the migrants who had returned from other states, according to the state health department.“Of the 49 persons who tested Covid-19 positive yesterday, 44 are migrants who have come from different parts of the country,” said Sanjay Kumar, Principal Secretary-Health, Bihar.As many as 18 more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Bihar on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 629.Meanwhile, India’s Covid-19 count crossed 60 thousand on Sunday, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The number of total confirmed cases in the country rose to 62,939, including 19,358 patients who have been cured and discharged or migrated, according to the Ministry.As many as 41,472 cases are active and 2,109 people have died due to the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/44-out-of-49-who-tested-positive-for-covid-are-returnee-migrants-bihar-govt/story-NKkCg7yBCyr8Yk1weYGyrI.html
10-05-2020||Kolkata||On Mother’s Day, Mamata Banerjee pays her tributes to ‘Maa, amma and mothers’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday extended her wishes to all mothers on Mother’s Day as she talked about her government’s initiatives for women in the state.“Today is #MothersDay. Greetings to all Maa, Amma and Mothers on this auspicious day. The Mother’s Wax Museum and the Maa Flyover are tributes to them. We also start our slogan with Maa… #MaaMatiManush. We respect all mothers like our own mother,” Mamata Banerjee tweeted.The Trinamool Congress chief was referring to her party’s slogan in her Mother’s Day tweet which refers to the mother, the earth and the people.The West Bengal chief minister also listed her government’s programmes toward the welfare of mothers in another tweet.“We are commited to the welfare of mothers. Our Govt in #Bangla👉Set up Mother & Child Hubs 👉Started Matri Yan services 👉Issued Swasthya Sathi smart cards to women, recognising them as head of family 👉Declared 731 days of maternity leave for female employees (sic),” she posted.The second Sunday in May is observed as Mother’s Day in India and some other parts of the world. This year, it is being celebrated amidst a lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, which has affected more than four million people and killed 279,313 across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/on-mother-s-day-mamata-banerjee-pays-her-tributes-to-maa-amma-and-mothers/story-IFcLWYZrYYBZrScXlPlnGI.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Medium-intensity earthquake strikes Delhi, adjoining areas; 3rd amid Covid-19 lockdown||Tremors were felt in parts of the national and the adjoining areas on Sunday afternoon after a medium-intensity earthquake struck Delhi. According to the National Centre of Seismology, the earthquake measured 3.4-magnitude on the Richter scale and had its epicentre in Wazirpur, northeast Delhi. No casualty or loss of property has been reported. The quake occurred at a depth of five kilometres.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted out saying he is “praying for everyone’s safety”. Tremors felt in Delhi. Praying for everyone's safety.This is the third earthquake in the national capital amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown. Delhi had witnessed two back-to-back incidents of low-intensity earthquakes in April with same location and nearby areas as the epicentre . On April 13, a moderate intensity quake of magnitude 3.5 hit the national capital at a depth of 8 km. The very next day, another low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.7 shook parts of Delhi. The earthquake, with its epicentre near Wazirpur in northeast Delhi, occurred at 1.26 pm at a shallow depth of 5 km, said JL Gautam, Head (Operations) at NCS, an institute under the Ministry of Earth Sciences.Of the four seismic zones in the country - Zone II, III, IV, V - Delhi falls under ‘Zone IV’. “Of these, Zone V is seismically the most active region, while zone II is the least,” says a release on country’s seismic zones by the Ministry of Earth Science.Zone - V comprises entire northeastern India, parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Rann of Kutch in Gujarat, part of North Bihar and Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Zone - IV covers remaining parts of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi, Sikkim, Northern Parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, parts of Gujarat and small portions of Maharashtra near the west coast and Rajasthan. Zone – III comprises Kerala, Goa, Lakshadweep islands, remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and West Bengal, Parts of Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Tamilnadu and Karnataka. Zone - II covers remaining parts of the country.The national capital is vulnerable to earthquakes but it is rare for it to be the epicentre of a quake. Delhi, however, experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/breaking-3-5-magnitude-earthquake-hits-delhi-adjoining-areas/story-SG4gxUMnAS9JwcEXf8tS7O.html
10-05-2020||Education||New education policy to meet vision of Mahamana: HRD Minister||Union Human Resource Development Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” said that as per vision of new Mahamana Pt Madan Mohan Malviya, new education policy will be based on Vedic knowledge and modern science. It will come true to the expectations of Mahamana. He virtually inaugurated the three days National Webinar on “COVID-19: The Mahamana’s Indian Vision in Global Context” organised by Mahamana Malaviya Mission, Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi. The webinar began on Saturday with mantras and kulgeet.“Whole world is looking towards India. At present, the ideas of Mahamana are certainly very important for us. Our cultural heritage is our strength. Based on vision of Mahamana, we will bring new education policy that will be based on Vedic knowledge and modern science. It will come true to Mahamana’s vision and meet his expectations. Ancient knowledge should become part of every discipline.”Pokhariyal said, “We need to act with solidarity in tough times to win the fight against the Covid-19.”Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Joint general secretary Dr Krishn Gopal, as chief speaker of the inaugural session, said that Mahamana always emphasised on pattern of education that should be blend of worldly knowledge and spiritual wisdom and established BHU on these tenets. Civilization changes after few years, while the culture is everlasting. Mansahar (Nonvegetarian) food is root cause of corona pandemic. The carnivore now stands before us with a gruesome form. Mahamana and Gandhi Ji had never accepted Non-vegetarianism. We need to follow Vedic culture.”BHU vice chancellor Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar presided over the event. Prof Bhatnagar highlighted the importance of maintaining hygiene and spreading awareness. He underlined on Mahamana’s belief of all round development and laid emphasis on education and character building. Prof Bhatnagar gave an overview on how teachers are contributing in fight against Covid-19 by facilitating students with online lectures and reading materials.Inaugural session of the webinar was conducted by Prof Suman Jain, Organising Secretary and she also proposed the Vote of Thanks.The webinar witnessed the virtual participation of more than 2000 participants. Welcome note of the seminar was delivered by Dr Upendra Kumar Tripathi, President, Mahamana Malaviya Mission, BHU unit, Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/new-education-policy-will-be-based-on-vedic-knowledge-science-says-nishank/story-wyVh3nDu2oSDYaF9NOflZM.html
10-05-2020||Kolkata||Labourers refuse to work at Bengal cement plant, allege violation of social distancing norms||Around 350 contractual labourers at a cement factory in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Saturday refused to join duty, saying the management did not take measures to ensure social distancing in the production area.The factory in the Raghunathgunj police station area is among the industrial units which have been allowed by the Trinamool Congress government to start production with limited manpower amid the Covid-19 lockdown.The labourers, who were assembled by a contractor, did not join duty and staged a protest outside the factory which produces cement for a renowned brand. Around 700 people used to work there before the coronavirus pandemic started. It reopened on April 20.“We didn’t raise any objection when the factory started with 50-odd workers. However, on Friday night, hundreds of people were asked by the contractor to join duty. On Saturday morning, 350 people assembled for duty and were asked to start work,” Safikul Sheikh, assistant secretary of the workers’ union, said. “The factory is not big enough to ensure social distancing but the management refused to listen. They are providing each man with an ordinary mask. We will work only if our health is not at risk,” said Sheikh.Kaushik Sinha, one of the 17-odd contractors who supply labourers to the plant, said the plant is not big enough to accommodate 350 people and maintain social distance as well. “On Friday night, I was asked to supply some labourers. I heard that around 300 people refused to work,” Sinha said.The agitation has been noted by local doctors. “This kind of awareness will help us stop spreading of the coronavirus in the community,” Dr Arijit Banerjee, a senior officer of the state health department, said.Arup Banerjee, general manager (personnel) of the factory, dismissed the labourers’ claims.“It is not true that they refused to join duty because there was a violation of safety norms. They want extra payment for working during the lockdown,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/labourers-refuse-to-work-at-bengal-cement-plant-allege-violation-of-social-distancing-norms/story-WwyRCREXjP8uYfHijCO9ZK.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha Govt should allow private vehicles to ferry migrants: Sanjay Raut||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the Maharashtra government should give permission to private vehicles for ferrying migrant labourers to their native places during the lockdown.Raising concern over migrant workers setting off for their hometowns on foot, Raut said they were falling sick and some have also died.“The labour class is walking back home, this is not a good picture. Their children are with them. Railways is not ready to operate trains for them. The state government should give permission to private vehicles to ply,” Raut tweeted.“People are falling ill while walking. Some have died.Even then their walking hasn’t stopped, the Rajya Sabha member further said.Sixteen migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks while returning to Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday.The labourers, rendered jobless due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, had set off for their homes on foot along the rail tracks apparently to escape police attention.On March 28, four migrant labourers were crushed to death when a speeding tempo ran over them on Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway in Maharashtra’s Palghar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-should-allow-private-vehicles-to-ferry-migrants-sanjay-raut/story-3NZR0fqn4noV2WBdI5uesI.html
10-05-2020||Patna||18 new coronavirus cases recorded in Bihar, total cases in state reach 629||18 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Bihar, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 629, state Principal Secretary (Health) Sanjay Kumar said on Sunday.Of the new cases, 7 each have been reported from Saharsa and Madhepura districts, 2 from Darbhanga district and 1 each from Araria and Begusarai districts.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), total cases in the country now stand at 62,939, including 41,472 active cases, 19,358 cured/discharged/migrated and 2,109 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/18-new-coronavirus-cases-recorded-in-bihar-total-cases-in-state-reach-629/story-3lP6EoXad9liq3ZSV27O2O.html
10-05-2020||City||Manuke village shows the way, gives a dignified funeral to Covid victim||At a time Covid patients in several parts of the country are being denied a decent burial for fear of spread of the virus, the sarpanch of Manuke village in Ludhiana set the right precedent. He not only helped authorities make preparations for the last rites of Gurjant Singh, the 56-year-old Nanded returnee who died on Saturday, but along with tehsildar Manmohan Koshik, he also sensitised the villagers about the situation. This comes in the backdrop of the protests in Verka village in Amritsar last month, where residents stood against the cremation of a former hazoori ragi (hymn chanter) of Golden Temple, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died of Covid-19.Gurjant, a labourer under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), was cremated at village crematorium on Saturday evening. Marks were drawn at the cremation ground to ensure that the people follow social distancing.Manuke village sarpanch Gurmukh Singh said, “Gurjant travelled a long distance to come home and be among his people. In these circumstances, if we deny him the right to be cremated here, it would be a grave injustice.”He further said, “For how long we will continue to be scared of the decease and snap ties with our loved ones just because they have incidentally come in contact with the virus. I was shaken when the residents had denied the cremation of hazoori ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa in the village crematorium in Amritsar. We need to change this notion. We just have to start living with the virus and maintain a safe distance from the infected persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manuke-village-shows-the-way-gives-a-decent-funeral-to-covid-victim/story-o4QmuSUd0FlgEl882JDIJJ.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Fire breaks out at cardboard factory in Delhi’s Bawana, 14 fire tenders rushed to the spot||A fire broke out at a cardboard factory in Delhi’s Bawana industrial area on Sunday morning. At least 14 fire tenders have been rushed to the spot to douse the fire. Director of Delhi Fire Services, Atul Garg, said no casualties have been reported so far. The cause of the fire is being ascertained. No one was reported to be trapped or injured in the incident, officials said. A call about the blaze was received around 7.55 am, following which fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire fighting operations are currently underway.Bawana is among Delhi’s 29 notified industrial areas. Others include Naraina, Kirti Nagar, Okhla, Narela, among others.This comes just a couple of days after a fire broke out in a garment godown near Daryaganj in the wee hours of Thursday.The fire broke out at around 3 am. Seven fire tenders were rushed to spot to put out the fire. The blaze was brought under control within one and a half hours, news agency ANI reported.“Seven fire tenders reached here. No casualties or injuries have been reported,” Fire officer Satyendra Pal told ANI.On Wednesday, there were reports of a massive fire at a gowdown located at Delhi’s Tikri border area. Over 30 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. No casualties or injuries were reported from the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-cardboard-factory-in-delhi-s-bawana-14-fire-tenders-rushed-to-the-spot/story-oFc7ObmvxECRRkmIrDLDfO.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Wall of a house collapses in Mumbai, five rescued; NDRF says no casualty||The wall of a house collapsed in Kandivli (West) area of Mumbai on Sunday morning trapping at least five people.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which launched a rescue operation, said that the team has successfully taken out all those trapped under the debris. The NDRF chief said there has been no injury in the incident.“G+1 house collapsed @ Sabria Masjid, Dalji Pada, Kandavali(West) arnd 06:00. All trapped persons rescued by MCGM, Mumbai fire Brigade,Police. @NDRFHQ team on site. As reported thankfully no deaths,few injured,” NDRF director general Satyanarayan Pradhan said on Twitter. #MumbaiWallCollapse G+1 house collapsed @ Sabria Masjid, Dalji Pada, Kandavali(West) arnd 06:00. All trapped persons rescued by MCGM, Mumbai fire Brigade,Police. @NDRFHQ team on site. As reported thankfully no deaths,few injured.@PIBHomeAffairs @BhallaAjay26 @ANI @ndmaindia pic.twitter.com/s76PpkzaHTThe operation is still underway.The building collapsed partially, trapping people inside, the eyewitnesses said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-trapped-after-wall-of-a-house-collapses-in-mumbai-s-kandivali/story-4RkKcJdaef5Fsj4eJC9tqN.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police pay tribute to cop who died of Covid-19||The Mumbai Police on Sunday paid tribute to assistant sub-inspector (ASI) attached to Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station who died of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Friday.“Mumbai Police regrets to inform about the unfortunate demise of ASI Sunil Dattatray Kalgutkar from Vinoba Bhave Nagar Police Station. ASI Kalgutkar had been battling Coronavirus. We pray for his soul to rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Kalgutkar family,” the Mumbai Police said on Twitter. Mumbai Police regrets to inform about the unfortunate demise of ASI Sunil Dattatray Kalgutkar from Vinoba Bhave Nagar Police Station. ASI Kalgutkar had been battling Coronavirus.We pray for his soul to rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Kalgutkar family.Kalgutkar died in the early hours of Friday after being admitted in a civic hospital on Wednesday with Covid-19-like symptoms, an official said.His samples returned positive on Friday evening. This is the fourth Covid-19 death in Mumbai Police.So far, 350 personnel in the Mumbai Police have tested positive for the disease.Maharashtra has been the worst affected by the rapidly spreading disease. And its capital Mumbai has seen the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state. In fact, Mumbai is among the worst hit across the country.While Maharashtra has reported 20,228 Covid-19 positive cases reported so far, the number in Mumbai has reached 12,864. The city has reported 489 deaths due to the disease.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 1,165 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths, with Mumbai alone accounting for 27.So far, 2,27,804 people have been tested. While 2,41,290 people are placed under home quarantine, 13,976 are under institutional quarantine, a state health department bulletin said.Pune, another coronavirus hotspot, has so far reported 1,975 cases and 141 deaths, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-pay-tribute-to-cop-who-died-of-covid-19/story-dkzn9xMJdvMSttgu85BybN.html
10-05-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow woman trudges 900 km to save daughter from Covid-19||Standing beside a deserted highway on the outskirts of the state capital under the scorching May sun, Rukhsana Bano signals a passing truck for a lift. She is carrying a small bag in one hand and holds her three-year old-daughter, Nargis, on her shoulder with the other. The truck speeds away without slowing.The 25 year-old woman is on a 900 km journey to her home in Amethi from Indore on foot, just to save her child from the dreaded corona virus.“My daughter has not eaten since last night. I am worried about her. If we don’t get any vehicle we will continue our journey on foot,” she said, signalling towards a group of eight people (her relatives), who travelled with her to reach the safety of their home.A native of Jagdishpur in Amethi, Rukhsana and her husband Aqib lived in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. The husband was a waiter at an eatery while Rukhsana worked as domestic help. They managed their expenses with the Rs 9,000 her husband earned and saved the Rs 3000 she earned for the future of their daughter. Rukhsana could not study beyond Class 8 but she wanted to educate Nargis.Then came the pandemic, followed by the lockdown and the couple lost their jobs. Their meagre savings evaporated within days. Rukhsana refused to withdraw a single penny from the money she saved for her daughter. But what worried her more was the rapid spread of Covid-19 in Indore.“Har gali mohalle se coronavirus ki kahabar aane lagi. Pura shahar band kar diya. Hum log ghar me rahe taki Nargis ko corona na ho (People in every ally were infected by Covid-19. The entire city was closed down. We stayed inside our houses to prevent Nargis from getting infected), “ she said.Indore, known as the business hub of Madhya Pradesh, is one of the worst affected cities by Covid-19 in central India.Some of her relatives decided to walk back home when the lockdown was extended again in April but Nargis decided to stay back, hoping things would improve. But when the lockdown was extended for the third time last week, her patience wore out. “The infection was increasing and I got worried, thinking what will we do if we or our daughter get infected. So I decided to somehow return to our family in Amethi,” she said.But leaving Indore was not easy. Her husband of four years decided to stay and refused to accompany her. Rukhsana tried to persuade him but later decided to head home to save her child from the possibility of infection. She joined a group of relatives returning to Amethi, packed some biscuits, jam and clothes in a bag and left home.The group started walking from Indore on Wednesday night. After a lift on two trucks and a tractor and walking for over 24 hours, they reached Lucknow on Saturday. The journey took a toll on their bodies. All of them had blisters on their feet and looked exhausted and famished.After cleaning their wounds and a brief halt under a thorny bush along the roadside, the group decided to hit the road again. Their frail tired bodies began walking on the road again, Rukhsana with her child in front of the group. She covered Nargis with a piece of cloth as she braved the sun, realising that this journey was only a part of the hardships she would have to face to raise her daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trudging-900-km-to-save-daughter-from-covid-19/story-62QNDDaOkLXRBNXmSkCniK.html
10-05-2020||Kolkata||Bengal forms teams for surveillance support, monitoring of treatment at Covid hospitals||The West Bengal Health Department on Saturday formed teams to support surveillance and monitoring of treatment at five hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the city.The team members will pay regular visits to these hospitals and send reports to the department, the state government said in an order.The department has also set up a dedicated help line for issues regarding the non-availability of PPEs and other supplies.The feedback and suggestions will be duly recorded and acted upon by the state government for appropriate remedial measures, the order said.The West Bengal government has also constituted a team for guidance on containment activities in different districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-forms-teams-for-surveillance-support-monitoring-of-treatment-at-covid-hospitals/story-8RllnslrbqXaq4rnGclMvJ.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Lockdown 3.0: Cheers to e-tokens for booze in Delhi?||As soon as liquor shops got permission to resume operations, one could see serpentine queues or hordes of people, without any fear of the still prevalent coronavirus — all for a bottle or two of alcohol. The situation gave a good opportunity to the meme makers, and compelled many to think if alcohol should now be made available, to boost the economy, while risking the health of citizens who compromised on the advisory issued for Delhi, which still falls under the Red Zone. Probably, this brought a twist to the tale and brought in e-tokens to arrange for a systematic sale of alcohol. The government has issued a web link www.qtoken.in where people can log in and purchase the e-token required to get liquor from a nearby shop. Mohit Mishra, an MNC employee and a resident of Malviya Nagar, recalls how he ventured out on day one of the reopening of liquor shops in Delhi, and came back empty handed. He says, “Standing in queues without following any guidelines is a big no for me at this time when the fear of corona is still there. I am totally up for e-token system; at least I would be sure of getting booze without getting corona back home! Last time, I had to return empty handed due to the chaos, hope it won’t be the same now.”The link generates a unique e-token, which will be valid for one hour. “It’s much better than the earlier suggested plan of home delivery, since it will also keep in check that only those above 21 years of age can book their turn. Not just that, it will also ensure social distancing and I am assuming that other laws relevant for the sale of alcohol will also be put into place now,” says Piyush Dudega, a Gurugram-based entrepreneur.But not everyone is applauding this new plan of action for systematic sale of alcohol. Dinesh Mangla, chartered accountant and a resident of Karol Bagh, says, “Government is ignoring the fact that in the wake of boosting their economy, they are ruining the lives of many. Alcohol addicts will do anything to get their dose of desi even if it means getting it at the cost of their own family members. For the last 45 days, their addiction was in control, but now I fear that the situation will get much worse.” Those corona warriors, who were on duty outside wine shops, feel relieved that at least their efforts to keep people’s lives safe won’t go wasted. RP Meena, DCP (Southeast), says, “The buyer will be given a time slot for the purchase and only limited number of people can come in at a given time, which will help maintain the social distancing norm. Since the crowd problem will be solved, it will be easier to handle them.” And Anant Kumar Gunjan, SHO, Amar Colony police station, adds, “This process is much better. First, it would be easier to maintain social distancing, and second, the notorious elements who could sell alcohol in black market will get eliminated. It also makes the situation safer for cops as well as the shopkeepers to fulfil their responsibility without worrying about their own health.” Follow @htdelhi for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lockdown-3-0-cheers-to-e-tokens-for-booze-in-delhi/story-JCVOhP2dP9tU6xgVErFb7H.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi University’s North East hostel girls stuck in lockdown lurch||Students residing in Delhi University’s North Eastern Students House for Women in Dhaka complex, North Campus say that they are being pressurised to vacate the premises by May 31, which is the last day of the contract for mess operations under the present caretaker. The impending building maintenance work in July is another reason why the authorities are demanding students to vacate the hostel. But, the hostellers claim that the Provost has been asking them to pack their bags and leave for good, even before the lockdown was announced. As a result, many from the 100 students residing here had left, but 13 girls are still inside the premises, and are clueless as to how to safely reach their homes in remote areas.“The provost has been mentally torturing us since the very beginning of the lockdown. She told us that the mess would stop functioning due to the shortage of payment for the mess workers. But, we feel it’s the responsibility of the hostel to provide us with all the basic amenities at a time like this when it is so difficult to go back to our home without any proper availability of transport services,“ says a hosteller, on condition of anonymity. Another hosteller informs that while she did make an arrangement for her local guardian to pick her up, it wasn’t a smooth affair. “On May 7, I sought permission to leave the hostel premises on account of my local guardian willing to take me to their place; to this I had received an affirmation. The next morning, I was called up by the Provost, who then asked me to submit my room keys to the house keeper and vacate the room by keeping my belongings in a separate room. I subtly replied that it wasn’t possible to vacate in such short notice. This went on for a good 45 minutes. Finally, I was forced to submit my keys to the guard in charge on the agreement with my guardian that the Provost would be in full responsibility lest anything happens to my belongings in my absence,” says Garima Rathi, a hosteller. The hostel authorities maintain that they are facing administrative problems in hosting the girls during the pandemic. Rita Singh, provost of North Eastern Students House for Women, says, “Administrative issues is liye aa rahe hai kyunki mujhe subah pata chala ki mere guard ke gali main kisi ko cornoavirus ho gaya hai, toh mere chaaro guard jo aas paas rehte hai woh nahi aa sakte. Maine bachho ko advisory ja ri ki hai ki Delhi ke halat thik nahi hai, toh agar kuch halfto main flight chalne lage toh aap apne safe jagah par chale jaaye. Mujhe safai walo ko bhi ho sakta hai band karna pade, toh phir bina guard ke, bina mess ki functioning ke, kaam kaise chalega? 13 logo ke liye hume itni badi building ka tension laga rehta hai.”Christina Ering, president, student welfare association of the hostel, says, “Many states in the North East have completely shut down and are not letting any outsider come in. How do the hostel authorities expect us to go back when all the modes of transportation are barred by the Government of India? How do we travel during such times? Delhi University and the HRD ministry has clearly given out notices asking the students to stay put where they are and not to travel... Other hostels like the Rajiv Gandhi Hostel for Girls, which has around 50 students, hasn’t given any such notice, and the same goes for International Students’ House For Women. The mess getting shut is Provost’s way of indirectly asking the girls to vacate the hostel. The girls have nowhere to go and they are panicking! Many are preparing for their assignments and exams but in such circumstances, no student is able to focus on studies.” Follow @htTweets for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-university-s-north-east-hostel-girls-stuck-in-lockdown-lurch/story-cbEoMmybBuUVl19T6P6qhI.html
10-05-2020||City||Stressed over being sent back to jail, Ludhiana convict on parole hangs self||Stressed over going back to jail, a 48-year-old convict ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Dholewal on Saturday.The convict, Sanjiv Kumar, was arrested in an attempt to murder case in 2014 . He was sent home on a six-week long parole on April 30 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajwant Singh, in-charge, Janakpuri police post, said, “According to the family, Sanjiv was under stress that he would sent back to the jail once the situation became normal.”On Friday night, when his family members were sleeping, he ended his life by hanging self from a ceiling fan. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The deceased is survived by his wife, 18-year-old son and two daughters, aged 15 and 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stressed-over-being-sent-back-to-jail-ludhiana-convict-on-parole-hangs-self/story-X5ZMtDRK1PT62ZWf2QDEhP.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents coming from abroad to be brought back home||All Chandigarh residents coming from abroad will be quarantined in city hotels.On Friday, the UT administration had decided that all those landing in Delhi will be quarantined there and those landing in Amritsar as well as Chandigarh airports will be isolated in city hotels on payment basis.UT adviser Manoj Parida said Friday’s decision was taken after Delhi authorities had agreed to keep Chandigarh-bound foreign-returned passengers for 12 days. “But on Saturday, we were conveyed that they can’t keep them there for more than 3 days. So, now, we will bring them to Chandigarh in buses and keep them in quarantine facilities here,” he said.Parida said that around 5,000 non-resident Indians (NRIs) are expected to return to Chandigarh, but the number may vary depending on foreign approvals and Indian government’s capacity to ferry them back.“In initial phase, we will keep quarantine facility ready for 2,000-3,000 passengers and then add depending upon arrival of passengers,” said Parida. He said different level of spaces will be created on payment basis. While CITCO’s Mountview and Shivalikview have already been factored in to, we are also in touch with other private hotels. We can also consider community centres for this purpose. More clarity is expected in next one or two days,” he saidResidents oppose move, admn makes tests mandatory After Parida broke the news on his Twitter handle, residents resisted the move, saying that there was risk of virus spread in to the city that is already battling spike in the cases.To this, Parida said that there will be two level of screening once these passengers land here. “First screening will be done at the airport and then our medical staff examine the passengers,” he said.“After suggestions from experts and city residents, we are thinking about making Covid-19 test mandatory for all NRIs,” said Parida.On date of arrival of the passengers, Parida said, “We will be informed two days in advance and accordingly will depute our resources to bring them here.”Earlier in the day, residents of Sectors 10 and 46 wrote to the UT administration, expressing their reservations against making Hotel Mountview and Ayurvedic hospital as quarantine facilities. They said that the hotel as well as the hospital had residential areas nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-coming-from-abroad-to-be-brought-back-home/story-LLnRX1YirkLZKGRxBRpw5K.html
10-05-2020||City||Chandigarh’s new negative: One death, 21 positive||A 62-year-old man of Bapu Dham Colony tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously on Saturday even as 21 infections were reported from the colony in a day, making it the steepest single-day spike. This is the third death linked to Covid-19 in Chandigarh.The person had a history of cardiac disease and was suffering from diarrhoea following which he was admitted to GMCH-32 on May 7 and died on Friday. Bapu Dham Colony along has added 107 patients to the Chandigarh tally of 170.Earlier, it was on May 1 that Chandigarh had witnessed 14 cases in a day.Now, the count of Covid-19 positive cases in tricity is 288, including six deaths. Chandigarh takes the lead with 170 cases (3 deaths), followed by Mohali with 98 cases (3 deaths) and Panchkula with 20 cases (no death).Since April 24, 106 corona positive cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh. The first case was of a 30-year-old operating theatre (OT) attendant from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.Among the containment zones of Chandigarh, the colony contributes the highest (106) cases, followed by Sector 30-B, from where 21 infections have been reported.Worrisome is the fact that though declared a containment zone, the virus has spread to Phase-2 of the colony and other sectors as well. Health officials found Bapu Dham Colony link to the infection of a Sector 27 resident. Also, in Saturday’s official statement, though the source of infection of 35-year-old corona positive man who died on Friday is not specified, but it is mentioned that he used to visit Bapu Dham Colony.Of the 21 patients detected in the colony on Saturday, six are children below seven years of age, including a 4-month-old.“How can we say why the infection is not stopping from spreading? No one has the answer. We are trying our best,” health secretary, Chandigarh, Arun Kumar Gupta said. “We have sealed the perimeters of the colony; made 10-12 zones within the perimeter and not letting people to cross the zone. But we cannot deploy manpower outside every houseand isolate every individual.People should understand and stop visiting neighbours. We advise people to maintain distance even with family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-s-new-negative-one-death-21-positive/story-p0sPKCrjaKjgjqEqPZDD2J.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Property tax: 1 lakh assessees in Chandigarh to get advance notices by May end||The municipal corporation (MC) will dispatch property tax assessment notices to over 1 lakh people and institutions by the end of May to pay the tax for 2020-21 with rebate between June 1 and July 31. MC commissioner KK Yadav said with the curfew relaxation already in place, collection of property tax on both residential and commercial properties will start on June 1. Advanced tax notices with tax amount and due date will reach all assessees by May 31, which will help assessees pay in time and also help MC increase tax compliance in all categories, he added.Tax can be paid physically at e-sampark centres, while online payment can be made at e-sampark portal (http://sampark.chd.nic.in).Recovery of tax not paid for 2019 with interest and penalty will start in June.NEW RATES APPLICABLEYadav said the hike in property tax rates was already notified by the UT administration. Hence, advanced notices will be sent as per the revised rates. MC had approved 20% hike in existing rates last year, which was cleared by the UT administration in March.In 2019-20, MC collected Rs 52 crore in tax, covering over 80% assessees across all categories. It targets Rs 48-crore collection this year. A tax branch official said since most of the previous dues were recovered from major account holders, overall collection this year will be lower. GET REBATE OR PAY PENALTYResidents will get 20% rebate while commercial units can claim 10% rebate if they pay the property tax between June 1 and July 31. After this two-month window, assessees will have to pay 25% penalty, along with the dues.EXEMPTIONSEconomically weaker sectionDefence personnel and veteransWidowsDifferently abled people entitled for benefits under I-T Act||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/property-tax-1-lakh-assessees-in-chandigarh-to-get-advance-notices-by-may-end/story-QWLbPmSHWxUWxMIKO0e3kM.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet meet deferred after minister-chief secy face-off||A major showdown between Punjab ministers and bureaucrats over the state excise policy resulted in postponement of a crucial cabinet meeting to be chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday.The meeting was deferred to Monday after all senior Congress ministers walked out over “abrupt remarks” made by chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh , according to the sources privy to the proceedings of the pre-Cabinet meet that was held at Punjab Bhawan here.The meeting that brought to the fore a simmering discord between the ruling party leaders and bureaucrats was a stormy affair from the word go.Technical education minister Charanjit Channi was the first to fire the salvo. “The new policy appears to be benefiting the contractors. While 70% of vends have been given to the existing contractors, there was no bidder for the remaining 30%. This could lead to decline in Rs 2,000 crore income from liquor this year. We are losing revenue every year. Who is responsible for this? Why can’t the responsibility of officers, who make such flawed policies, be fixed”, said Channi, as per a source who was present in the meeting.To this, the chief secretary gave a “curt” reply that policies are implemented only after the approval of the cabinet ministers and certain suggestions cannot be incorporated in the new policy, said the source. This prompted a sharp reaction from Manpreet who said “if the officers have already made up their mind on the policy, what was the fun of discussing the matter with the ministers?”Jails minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said the bureaucracy in Punjab was functioning as if there was a governor’s rule in the state, another source told HT.Channi went on to say, “Take me on record and register my comment that policies are being made by officers and you consult us only for the sake of approval”. After this, the ministers walked out. The unsavoury face-off sparked a flurry of reactions from Congress leaders, including known Amarinder-baiter and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa.“Captain Amarinder Singh, I appreciate your efforts in trying to make the PM coordinate COVID activities with the CMs. It may help if you would offer the same courtesy to your own colleagues when it comes to affairs of Punjab,” he said.Amrinder Raja Warring, Congress MLA from Gidderbaha, said, “Respected Captain Amarinder ji! This type of behaviour by chief secretary, time and again, is unacceptable. He has regularly disregarded our cabinet ministers and their decisions. I request you to remove him from this post immediately.”Ludhiana Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said, “Ministers walking out of pre-Cabinet meeting after argument with chief secretary is like judge walking out of court after an argument with advocate. If they found bureaucracy to be incompetent, they should have replaced the officers and not staged a walkout. Ministers walking out should resign for their incompetence as many others capable of handling work pressure are ready to replace them.”Besides the chief secretary, the meeting was attended by chief principal secretary to the chief minister,Suresh Kumar, and principal secretary to Amarinder, Tejvir Singh.The officers tried to persuade the ministers to attend the meeting but they decided to leave, skipping the post-meeting lunch at the venue.The others ministers present at the meeting were Vijay Inder Singhla, Balbir Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, OP Soni, Brahm Mohindra and Aruna Chaudhary.No minister was available for comments. Karan Avtar Singh did not respond to HT’s text messages.When contacted, media adviser to chief minister Raveen Thukral refused to comment on the developments saying that he was not aware about any such issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-meet-deferred-after-minister-chief-secy-face-off/story-Yli4IveDN9bIfAv5tcUNJJ.html
10-05-2020||City||262 Nanded returnees who tested negative in Amritsar sent home||The district administration on Saturday sent back home 262 persons, including their contacts, who had returned to Amritsar after a pilgrimage to Takht Hazur Sahib at Nanded in Maharashtra. All of them had tested negative for covid-19, but had been quarantined for 21 days at the government’s four centres. Overall, 609 pilgrims had returned to the district starting April 24. There are 362 others, who continue to be in quarantine; reports of five are awaited. “Since most Nanded returnees have been tested and positive patients are in hospital, we have decided to send back those in quarantine centres to their homes. The health department has put up stickers outside their houses and directed them to stay isolated for at least a week,” said ADC Himanshu Aggarwal. He added, “We have installed COVA app on their mobile phones. By Sunday, every covid-19 negative Nanded pilgrim will be sent home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/262-nanded-returnees-who-tested-negative-in-amritsar-sent-home/story-CINIhoofpCIti8KIBoiMII.html
10-05-2020||City||Hizbul-backed narco-terror operative arrested in Sirsa||In a major catch, Ranjeet Singh Rana, alias Cheetah, who was wanted in the 532-kg heroin haul from Attari on the Indo-Pakistan border in June last year, was arrested in Haryana’s Sirsa town on Saturday.In a joint operation by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Punjab Police and their Haryana counterpart, Rana, the kingpin of the drug racket, and his brother Gagandeep Singh, alias Bhola, were arrested from their hideout at Begu village in Sirsa.Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta said Ranjeet is one of the biggest drug smugglers of India.“Following up further on arrests of Hizbul operatives in J&K and Punjab, Punjab Police juggernaut moved further to nab Ranjeet of Amritsar, one of the biggest drug smugglers of India from Sirsa today,” Gupta tweeted.The Punjab Police said Ranjeet is a big fish in the ISI-controlled network linked with Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riaz Naikoo who was killed by security forces in Kashmir recently.With more than 10 criminal cases against him, Ranjeet was one of the key links in the network engaged in smuggling of large number of consignments of drugs and illegal weapons through the India-Pakistan border through the legal land route of Attari and also across the border fencing in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, police said.He had been convicted in 2008, 2009 and 2011 for heroin smuggling. He was awarded 12-year rigorous imprisonment for smuggling of 5 kg heroin, but was acquitted by the Supreme Court in March 2018 by giving him benefit of doubt. Giving details of the Sirsa operations, DGP Dinkar Gupta said he spoke to his Haryana counterpart Manoj Yadav at around 9 pm on Friday, and thereafter coordination was established by CP Amritsar with Sirsa SP Arun Nehra.HEROIN HIDDEN IN ROCK SALT CONSIGNMENTSRanjeet was wanted in smuggling of in 532kg heroin and 52 kg of mixed narcotics, worth over Rs 2700 crore, from Pakistan in a consignment of 600 bags of rock salt, through integrated checkpost (ICP), Attari (Amritsar) on June 29, 2019. The customs department had nabbed Tariq Ahmed Lone of Handwara (J&K) and Gurpinder Singh of Amritsar in this connection.Announcing Ranjeet and Gagandeep’s arrest, chief minister Captain Amarinder also congratulated the police force for the arrest of Hilal Ahmed Wagay, an overground worker of the Hizbul Mujahideen, who was arrested on April 25.Police said Ranjeet and Gagandeep were nabbed following interrogation of their cousins -- Bikram Singh, alias Vicky, and his brother Maninder Singh Mani -- who were arrested recently for allegedly handing over money to Hilal in Amritsar. According to the chief minister, Ranjeet is one of the most active nodal operatives of the extensive network of drug smugglers/couriers set up by the Pakistan spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) to push in composite consignments of drugs and weapons from Pakistan into Punjab through various means, including drones. STAYED AT BEGU VILLAGE FOR 8 MONTHSSirsa senior superintendent of police (SSP) Arun Nehra said, “Ranjeet has been living with his family in Begu village for the past eight months. He rented a room on the identification provided by his relative who belongs to Vaidwala village and has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, who is also wanted under the NDPS Act.”REMANDED IN 5-DAY POLICE CUSTODYRanjeet and Gagandeep were later brought to Amritsar, where they were presented before duty magistrate Arjun Singh by the police. The duty magistrate remanded them in five-day police custody. A day before Ranjeet’s arrest, the authorities of Amritsar central jail recovered two mobile phones from his brother Kuldeep Singh, alias Babbu, of Havelian village. Babbu is an undertrial in the 15-kg heroin haul case of 2016. Davinder Singh, assistant superintendent of the jail, said during a checking of barrack number 7, they recovered two mobile phones and two SIM card from Kuldeep’s possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hizbul-backed-narco-terror-operative-arrested-in-sirsa/story-ZUkNWfqRGUilPjRTkSerIK.html
10-05-2020||City||Panipat shocker: 11-year-old girl raped by cousin, who used to teach her||An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 26-year-old cousin in a village in Panipat’s Matlauda on Friday afternoon, police said on Saturday. The victim had gone to the accused’s house to study when he sexually assaulted her, the police said. Her mother said the victim studied in Class 7 and as the family did not have any phone with internet connection, the girl used to go to her cousin’s house to attend online classes. Matlauda police station in-charge Virender Singh said an FIR has been registered under Section 6 of the Pocso Act. He said investigation was on and accused would soon be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panipat-shocker-11-year-old-girl-raped-by-cousin-who-used-to-teach-her/story-ce6EGbT6RQmd9L6ZbCQkvJ.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Missing liquor case: Haryana Police seize ₹97 lakh cash, pistol, SUV in raid||Three days after Sonepat’s Kharkhauda police booked trader Bhupinder, his brother and two others after 5,500 boxes of liquor went missing from a godown, the main accused surrendered before the police on Saturday. Police said a special investigation team looking into the matter will question him about the involvement of other persons, including some traders, two former SHOs, some policemen and excise officials.The police also seized ₹97 lakh in cash, two pistols and three mobile phones besides a sports utility vehicle following a raid in a house to nab the prime accused. The two godowns in Sonepat from where a huge stock of liquor had reportedly gone missing early this week are stated to belong to accused Bhupinder’s wife. The raid was conducted two days after Haryana home minister Anil Vij questioned the rational of keeping seized liquors in “godowns, owned by a person (Bhupinder Singh), who is facing 8-10 cases of liquor smuggling”. Vij had also said a huge stock of seized liquor could not have gone missing from two godowns in Sonepat without the connivance of officials. According to the minister, 5,500 liquor boxes have gone missing from the Sonepat godown which was under the supervision of the police department.The other godown is being looked after by the state excise department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/missing-liquor-case-haryana-police-seize-97-lakh-cash-pistol-suv-in-raid/story-8W2Wz40O8szuRydDRzXDZL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Three IAS officers shifted||Haryana government has shifted three IAS officers with immediate effect on Saturday. Sanjeev Verma, director, sports and youth affairs department, was posted as managing director (MD), Haryana Scheduled Castes finance and development corporation, and MD, Haryana Backward Classes and ESW Kalyan Nigam. SS Phulia was given additional charge of director, sports and youth affairs department. Amna Tasneem was posted as director, consolidation of land holdings and land records, additional secretary, revenue and disaster management department and finance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-three-ias-officers-shifted/story-mdpN2J9Seu0bSnmZI81EyJ.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pressing problems for dhobis in Chandigarh as fear of Covid-19 keeps customers away||Ramu Kanojia was eagerly waiting for the curfew to be lifted, confident that once he opened his little ironing stall by the roadside at Sector 27, the customers he had been serving for two decades would return, helping him replenish his earnings. The complete lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak from March 23 to May 3 had exhausted his savings and compelled him to seek free ration.Kanojia’s calculations were wrong, with May 4 and 5 bringing no work. When he contacted his regulars they refused to hand over clothes for ironing, advising him to come back after the situation normalised.“People are wary of giving their clothes to dhobis for ironing, but it’s our only source of livelihood. I have no money left and without work I will be forced to depend on the mercy of others for a living,” says Ramu, 50, from Gonda in Uttar Pradesh, who settled in the city four decades back. “I charge around Rs 4 per garment and before the lockdown I was earning Rs 600 to Rs700 a day, after deducting the cost of coal. Because of this I can afford to educate my children. My elder son, who is in the final year of graduation, is also into theatre. But now things are going from bad to worse and I don’t know what the future holds for us,” adds Ramu, who lives in Sector 56.Not welcome in societies The scenario is bleak. “Since the curfew was lifted four days ago, I was expecting some work, but no one wants their clothes ironed. I live in Jagatpura and have been working in Sector 48 for the last one decade, but people there are wary of letting me into the society,” says Arvind Kumar, 31, who moved to the city from Bahraich village in Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh). “There are over 1,500 dhobis in Chandigarh and a majority of them are registered with the municipal corporation (MC), which means they have to pay a monthly fee of Rs 575 to Rs 1,575 depending on the sector where they work. We don’t know what new guidelines the administrations will come out with, or if the MC rental will be waived,” says Raghav Ram, 60, president of the Hindi Pressman Dhobi Parishad, the umbrella body of Chandigarh’s dhobis.No laundry from hotels, clubsThere are eight private dhobi ghats registered with the MC in the city, on which over 200 families are dependent. “Around 80% of the work in the ghats was coming from the hospitality industry — hotel linen, clubs, salons, tent houses — and walk-in customers. Now with the hospitality industry yet to open up and no one giving us clothes to launder all the dhobi ghats are without work,” says Ajay Kanojia, who is associated with the Sector 19 ghat and is the president of the Chandigarh Dhobi Maha Sabha.In 2008, MC upgraded the Sector 15 dhobi ghat under a pilot project, renaming it Modern Dhobi Ghat and charging a monthly rent for it. The 16 families who are members of the cooperative society of the ghat are now finding it difficult to pay the rent of Rs 13,800, including taxes. “Two days ago we got a call from MC office to deposit the rent pending for March and April by May 10. Were we doing regular business, paying the money would not have been a problem. But now things are bad. Yesterday we got only 13 clothing items to launder and today just one blanket was delivered,” says Vikas Deep, who works at the ghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pressing-problems-for-dhobis-in-chandigarh-as-fear-of-covid-19-keeps-customers-away/story-CYBwsHZk2DnXBc5HelujCL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Centre delaying supply of pulses to Punjab, says Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu||Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said on Saturday that the Union government was delaying supplies of pulses to Punjab without any logical reason, leading to a lot of inconvenience to beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the state. He added distribution of foodgrain to beneficiaries had been adversely affected due to this across the state, but particularly in Patiala cluster. In a release, Ashu said the department had raised the issue of the slow pace of delivery with the Union food and civil supplies ministry on April 30, 2020, as the state had by then only received 2,646 tonne of pulses against its allocation of 10,800 tonne under the NFSA and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). He added that the department had also written to the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED), but the state had received 5,566 tonne of Urad till Friday night. The minister added that the Patiala cluster that includes Mohali, Rupnagar, Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur districts had received only 900 tonne pulses against its allocation of 2,189 tonne, with the last delivery received on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-delaying-supply-of-pulses-to-punjab-says-punjab-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashu/story-kFXuBDe6soXk0pvUmSFznJ.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||MC works worth ₹400-crore approved for 2020-21 unlikely to be finished in Chandigarh||Lockdown has aggravated the financial difficulties of an already cash-starved Chandigarh municipal corporation.MC commissioner KK Yadav on Saturday told the Hindustan Times that the corporation was in no position to make funds available for capital works planned for this financial year. “Our internal resources have depleted due to the lockdown and we fear a 20% cut in the committed grant from the centre,” he said.Yadav said he will try to ask the UT administration if it could absorb the 20% cut at its own level and ensure the MC gets 100% grant approved by the Centre. “But in any case, large scale investment on development works is not possible this year since the MC’s overall revenue target may not be accomplished due to the slow down. On the other hand, committed liabilities are even higher than last year. Also, the MC has been spending a lot on special corona-related activities,” he added. He said ₹4 lakh alone were spent everyday to buy PPEs for staff working on emergency duties in containment zones and other places. The MC will barely manage to foot salaries, bills and other committed liabilities, for which ₹50 crore per month is required, he added. ₹400-CR WORKS AT STAKE MC’s 2020-21 budget cleared in February had outlined ₹443 crore for capital expenditure in which major focus was on roads, waste management, water storage capacity augmentation, better civic amenities in villages and changing of the defunct storm and sewerage lines. Sources said that except roadworks and some investment in waste management, none of the planned works will be achieved.“Road re-carpeting will be made possible because of a special grant that the UT had issued in March. It was a deposit work for which funds are kept in reserve. Work will begin as soon as the lockdown is over,” said an MC engineer on the condition of anonymity.He said in case the lockdown extended to June or July, the MC will not be able to make the roads because of the onset of the monsoon season. The only window left will be from September to December mid, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-works-worth-400-crore-approved-for-2020-21-unlikely-to-be-finished-in-chandigarh/story-8vcTS7tEcfNCVuszqikUSM.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Eight people discharged in Mohali; 7 from Jawaharpur, one from surrounding area||Seven people from Jawaharpur village and one from its surrounding Shaktinagar area returned home after fully recovering from Covid-19 and undergoing the mandatory quarantine period, on Saturday. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said they were first admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and after recovering, shifted to the Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi as a precautionary measure. After their 14-day quarantine period ended, they were allowed to go home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-people-discharged-in-mohali-7-from-jawaharpur-one-from-surrounding-area/story-0Tszz7zQaPYZawICv2jj5J.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh: Hallomajra and Maloya can be next Bapu Dham||Just like city’s major hotspot, Bapu Dham Colony, Chandigarh’s other villages, Hallomajra and Maloya, are congested too. With one case each and residents still flouting social-distancing norms, these villages could rapidly imitate the trends observed in Bapu Dham Colony.On Friday, a 35-year-old man from Hallomajra tested positive for Covid-19, two days after his death at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. He was putting up alone in a rented accommodation and was a chronic alcoholic. He visited the hospital with symptoms, including loose stools, severe anaemia and disorientation. “His condition deteriorated and was put on ventilator. He was also suffering from severe pancytopenia. He tested positive for Covid-19,” reads an official statement. A total of 18 people living in the same building have been quarantined. Though no exact source could be pointed, but the official note said, “He has history of frequent visits to Bapu Dham Colony and he also stayed for five days at Bapu Dham Colony.”The lane that leads to the deceased house has been sealed. The houses there are so closely constructed that their top-floors almost touch one another. Social-distancing a distant dreamThe contact tracing team has quarantined over 55 people and no such movement can be observed there. However, the market situated just a few metres away from the house, was abuzz with activity. The shopkeepers in the market are not following the odd-even rule and most shops can be seen open. Residents could be seen walking in groups. While many had their faces covered, others were seen walking, standing clothes together, sans masks.With 106 cases and counting, Bapu Dham Colony, had turned into city’s major hotspot in no time. It all started on April 24 after an employee of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) was found to be infected. He went on to infect five members of his family, and over a dozen people in the neighbourhood. The UT administration had hoped the virus doesn’t spread further, but every new case started a chain reaction of its own.Population density in the shantiesBharat Kumar, counsellor from ward number 23 that covers three villages, including Ram Darbar, Faidan and Hallomajra, said, “Hallomajra is quite a congested area, it has around 1,900 houses and over 80,000 people. In one room of these houses, up to five people stay. There are chawls where people have built 30-40 rooms in a row, with four-five people living in one room. Most of the residents are from the working class.”He said, “I keep inspecting the areas and the worrisome part is that people in these colonies villages are not following social distancing norms. The administration should take strict action, else there is no doubt that situation might go out of hand, imitating the Bapu Dham Colony incident.”One Covid-19 positive case in MaloyaMeanwile, in Maloya, a 20-year-old female tested positive for Covid-19. People in the entire building where she stay had been quarantined and police were deployed to control the situation. “The problem in Maloya is similar to Bapu Dham colony as the area is too congested and maintaining social distance is not possible,” said an MC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hallomajra-and-maloya-can-be-next-chandigarh-s-bapu-dham/story-daom481ZxuAEfrwM3ZhjRO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rent of working women hostel located on PGIMER campus increased three times amid lockdown||At a time when the government is pressing landlords in the city to not ask their tenants for rent, the monthly charges of the working women hostel (WWH) located on the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (PGIMER) campus in Sector 12 were increased threefold.If that’s not all, the hostellers are being charged an extra fine if they fail to pay the increased fee.Curiously, both PGIMER and the UT administration’s social welfare department have said that the hostel is not managed by them.Around 300 women, most of them research scholars, lab technicians or students involved in active Covid-19 duty, stay in the hostel. A lab technician, working in the Covid-19 ward, said that they can’t even shift amid the crisis nor can they pay the additional amount.After a hike of 10% in December 2019, the girls living in the hostels started paying ₹2,210 per person for a triple seater room, and ₹2,613 per person for a single room. After another hike in May, the rent was increased based on the income slabs ranging between ₹2,197 to ₹8,054. In addition to that, hostellers are also charged ₹732 as electricity and water charges along with ₹293 as maintenance charges. Those who want to use a cooler have to pay an additional ₹100 in summers.A research scholar from the department of community medicine, PGIMER, said, “On May 6, they put up a notice saying that the fee had been hiked for May. For me, the overall hostel payment has increased by almost three times, from ₹2,600 to ₹8,000. With mess and additional charges, it comes to around ₹11,000. Is such a steep hike amid a crisis justified?”The order released by the chairperson of the hostel management committee stated that the hostel charges were being revised based on the charges of Sector 24 WWH run by the social welfare department because of increased labour cost.PGIMER in a written statement said that the hostel did not come under its ambit, adding that all the WWHs were monitored by the UT director social welfare. However, secretary social welfare Yashpal Garg said the PGIMER WWH was not managed by the department.When contacted for comments, Sushmita Ghoshal, head of the department of radiotherapy, PGIMER, and the chairperson of the management committee of the hostel, refused to comment, and asked instead why the fee hike was being questioned at all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rent-of-working-women-hostel-located-on-pgimer-campus-increased-three-times-amid-lockdown/story-yS81kpeS9xgZJWZzDqYB3I.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali MC commissioner inspects district’s entry points||Mohali municipal commissioner KK Garg inspected the arrangements at entry points to check the unauthorised entry of people into the district, on Saturday. “Residents of the tricity can travel to and from Mohali, on producing their official ID Cards. But, to ensure that nobody enters the district from neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh without proper authorisation, surprise checking was conducted at all the entry points into the district from all highways and link roads alongside borders of Haryana and HP,” Garg said.For those entering the district from Himachal Pradesh, inter-state highway check point has been set up at Siswan Baddi road in Siswan village. For those entering the district from Haryana, the interstate border check points on highways have been set up near Sekhon banquet hall, Zirakpur, Panchkula highway.Other interstate check points for those entering the district from Haryana have been set up at Ambala to Naraingarh highway, Ambala to Chandigarh highway, Jharmari and Lalru. Similarly, interstate border check points have been set up at various link roads at Peer Muchhalla, T-point Antala, Barwala Road Behra Morh, Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road, Daffarpur and Harmilap Nagar, Baltana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-mc-commissioner-inspects-district-s-entry-points/story-2ss5RLcIyeb12JmSTsXMzL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Shopkeepers and street vendors told to wear gloves and masks by health officials in Zirakpur||A team led by the district health officer (DHO) Subhash Sharma conducted a checking of shops, street vendors and Metro Mall in Zirakpur, on Saturday.The team instructed shopkeepers to wear gloves and masks and ensure social distancing norms are followed.“During the inspection, it was observed that customers were being allowed to enter only after thermal scanning at entrances of big stores. Also, social distancing norms were being followed in stores and shops,” Sharma said.The team also inspected vegetables being sold on carts and rehris. Shopkeepers and street vendors were told to not allow anyone to enter their shops without mask.“Shop owners, delivery staff and customers must wear cloth masks at all the times. It should be worn even if the purchase of groceries or collecting an order takes little time. The masks must cover the nose and mouth. Cloth masks should be washed with soap and water after use,” shopkeepers were told.He said the shopowners/delivery staff should not shake hands/hug each other or anyone else. “All should follow strict social distancing measures and maintain a minimum distance of one metre at all times,” Sharma said.He added that all customers should wait for their turn and avoid crowding at all costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shopkeepers-and-street-vendors-told-to-wear-gloves-and-masks-by-health-officials-in-zirakpur/story-wvTPbVYIRj7Kt6V8E76FpL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Excise policy extended till June 30 in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration has extended last fiscal’s excise policy till June 30 amid the Covid-19 lockdown. All liquor vend owners have been asked to apply for extension by May 11. Licencees can send extension applications via e-mail at aetcchd1@gmail.com or manually to the DC’s office. New policy and auction of new liquor vends will be applicable after expiry of extension period, as per sources. Detailed extension policy has been uploaded on the UT excise and taxation department’s official website, etdut.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/excise-policy-extended-till-june-30-in-chandigarh/story-kVHQqG3mraWVQ8Lbuf6t1K.html
10-05-2020||City||Sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib: Kurukshetra police register FIR||A case of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib has been reported from Gobind Nagar village of Kurukshetra’s Pehowa wherein Karanjit Singh, member of the Gurdwara Singh Sabha, alleged that unidentified miscreants desecrated the Sikh holy book on May 6. He alleged that gurdwara officials also noticed a torn ‘bir’. Pehowa police station in-charge Devender Kumar said an FIR has been registered under Section 295 of the IPC and a probe was on. SGPC Sikh Mission’s Haryana in-charge Mangpreet Singh and Dharam Prachar Committee members also visited the gurdwara for an internal investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sacrilege-of-guru-granth-sahib-kurukshetra-police-register-fir/story-oGVXbyDjkeQh1ZBFaRe02O.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Court reserves order on ex-Punjab DGP Saini’s anticipatory bail plea||A Mohali court on Saturday reserved its order for Monday on the anticipatory bail application of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini.Saini and six others were booked on Thursday in connection with the disappearance of a Mohali resident, Balwant Singh Multani, after a terrorist attack in 1991.“Why do you need custodial interrogation in the times of lockdown?” additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal posted a query to district attorney Sanjeev Batra, who was opposing Saini’s anticipatory bail plea. In his reply, Batra said: “Saini’s custodial interrogation is needed to find out how Multani’s body was disposed of after he died of torture. “The prosecution also said that Saini may threaten witnesses and not cooperate with the investigation agency.While seeking anticipatory bail, Saini’s counsel APS Deol submitted: “They (police) registered an FIR to harass him (Saini) in the days of coronavirus.”“No one can be prosecuted for same offence twice. The Supreme Court had already quashed the FIR against Saini in the same case. So how can he be booked again?” argued advocate Deol, challenging registration of the FIR 29 years after the incident. Advocate Deol submitted: “Soon after his arrest, Multani was produced in a court in 1991 so there can be no case of abduction. Multani was son of an IAS officer but he never made any allegations of torture then.”Complainant’s counsel Pradeep Virk, however, said the Supreme Court had quashed the FIR on technical grounds with liberty to file fresh a case. ‘GURMEET PINKY TO BE EXAMINED AS WITNESS’In his bail plea, Saini said the very basis of the fresh FIR was mere heresy based on an interview of Gurmeet Singh, alias Pinky (a dismissed cop of Punjab Police) to a news magazine a few years ago.In the interview, Pinky had allegedly said that Multani was tortured in police custody leading to his death. His body was disposed of later, Pinky had alleged. Batra told the court that Pinky will be examined as a witness in this case. However, advocate Deol pointed out that police had not examined Pinky or taken any action against him after his comments published in the magazine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/court-reserves-order-on-ex-punjab-dgp-saini-s-anticipatory-bail-plea/story-HFbMTlNhanEayLBXUzJM9K.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||7 booked for murder of Sangrur man over land dispute||The police have on Saturday booked seven people for allegedly murdering a 32-year-old man over a land dispute.As per the FIR, the accused killed Harwinder Singh alias Laddi of Ladbanjara village near Dirba by running a tractor over him on Friday.The accused have been identified as Charanjit Singh of Dhuhar village, Paramjit Kaur of Hamjheri, Kulvir Singh of Dhandial, Multan Singh, Baljinder Singh, Jaipal Singh and Manjit Singh, all from Ladbanjara village.The deceased’s wife stated in her police complaint that Laddi had some land to one Paramjit Kaur eight years ago, but she did not pay the whole amount for it, so the land was still being cultivated by the former’s family.“On April 8, Charanjit Singh along with others came to the field and tried to plough the land. The accused then ran the tractor over Laddi, killing him on the spot,” the complainant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/7-booked-for-murder-of-sangrur-man-over-land-dispute/story-jj1X4PNSzp2JTcN46LWhTJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Laundry machine installed at isolation centre in Ludhiana||To maintain hygiene at the isolation centre set up at the Meritorious School here, the district administration has installed a laundry machine for washing bedsheets, pillow covers and other items used in bedding.This machine, with a 60kg capacity, costs Rs 6.25 lakh.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC councillor Mamta Ashu visited the isolation centre on Saturday and took stock of the arrangements there.Sandhu said the machine has been provided by the administration from the money received from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). He thanked the Punjab government, especially chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, for providing these machines at isolation centres in the district.Mamta said, “The aim of installing these machines is to maintain best hygiene standards at isolation centres. With the installation of the machine, people staying inside the isolation centre will get neat and clean bedding.”Sandhu said as many as 130 people have been sent to quarantine centres set up in their respective villages and homes from the Meritorious School isolation centre. Upon reaching their villages/homes, these people would remain in quarantine for 14 days there, he added. He said only 94 people are now left in the isolation centre at the Meritorious School.He said the 22 students, who had returned from Kota (Rajasthan), have also been sent for home quarantine from the Parker House, Punjab Agricultural University, here. Sandhu said the people shifted to quarantine centres had tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/laundry-machine-for-washing-bedsheets-pillow-covers-installed-at-isolation-centre-in-ludhiana/story-qnhBdiNcL5nHzVJcozgNZI.html
10-05-2020||City||FICO demands roll back of hike in excise duty, VAT on fuel||With industry reeling under losses amid the coronavirus lockdown, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) on Saturday demanded that the Union and the state governments should roll back the hike in excise duty and value added tax (VAT) on fuel. The FICO members rued that the prices of crude oil are at an all-time low, but the government rather than passing on the benefit to the residents, has increased the excise duty and VAT.FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “The Union government recently increased the special excise duty by Rs 10 on petrol and Rs 13 on diesel. With this, no benefit of the decreased crude oil prices is being passed on to the public.” “The state government has also hiked VAT on diesel from 11.80% to 15.15%, while on petrol, it has been increased from 20.11% to 23.3%, resulting into a hike of around Rs 2 in the prices of petrol and diesel,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fico-demands-roll-back-of-hike-in-excise-duty-vat-on-fuel/story-o6xCIuTPKZMoiGTGwv9UWJ.html
10-05-2020||City||OOAT vans delivering de-addiction medicine at doorsteps in Kapurthala||With over 2,000 drug addicts enrolling themselves for treatment at the nine government Out-Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres in the district since the curfew imposition on March 23, the district health department has launched mobile vans to tackle the rush and ensure social distancing norms are followed. The spurt in numbers is because drugs are unavailable. The second van in the project was launched on Saturday. The project itself was launched on April 14 with one van deputed to deliver medicine and enrol new patients.To date, the first van, that visits localities four days a week, has registered 300 patients. The second van will go door-to-door three days a week. The detailed schedule is drawn up in consultation with local experts. The second van is also equipped to conduct HIV tests on patients, offer expert consultation and screen addicts. “HIV tests are important as there are previous past instances of addicts using the same syringe to inject themselves. Curfew might have brought in some disruption in their medicine supply schedule,” said a doctor, on condition of anonymity. “The lockdown could be a blessing for drug addicts, as many have themselves come forward to enroll for de-addiction. Even as social distancing is being maintained at our centre, this new van will augment our capacity and visit affected areas three times a week,” said Dr Sandeep Bhola, nodal officer, mental health and de-addiction centres of Kapurthala.Bhola added they were taking the help of sarpanches and NGOs to identify addicts in their areas and get them treated at the van. The number of addicts at centres across the district has seen a spike from 30-50 admission per month to over 200, with drugs not available. Overall, 8,400 patients are registered across OOATs in the district. &&&&&&&&&&&Strap/Blurb2nd van launched to tackle rush at centres, as drugs are unavailable; the mobile vans project was started in the district on April 14 and has enrolled 300 patients sinceQuote (if needed)The lockdown could be a blessing for drug addicts, as many have themselves come forward to enrol for de-addiction. The new van will go door-to-door thrice a week.Dr Sandeep Bhola, nodal officer, de-addiction centres, Kapurthala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ooat-vans-delivering-de-addiction-medicine-at-doorsteps-in-kapurthala/story-CAD9lKbHBhbpVj3KLWmSaO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chaos at Amristar hospital as Covid-19 patients insist to go home||Utter chaos prevailed at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) here on Saturday after the Covid-19 patients admitted there insisted on going home.Over 25 coronavirus disease patients, who were admitted in the cardiothoracic unit of GNDH, refused to have their meals and insisted the hospital authorities to discharge them from the hospital. The patients claimed that they were healthy with no Covid-19 symptoms, and wanted to go home despite being infected.Later, medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma and Government Medical College (GMC) principal Dr Sujata Sharma arrived at the hospital’s isolation ward and pacified the patients. The doctors told them patients that they will be sent home from the hospital once they test negative for Covid-19.The hospital authorities said that though the asymptomatic patients were healthy, they could act as carriers of the virus and infect many others.The state health department officials were also informed about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chaos-at-amristar-hospital-as-covid-19-patients-insist-to-go-home/story-JuzunlhOBWE0TPPAbXycMO.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||After spurt in farm fires, Punjab CM asks farmers to stop stubble burning||In a spurt in the number of wheat stubble burning cases in Punjab, as many as 1,931 cases of farm fires were reported in the past three days, adding to the worries of the state government fighting the Covid-10 outbreak.As the coronavirus has a very adverse impact on the lungs of patients, farm fires can further aggravate their breathing troubles.Keeping this in view, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday issued an appeal to state farmers not to indulge in the practice of stubble burning.He raised concern that burning of wheat stubble will have very hazardous impact amid Covid-19 crisis.“It is a respiratory disease and stubble burning will affect recovery of Covid patients. It will even affect lungs of children making them prone to the infection,” the CM said while addressing the farmers in a video message.As many as 722 cases of stubble burning were reported on Thursday, followed by 664 on Friday and 545 on Saturday. It took the season’s total to 2,160.Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) also asked farmers to desist from stubble burning, saying it does not help anyone, but only endangers lives. “We fail to understand why there is rise in the number of farm cases this season. We were expecting farmers to understand the situation this season, but they haven’t,” said Krunesh Garg, member secretary Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). He said it is difficult to take action against the errant farmers as there are only 40 engineers with the board. “We challaned 39 farmers today and have imposed a fine of Rs 1.07 lakh,” he said adding that the revenue department would start making red entries into the land record of errant farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-spurt-in-farm-fires-punjab-cm-asks-farmers-to-stop-stubble-burning/story-D7hNx1XsbTWtG08NpeeFbL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, paddy transplantation in Punjab advanced by 10 days||Responding to concerns expressed by farmers over labour shortage in the state, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced advancement in paddy transplantation by 10 days, from June 20 to June 10.Earlier on Friday, the CM had agreed to advance paddy transplantation by a week to June 13. However, acceding to the farmers’ demand, he decided to advance it by three more days.The sowing operations will now commence on May 10, instead of May 20, with setting up of nurseries and transplantation of saplings from June 10, fixed earlier by the agriculture department.The farmers had raised concerns about meeting the cultivation and sowing requirements in view of the labour shortage resulting from exodus of migrant labourers in view of the Covid-19 crisis.Describing these concerns as understandable, the CM said it is in the interest of the farmers to push the dates ahead by 10 days. Underlining the need to adopt the latest practice of direct seeding of rice (DSR) and mechanised paddy transplantation technologies, the CM directed additional chief secretary ACS (development) Viswajeet Khanna to harness the services of the extension staff of agriculture department to provide all technical support to the farmers.The farmers should be helped in making effective use of paddy transplanters and DSR machinery, he said, adding that the advanced technology would be instrumental in filling the gap created by shortage of migrant labour.To facilitate the farmers in ensuring timely transplantation of paddy, Amarinder also directed the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to make necessary arrangements for facilitating uninterrupted power supply to the agriculture sector during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-paddy-transplantation-in-punjab-advanced-by-10-days/story-VeCHZ9yOqFTOlfxFch4yaK.html
10-05-2020||City||5 days on, 34,000 migrants from Punjab leave for home states||Over 13 lakh migrants from Punjab, including over 6.5 lakh from Ludhiana, have registered to return to their native places in Shramik special trains started by the government. From the Ferozepur division of the Northern Railways, 34,000 migrants have so far left for the hometowns in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh in the last five days, as per officials.On Saturday, four trains, carrying over 4,700 migrants, left for Muzaffarpur (Bihar), Kishanganj (Bihar), Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) and Gonda (Uttar Pradesh) from Ludhiana while three trains, with over 3,500 migrants, left from Jalandhar to Katihar (Bihar), Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) and Faizabad (Uttar Pradesh).The special portal started by the Punjab government for registration of migrants wanting to go home has so far seen 13 lakh registrations. On May 2, the day it was launched, the portal saw as many as 3 lakh registrations, which jumped to 6 lakh within 24 hours.Nodal officer of Punjab helpline, Sumeet Jarangal said that of the total 13 lakh registrations, 6.5 lakh are from Ludhiana, 1.5 lakh from Jalandhar, over 1 lakh from SAS Nagar (Mohali), over 80,000 from Amritsar and other parts of the state.So far, 15 trains have departed from Ludhiana, 14 from Jalandhar and one from Amritsar. On Sunday, five trains are scheduled to depart from Ludhiana. These include the train to Hardoi (Uttar Pradesh) at 11.00am, Bettiah (Bihar) at 2.00pm, Jaunpur (Uttar Pradesh) at 5.00pm, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) at 8.00pm and Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) at 11.00pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-days-on-34-000-migrants-from-punjab-leave-for-home-states/story-nDGCrw2zydi7BjqFelyGAJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Desperate to meet son, Covid patient flees isolation ward, brought back||A high drama was witnessed at Tarn Taran civil hospital on Saturday when a 34-year-old coronavirus patient fled the isolation ward sending the authorities and the policemen present there into a tizzy. The man, who along with his 32-year-old wife and a 5-year-old son had recently returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded district of Maharashtra, was caught by the police outside the civil hospital and brought back to the isolation ward. He was admitted to the ward on April 3 after he tested positive for Covid-19. However, his wife and son tested negative. The family had returned from Nanded on March 28 and had been kept in Mai Bhago College, which has been converted into a quarantine centre. “My wife and son have been quarantined even as they tested negative. My wife informed me over phone that our son’s condition is not well and he has been crying for the past two days. I wanted to meet my son. My wife and son should be allowed to go home?” said the man, who hails from Thakarpura village of Patti subdivision in the district, while talking to HT over phone. The incident took place at around 1 pm, according to the hospital authorities. He was caught by two cops on the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road outside the hospital. After 30-minute persuasion by health officials, the man agreed to go back to the isolation ward. Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said the man managed to flee the hospital by dodging the security men and the health staff deployed in and outside the isolation ward.Senior medical officer (SMO) of the hospital Dr Inder Mohan Gupta said, “If even a single person under observation goes out, it’s a public hazard.” The health authorities will have to identify and isolate people who came in contact with the patient after he left the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/desperate-to-meet-son-covid-patient-flees-isolation-ward-brought-back/story-hgIjLMs1ygy1vSToMp0kBN.html
10-05-2020||City||BJP corporators in Thane refuse to contribute for Covid hospital||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiv Sena are at loggerheads in Thane over giving ₹5 lakh from the corporator’s funds to set up a 1,000-bed facility for Covid patients.BJP corporators in Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) have refused to give money, claiming there is no transparency in the project.The Sena said the work will not suffer even if the BJP corporators do not contribute.After Thane’s guardian minister Eknath Shinde announced setting up the facility at Global Impact hub building, mayor Naresh Mhaske said the corporators will pay ₹5 lakh each for the hospital. BJP corporator Sanjay Waghule said, “We were not showed any plan of the hospital nor given any estimate of funds. We had already given money to the CM’s Relief Fund. The mayor decided on his own that all corporators will pay ₹5 lakh. We were not called for the meeting to decide this.”Waghule said they suggested TMC uses the ₹150 crore allotted for Aapla Dawakhana (Moholla clinic) project. “Why is the Sena reluctant to use this fund?” he said. The Sena refuted the claim that there was any foul play in the project. Mhaske said, “We all decided in the common corporators group to contribute for the hospital. If the BJP does not want to contribute, it is their choice. They do not have to politicise the issue.”He said the hospital is an emergency project and there is no time for tenders. “We will have to float an emergency tender for the hospital. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s corporators had given funds in Mumbai and we decided to do the same,” said Mhaske.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-corporators-in-thane-refuse-to-contribute-for-covid-hospital/story-8TahYOGcBISniZeXo33vDO.html
10-05-2020||City||First Nanded pilgrim succumbs to virus||A 56-year-old man from Manuke village in Jagraon block of the district died of coronavirus on Saturday, making him the first Nanded pilgrim to succumb to the deadly virus. Ludhiana has reported six Covid-19 fatalities so far. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Gurjant Singh had returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, recently. He was tested positive and was undergoing treatment at the Ludhiana civil hospital, said Dr Bagga, adding that he suffered a cardiac arrest. Meanwhile, Punjab reported 24 fresh cases on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 1,792. Twelve positive cases have been reported in Jalandhar district, followed by five from Gurdaspur, four in Rupnagar and one each in Moga, Mansa and Ludhiana. Of these 15 are Nanded-returnees. In Jalandhar, 12 persons, including eight Nanded pilgrims tested positive for the virus, said Dr TS Sandhu, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district. The district has reported 167 positive cases so far, including five deaths. Health officials said that a Mansa resident (who returned from Nanded) and is admitted in Jalandhar also tested positive but he will be counted in the Mansa tally. Eight persons of Jalandhar who returned from Nanded between the age group of 36 and 70 while other three patients who got virus infection were close contact of positive patients. FIVE FRESH CASES IN GURDASPURFive Nanded pilgrims tested positive for the virus in Gurdaspur district on Saturday, taking the district’s tally to 122. Meanwhile, a 62-year-old Talwara man, who had died in the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Friday, tested positive for coronavirus. The man was admitted to the PGIMER on May 5 with a head injury. Civil surgeon Jasbir Singh said that samples of deceased’s family had been collected and other contacts were being traced. 30-YR-OLD MAN TESTS POSITIVE IN MOGAA 30-year-old man of Thathi Bhai village in Moga district tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday, taking the district’s count to 56. He is contact of a Huzur Sahib returnee, who was tested positive earlier this week.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said: “The man was home quarantined after he was found to be in the contact of a positive patient and his swab samples were sent for testing. The man was admitted to the isolation ward of civil hospital Moga. With this district have 45 active Covid-19 cases in the district, while 11 patients have been discharged after they were tested negative.”COP, NANDED-RETURNEE FRESH CASES IN RUPNAGARFour persons, including a Nanded-returnee and a policeman tested positive for Covid-19 in Rupnagar district. With this total number of active Covid-19 positive cases of Rupnagar district has risen to 18, including 15 Nanded returnees.The positive cases include a 27-year-old man who returned from Nanded and other a 32-year-old man of Nikkuwal village who came back from Indore (Madhya Pradesh) recently. A 49-year-old policeman had returned after dropping some people in Jammu and Kashmir in a bus. A 45-year-old man who also tested positive belongs to Surtapur village in Chamkaur Sahib sub-division. He had come to flu corner of civil hospital Rupnagar some days back for check-up where his swab sample was taken for test.In Mansa, a 24-year-old woman has been found positive for coronavirus. The woman came back to her village Khara Baranala from Delhi. She has been admitted in isolation ward in Mansa civil hospital, said senior medical officer Mansa civil hospital Dr Ashok Kumar. In Ludhiana, 17-year-old tuberculosis patient was tested positive for coronavirus. MAN UNDER QUARANTINE ENDS LIFE A man undergoing home quarantine ended his life by hanging himself with a ceiling fan in Mangewal village in barnala on Saturday. Pappu Singh, 37, a combine operator, had recently returned from Haryana. A team of health department from Dhanaula had quarantined him from April 30 to May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-nanded-pilgrim-succumbs-to-virus/story-XrQ5AnA5V5Y6RNBGO1cjKJ.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||New BMC chief’s focus areas: Virus and pre-monsoon prep||Iqbal Singh Chahal, a 1989 batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer, who took charge as the chief of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) late on Friday, said his priorities are clear –minimising the number of coronavirus cases in the city and preparing for the upcoming monsoon. His predecessor Parveen Pardeshi has been transferred to the urban development department.On Saturday, Chahal held review meetings as well as visited a civic hospital and also one of the worst- affected areas in the city, Dharavi. He told all ward officers that he would be visiting their areas unannounced to take stock of the situation on ground.Speaking to the media from the BMC headquarters, Chahal said, “I have only two priorities for now. They are fighting the coronavirus and making the city ready for the monsoon. I am prepared to tackle the situation. I request you to wait for the next two-three weeks.”In the first half of Saturday, Chahal visited Nair Hospital in south Mumbai, which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. He interacted with the staff members who explained the situation to him through a powerpoint presentation. Further, he visited the hospital premises, and also interacted with patients wearing personal protective equipment (PPE).Later in the day, Chahal visited Dharavi in G-North ward and interacted with the officials. He met those admitted to the quarantine facility in Dharavi, surveyed the containment zones and interacted with a few residents.He also held a series of meetings with the BMC officials. A civic official who attended the meeting said, “No major decisions or changes were discussed, but the commissioner reviewed the coronavirus situation and pre-monsoon readiness in all wards. Further, he also asked us to ensure proper contact tracing and aggressive sealing.”Meanwhile, former managing director of the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation, Ashwini Bhide, and former Thane civic commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal also took charge as the two new additional municipal commissioners replacing Jaishree Bhoj and Abbasaheb Jarhad, who were also transferred by Thackeray on Friday.Pardeshi goes on leaveAdditional chief secretary Praveen Pardeshi, who is believed to be upset over his sudden transfer from the post of Mumbai municipal commissioner, proceeded on leave immediately after taking charge as the chief of the urban development department. “He applied for the 14-day leave after taking charge on Saturday,” said Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, general administration department.Pardeshi cited his father’s health and submitted a medical certificate with the application. According to government officials, he is not happy with the way he was ousted and may extend his leave. He also skipped the formality to hand over the charge to his successor in the BMC, IS Chahal, on Friday.The state government has also put Kishorraje Nimbalkar’s appointment as the secretary of the public works department on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-bmc-chief-s-focus-areas-virus-and-pre-monsoon-prep/story-kfir0JwBOCgPf420nalywN.html
10-05-2020||City||Naroa Manch members visit Battian STP, slam pollution body’s claims over Buddha Nullah pollution||Members of Naroa Punjab Manch and Bhai Ghanaiya Cancer Roko Seva Society, Faridkot, on Saturday visited Bhattian sewage treatment plant (STP) and slammed the Punjab Pollution Control Board’s (PPCB’s) claims of “minimal improvement” in the pollution level of Buddha Nullah due to the closure of factories amid the coronavirus lockdown.The members rued that it was clearly visible that the pollution level has decreased drastically and said they would ask the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to conduct sampling of the waterbody at this time and check the presence of heavy metals in it.Naroa Punjab Manch president Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja said, “As the recent reports of PPCB are contradictory, we are demanding that the NGT monitoring committee should conduct sampling to detect heavy metals in the nullah.” Asserting that the darkness of waste water has reduced drastically both at the inlet and outlet point of the plant suggesting that the pollution has reduced, he said, “After the NGT committee conducts sampling of the nullah, its reports can be compared with the sample reports that come out once the industry restarts its operations. Everything will become clear then.”The PPCB had, in the month of April, claimed that there is not much reduction in the level of pollution in the waterbody amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naroa-manch-members-visit-battian-stp-slam-pollution-body-s-claims-over-buddha-nullah-pollution/story-Y6FuagmiibQXjm4Mnnx05O.html
10-05-2020||City||Now, bookstores, small shops to remain open in Ludhiana||Now, bookstores and small shops will remain open in the district as told by police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal in a Facebook live session, during which he interacted with the locals and answered their queries. Agrawal said that the police and the Ludhiana administration have together taken the decision to allow bookshops and other small shops in rural areas to open. “The shopping malls in rural areas however cannot be opened yet. In the city, shops in gated colonies can now operate,” he said while adding, “In markets, shops selling essential commodities can be opened from 7am to 3pm, after which the owners can deliver the items at people’s homes.” The police chief said that people can walk to the shops to purchase things, but they are not allowed to take their vehicles without a pass. He further said that the shopkeepers will be held responsible for maintaining social distancing among the customers. “The sweet shops in the district can also operate, but the owners will have to take orders online and also ensure door-to-door delivery of products,” he added.Meanwhile, a Facebook user told the police chief that some people were duping labourers on the pretext of enrolling their names in the list of people being sent to their native places by the government. On this, Agrawal said that police will take action against such offenders.“The government has made arrangements for sending migrant labourers to their native places in trains. Around 11 lakh labourers have applied so far of which 7 lakh are from Ludhiana itself,” said the police commissioner. “Those who can arrange private buses to reach their villages can take permission from police,” he added.Agrawal further said that the industries are allowed to operate under certain conditions. “Construction and agriculture related work required no permission if the labour was acquired from the village. In case of acquiring labour from city, people could contact the sub divisional magistrate for passes,” he added.Replying to a query regarding attending marriage functions, the police chief said that only five persons are allowed to attend the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-bookstores-small-shops-to-remain-open-in-ludhiana/story-atMx4sn5CB6j3ednG5dUNO.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Such a long journey: Six more special trains ferry migrants from Mumbai||The railways on Saturday operated two special trains from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to ferry around 1,200 migrants workers to Gonda railway station in Uttar Pradesh (UP). A third Shramik Special train departed from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) to Gonda railway station later in the evening. On Saturday later at night, the railways operated a train for migrant workers from CSMT to Basti in Uttar Pradesh.“Trains towards Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are being operated from the city. The state government informs on the destination and the departing railway stations, following which we run the trains,” said a senior Central Railway (CR) official. Meanwhile, a train ferrying migrant workers to Barauni in Bihar left from Thane on Saturday at 2.50pm, while some labourers from Odisha left from Panvel railway station to Titlagarh station. “The train departed from Thane station with 1,200 passengers who followed all rules of social distancing and sanitisation,” said a senior official from CR, Mumbai. This is the second Shramik train from Thane to Bihar. On Thursday, a train had left with migrants to Bapudham Motihari. “The train on Saturday mostly had passengers from Mumbra and Daighar. The previous train had the passengers from Thane,” said a railway official from Thane. Meanwhile, some migrants in Navi Mumbai, who have opted to stay back, have alleged that they have not been getting any provisions or food as officials are busy in making arrangements to send labourers back home.“Our stock of food grains and other essential have got. We tried to contact the officials but could not reach them. We got an NGO’s phone number and asked them to help us with grocery,” said Bhola Prasad, 33, from Bihar.He has decided to stay back in Panvel at the construction site where he used to work till the lockdown. He hopes to construction activity will start soon.“For a month, we survived on savings. But that soon dried up. The civic body was helping till now but off late they have stopped. Now, we are depending on the NGO,” said Prasad, who lives with his wife and brother.Pritima Husna, 29, from Bengal, who used to work as house help, lives in Kamothe with her husband, brother-in-law and parents-in-law.“We got some help from the government but we want to go back home. The long queue for application has put us off. We will wait for some time,” said Husna.Amol Nagkar, 40, an activist, said he gets around eight calls every day from people in need of food and ration.“It is true now officials are busy making arrangements to send migrants home. Most of the labourers got ration only once and after that nobody enquired if they needed anything. After the government started sending migrants home, more people are calling us for food and essentials,” said Nagkar.Some like Sonkar Lal, 36, from Jharkhand have decided to stay back, hoping the situation improves soon.“Going home is a hassle and staying back is also a problem. If officials stop looking at our needs, how will we survive?” said Sonkar Lal, 36, who he used to work as an electrician.He lives in Kamothe with his wife, five-year-old daughter and his younger brother. Jamir Lengarekar, additional commissioner, Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said that those who are staying back are not inconvenienced.“We have appointed an official to look after the requirement of the migrants and distribute essentials. We will look into the issue.,” said Lengarekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/such-a-long-journey-six-more-special-trains-ferry-migrants-from-mumbai/story-6iOxnVqmasm0ZyFsXJR5mJ.html
10-05-2020||Mumbai||Maha’s Covid case count hits 20,000; India crosses 60,000||Maharashtra crossed the 20,000 mark for coronavirus cases with the addition of 1,165 infections on Saturday. It also reported its highest single-day toll of 48 deaths, taking the fatality count to 779. Of the new cases, 722 were from Mumbai, taking India’s most affected city’s case count to 12,864.Across India, the number of fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 2,000 and total infections rose above 60,000 on Saturday, doubling in roughly 11 days as the country now plans to resume more economic activity, while bracing for a spike in infections due to the increased movement. According to data compiled from numbers released by state authorities, there were 3,049 new infections and 117 new deaths recorded on Saturday. In all, there have now been 62,715 people sickened by Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19, and 2,025 fatalities. Roughly 19,165 people have recovered from the disease.The highest number of cases continued to be detected from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.Maharashtra state took just nine days to go from 10,000 cases to 20,000, after taking 53 days for the first 10,000. Maharashtra reported its first case on March 9.Of the 48 deaths registered across the state on Saturday, 27 were in Mumbai, nine in Pune and eight in Malegaon. Pune rural, Nanded, Akola and Amravati saw one death each. Twenty-seven of the deaths on Saturday were of patients above 60 years of age, while 18 were in the age group of 40-59 years. At least 28 of them had high-risk comorbidities. Meanwhile, the state health department has added a disclaimer to its data, saying that 178 patients from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have been added to the ICMR data of cases on its portal, but the reconciliation of the figures by the state is yet to be done. It has also stated that as the collection of data is a progressive process, the numbers could varyAs of Saturday, the mortality rate in the state stood at 3.83%, down from 7.21% on April 12, but the number of deaths is increasing. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.32%. According to a report by the medical education and drugs department, 21.91% patients are in the age group of 21-30 years, followed by 21.21% between the ages of 31 and 40. 17.96% are between 41-50 years, 15.30 in 51-60 years age group while just 8.46% of the patients are from 61-70 years age group. The report has also highlighted that 73% of those who died of Coivd-19 had high-risk comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, heart ailments, among others. A total of 59% patients were asymptomatic, the report released on Saturday stated.Of the 19,063 cases registered till Friday in the state, 94.85% or 18,081 cases were from the areas governed by 27 municipal corporations. A total of 686 of the state’s 731 deaths (till Friday) were from these urban areas, where the density of population and even the percentage of slums is high.Among the municipal corporations, Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Aurangabad, Navi Mumbai are the most affected cities. 86.48% or 16,482 of the total cases till Friday are from MMR and PMR (Pune Metropolitan Region), which are the most populated areas in the state, accommodating around 30 % (or 35 million) of the state’s total population on over 11,600 square km, which is less than state’s total area. These two adjoining regions have reported 85.77% or 627 of the total 731 deaths reported till Friday.The state government, which has hinted at the extension of the ongoing lockdown till the end of the month at least in MMR and PMR, has directed the municipal corporations in the most affected cities to concentrate on containment zones. The task forces of the senior officers have been directed to minutely monitor the progress in these cities. “We may extend some relaxations for the industries after the third phase of lockdown ends on May 17 in the orange and green zones. Red zones too, may have brief relaxations outside the containment zones, but at the same time the implementation of the lockdown in containment zones would be stricter,” said a senior bureaucrat.In the past 24 hours, the state has carried out 15,454 coronavirus tests and 1,165 people have tested positive, which is 7.53% of the total people tested. The number of tests in the state touched 22,7804 on Saturday. 2,06,841 of them were negative. 2,41,290 people are currently under home quarantine, while 13,976 are under institutional quarantine. 12,388 teams of health workers have screened 55 lakh people for suspected infection, after they came in contact with patients. 3,800 patients have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past nine weeks.The state has 1,243 containment zones earmarked for the strict lockdown owing to the high number of positive patients. In Mumbai, municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.Expressing his concerns over the plight of migrant workers, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar spoke to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and railway minister Piyush Goyal, requesting them for the travelling arrangements for the migrant workers who want to return to their respective states. “CM Thackeray has assured me of arrangements for the transportation of these workers and said that the State Transport buses will be used for their travel. Railway minister too has assured additional trains for the workers,” he said.Pawar said that prime minister Narendra Modi should speak to the chief ministers of the respective states, asking them to clear the entry for migrant workers willing to return home.Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope reiterated on Saturday that the state government will take strict action against overcharging by the private hospitals. He announced the signing of an agreement with four private hospitals in Aurangabad for treatment of patients under the state government’s Mahatma Phule Janarogya Yojana , the scheme for free treatment at 1,000 private hospitals.Meanwhile, according to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, India has now raised its testing capacity to 95,000 per day and a total 1,525,631 tests have been conducted so far across 332 government and 121 private laboratories.“We do not anticipate a very worst type of situation in our country like many other developed countries but still we have prepared the whole country for the worst situation,” Harsh Vardhan said at meeting to review the status of Covid-19 outbreak in northeastern states.The health minister said there are now 8,043 hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 patients with a total bed capacity of 1.67 million beds and the country was adequately prepared to handle a surge.Globally, the virus has now infected over 4 million people and claimed the lives of at least 277,000 people in what is the worst pandemic the world has seen since the Spanish Flu in 1918.The minister’s remarks come a day after a top government official said India now needs to learn to live with the virus. “We will have to learn to live with the virus, for which it is important to make critical behavioral changes and incorporate all the preventive guidelines that health ministry has been issuing on following hand hygiene, cough etiquettes and social distancing measures, as part of your daily routine. It is an everyday battle for us to keep the infection at bay,” said Lav Agarwal, health ministry joint secretary, in a briefing on Friday.Authorities are now focusing on 10 states that account for the most number of cases. “The ministry of health and family welfare has decided to deploy Central teams to 10 states that have witnessed/are witnessing high case load and high spurt of cases. The teams will assist state health departments of respective states to facilitate management of the outbreak,” health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The expert teams consist of a senior official from the health ministry, a joint secretary-level nodal officer, and a public health expert. The states where the teams are being sent are Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The outbreak in India began on March 2 and by the end of the month, the country was under a sweeping lockdown that helped avert a situation in several populous countries where tens of thousands have now died.But pressure to relax the curbs are now growing, with large number of people having lost their livelihoods – especially people from lower economic groups such as factory workers and daily wage earners who have been walking in the thousands to their hometowns hundreds of kilometers away.In Uttar Pradesh, the government estimated that more than 100,000 people who were in other states for work were scheduled to return by Saturday night after the government started special trains. Another 98 trains will reach the state on Sunday and Monday, according to the official.The movement has also raised fears of infections growing as the tens of thousands taking the trains come in potential contact that could spread the virus.Similar concerns also surround Indians returning from abroad. On Saturday, at least two foreign returnees who reached Kerala on May 7 in two separate first-day flights -- one from Dubai and another from Abu Dhabi – tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-s-covid-case-count-hits-20-000-india-crosses-60-000/story-Ouf9lnvVLTYk2o58EdZw5K.html
10-05-2020||Noida||Keep poisonous chemicals away from workplaces, GB Nagar district admin warns factories||In the wake of the recent toxic gas leak at LG Polymers facility at Gopalpatnam in Andhra Pradesh, which had claimed the lives of 13 people and caused breathing problems to hundreds of others, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration has issued safety guidelines for companies that are using or storing hazardous and inflammable items on their premises.District magistrate Suhas LY said altogether seven companies have been asked to immediately provide their detailed on-site emergency plan along with the names and numbers of contact persons, to the deputy magistrate and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of their respective areas. “While NTPC Limited (Dadri), Samsung India Electronics Private Limited (Sector 81) and LG electronics India Private Limited (Udyog Vihar) have been served notices for excessively using inflammable and poisonous gases like LPG and chlorine in its factories, Honda Cars India limited (Kasna) and Global Autotech Limited (Udyog Vihar), have been served notices for excessively using LPG and other inflammable gases. Sheela Foam Limited (Udyog Vihar) has been asked to provide the emergency plan as it uses excessive amount of chlorine and other poisonous gases,” he said.He further said all hazardous factories have been asked to store inflammable and poisonous gases away from work places as per the stipulated safety norms to maintain a material data safety sheet in factories. “All the hazardous factories will have to always display the dos and don’ts regarding handling of inflammable and poisonous gases being used or stored by them. These factories have also been asked to follow the stipulated safety norms while transporting these inflammable and poisonous gases,” he said.The DM also said these factories have been asked to prepare a disaster management plan for emergencies. “These factories have been asked to submit their respective plans to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) and assistant director (factories) offices in the district,” he said.When contacted, public relation officer of NTPC Dadri said they will follow the guidelines issued by the district administration. “Strict compliance of government order is the prime duty of corporates in the time of a pandemic. However, we are always committed to maintaining all safety norms at NTPC plants,” the spokesperson said.The other factories were not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/keep-poisonous-chemicals-away-from-workplaces-gb-nagar-district-admin-warns-factories/story-WOLCm6htWAyLqV3grD2meL.html
10-05-2020||Noida||Air India crew engaged in Vande Bharat mission will stay in Delhi hotel till test results come||A day after the Noida police requested Air India to quarantine in Delhi its Noida-based crew members involved in the evacuation of Indian citizens stranded in different countries due to coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the city police Saturday said the airline has agreed to do so. The crew members will now be quarantined in a hotel in Delhi till their Covid-19 test reports come. If their test reports are negative, they can return to their residences in Gautam Budh Nagar.Noida police commissioner Alok Singh said this is a consensus decision taken in consultation with Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, the Noida district administration and the Noida authority. “We have received information that there are about 25 pilots and 40 service staff of Air India living in Gautam Budh Nagar. They may join the international flights being operated to evacuate Indian citizens stranded abroad. Once the evacuation is over, these crew members will be kept in a hotel in Delhi for a few days till their medical reports come. Once the report is negative, they can come to their homes in Noida. This is a fair decision,” he said. Noida health department will again test these crew members on the fifth day of their arrival for safety purposes.On Friday, Noida police had requested the national carrier to quarantine the crew members in Delhi, in order to check the spread of the virus in Gautam Budh Nagar. The Noida police said the ministry of home affairs had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) on May 5, regarding evacuation of people stranded in foreign countries, and also foreign nationals stranded in India.“We requested the management of the national carrier to keep these crew members in institutional quarantine in Delhi. We have received Air India’s response and they have agreed to do this. Accordingly, the crew members would commute between Noida and Delhi,” Sriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.India has planned to send 60 flights spread over a week to bring back hundreds of its citizens stranded in different countries. Air India could not be reached for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-india-crew-engaged-in-vande-bharat-mission-will-stay-in-delhi-hotel-till-test-results/story-Gin7r4f4RKPY6DH6DMVPdJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Jammu resident dies of virus in Ludhiana||A 65-year-old man, identified as Amrik Singh, died at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) in Ludhiana of Covid-19 on Saturday. He was a resident of RA Pura sector of Jammu and was a patient of renal failure.He was rushed to the emergency on May 1 and shifted to ICU around noon on May 2. His sample for Covid-19 test was taken on May 4 the results came positive on May 5. He was kept in the emergency isolation ever since and succumbed on Saturday evening.Confirming the death, nodal officer of Covid-19 at DMC&H Dr Ashwani Chaudhary said that the deceased was immunocompromised and a chronic case of renal failure patient.Sources said that Amrik’s death has caused a flutter among the already panicked hospital staff.Following his death, the staff of nephrology department, including an attending senior doctor, has been quarantined.DISTRICT SEES TWO DEATHS IN A DAYEarlier in the day, a 56-year-old Nanded returnee from Manuke village, Jagraon, had succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ludhiana on Saturday.Besides, two railway protection force (RPF) personnel and a 17-year-old tuberculosis (TB) patient also tested positive for the virus on Saturday.The district’s tally now stands at 126. The two RPF personnel are not being counted in Ludhiana’s tally as they from Delhi. They had arrived with 40 other RPF personnel from Delhi on May 5 to assist in crowd control at the railway station where thousands of migrants have been pouring in over the last few days to catch trains to the home states.The patient from Ludhiana is a 17-year-old girl, who is a resident of Haibowal area, She is a tuberculosis patient and is undergoing treatment at civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-resident-dies-of-virus-in-ludhiana/story-KiaVxTnyFp39hXm7qnRjYM.html
10-05-2020||City||13 lakh migrants have so far registered on Punjab govt portal to return home||Over 13 lakh migrants from Punjab, including over 6.5 lakh from Ludhiana, have registered to return to their native places in Shramik special trains started by the government. From the Ferozepur division of the Northern Railways, 34,000 migrants have so far left for the hometowns in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh in the last five days, as per officials.On Saturday, four trains, carrying over 4,700 migrants, left for Muzaffarpur (Bihar), Kishanganj (Bihar), Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) and Gonda (Uttar Pradesh) from Ludhiana while three trains, with over 3,500 migrants, left from Jalandhar to Katihar (Bihar), Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) and Faizabad (Uttar Pradesh).The special portal started by the Punjab government for registration of migrants wanting to go home has so far seen 13 lakh registrations. On May 2, the day it was launched, the portal saw as many as 3 lakh registrations, which jumped to 6 lakh within 24 hours. Nodal officer of Punjab helpline, Sumeet Jarangal said that of the total 13 lakh registrations, 6.5 lakh are from Ludhiana, 1.5 lakh from Jalandhar, over 1 lakh from SAS Nagar (Mohali), over 80,000 from Amritsar and other parts of the state.So far, 15 trains have departed from Ludhiana, 14 from Jalandhar and one from Amritsar. On Sunday, five trains are scheduled to depart from Ludhiana. These include the train to Hardoi (Uttar Pradesh) at 11.00am, Bettiah (Bihar) at 2.00pm, Jaunpur (Uttar Pradesh) at 5.00pm, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) at 8.00pm and Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) at 11.00pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-lakh-migrants-have-so-far-registered-on-punjab-govt-portal-to-return-home/story-UJ1uzf4fTZezXOQbcnQmcM.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi asks Bihar to reimburse Rs 6.5 lakh for migrants’ travel||A Delhi government letter seeking reimbursement of Rs 6.5 lakh spent on sending around 1,100 migrants from the national capital to their native Bihar on a special train on Friday has triggered a row. In a letter in response to the demand, Bihar’s disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit on Saturday cited clause 11 (c) of the railways guidelines issued on May 2 saying the “local state government authority shall handover the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and handover the total amount to railways”. “The decision of the GNCTD [government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi] in making payments for buying bulk tickets for all passengers and then to seek reimbursement from Government of Bihar (GoB) is in violation of the aforesaid guidelines issued by the Ministry of Railways,” said Amrit.Amrit’s letter came in response to that of Delhi government’s nodal officer PK Gupta seeking the reimbursement for the transportation of the migrants, who arrived in Muzaffarpur on Saturday. He said the Bihar government has a policy of reimbursing the railway fares paid by migrant labourers on arrival in the state. “In consonance with this policy, we shall reimburse the fare to the railway passengers and not to the GNCTD,” the letter said. HT has seen copies of both letters.Gopal Rai, Delhi’s labour minister, acknowledged they had written to the Bihar government on May 7 seeking the reimbursement. He added since there was no response to their letter, the Delhi government paid the railways Rs 6.5 lakh to send the migrant workers back home. “We had sent a similar letter to Madhya Pradesh and it responded and paid the cost for the first train that went from Delhi.”Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party spokesman Sanjay Singh said the railways runs these special trains after the fares are paid but the Bihar government wants workers to come first and pay later. He said the Delhi government said it will not allow the workers to pay money and hence paid the railways. “Who are you trying to fool [Bihar chief minister] Nitish Kumar and BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party]?” Singh tweeted.Tens of thousands of migrant workers from states like Bihar have been stranded in Delhi since the lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread was imposed on March 25. The railways last week began running special trains for the people stranded because of the lockdown. As per the Centre’s guidelines, either a state where a special train originates from or the one where it terminates has to bear 15% cost of a ticket. The Centre will take care of the remaining 85% of the sleeper class rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-asks-bihar-to-reimburse-6-5-lakh-for-migrants-travel/story-6UFkzAPlsdcUoE4hwJ6kWI.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||Number of cases increasing in Gurugram due to more testing, say officials||The number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram doubled in the last week, with addition of at least 71 cases between May 1 and May 8. The district at present has a total to 142 cases.Between May 1 and May 8, Gurugram’s doubling time decreased from 36 days to around 7 days, according to government data.The doubling rate of an infectious disease is a temporal indicator. It estimates the number of days that it will take for the total number of cases to double. The lesser the number of days it takes for cases to double, the higher the doubling rate. In Haryana, the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases is doubling every eight days — as opposed to every 24 days, which was the rate two weeks ago. Health officials say that this acceleration is due to an increase in targeted sampling and RT-PCR testing of both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Officials also said that, given the surge in Haryana and in Gurugram, and to check the spillover of infection from adjoining Delhi and Punjab, testing numbers are only going to be ramped up in coming days. Data shows that the growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram was slow till April 30. Till March 31, cumulative Covid-19 cases in Gurugram were 24. It increased to 46 on April 8. No new case was reported for the next 10 days. The number gradually increased to 61 on April 24 and further to 71 on May 1. “The growth rate was slow, so the cases were multiplying after every 36 days. In last one week, cases have suddenly increased from 71 to 140. It is the highest spike so far, bringing down the doubling rate to 7.2 days,” said Ashok Meena, officer in-charge for state’s Covid-19 data, and CEO of Ayushman Bharat and commissioner Food and Drugs department.Gurugram was one of the first districts in Haryana to report a case of the virus. On March 4, a Paytm employee had tested positive for Covid-19. Cases that were reported thereafter, were largely traced back to overseas travels or people having come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat attendees. Data shows Covid-19 cases were multiplying in 18 days at that time.Meena said, “To calculate the doubling rate we take seven days average. It includes a mathematical calculation called Cumulative Annual Growth Rate (CAGR), where we take average of Covid-19 cases reported in the last seven days. It can be calculated every day, also every three days or five days. But it is the Central government’s mandate to calculate the doubling rate after every seven days. It is a dynamic process and therefore the rate changes every week.”Dr Rajesh Kumar, epidemiologist and former professor at the department of community medicine, PGIMS Chandigarh, explained that the doubling rate is related to the disease’s basic reproduction number, or R0. “For Covid-19, the basic reproduction number is supposed to be something between 1.5 to 3.5, meaning that one infected person will infect between 1.5 to 3.5 others. If the doubling rate is accelerating, it means that public health interventions have not reigned in the spread of the virus. The R0 may not be decreasing,” Kumar said. For India, the R0 value as calculated on May 9 was 1.27.STATE’S DOUBLING RATE Government data shows that in Haryana, till April 17 the doubling time was 24 days. From 275 cases in the third week of April, the count of persons infected with Covid-19 reached 357 on May 1, bringing down the doubling time to 18 days.The largest spike in Covid-19 cases was noticed between May 1 till May 8. From 357 cases,the number of positives count shot up to 647.“This sudden spurt in the number of cases further reduced the doubling time to eight days. Cases were being reported from districts like Jhajjar, Sonepat and Panipat, which barely had any cases earlier,” said Meena.He added, “Most of these cases have links with Delhi and other districts. It includes vegetable sellers who had links with Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, police personnel, health workers and Nanded pilgrims from Punjab. Therefore, to break the chain of transmission we are testing both symptomatic and asymptomatic cases now, which is why the numbers are increasing,” said Meena.A senior official in Haryana’s Integrated Diseases Surveillance Program, requesting anonymity said, “The accelerating rate could also mean that presymptomatic cases, which were going undetected earlier, are now showing signs of illness,” the official said.According to experts, it is a step in the right direction when it takes more days for the number of cases to double (if combined with an increase in testing numbers, and widening of testing criteria).However, if the window becomes shorter, it could mean that transmission was still happening. However, the senior IDSP official said that Haryana’s increasing doubling rate is merely a result of more targeted testing. “Our surveillance is becoming more efficient at finding and testing the right people, so naturally the cases will go up, and impact the doubling rate,” they said.The official also said that, just like Punjab, Haryana too was responding to the recent spike in cases by ramping up testing numbers. “If there is a surge in cases, it means that we need to keep increasing the number of tests until the daily percentage of positives starts to decline once again. Until then, we cannot be lax on testing.”Weekly data, however, shows that numbers have not significantly been ramped up. Between April 17 and April 23, Gurugram tested 1,525 samples. The following week (between April 24 and April 30), the district tested 1,719 samples, a slight increase. Between May 1 and May 7, the testing numbers recorded a decline, with just 1,487 samples tested.However, in the last two days, Gurugram had tested 558 samples, with the numbers expected to increase in the next five days, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/number-of-cases-increasing-due-to-more-testing-say-officials/story-CUttRWsiZRJzoHAIa4WGlM.html
10-05-2020||City||Random forays: New education paradigms are in the offing||The world may or may not change drastically, regardless of what soothsayers and wannabe pundits have been averring these days, but education systems will certainly find it necessary to don new avatars, globally.Education at the school level in India has often been branded as archaic, rote learning driven and over dependent on the traditional marks system. Not without reason. It is a fact that our schools have not really encouraged sports and creativity in the manner that many Asian and western schools do. We grew up while largely learning to cram stuff, although some of our friends would certainly display sparks of brilliance despite the system.Nowadays, despite the breakneck speed with which parents tug their wards to tuitions and karate- coaching, hoping to make them all-rounders in some sense, the unidimensional learning model has not really altered. Our schools and colleges do not by and large focus on social emotional learning, creative pursuits and analytical skills for their students. Thus the industry finds that young hopefuls who turn up for interviews are very good at mathematical deduction but unable to carry out a conversation of substance with people from unfamiliar backgrounds.Therefore, the need to grab the opportunity which this virus enabled global lockdown has triggered and overhaul a few of our educational paradigms is pressing. Teachers across the land are already learning to perform before cameras, much like TV stars, and their camera shyness has necessarily been overshadowed by school diktats to get busy with online classes. Some of these teachers are feeling the pinch in many ways, what with parents joining in the online sessions, albeit surreptitiously, and students often wandering away, unnoticed, when their parents are not looking.The online world has its pitfalls, of course, and despite being a technologist of some sorts, I have always been a votary of the classroom experience. The whole aura of being a part of a large group of students and growing up rubbing shoulders with peers is unmatched and even vital. A teacher’s stern look or appreciative smile cannot be replicated online and the resultant cringe or glow on the student’s face would surely go unnoticed, anyway!Yet, blended learning will stay the course, with online modules making their presence increasingly felt even when things such as masks and sanitisers finally recede into the background, which they surely will. Blending the classroom method with online learning is the future and with enhanced software facilities as well as superior bandwidth and webinar technologies here to stay, we cannot just wish them away.Also vital will be the need for schools and colleges to adapt to the need for minimising the emphasis on rote learning and marks. There has to be a renewed focus on project work, research work and creative writing, as well as enhanced oratorical skills. The finer points of human skills and qualities will have to be imbibed by young students from an early age, if the education system is indeed overhauled in this manner.Sports too has to remain an integral part of the plan and an hour of outdoor sport should actually be compulsory for all young people of our country, to enable them to sleep on time and stay off their smart phones, well past bedtime!Teachers and educationists need not worry though. Their basic skills will go a long way in carrying them forward in the new era too. When computers came into being it was thought that thousands would lose jobs. That never happened. The world changed and modified its ways. The same will happen, going forward.The new normal is not a term I like much, and actor Boman Irani espoused similar views in a webinar recently. What is going to change is the way we tackle challenges and the way we do certain things.Human experiences would not alter as much as we think. Let us hope that our kids can grow up in an environment of camaraderie and bonhomie, just as we did with our friends. And let us hope that the added element of creative thinking is a part of their school lives too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/random-forays-new-education-paradigms-are-in-the-offing/story-SrrKztWWwhXKK6lgaZkpbN.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt pulls up private lab for ‘mismatch’ in Covid-19 testing data||The Delhi government has initiated an inquiry against a private pathological laboratory, Dr Lal PathLab, over alleged discrepancies in Covid-19 test reports. The laboratory accounts for three of the 13 approved private labs for Covid-19 testing in Delhi.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday confirmed that an inquiry committee, headed by the special secretary (health and family welfare), has been constituted to investigate the alleged discrepancies.“There was a mismatch in some test data provided by Dr Lal PathLab. So, an inquiry committee has been set up to find out the issues and to fix accountability. The committee comprises of doctors,” Jain said, in an address to media persons on Saturday.Responding to the Delhi government’s inquiry, Dr Arvind Lal, owner, Lal PathLabs said, “We have received a communication from the Delhi government and we are providing full cooperation.”Among the private labs, Dr Lal PathLab has the highest capacity to test Covid-19 samples, according to the government’s assessment. The company has three testing facilities for performing real-time RT-PCR Covid-19 tests, which together have a capacity of testing 4,000 samples a day. These three labs are located in north, northeast and northwest Delhi.The inquiry comes at a time when the Delhi government is facing a problem of delayed test results. As per government reports, which was last updated on Friday, results of as many as 4,262 tests were still awaited till May 7.It was only from Friday that the Delhi government began tightening the screw on testing laboratories. The government issued orders to all private testing labs to release test results within 24 hours of collecting the samples. In case results are not submitted within 48 hours, then the payment for the samples tested will not be made, the order stated.The Delhi government pays the private Covid-19 labs either Rs 4,500 per test (if both sample collection and test kits are provided by them) or ₹3,500 (if the sample is collected by the government and test kit is provided by the private lab). This amount is paid from the Covid funds released by the Central government to Delhi.It also mandated that “no testing lab shall collect sample more than 10% of its declared capacity, as overcrowding of samples leads to inordinate delays”.Earlier in the day, the health minister has said that his department will soon start issuing notices to testing facilities over delays in report submission and discrepancies, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dr-lal-pathlabs-pulled-up-over-discrepancies-in-testing/story-myhkpyYzC0MQlD0OOvX4LK.html
10-05-2020||City||Ludhiana police to launch helpline for cops in stress||To help cops beat the stress amid extended working hours in view of curfew to control the Covid-19 outbreak, the Ludhiana police will be starting a helpline where cops can speak to psychologists and receive counselling. The helpline would be formally launched on Monday. At least 4,000 police personnel have been on continuous curfew duty since March 23 and most of them have been clocking 12 to 15 hours a day, deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters) Akhil Chaudhary said. Some of the personnel have not met their families in a long while as they live in other districts, the DCP added.“The psychologist will communicate with the police personnel over phone, WhatsApp, social networking sites and give them tips on how to maintain their mental health. The psychologists would also hold sessions for police personnel,” he added. “For their physical health, we are providing them food, fruits, multi vitamins and medicines regularly. Mobile medical vans are providing regular health checkups to the police personnel,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-to-launch-helpline-for-cops-in-stress/story-CKkPtltbaKwQxBXPK6C6tM.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||After cop dies of Covid-19, Delhi Police issue guidelines to stem spread||Concerned over the rise in positive coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases in the force, the Delhi Police have issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for daily health monitoring of personnel to ensure timely prevention and protection from the virus.According to the SOP, any police personnel feeling unwell, suffering from cough, sore throat, fever, breathlessness or any other symptoms “must immediately report” the same to the duty officer (DO) of the police station or unit where they are posted “by any means of communication”. The duty officers have been appointed as “daily health monitoring” officers. They have been tasked with updating the health status of personnel who say they are unwell. The updates should immediately be brought to the notice of the station house officer (SHO) of the police stations or heads of the units concerned, the SOP adds.According to an officer with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named, as many as 118 Delhi Police officials had tested positive for Covid-19 till Friday. At least 15 Delhi police personnel have recovered and resumed duty. the officer cited above added.The virus has already claimed the life of a 31-year-old constable who was posted at the Bharat Nagar police station.According to the minutes of a meeting held Friday, at least fourteen more Covid-19 positive cases of delhi police personnel were reported.From managing containment zones, guarding quarantine centres, feeding the homeless and the migrant workers to ensuring citizens maintain social distancing, the city police are on the frontlines in the fight against Covid-19. The SOP, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said, lays down guidelines that SHOs or heads of units have to follow when they are informed about any personnel suspected to be positive for the Sars-Cov-2.“The unit head will immediately take the police person to a doctor and get their opinion as to whether they require a Covid-19 test, hospitalisation, or can be sent into home-quarantine or isolation, depending on their symptoms. The officer will get the testing done, inform the police person’s family about their health, and shall maintain a daily follow-up on them until their discharge from the hospital,” Shrivastava said in the SOP order.Monitored by a special commissioner rank officer, the WhatsApp groups record the health updates of Delhi Police personnel and their families.The heads of the units have been directed relay information on the staff helpline number -- 011-20818056 -- about the Covid-19 positive personnel to add them in the “Let’s Fight Covid-DP” and “Let’s Fight Covid-Family” WhatsApp groups so that the welfare of the personnel and their families can be “effectively tracked.”Seven hospitals – Lok Nayak, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality, Ram Manohar Lohia, Safdarjung, AIIMS, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, and Apollo – have been mentioned in Shrivastava’s SOP order, where any police personnel feeling unwell can be admitted to for Covid-19 testing and emergency facilities.The police post (chowki) in-charges at the hospitals have been directed to respond quickly to any such medical emergencies, irrespective of jurisdiction limitations. The SOP directive adds that the contact numbers of the chowki incharges of the hospitals are to be displayed at the duty officers’ desks at the police station and units, as well as at other areas.Each hospital has a police chowki to address medico-legal cases referred to it or emergency cases brought in.Since asymptomatic cases are also increasing and doctors advise such patients to remain in quarantine at home, the city police have also arranged a quarantine facility in central Delhi where they can be kept instead of allowing them to live with their families and risk their lives as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-issues-sops-amid-rise-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-among-personnel/story-8pvU1FGGLFtUM3OMIDN2tM.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Over 475,000 online liquor tokens issued in Delhi but glitches persist||The Delhi government has issued 475,000 e-tokens since Thursday evening for the sale of liquor at 172 outlets across the city. Stores, however, continued to attract heavy crowd with a number of people complaining that they were not able to access the web link -- www.qtoken.in -- launched by the government to ensure that social distancing norms are maintained during the sale. The rush also forced the excise department to issue a fresh order Friday night, clarifying that even those who do not have e-tokens will be allowed to purchase alcohol from the vends. On Friday, at many places across the city, people who stood in queue for hours were not sold liquor because they did not have the electronic token. The e-token system was introduced after reports of massive crowds gathering outside vends, violating the social distancing norms set by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. Delhi has 864 liquor shops, of which only 172 have received permission to reopen so far, as they are ‘stand-alone shops’—which means they are not located in markets, malls and commercial spaces, which the central government guidelines prohibit in the red zone districts. The sale of liquor is allowed from 9 am to 6:30 pm and the government is issuing 50 tokens in one hour slots.Scores complained that the webpage was showing ‘server error (500)’. For those who managed to get through the website, there was still no luck as the message - ‘Sorry. Could not find any open slots at this shop. Please try some other shop’ - stared back from their mobile screens. “I tried 13 stores mentioned in the drop box, but got the same message for all. I put an alarm for 3am to wake up and try, and then finally I managed to get a slot for Saturday at the shop on the Ghazipur main road in east Delhi. I did not know that the Delhi government also allots a time slot in the token. My slot was between 10:30am and 11am,” said Manpreet Baweja, a resident of Mayur Vihar Phase III. Officials said e-tokens are being issued for slots maximum till the next two days every day.On Saturday, almost all shops also introduced paper token systems for those not having e-tokens. “We have deployed a marshal as well. The paper token system helps in case the queues break for some reason. It prevents tussles,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity. People willing to get e-token can apply through a web link www.qtoken.in where they are required to fill personal details such as an ID card option, the number of the ID card, name, phone number and then choose from the dropbox the available liquor vends.Once the token is issued, the person needs to visit the selected vend at the given time slot. The barcode in the token is only for verification purpose and not for direct purchase of liquor online. One will have to physically go to the store, choose the alcohol and pay the money at the store. The Delhi government is also working on setting up another web page—and deliberating on creating a mobile​phone application—to enable home delivery of liquor in the Capital, as a measure to reduce the massive crowds outside the limited number of reopened liquor shops. At many places across the city earlier this week, police had to resort to lathicharge to disperse the gathering outside vends. “We are drafting a standard operating protocol. So far, the excise department has had three meetings on this with the chief secretary and at least one with the finance minister (Manish Sisodia),” a senior government official said on Friday.Late on Friday evening, the state excise department also issued an order informing the Delhi Police and all district administrators that “two separate queues at each vend should be maintained”. One, for those with e-tokens and the other for customers without e-tokens.“It is directed to ensure that shops not having token system should also operate and that no person without e-token be denied liquor for the reason of not having e-token. However, preference to the persons having e-tokens must be given by forming separate queues,” the order issued by deputy commissioner (excise) Sandeep Mishra stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/475-000-e-tokens-for-liquor-issued-rush-at-shops-continues/story-GG7QpsqkdI24tfTQ8WS5JM.html
10-05-2020||City||Roundabout: Ray of hope for Indian cinema||Cinema lovers in Chandigarh pick their choice of the best films of the all-time great Indian filmmaker Satyajit Ray to mark the advent of his centenary celebrations in 2021Many greats have given Indian cinema their hearts and souls, yet it is Satyajit Ray (May2, 1921- April 23, 1992) nurtured by the Bengal renaissance, who remains the revered Indian cultural icon both at home and abroad. Interestingly, the Ray journey coincides in time with the coming up of the city of Chandigarh in the post-Independence India of the 1950s. Many of the city-bred did not get to see Ray’s films till as late as the 1970s and 1980s and that too courtesy the film appreciation courses and the city’s Film Society. Now, with his birth anniversary just gone by, a few city film connoisseurs pick out their favourites from the filmmaker’s legacy of 36 classics in different genres as a mark of remembrance.PATHER PANCHALI (1955): RANI BALBIR KAURTheatre and television actor-director veteran Rani starts at the very beginning to talk about the first film Ray made. “I grew up in the young city of Chandigarh and Ray’s films were not screened in cinema halls here, which catered to mainstream Hindi and some Punjabi films,” she recalls. It was not until the early 1970s that she saw Pather Panchali (The Song of the Road) when it was screened in Panjab University as part of a film appreciation course, organised by the Film and Television Institute of India in Pune.Rani says that the film had a great impact on her with the poignant story of a brother and sister of a poor home in the Bengal countryside which sees the death of Durga and the consequent migration of the family from the village to the city.She confesses, “Even if I were to see the film today, I would be just as moved. How well Ray translated the novel by famed Bengali author Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay into a visual symphony! I still return to the memory of the children running across the fields to see the train!”The film, Rani feels, was Ray’s launching pad, that won a phenomenal number of awards at home and abroad, establishing him as a meaningful filmmaker. And he kept the promise right through his career.Rubbishing criticism that Ray ‘exported India’s poverty,’ she says he was a realistic filmmaker who could tell a story most powerfully from his own milieu.JALSAGHAR(1958): AJAY BHATIAThe city cinema connoisseur, who has watched and rewatched Ray’s films with a keen eye, finds Jalsaghar (The Music Room) to be the most outstanding. Ajay says, “This was Ray’s fourth film based on a Bengali short story by Tarashankar Bandhyopadhyay and one would rate it as a neo-classic chronicle of the decline of the Bengal feudal landed aristocracy told with such lyricism and melancholy!” Interestingly, Tarashankar’s Partition novel Meghe Dhaka Tara (The Cloud-Capped Star) was to become one of the most appreciated films directed by Ray’s contemporary and to some extent his ideological opponent Ritwik Ghatak.On Ray’s excellent choices, Ajay refers to Chhabi Biswas, a talented theatre actor who was to feature in several of his films to finally portray the Kabuliwala in Tapan Sinha’s 1957 Bangla film based on Rabindranath Tagore’s classic story. He says: “Chhabi acted the tragic hero (in Jalsaghar) of trying to keep intact the prestige of the family with the final concert of music and dance even when the wealth of the family is gone.” The film had a great assemblage of musicians and dancers onstage and backstage. “Who can forget Begum Akhtar singing, Roshan Kumari dancing the Kathak and great musicians such as Ustad Waheed Khan and Bismillah Khan in accompaniment?” asks Ajay. CHARULATA (1964): VIJAYA SINGHThe master filmmaker described Charulata, based on Rabindranath Tagore’s novella Nastanirh (The Broken Nest) as his favourite film. City film studies scholar Vijaya Singh echoes the sentiment, saying, “I saw Charulata some two decades ago and I can see it many times over because it holds your attention right through the family drama with the wife, her husband and his cousin to whom she gives her heart. Madhabi Mukherjee, whom Ray cherished as an actor, played the role of a cultured and talented Bengali woman in the late 19th century seeking genuine love and understanding with a man.The period was created with a fine sense of detail and it was a lyrical film including the tragedy of love and betrayal of the new woman. Vijaya concludes, “The way the camera moves on her as Ray creates a feminist in pre-feminist times is amazing. It is not just a sentimental story of a woman seeking love but of her angst too as someone who knows her own worth being belittled thus. It is a film that was to pave the way for the new woman wanting a more equal relationship with a man!” SHATRANJ KE KHILADI (1977): KAMAL TEWARIActor-musician Kamal Tewari describes Ray as a genius filmmaker who was instrumental in getting the Western world to appreciate Indian cinema and inspiring many serious filmmakers to tell the Indian story with a difference. Kamal says: “I was particularly taken up by two of his Hindi films Shatranj Ke Khiladi (The Chess Players) and Sadgati (Salvation). Incidentally, both were inspired by two very different short stories by the famous Hpindi writer Munshi Premchand.” Kamal’s favourite of course is the sad story of the annexation of Awadh shown through the decadence of two noblemen engrossed in the game of chess as Wajid Ali Shah is exiled, thanks to the manoeuvrings of the British East India Company officials.“Ray told this fictionalised historical story with great finesse, getting the best out of seasoned mainstream actors such as Sanjeev Kumar and Saeed Jaffrey with Amjad Khan giving a heart-wrenching portrayal of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, a poet caught in harsh times leading from colonisation.”Kamal also praises the excellent support from Shabana Azmi, Farida Jalal and Farooq Shaikh. “The Kathak mujra in the court was presented with such grace and beauty that one cannot quite forget it,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/roundabout-ray-of-hope-for-indian-cinema/story-049QBtRKti5zE4llhD1X9O.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC says Sonepat-Delhi border curbs a violation of Constitution||The Delhi high court on Friday said Sonepat district magistrate (DM) Anshaj Singh’s orders barring the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks to and from Delhi were an infringement of constitutional provisions.Saying the order was also in contravention of multiple orders of the Union home secretary, the court issued notices to the Union and Haryana governments to file responses.The DM had passed the order on April 30, arguing that there had been cases of Covid-19 in Sonepat that could be traced to cross-border sources.While the order spoke only about the Sonepat border, the advocate for the petitioner, Nitin Garg, told HT that he had filed the plea for all the five borders, including Aya Nagar, Singhu, Badarpur, Gurugram and Tikri. He said that the order is applicable for all the borders of Delhi and Gurugram. The Haryana government has shut the Faridabad border completely, and not even workers involved in providing essential services are allowed to cross. The state also implemented strict checks at Delhi’s borders with Gurugram, and only those who have been issued passes by the latter’s district administration are permitted to enter the city.Essential service workers, including health care staff in some of the capital’s major Covid hospitals, have complained that these curbs have hindered their ability to work, and has even affected testing. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Friday, a division bench of the Delhi HC, comprising justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said, “This Court is of the prima facie view that April 30 order by the Sonepat DM constituted an infringement of Articles 19(1)(d) and 301 of the Constitution, especially when the entire national capital and Sonepat are not containment zones.” Article 19 (1)(d) allows every citizen to move freely throughout the territory of India and Article 310 provides for freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India.The HC said it was also in agreement with the petitioner’s submission that the action of the Sonepat DM is contrary to the April 15, April 30 and May 1 orders issued by the Union home secretary that detailed the rules of the lockdown.The bench also quoted an April 1 order of a division bench of the Kerala high court which said that even though restrictions may be imposed in times of a national emergency, guidelines issued by the Central government under the Disaster Management Act permit travel for urgent medical treatment. The petitioner, OP Gupta had contended that a number of Delhi residents have to travel to Sonepat for essential work, and vice-versa.He submitted that the Sonepat DM had imposed blanket cross-border transit restrictions between Delhi and Sonepat and granted exemptions to only a few categories of government officials and for movement of goods not destined for Sonepat.The petitioner said that even doctors, nurses and court officials who either lived or worked in Sonepat were being prevented from entering and leaving the city. (WITH INPUTS FROM RICHA BANKA)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-says-sonepat-delhi-border-curbs-a-violation-of-constitution/story-wUM8fl3ViF11DSEs8YbfjJ.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||16 new Coronavirus cases; total count reaches 142||Sixteen persons tested positive for coronavirus disease(Covid-19) in the district on Saturday. The persons were from Dundahera, Basai Enclave, Sector 18, Sirhaul, Ardee City, IMT Manesar, and Khandsa mandi. With the new cases, the total number of infected persons in Gurugram has reached 142 cases. Out of these 64 people have been discharged so far. According to the district health bulletin, five persons who tested positive on Saturday are contact of positive cases reported earlier from Dundahera. So far, at least 15 Covid-19 cases have surfaced from Dundahera in May. Two persons from Basai Enclave, who were in contact with a Covid-19 patient, also tested positive. Three vegetable sellers from Khandsa mandi also tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of infected persons at the wholesale market to 24. A man from Sohna, who works as a lab technician, and a man who visited a hospital in Faridabad, also tested positive for the virus. The health department officials said they are still tracing how the two contracted the virus.A man who was a direct contact of a Covid-19 patient from Sirhaul also tested positive, besides three men from IMT Manesar, Sector 18, and Ardee City who are infected with the deadly virus. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, said, “We are doing contact tracing for each case and have intensified sampling.” The health department on Saturday collected 228 samples, while the test results are awaited for 488 samples.TWO CORONA POSITIVE PATIENTS DEADThe district health department on Saturday confirmed two persons who were brought dead to the Sector 10 Civil Hospital on May 6 were Covid-19 positive. “One man is from Uttar Pradesh, while the other is from West Bengal, and were not residents of Gurugram. After they were brought dead to the hospital, we took their nose and throat swab for RT-PCR tests. The deceased person tested positive on Friday night,” said Punia. The CMO said the department will be able to share more information only after complete investigation and contact tracing. The health department refused to clarify if the two had died of coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/16-new-cases-total-count-reaches-142/story-MtT52H47j5c174ACgY7XNM.html
10-05-2020||Gurugram||As Covid-19 cases in district surge, so does the quantity of biomedical waste||The quantity of Covid-19-related biomedical waste being generated in the district has doubled over the past three weeks, increasing from about 400 kilograms per day on April 18 to 800 kilograms per day on May 8. Medical waste related to the diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 patients now accounts for 17% of the daily medical waste produced in Gurugram, up from about 10% about three weeks ago. The rest is routine biomedical waste, which comes from outpatient departments, surgical wards and other clinics, to the tune of about 3.8 tonnes per day.During this period, Gurugram saw 93 new cases of Covid-19, with the bulk of them being detected in the past week. Vikas Gehlot, spokesperson for Biotic Waste Management, the sole concessionaire for biomedical waste management in Gurugram district, said that they are expecting this number to rise exponentially over the next few months, given the present growth rate of the disease. “It is likely that by the end of May or early June, the district will produce over a tonne of Covid-19 related biomedical waste every day. A single confirmed positive Covid-19 case creates 10 times more waste than your average patient. So even if the growth rate slows, just a few more cases will still lead to more waste,” Gehlot said. However, Gehlot added that there is presently no cause for concern when it comes to the treatment and handling of such waste. “We have a capacity of 20 tonnes per day at our treatment facility in Sector 37. As such, the increase in quantity can be managed,” he added. The district’s Covid-19 waste comes from 36 health care facilities, isolation wards and testing centres, in addition to quarantined homes. While a concessionaire directly collects Covid-19 waste from hospitals, testing centres and isolation wards, suspected or confirmed patients under home quarantine have been provided with yellow bags to dispose of possibly infected waste, such as head caps, masks, and tissues. The civil surgeon’s office is coordinating collection from these homes and quarantine centres. The waste is then sent to any of the four collection centres in the district, from where two biotic vehicles dedicated only to collecting Covid-19 waste make pick-ups. About 30 drivers and workers are involved in the collection of biomedical waste in the district. However, sanitation workers and waste collectors at the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBMWTF) in Sector 37 are facing a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE). “We are purchasing PPE privately, at a significantly higher cost than before. We have reached out to state and district authorities for help, but given the shortage of PPE in the market, we are prepared to continue buying the equipment ourselves,” Gehlot said.Presently, the company has been procuring PPE from local vendors who have ramped up their production. “But quality and continuous supply of PPE is still a concern. We conduct quality tests of the PPE ourselves, and carry out site inspections of the factories before purchasing from them. This would not be a worry if we were able to get PPE through a government-regulated supplier,” Gehlot said. The quantity of routine waste has dipped from about 5.5 tonnes in March to about 3.8 tonnes per day following the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-covid-19-cases-in-district-surge-so-does-the-quantity-of-biomedical-waste/story-UljEKpYXlWX5CEx4LBRUUP.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 pandemic sets back Delhi’s infra projects by six months||Major infrastructure projects in the city would be delayed by at least five to six months due to the ongoing Covid crisis, hampering government efforts to streamline traffic flow at major junctions in the city and making roads safer for pedestrians. Even though construction work has begun at some places after a long hiatus in view of the national lockdown to arrest the spread of Sars-Cov-2, funding and labour remain pertinent problems before the contractors. Last week, the government had relaxed norms but still several restrictions remain regarding social distancing and management of labour at the sites. Construction on key projects across the capital had been in limbo for the past nearly six months. In November, all construction activity in Delhi was banned in view of rising air pollution. It was completely lifted on February 14, but within almost a month, it was again halted on March 25 due to the nationwide corona lockdown. The Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD) is helming key projects such as the construction of 1.2-km-long tunnel between Purana Qila road near Mathura Road and the Ring Road, which is part of ITPO Pragati Maidan Redevelopment Project; Barapullah phase-3 elevated corridor; Ashram underpass; flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park; Benito-Juarez Road underpass.“Deadlines for almost all projects are likely to be extended. Work has started but it is going on very slow. Since November, we have not been able to work properly,” a senior PWD engineer said requesting anonymity.With thousands of labourers returning home and the Delhi government making it clear that it will release funds on priority only for Covid-related works, the construction work is expected to take a lot of time to pick up pace, officials associated with several projects said. S Velmurugan, senior principal scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said, “Such long delays will not only delay freedom from crippling traffic jams but also escalate project cost. Projects such as Ashram underpass and Barapullah-3 are of utmost importance as they aim to decongest traffic bottlenecks at Ashram, Ring Road, ITO,” he said.Sewa Ram, professor at School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said the city may have to wait another winter for key infra projects to finish. “It is going to have a ripple effect. The cost will escalate, then fresh approvals would be needed and fresh resources will have to be mobilised. The government may have a relook at some of the projects or halt them temporarily,” Ram said.A look at five key infra projects that have been hit by intermittent delays. Delhi’s first road tunnelThe PWD is constructing this Rs 777-crore project, which entails construction of a 1.2-km-long tunnel and six underpasses to ease travel to India Gate and parts of central Delhi from different corners of the city especially from east Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad.The tunnel road, a first for Delhi, would go beneath the Pragati Maidan, which is being revamped. The tunnel will start near National Sports Complex of India (NSCI) on Purana Qila Road and culminate on the Ring Road near Pragati Power station. PWD officials said that about 70% work of the project has been completed.“The June deadline is to be extended by around three months. Big exhaust fans, which are used to maintain air circulation in the tunnel by throwing smoke emanating from vehicles out of the tunnel, were to be procured from Germany but due to lockdown the process could not be started,” a PWD official said.Ashram underpass project:It is one of the most awaited projects of the city because the underpass can help decongest of the most busiest stretches across Delhi. The project entails construction of a 750-metre-long underpass along Mathura Road at busy Ashram crossing. The project also include extension of existing Ashram flyover on the Ring Road up to the beginning of DND Flyway. According to PWD officials, only around five percent construction work of the underpass has been completed while the construction of flyover extension is yet to start.Traffic police data shows that around 3 lakh vehicles cross the Ashram intersection every day during peak traffic hours. Deadline of the underpass construction is December 2020. It is likely to be extended by around four to five months as work couldn’t be carried out at desired pace.“Preparatory works such as site marking, site survey and utility identification was completed. But we could not start construction work in full swing as the we could not get required traffic diversion due to protests at Shaheen Bagh. Because of protests, the road leading to Noida was closed so entire traffic was moving through Ashram only. Later, the construction work was stalled due to coronavirus outbreak,” a PWD official said on the condition of anonymity.The official added that now they have asked the concessionaire to resume construction activities on the site.Barapullah Phase-3 elevated corridor:The elevated corridor aims to provide seamless connectivity between Mayur Vihar-I and Sarai Kale Khan, where it will meet the existing Barapullah-I elevated corridor, making the nearly 9.5km journey to AIIMS signal free. In September 2019, the government had issued a gazette notification to start acquisition of two patches of land — 250m and 500m — which had stalled the progress of the 3.5-km elevated corridor project for the last four years. The land belongs to farmers of Nagli Razapur village near Sarai Kale Khan.“By publishing the land acquisition notification, the government had paved way for removing the major hurdle of the project. After this the district administration had to begin the process of land acquisition but it was stalled earlier because of model code of conduct and later due to coronavirus lockdown,” a senior PWD official said on the condition of anonymity. Flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur:The construction of these flyovers had started in February 2019 and was to be ended in March 2020 but the project hit a hurdle initially when construction was banned due to pollution and later because of riots in north east Delhi. A majority of the migrant labourers employed in the construction of these two projects have fled to their villages fearing attacks. “The construction was further banned due to coronavirus lockdown on March 25. Now we have resumed construction activities and are hoping to complete the project in next two months as over 85% work has been completed,” a PWD official said.These flyovers aim to end traffic bottlenecks in congested east and north-east Delhi areas such as Shahdara, Welcome, Shastri Park, Kashmere Gate, Seelampur and Kajoori Khas.Benito-Juarez Road underpassThe project includes construction of a three-lane underpass, near Venkateswara College, in south Delhi. It will connect Benito Juarez Road— the radial road connecting the Ring Road with the Outer Ring Road — with San Martin Road. The facility will reduce travel time from the airport to central Delhi and AIIMS by 20 minutes and 15 minutes, respectively. “The project was initially delayed due to shifting of utilities, and the complex nature of construction work. Later it was delayed by the construction bans imposed due to pollution and Covid-19 lockdown,” an official said associated with the project said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pandemic-sets-back-delhi-s-infra-projects-by-six-months/story-0fcq2ElDkD66hYyifQIvlL.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Separated from parents, 2-year-old spends tough night in isolation||At 7pm on Friday, a two-year-old boy tested Covid-19 positive in Delhi’s Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital. The child was immediately moved to an isolation ward, away from his parents who are awaiting their own test results. Doctors are unsure how the child caught the virus and the health care workers will begin their contact tracing programme once the parents’ results too are in.So far, the youngest casualty of the virus in the Capital was a 45-day-old infant.Doctors and nurses of Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital, who were on duty on Friday night, narrated how the child spent the night away from his parents, who are isolated in Lady Hardinge Hospital, while the staff tried everything to keep the him comfortable.“The child was admitted to the hospital on Thursday and his test results came out on Friday. He was in the hospital’s severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward but after the results came, he was shifted to the Covid ward,” said a senior doctor, who was with the child through Friday night.The doctor said that while the child was playful for the first few hours after being shifted to the coronavirus wing. “But as time went by, he started becoming restless. Since the child’s parents were yet to get their results, he was left with the medicos for his care,” he said.“Taking care of infants, especially when they are forced to stay in isolation without their parents, is very difficult,” said a nurse in the hospital, who did not wish to be identified.The task became all the more challenging because the child is still dependent on breast milk and had to be fed in regular intervals. In such cases, when a mother is unable to feed the baby directly the hospital relies on expressed breast milk where the milk from the mother is collected and fed to the child by a nurse using a bowl and a spoon.“By 8.30pm, we did the first feeding after which he played for a while and took a nap. But as the night passed and the child did not see any familiar face around, he started panicking,” the nurse said.She said that the baby may have gotten scared of the hospital staff entering the ward to check his health status wearing in the personal protective equipment (PPE), which covers from head to toe. The child kept waking up through the night and around 4am on Saturday woke up again, crying.“We were checking for any physical discomforts and changed the diaper also, just to be sure. He was largely irritable all night,” another nurse in the ward said.The health care professionals who are tending to the baby said that in the coming days if the tests of the baby’s parents come out negative, they will be allowed to come and see the child, but only after they are fully geared with safety equipment.Dr. N N Mathur, director, Lady Hardinge Medical College, under which the Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital is associated, said that the situation was tricky but the hospital was prepared to take up the challenge.“When we see such young children get infected, it is heart-breaking. But our primary aim as a children’s hospital is to give our best and cure them at the earliest,” Dr Mathur said.Dr. Anjali Prabhakaran, a paediatrician who is researching on the effects and treatment possibilities for Covid-19 infected children, said that though symptoms of the infection in younger children is not very severe when compared to adults, it is imperative that extreme care be taken while caring for them. There is no separate global protocol for children infected with the infectious virus.“Many children show signs of fatigue, nasal congestion, runny nose, diarrhoea and head ache along with fever. What is even more challenging in paediatric cases is the isolation, so looking at familiar faces of family member really boosts their spirits,” Dr Prabhakaran.Until Saturday night, Delhi had reported 6542 Covid-19 positive cases with 68 deaths and 2,020 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/separated-from-parents-2-yr-old-spends-tough-night-in-isolation/story-IbDTDIPBH2ol5T3RPQXXBJ.html
10-05-2020||City||Third special train leaves for UP with 1,192 migrants from Mohali||A special non-stop train, the third run by the Railways, left Mohali with 1,192 migrant labourers for Sultanpur and Amethi in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday evening.Social distancing guidelines were followed in the train, which will have no halts along the way. Packed food has also been provided to the passengers.The workers, a majority of them from Nayagaon, Balongi, Dera Bassi, Sohana, Zirakpur and Kharar, were screened thoroughly at the designated collection centres, from where they were brought to the station in buses which were sanitised before boarding and deboarding.The workers also expressed their gratitude to the government for enabling their journey back home free of cost.2 Mohali men booked for cheating migrants with false promises to take them home to BiharPolice have booked two persons, including the owner of a fleet of private buses, for cheating migrant workers in Mohali’s Madanpura village by charging them Rs 3,800 each and making false promises to take them to their home state Bihar.Acting on information on Saturday that 70 to 80 migrants, including children, had collected at the parking lot of Bassi Theatre in Phase 2 in violation of the curfew, the police discovered that false promises had been made to take them to Bihar by buses leaving in the evening.The police arrested Akhilesh, an accountant working for Harvinder Singh, the owner of the buses. “Four of Harvinder’s buses are attached with a private college in Mohali to pick and drop students. Harvinder is yet to be arrested,” said Manphull Singh, station house officer (SHO), Phase 1 police station.“The accused did not have the permission for inter-state travel, nor has the district administration authorised them to do so. They had also charged the migrants Rs 3,800 each,” the SHO said.A case under section 188 and 420 of the IPC has been registered at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-mohali-men-booked-for-cheating-migrants-with-false-promises-to-take-them-home-to-bihar/story-UczOlJo914Ol4ysbx1nAOJ.html
10-05-2020||Delhi||Govt issues order to release Indian Tablighi Jamaat members||The Delhi government on Saturday issued a formal order to all district magistrates to release 2,446 Indian Tablighi Jamaat members from quarantine centres and ensure they do not stay in any other places except their residence.Hindustan Times was the first to report on Saturday about the Delhi government initiating the process of releasing all Indian Jamaat members. HT had also reported that all the foreign members of the Jamaat staying in Delhi’s quarantine facilities will face criminal proceedings as per law for visa and passport violations, among other transgressions, if any.In a letter to deputy commissioners (administration), DDMA Special CEO K S Meena said all 567 foreign Jamaat attendees will be handed over to Delhi Police.The district magistrates will explore the possibility of sending those Jamaat members, who belong to other states, in buses to their designated places in accordance with social-distancing norms and other protocols, Meena said.“Out of such persons belonging to Delhi, who could be released as per prescribed guidelines should be issued passes to travel from the quarantine centres. In no circumstances, the aforesaid persons should be allowed to stay in any other places, including any masjids, etc,” Meena said in the letter.Meena said the nodal officer and the area ACPs should ensure that Jamaat members belonging to other states reach their place of residence,.“The DC should also inform the respective resident commissioner of their states in respect of each and every movement of such persons from Delhi,” Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) Special CEO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-issues-order-to-release-indian-tablighi-jamaat-members/story-OCLyx2m5W4s6N664Wes2tL.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi HC terms Sonepat DM’s orders violation of constitution||The Delhi high court on Friday said that orders of Sonepat district magistrate (DM) Anshaj Singh obstructing the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat constituted an infringement of the constitutional provisions.The DM had on April 30 restricted movement on grounds that there have been cases of Covid-19 in Sonepat with contact history traced to cross-border sources.Hearing public interest litigation (PIL), a division bench of the Delhi HC comprising Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula said: “This court is of the prima facie view that April 30 order issued by the Sonepat DM constituted an infringement of Articles 19(1)(d) and 301 of the Constitution, especially when the entire national capital and Sonepat are not containment zones.”Article 19 (1)(d) allows every citizen to move freely throughout the territory of India and Article 310 provides for freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India.The Delhi HC said it was also in prima facie agreement with the submission of the petitioner that the action of the Sonepat DM is contrary to the orders of April 15 and 30 issued by the Union home secretary.The bench also quoted an April 1 order of a division bench of Kerala high court which said that no doubt, restrictions may be imposed in times of a national emergency such as the present, but when the guidelines issued by the central government under the Disaster Management Act itself permits to travel for urgent medical treatment, then the said guidelines have necessarily to be enforced by the central government through the removal of the blockades that prevent such travel.”The petitioner, OP Gupta, had contended before the court that as Sonepat is not only contiguous to Delhi but also a part of the national capital region, a number of Delhi residents have to travel to Sonepat for essential work and vice versa.He submitted that the Sonepat district magistrate has imposed blanket cross-border transit restrictions between Delhi and Sonepat and granted exemptions to only a few categories of government officials and for movement of goods not destined for Sonepat.The petitioner said that even doctors, nurses, and court officials who either resided or worked in Sonepat were being prevented from entering and leaving the city. The petitioner said these actions were contrary to and violative of the orders of Union home secretary. Issuing notice to the Union and Haryana governments to file responses, the HC has listed the case for May 12. ​||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/delhi-hc-terms-sonepat-dm-s-orders-violation-of-constitution/story-yflgmOe1mnl7gFMEcNLxYP.html
10-05-2020||City||Traffic marshal assaulted by neighbour in Ludhiana, injured||A traffic marshal, a volunteer attached to the traffic police, was injured after a neighbour assaulted him with an iron rod at his house on the Sangla Wala Shivala Road late Friday evening.The victim, Vishal Kaushal, 36, a tea stall owner, suffered a fracture in his jaw and he has been admitted to a hospital. His family has lodged a complaint with the police. Anita Kaushal, mother of the victim, alleged that, on Friday night, their neighbour Rahul, 26, came to their house and asked for a lighter. She alleged the accused was drunk and made a lewd gesture towards her, which triggered an argument between Rahul and Vishal. Rahul assaulted Vishal with a rod and fled leaving him injured. She said they rushed Vishal to the civil hospital from where he was referred to the ESI hospital. From there, he was referred to the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO at the Division number 3 police station, said the police have initiated the procedure to lodge an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/traffic-marshal-assaulted-by-neighbour-in-ludhiana-injured/story-2jkFnHNM1IQ60LdOPaDOtM.html
10-05-2020||City||Stranded people can hire private buses to travel back home: Ludhiana administration||After arranging train service for stranded people to return to their native places, the administration has allowed the remaining ones to arrange private buses on their own and apply for the pass to travel back home.According to the district administration, some people, who were ready to afford private conveyance on their own to return home, had demanded permission to hire buses. Therefore, such people have been allowed to do so, but after fulfilling certain conditions, a spokesman of the administration said.He said, “People who want to book buses have to apply for a curfew pass on the Covid Helpline portal. Before issuing a curfew pass, the administration will ensure that a bus will maintain social distancing and carry only 50% passengers of its capacity. Further, all the passengers will be medically examined before they board the bus.”“The passengers will have to follow Covid protocols and every passenger will have to wear masks. Moreover, passengers will have to report to the district authorities concerned after reaching their destination district and we will also be informing the district magistrate concerned about such passenger movement,” read the guidelines provided by the Ludhiana police on its official page on the social media.District public relations officer Prabhdeep Nathowal said, “The buses will not be provided by the administration to stranded passengers, but the passengers will themselves arrange vehicles and apply for curfew movement pass from the district administration.”On Saturday, the district administration gave permission to around 16 private buses to transport passengers to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and other states.However, after the district police posted the details of this facility on their official Facebook page, several stranded people interpreted that private bus operators will be resuming the bus service and they visited the inter-state bus terminus here to enquire about the buses, but they returned disappointed as it was closed for passengers’ entry and they couldn’t find anyone there to get details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stranded-people-can-hire-private-buses-to-travel-back-home-ludhiana-administration/story-cWqsbcuLByFIfaIZr9LPdJ.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Pune reports 135 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths on May 9||The city reported 135 fresh Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases and four deaths on Saturday.According to officials the death count due to Covid-19 is now 140 and there are 2,380 active positive cases in the city. With the rise in swab collection, the number of positive cases are likely to rise, said officials. PMC had collected at least 1,642 swab samples on Friday which could be one of the reasons for the rise in the number of positive cases on Saturday. On Saturday, the civic body collected at least 1,543 swab samples. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief health officer, said, “The rise in the number of cases could be attributed to more swab samples being tested. While earlier we were testing at the most 800 swab samples daily, this number has now gone up to about 1,600.”“Even today (Saturday) we have tested about 1,500 swab samples so more cases might be reported. Most of the swab samples are collected from the red zones of containment areas. The rise in the number of cases is nothing to be worried about but just a result of more testing,” said Dr Wavare. Out of the 1,414 admitted in the city hospitals, 70 are in critical condition, while 96 were discharged on Saturday taking the count to 826 people who have bee discharged after being declared as completely cured. Out of the four deaths, three deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital. The deaths include that of a 76-year-old male from Bhavani peth who was admitted on May 7 and declared dead on Friday at 1:15 pm. The swab report came late night om Friday confirming the Covid-19 infection. The patient also suffered from high blood pressure, diabetes and kidney ailments.The second death includes that of a 78-year-old female from Yerawada. She was admitted to Sassoon on May 6 and declared dead on May 8 at 8:45 pm. She also suffered from high blood pressure, kidney ailments and heart ailments.The third death was reported of a 62-year-old male residing at Hadapsar who was admitted on May 5 and was declared dead on Saturday at 12:35 am. He did not report any comorbidity. The fourth death is that of a 65-year-old male residing at Tadiwala road reported from Symbiosis hospital who was admitted on Friday and declared dead on the same day. The patient also suffered from diabetes hypertension, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and Ischemic Heart Disease (IHD).Virus tracker (figures till 7.30 pm on May 9)PMCNew case: 135, total cases: 2,380New deaths: 4, total deaths: 140New discharged: 96 total discharged: 826Critical patients: 70Admit but stable: 1,344||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-reports-135-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-on-may-9/story-a7nr8QQr0sC4D0Mksy6cgO.html
10-05-2020||City||Home delivery service by restaurants, sweet shops in Ludhiana gets off to a slow start||Forty eight days after restaurants and other food joints closed in the city due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown on March 22, home delivery of cooked food got off to a slow start on Saturday.Relieved over the nod given by the district administration, the restauranteurs are, however, expecting a positive response from residents from Monday. On the first day, while owners of many restaurants faced problems in arranging supplies such as dairy items, others only aimed at cleaning their stores and get it ready for business. Some restaurant owners said they would now be able to retain the labour that was moving back to their home states. ‘10% RESPONSE ON FIRST DAY’“Only 10% response was witnessed on the first day of operations on Saturday as the public was confused over how and through which mode the deliveries would be made. We are taking all necessary precautions to ensure hygienic is maintained in delivery of food,” said Bhupinder Basant, owner of Basant Restaurants located near Fountain Chowk and Feroze Gandhi Market.Hotel and Restaurants’ Association chairman Rajinder Basant said they are expecting a good response in the coming days “as the public has been sitting in their houses for a long time.” Owner of Indian Summers, Sahil Kansal, said they were already following the standard operating procedure for the home delivery of cooked food. “We put the system in place on Saturday as our restaurant was closed for long. I will be able to comment about the customers’ response only after commencing the services,” he said.Meanwhile, sweet shops (halwai shops) also witnessed a similar response on the first day. “Something is better than nothing. Shopkeepers are relieved as their shops have reopened and the labour has been put to work,” said Narinderpal Singh Pappu, president of halwai association, Punjab. On Friday, the administration had allowed restaurants, eateries, juice, ice cream and sweet shops to open from 7am to 7pm, but only for home delivery. Earlier in second week of April too, restaurants were permitted to deliver food, but the orders were rolled back on April 16 after a pizza delivery boy in New Delhi was found positive for the virus, leaving as many as 72 families quarantined. ‘GRANT PERMISSION ONLY TO FSSAI CERTIFICATE HOLDERS’Meanwhile, president of Hotels and Restaurants’ Association, Amarvir Singh, said the administration should allow only those restaurants to deliver cooked food who have got Food Safety and Standards Authority of India certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-home-delivery-service-by-restaurants-sweet-shops-gets-off-to-a-slow-start-in-ludhiana/story-sstkuDEOGOqJaepMF9w9lM.html
10-05-2020||City||32-year-old Pathankot resident dies in road mishap near Jalandhar Bypass in Ludhiana||A Pathankot resident died in a road mishap on National Highway-44 near Jalandhar Bypass here after his car crashed into a railing on Saturday morning. Meanwhile, his cousin and a friend suffered grievous injuries in the incident and were rushed to the hospital where their condition is said to be critical.The deceased has been identified as Balwinder Singh, 32, of Pathankot. He was going to Pathankot in his car with his cousin Vijay Kumar, 33, and friend Kuldeep Singh, 32.The trio worked with commission agents at a vegetable market in New Delhi.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surinder Singh of the Salem Tabri police station, who is the investigating official, said, “Police reached the spot immediately after being informed and rushed the victims to the hospital.”“Prima facie it appears that the front tyre of the car had burst. Balwinder Singh, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle following which it crashed into a railing on the roadside, turned over and was completely damaged,” said ASI. “The impact of collision was so strong that Balwinder died on the spot while two the other occupants of the car suffered serious injuries,” he added. Police said that the families of the victims were informed and further action will be taken after recording their statements.Meanwhile, the injured told police that they were returning home first time after the lockdown had been imposed in the country on March 23 due to the coronavirus outbreak. They had remained stuck in Delhi for the past 47 days, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/32-year-old-pathankot-resident-dies-in-road-mishap-near-jalandhar-bypass-in-ludhiana/story-cewVX4adH4vloPRFI9yBcL.html
10-05-2020||City||Over 2,500 PF withdrawal requests in Ludhiana rejected due to incomplete bank details||The Union ministry of labour and employment had relaxed the norms for withdrawal of provident fund (PF) deposits in view of the financial crisis faced by people due to the coronavirus outbreak, but many beneficiaries in Ludhiana have failed to avail the benefit as they submitted incomplete bank details while applying for claims.According to the record with the regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), a total of 17,726 advance withdrawal claim requests were received by the regional office from April 1 to May 5. However, a total of 2,598 claims have been rejected by the department so far while a sum of ₹20.9 crore has been disbursed since April 1.Dheeraj Gupta, regional commissioner, said that the major reason behind the rejection of claims is the difference in the bank account seeded in KYC/UAN (Universal Account Number) and the bank account attached with the online claim form.“Sometimes, people change their bank accounts, but fail to get them updated with the PF account. The difference in the bank IFSC code number, illegible uploaded PDF copy of bank passbook or cheque book are among the other major reasons behind the rejection of advance claims,” said Gupta. Gupta said, “Sometimes, the cheque or the passbook attached with the claim did not open or showed error due to incorrect uploading by the beneficiaries.”Gupta, however, said the department is contacting all the beneficiaries and informing them about the errors, that led to the rejection of the claims so that they can reapply by following all the procedures.“If you have not received the settled amount for long, please check the bank details in your UAN and in the cheque leaf enclosed by you along with the form. If there is any mismatch, the settled amount is not credited and is returned,” read the recent tweet made by the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) in its Twitter handle.GOVT NOTIFICATIONAs per the notification dated March 30, the ministry had relaxed the rules of PF withdrawals to help those in financial distress due to the pandemic. As per the notification, EPFO subscribers can either withdraw 75% of their savings or up to a maximum of three months’ basic pay and dearness allowance from their PF accounts, whichever is lower. Once a subscriber withdraws the amount, it cannot be replenished after the situation improves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-2-500-pf-withdrawal-requests-get-rejected-due-to-incomplete-bank-details/story-O6pdc7hAva3RfusDSbn5BK.html
10-05-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Class 10 students unhappy over decision to promote them based on pre-board results||Amid lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the joy of students of Classes 5 and 8 knew no bounds when they got to know that they had been promoted to the next class. However, the Punjab government’s decision to promote Class 10 students based on their performance in pre-board exams has left students worried, especially those who failed in the exams.Even meritorious students feel disappointed as they had prepared rigorously for the board exams in the last three months and were waiting for the date sheet to be declared. Manvi Dholan, a Class 10 student, said she was disappointed with the decision taken by the government as she had been preparing hard for the final exams. “I scored 99% marks overall in the pre-board exams held in January with 100% marks both in mathematics and Hindi. I had aimed to score 100% marks in the final board exams and had also appeared in all the test series conducted by the mentors online,” she added.As per the report of the district authorities, over 65 students in government schools of Ludhiana had failed in all five subjects in the pre-board exams held in January this year. “A total of 17,000 students of Class 10 appeared in the pre-board exams. Around 82 students scored above 95% marks while 350 students scored above 90% marks in the pre-board exams,” mentioned the report.In January, the district officials had also differentiated the government schools as top and poor performers. Among these, Government High School, Ramgarh Bhullar, ranked the lowest in the district. The headmistress of the school, Kanta Devi, said, “Of a total 51 students who appeared in the pre-board exams in the school, only two students failed in English.”Government Senior Secondary School, Galib Kalan, which ranked 339 in the district was among poor performers. The principal of the school, Baljit Kaur, said, “We have a total of 89 students in Class 10 in our school and many of these students have flunked in mathematics in the pre-board exams.”“With the help of extra classes, many students have improved their score and we were expecting that they will get through in the board exams,” added the principal. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We have so far not received any instructions from the head office to promote students of Class 10 on the basis of their pre-board performance.” The DEO said that she will only be able to comment only after she receives some information regarding the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-10-students-in-ludhiana-unhappy-over-govt-s-decision-to-promote-them-based-on-pre-board-exam-results/story-Q4WMBUljj6TrTypOEmw17N.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Happiness volunteers’ army helps those who are in need in Pune||The Initiatives of Change, India has initiated a ‘ happiness volunteers’ programme in 23 states to assist people in need and bring a smile to their faces during the on-going Covid-19 pandemic.In Pune, happiness volunteers have provided, financial assistance,food and even milk for a child in need; helped a 70-year-old lady living alone who suffered a paralytic attack. She was shifted to the hospital and then sent to a care home through her nephew when trained nursing agencies refused to assist her.“Online assistance is provided to distressed senior citizens for things like gas cylinder, diesel for lift generator, curfew passes, and SPO cards through coordination with agencies and the police,” said TP Mukherjee a resident of Bopodi and vice-president and president elect of Lions Club of Pune Shatabdi. He is associated with the International NGO, Initiatives of Change, as a happiness and life balance sheet coach and is the founder member of an Initiative called India I Care.Known previously as Moral Re-Armament (MRA), Initiatives of Change (India) is headquartered at Panchgani. It has been active for over 80 years and is based on the work of Frank Buchman, an American Lutheran minister, who affirmed that there is a divine purpose for the world and everyone in it, and demonstrated the connection between faith and change in society.“We have a WhatsApp group of 75 societies under Khadki police station which I am coordinating the information channel for help and assistance,” he said.Mukherjee said, “In this time of lockdown, misery, poverty, hunger, suffering, fear , depression are things which have stolen the happiness of Puneites. Happiness volunteers is an initiative which is providing , food/foodgrains, financial, and counselling assistance all over India. I am in Pune doing online core group coordination work and helping societies and distressed senior citizens with information and direct help, and counselling.”“We also have a ‘helping bank’ which is creating a fund to help women. Our partners add Rs 500 to the account of helping bank which helps in areas where women are in need of essential items.”This volunteer group also has 60 Hindi/English speaking counsellors for ‘I am ready to Listen’ initiative.“This campaign gives inner strength to people who are suffering from depression,” he added.Through this volunteer programme, there is also a special initiative called ‘the fire within’ which is targeted at youth between 18 to 28 years. With a lot of youth at home, spending time watching TV, this initiative is to get them involved and also give direction to their mind with online educative programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-happiness-volunteers-army-helps-those-who-are-in-need-in-pune/story-o3xnNtFEgPivQkawkCR4DK.html
10-05-2020||City||FICO observes ‘Black Day’, demands nod to industrial operations in Ludhiana’s mixed land use areas||Agitated over the state government’s decision of not allowing industrial operations in mixed land use areas of Ludhiana, a group of factory workers and members of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) observed ‘Black Day’ and staged a protest on Gill Road on Saturday. At a time when inter-state migration of the labour is on the rise, local migration is also taking place to areas where industrial operations have been allowed. FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular said, “The government has allowed industrial operations in designated areas, while the units on mixed land use areas have been left behind. Now, labourers who don’t want to move back to their home states are shifting to the industries situated in designated areas. In the coming days, this will increase trouble for the micro and small industry that is already reeling under losses.” “Even ice-cream shops are allowed to operate, but no permission has been granted to the micro industry where it is easier to maintain social distancing,” he said. The FICO president also said, “Due to the government’s move, the large industries will also have to shut their operations in the coming days as most of their vendors operate on mixed land use areas.” Earlier, various industrial organisations, including FICO, Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings and Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’ Association, had warned the state government of launching an agitation if the government fails to allow the mixed land use industries to operate by May 17. LIP URGES CAPTAIN TO ALLOW INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS Meanwhile, Lok Insaaf Party president and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains has also urged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to allow the functioning of industries on the mixed land use areas. He said the micro and small industry is already reeling under loses and the government, instead of helping them in the time of crisis, is increasing the trouble for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fico-observes-black-day-demands-nod-to-industrial-operations-on-mixed-land-use-areas/story-EKmQqmSOSxR9Xr2yB1vxcP.html
10-05-2020||City||Charging school fees during the lockdown could pinch parents||The Chandigarh education department has ordered schools to defer fee payment until the lifting of lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, in spite of which some private unaided schools have been asking parents to pay up, claiming this will help them cover teachers’ salaries.The director of school education, Chandigarh, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, has said that the UT education department stands by its previous order on fee collection and that parents cannot be forced by the schools to pay up. Any parent willingly wanting to submit the dues, however, can do so, he has said.The UT education department has deferred the payment of tuition fees for the 2020-21 session till government and private schools reopen after the lockdown. Parents will also be given a month to make the payment once the fee collection dates are announced. Citing lack of funds in absence of fee collection, approximately 50 of 77 private schools in Chandigarh have said that they will not be paying salaries to teachers and Class 4 employees for April. A representative of independent schools says the education department’s order is “highly unfair”, and that the schools will have no options but to approach the courts for a resolution.Around 12,000 teachers and 7,000 Class 4 employees working in private schools in Chandigarh are likely to be impacted by these developments.Some parents have argued that had private unaided schools put up their balance sheets online (only a few have done so), as directed by the education department, those which were short of funds could have been allowed to charge a nominal fee to cover the teachers’ salaries.Parents also say given the financial constraints they face during the lockdown, they should not be made to pay for the fat salaries of top management and trustees of the school.FEES FRACASShould private schools charge fees during the Covid-19 lockdown period?Should private schools charge fees during the lockdown period and should the salaries of teachers be held back? What’s the way out for them? Send your responses to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/charging-school-fees-during-the-lockdown-could-pinch-parents/story-MNBwQWG24CGgN3ydtmzM3M.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Khadki Cantonment Board to be locked down completely for two days||On the lines of Pune Cantonment Board, Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) which houses a population of at least 70,000 residents will be completely sealed for the next two days to strengthen the Covid-19 micro-containment strategy.Currently, two micro-containment zones are operational in the area with the health department and police officials keeping strict watch. The area has recorded two deaths and 23 positive cases till date while twelve persons have been cured.Khadki Cantonment Board’s resident medical officer Dr Ranjit Bhosale said a meeting with all the stakeholders had been taken and two micro-containment areas identified where the densely populated zones are being subjected to strict restrictions of lockdown.According to the new plans, the KCB administration will be barricading the entire area and starting Mohalla clinics where a team of nine doctors will carry out checks of each and every resident from the containment zone with the help of voter list.KCB currently has a dedicated Covid-19 health centre to quarantine patients . House to house testing is going to increase and very strong restrictions will be put in place to curb the outbreak, said a senior officer of the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/khadki-cantonment-board-to-be-locked-down-completely-for-two-days/story-aeE1DCzguLpKlMWFwypYeM.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Pune civic body puts up additional barricades in red zones||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is now sealing red zones in the city physically to ensure a stricter lockdown in the areas most affected by the pandemic. As the number of Covid-19 patients shot up in the 63 containment zones, PMC sprung into action and sealed the red zones with tall barricades. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “It is true that the administration is sealing the red zone areas physically and keeping only limited access points to enter those areas for providing essential items and medical services.”According to Gaikwad, the additional barricades are to control movement in these affected areas. The peth areas, slums have reported maximum Covid-19 patients, primarily those under the Bhavani peth and Dhole Patil wards. “The administration is sealing the boundaries of these areas so that citizens cannot enter in these areas and at the same time cannot go outside of it,” Gaikwad said. The PMC has also requested Pune police to depute more manpower in the containment zones.“We’ve requested police in every lane to completely stop roaming of citizens in the internal areas as it would help break the chain of Covid-19,” Gaikwad said. Gaikwad said that Pune will have a completely different model now.“Earlier people from containment areas claimed that they did not have food, but now the civic body itself took the decision to deliver the grocery kits in 70,000 homes which will now have enough grocery for ten days,” he added.According to Gaikwad, there are two models functioning in the city – on one side the civic body is relaxing restrictions and trying to re-open maximum businesses for the economy and on the other where strict measures are being enforced to ensure that Covid-19 is contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-puts-up-additional-barricades-in-red-zones/story-MMPTRc5hmb7G85xZllV2NM.html
10-05-2020||City||Class 12 students in Ludhiana relieved after CBSE announces new exam dates||City students appearing for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams heaved a sigh of relief after the Centre on Friday announced that the board will hold the remaining exams between July 1 and July 15.Students said that the authorities should conduct the pending exams within the first week of July as they were tired of revising the same concepts again and again. They further said that the date sheet should also be declared well in time so that the applicants can prepare according to the exam schedule. The pending exams of Class 12 include business studies, geography, Hindi (elective and core), home science, sociology, computer science (old and new), information practice (old and new), information technology and biotechnology.A student of humanities at BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, Astha Munra, said, “I had to appear in the Punjabi exam on March 19, which was postponed by CBSE and now after 50 days, the Centre has announced that the board exams will be held between July 1 and July 15. I think the authorities must conduct the exams now. I am fed up of revising the concepts. I want to get free and focus on getting admission in college.” Prabjot Singh of Guru Nanak Public School (GNPS) said, “I will feel relieved only after I appear for the exams in July. The lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 outbreak resulted in the postponement of the board exams, which left many students worried about their future. I revise the lessons daily and read newspapers to keep myself updated about the pandemic.”Srishti Verma, a student of commerce at BCM Senior Secondary School, Basant Avenue, Dugri, said she had lost all hopes regarding the pending board exams until the new dates were announced. She further said that she was left with two exams, business studies and computer science, and after appearing for these, she will explore various career options as she wants to become an entrepreneur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-12-students-in-ludhiana-relieved-after-cbse-announces-new-exam-dates/story-D9gCOcW7xfHF5mJMwtJEZM.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Vitamin, zinc tablets for high-risk group in Pune rural areas to fight Covid-19||The zilla parishad has started tracking high-risk groups especially those with comorbid conditions and senior citizens showing deteriorating health conditions to keep a check on the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.The rural body is also providing them with vitamins and zinc tablets to increase their immunity, said officials. According to officials of the zilla parishad, the administration is keeping a regular check through pharmacies and private doctors to ensure that any such person is tested for the Covid-19 infection and irrespective of their location or contact with any positive patient.Aayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “If a person who is taking a 200 mg tablet for certain diseases or condition, and starts taking a higher dosage or does not respond well to the particular medicine then they are referred to our doctors who then screens them and recommends for a swab test.”“We are also providing them with vitamin and zinc tablets to help them increase their immune system,” he added.The zilla parishad which governs the rural areas of Pune district has listed out all those who suffer from comorbid conditions in the 13 talukas of the district. The pharmacies in these areas have been asked to report any sudden spike in the ailments of the comorbid condition in any of the person. As per the data from the zilla parishad there are at least six lakh people from the high-risk groups including the 1.57 lakh people who suffer from comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, asthma, severe illness, kidney diseases among others. According to officials about 4.45 lakh senior citizens are currently being provided with vitamin and zinc tablets from the 13 taluka and Zilla parishad is keeping a track of these six lakh people.The rural administration has been taking the door to door survey’s, tracking pharmacies for any stronger dosage, out-patient department of both private and government hospitals and also in-patient department of private hospitals to keep a check on those reporting any fluctuation or deteriorating existing conditions.Prasad said, “We have used the data from the non-communicable diseases survey and surveyed those suffering from diabetes, hypertension, kidney ailments and blood pressure. We are keeping an eye on them for not just higher degree of comorbidities, but also if anyone is found to be using any suppressor like cough syrup which might provide temporary relief but will later only escalate the condition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vitamin-zinc-tablets-for-high-risk-group-in-pune-rural-areas-to-fight-covid-19/story-Ma44ldVjCN4UgZmS2yD9eM.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Pune civic body to hire 200 medical practitioners||With the number of Covid-19 cases in Pune on the rise, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is staring at a massive burden on medical manpower. The civic body has now started a recruitment drive to hire 200 doctors to enlist their services.Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “The PMC is currently conducting interviews of medical practitioners. Right now we are giving the medical practitioners temporary appointment orders for the next three months. Once the Covid-19 situation is streamlined, the administration will take approval for recruitment process from the PMC general body.”Gaikwad said, “As the Covid-19 cases are on the rise, there is a lot of pressure on medical and paramedical staff. In order to give them some relief and get additional medical manpower, the PMC started the recruitment. At least 200 doctors will be hired who will join the service soon. If Sassoon General Hospital needs more manpower we will appoint doctors there as well.”According to Gaikwad, the PMC has plenty of underutilised medical infrastructure in Pune which is not being used due to shortage of medical manpower. The PMC is looking to strengthen the health facilities and hiring new doctors will not only help the PMC in this time of crisis, but also in the post-Covid era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-pmc-to-hire-200-medical-practitioners/story-gjfcCxXX2PfWpVj92ea5mM.html
10-05-2020||Pune||PMC starts work on 10,000-bed temporary hospital at Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex, Balewadi||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will open a 10,000-bed temporary hospital at the Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex, Balewadi amid the rise in the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. “We have already started the ground work for the same,” said Shekhar Gaikwad, municipal commissioner on Saturday.Gaikwad said, “We are preparing for the worse and have decided to open a temporary hospital at Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex, Balewadi. The capacity of the hospital will be 10,000 beds.”“The facilities provided at the hospital can be availed by both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations. Sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao and additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goyal are incharge of getting the temporary hospital ready,” said Gaikwad. Gaikwad said, “The existing hospitals are currently working at full capacity. So looking at the trend of rising Covid-19 cases we have decided it will be easy to quarantine patients at Balewadi sports complex as the entire stadium is fenced.”“PMC engineers have already designed the map of the hospital at the sports complex and completed the site visit,” said Gaikwad.He said, “We are planning to purchase low-cost furniture, mainly beds for this temporary hospital. We will be procuring steel beds which will cost less than Rs1,000 and the decision on the same will be taken soon.”“We also plan to erect portable oxygen ventilators and the medical teams are already guiding the engineering teams in the planning process,” said Gaikwad.Commissioner said, “PMC has already appointed the staff for building the temporary hospital at Balewadi. We are planning to hire staff from other government departments to manage the hospital. We have also requested the state and central government departments to provide us with the required staff to manage the hospital.” Recently, when Pune district guardian Minister Ajit Pawar had visited the city to take an overview of the Covid-19 situation and he had instructed the divisional commissioner and PMC commissioner that if necessary, a temporary hospital can be created at Balewadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-starts-work-on-10-000-bed-temporary-hospital-at-balewadi-sports-complex/story-W3KVKn9iyT8PYSwqBuvbdL.html
10-05-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Central team takes review of situation in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad||A central team headed by Union health ministry’s additional deputy director general Sudhir Gupta has advised health authorities in Pune to take steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19 out of the red zone areas and follow the containment strategy to bring the pandemic under control in Pune. “The team took the review of the situation in Pune city and division. The team members advised concentration of efforts to prevent the spread of Covid-19 from the red zone to other zones in the city. Emphasis was laid on house-to-house survey, contact tracing and, if needed, quarantine of suspected cases,” Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said. The team met with Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation officials on Friday and Saturday to take a review of the city’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. One of the prominent red zones in Maharashtra, Pune district has seen more than 130 deaths and 2,400 positive cases as of May 8. The team headed by Gupta on Saturday visited the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited. Meetings were scheduled with top civic officials, Pune Zilla Parishad officials and hospitals engaged in the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Pune. On Friday evening, Gupta met with Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar to discuss the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cvoid-19-central-team-takes-review-of-situation-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad/story-lEt9zOHtn8BpFsVgPuNzmM.html
10-05-2020||Chandigarh||56-year-old Nanded returnee dies of Covid-19 in Ludhiana||A 56-year-old Nanded returnee from Manuke village, Jagraon, succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday. He is the sixth person in the district and first Nanded returnee to be claimed by the disease. Confirming the patient’s death, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the deceased, Gurjant Singh, had returned from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra on April 30 with 40 other passengers in a special bus sent by the Punjab government.The patient had been undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital. He suddenly suffered a cardiac arrest, said Dr Bagga. As per doctors, the patient complained of chest congestion and shortness of breath and was given medicine to help him sleep. However, he did not wake up in the morning. The doctor on duty declared him dead. A daily wager under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), Gurjant is survived by his wife, son and two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/56-year-old-nanded-returnee-dies-of-covid-19-in-ludhiana/story-OEAQpzZ7CzT3MtyG4N6qiJ.html
