11-05-2020||City||How Centre’s support is helping Haryana to feed its poor during lockdown||With Centre’s help, the Haryana government has been able to feed the poor by providing free ration to over 29 lakh families during the lockdown.The state has lifted 0.94 lakh MT food grains (valued at ₹263 crore) till May 7 and the total expenditure of ₹530 crore, accrued during the free distribution of ration, is being borne by the Centre.In April, the BPL and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) families daily consumed around 33,607 quintals of wheat, 5,109 quintal fortified atta, 900 quintal channa dal, 69,034 litres of mustard oil, 375 quintal each of sugar and salt during the lockdown.As per the data accessed by Hindustan Times, out of per-month expenditure of ₹353.91 crore accrued in April, the Centre has paid ₹277 crore, while the state will have to bear the remaining ₹76.82 crore.The figures revealed that if the lockdown continues for the three months or by July 1, the total expenditure on the allocation of free ration in the state will be around ₹1061.73 crore and the centre will pay ₹831.27 crore, whereas the state would foot the remaining ₹230.46 crore.As per information, the state has been allotted 0.63 LMT of food grains per month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana for 3 months till June 20. This is to be distributed free of cost to 1.26 crore National Food Security Act beneficiaries.The wheat procurement season has also helped the Centre and state to continue the supply of food grains to the poor as 52.95 LMT of wheat has been procured for the central pool from Haryana farmers at the minimum support price of ₹1,925 per quintal till May 7.Karnal district food and supplies controller Anil Kumar told HT, “Due to the lockdown, additional benefit of wheat has been added in the public distribution. Besides 35kg atta, 2 litres of mustard oil, 1kg sugar, 1kg dal and 1kg salt, each AAY beneficiary will get additional 5kg wheat during the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-centre-s-support-is-helping-haryana-to-feed-its-poor-during-lockdown/story-XHxT7cqCXVmis0Ff2FLFsK.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||SC orders setting up of panel headed by MHA secy to consider pleas seeking 4G in J&K||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered setting up of a “special committee” headed by Union home secretary to consider pleas for restoration 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, saying that the national security and human rights needed to be balanced in view of the fact the Union Territory has been “plagued with militancy”.The top court said it was desirable to have better internet services in the UT in view of the worldwide pandemic and a national lockdown.“However, the fact that outside forces are trying to infiltrate the borders and destabilise the integrity of the nation, as well as cause incidents resulting in the death of innocent citizens and security forces every day cannot be ignored,” said the bench comprising Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai.The top court said it takes “with utmost seriousness” the sensitive task of balancing “national security and human rights” and referred to its earlier judgement in which it held that “the degree of restriction and the scope of the same, both territorially and temporally, must stand in relation to what is actually necessary to combat an emergent situation.” “At the same time, we do recognise that the Union Territory has been plagued with militancy, which is required to be taken into consideration. These competing considerations needs to calibrated in terms of our judgment …,” Justice Ramana, who wrote the order for the bench, said.The bench said since the issues involved affected both the Union Territory and the nation, the review committee should comprise their senior officials to look into the entire issue.“We, therefore, find it appropriate to constitute a special committee comprising the following secretaries at national, as well as state level, to look into the prevailing circumstances and immediately determine the necessity of the continuation of the restrictions in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” the order said.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) secretary will head the special panel and the secretary of ministry of communications and the chief secretary of the Union Territory would be the members.“The special committee is directed to examine the contentions of, and the material placed herein by, the petitioners as well as the respondents. The Committee must also examine the appropriateness of the alternatives suggested by the petitioners, regarding limiting the restrictions to those areas where it is necessary and the allowing of faster internet (3G or 4G) on a trial basis over certain geographical areas and advise the respondent no. 1 (Centre) regarding the same, in terms of our earlier directions,” it said.The court took note of the submissions of the Centre that continuous infiltration, foreign influence, violent extremism and issues of national integrity are prevalent in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which are serious issues. The Centre had also pointed to certain material, which indicate that cyber terrorism, is on the rise within the valley and the Pakistani Military in its “Green Book 2020” has called for an information warfare on Kashmir, after the revocation of special status of Jammu and Kashmir, the order noted. The apex court directions came on pleas filed by Foundation for Media Professionals, Soayib Qureshi and Private Schools Association of Jammu and Kashmir seeking restoration of 4G in the UT on grounds such as right to access doctors is an inherent under article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution and it’s deprivation should be judged in view of the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic. They had also alleged that the right of children to access schools through the high speed internet service have been hampered. Earlier, the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir administration, had justified the restriction on 4G service in the Union Territory saying high speed internet might be used for sending information about troop movement, and referred to the recent “tragic” deaths of security personnel in an encounter with terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-orders-setting-up-of-panel-headed-by-mha-secy-to-consider-pleas-seeking-4g-in-j-k/story-k4DEMdwlza6vk6JIlJ3SKK.html
11-05-2020||City||Infant mortality rate down 23% in Punjab in five years||Infant mortality rate (IMR) in Punjab has dipped by 23% over five years from 26 per 1,000 births in 2013 to 20 in 2018, according to details released recently by the Centre recently in its Sample Registration System (SRS) bulletin based on data collected for 2018.According to data released by the Registrar General of India, the IMR of Punjab was 20 in 2018 against the country’s average of 32. However, the difference was barely marginal in 2017 and 2018 when rates went down from 21 to 20, respectively.In 2018, infant mortality rate in rural areas at 21 was higher than that of urban areas at 19. In all, from 26 cases in 2013, the IMR rate went down to 24 in 2014, 23 in 2015 and 21 in 2016. In comparison, Haryana recorded 30 deaths per 1,000 births in 2018. BIRTH AND DEATH RATES Birth and death rates of the general population for 2018 were, also released by the Registrar General’s office, with 6.6 deaths recorded per 1,000 population in Punjab against 6.2 in the country. In Haryana it was lower at 5.9 (2018).On the other hand, birth rates in Punjab were 14.8 against Haryana’s 20.3. The national birth average was 20 per 1,000 (2018). Commenting on the report, Dr Avneet Kaur, director health and family welfare department, said, “We have been successful in reducing the infant mortality rate because we have strengthened our labour room quality programme called Lakshya, fitting all parameters of this programme for better care of mothers and their newborn babies.”“In Punjab, the infant mortality rate is higher in the first four weeks of pregnancy. Therefore, sick newborn care units have been established in every district, all of which are functional now. We have also focused on a care companion programme in which we educate caretakers of infants on how to take better care of them,” she said.HOW THE STATES FAREDInfant Mortality Rate/1,000 populationIndia: 32Punjab: 20Haryana: 30Overall birth and death rate/1,000 populationIndia 6.2Punjab 6.6Haryana 5.9Birth RateIndia 20Punjab 14.8Haryana 20.3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-mortality-rate-down-23-in-punjab-in-five-years/story-vBagpkvEZbIBfc8DoMmBZP.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||Women give birth on special trains for migrants||The joy of finally getting back home after remaining stuck without work for over a month due to the nationwide lockdown turned into a moment of bliss for two women migrant workers when they gave birth to healthy kids onboard the trains in which they were travelling on Sunday.Mamta Yadav, 35, had decided to be with her mother in Manoharpur village of Chapra district in Bihar after her husband, a factory worker in Jamnagarin Gujarat, was rendered jobless due to the lockdown. Though being in an advanced stage of pregnancy she decided to board the Jamnagar-Muzaffarpur Shramik express on the first opportunity after the Centre and state governments decided to allow movement of migrants. “My husband Suresh Yadav decided to stay back in the hope that the factories may resume work shortly and he would get work. But I wanted to be with my mother. On Sunday around midnight I started having severe pain in my abdomen. Seeing my condition some co-passengers informed the ticket collector,” she said over phone.The train was about a couple of hours away from its next stoppage at Agra Fort. The railway staff alerted the station manager about the situation. A team of doctors along with railway staff was kept on alert. As soon as the special train reached Agra Fort station at 4:43 am the passengers were asked to move to other compartments as the coach in which Yadav was travelling was converted into a labour room.“Then a team of doctors supervised the delivery. Both the baby girl and the woman are healthy and safe. They were allowed to move on. The train left at 6:08am,” said S K Srivastav, divisional commercial manager of Agra division.A similar story unfolded on board Akbarpur-bound Shramik express. Subhadra, a 30-year-old migrant worker and native of Ambedkar Nagar district, gave birth to a healthy baby boy at Moradabad railway station.Subhadra was with her husband Durgesh and the railway officials said the couple had boarded the train from Jalandhar station. Rekha Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager (SDCM) of Northern Railways, Moradabad division, said “The railway protection force (RPF) deployed in Shramik special train had informed them before the train arrived in Moradabad. It reached at 6:10 am. Our medical team led by Dr Piyush Rana was fully prepared for the task. The team suggested that they stay here at railway hospital, but they just wanted to reach home. Since doctors were satisfied with the health of mother and newborn, they allowed them to go,” the SDCM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/women-give-birth-on-special-trains-for-migrants/story-wHAK9zaCkWPBGRKJySDxnI.html
11-05-2020||City||MDU staffers protest against Haryana govt’s decision to use hostels as Covid-19 facility||The employees of Maharshi Dayanand University on Monday staged a protest outside vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh’s residence in Rohtak against the state government’s decision to turn four hostels into Covid-19 care centre to quarantine those returning from abroad.Rohtak deputy commissioner RS Verma had designated three boys hostels and Bhagrithi girls hostel to quarantine foreign returnees for 14 days.However, the teaching and non-teaching employees staged a dharna outside the vice-chancellor’s residence and threatened to intensify stir, if the government won’t take back its decision.President of teaching union Vikas Siwach said that the government is playing with their lives by allowing foreign returnees to stay on the campus for 14 days.“The government should use other properties to accommodate these people. If the government won’t accept our demands, we will launch an indefinite stir,” he added.Nodal officer Manav Malik will provide all facilities to returnees and said that they are following the government orders to provide arrangements to them.MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh and registrar Gulshan Taneja could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mdu-staffers-protest-against-haryana-govt-s-decision-to-use-hostels-as-covid-19-facility/story-1CxsVgtQ1oO7mxRasVWc0K.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Navjot Kaur is Chandigarh admn’s new director of public relations||Navjot Kaur, a Punjab civil services officer, is Chandigarh’s new director, public relations (DPR). For Kaur, who is also director, social welfare, this will be an additional charge. UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida issued the appointment orders on Monday. Kaur replaces Sudhanshu Gautam, Haryana civil services, who remains sub-divisional magistrate (East). He also holds the additional charge of joint secretary (technical education, printing and stationery and state Agriculture Marketing Board), agriculture census officer and nodal officer, state Agriculture Marketing Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/navjot-kaur-is-chandigarh-admn-s-new-director-of-public-relations/story-YNtmy5fyavSFdi6BKaywgN.html
11-05-2020||City||Panvel records 24 new Covid cases||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) recorded the highest single-day spike of Covid 19 cases on Monday with 24 new cases. The total tally is 180.Among the new cases are of a BEST conductor; two members of a family of another BEST conductor; two members of a family of a police sub-inspector, who had tested positive earlier; a police constable from Nagpada police station; and four members of a police sub-inspector’s family living in Roadpali. The police sub-inspector had earlier tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-24-new-covid-cases/story-FUQnyhDqBa7C8vOZ3S8wfK.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray declares assets worth ₹143.26 crore||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who filed nomination for the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) biennial election on Monday, has listed that he, his family have assets worth ₹143.26 crore, including land and jewellery, while he has a liability of worth ₹15.5 crore.The Shiv Sena chief, who drove down to Vidhan Bhavan in a grey Mercedez Benz on Monday, does not own a single vehicle and has 23 cases registered against him, of which 12 have been disposed.According to the affidavit submitted before the election officials, the source of income listed by Thackeray is salary, interest, dividend and capital gain. Thackeray holds a diploma in applied arts from Sir JJ School of Arts.Thackeray’s movable assets are worth ₹24.14 crore while his spouse Rashmi’s movable assets are worth ₹36.16 crore. While the Sena chief’s self-acquired immovable assets, including a 13,235 sqft home in Bandra West and an inherited 4,410 sq ft home in Bandra East, are currently valued at ₹37.93 crore, while the inherited property is valued at ₹14.50 crore. The residential property in Bandra West is jointly owned by his spouse. The immovable properties under his spouse’s name is currently valued at ₹28.92 crore.Thackeray, as per the affidavit, has five agricultural plots that collectively are worth ₹11.53 crore, non-agricultural plots worth ₹13.64 crore, commercial properties worth ₹3.15 crore and jewellery, bullion, etc. worth ₹2.18 crore. Thackeray’s liabilities as listed in the affidavit is ₹4.06 crore, while his spouses is ₹11.44 crore.The Sena chief has ₹1.49 crore in bank deposits in six accounts including a joint account with Rashmi Thackeray. He has fixed deposits of ₹11.04 lakh in six bank accounts. Rashmi Thackeray, meanwhile, has bank deposits of ₹12.57 lakh and fixed deposits worth ₹22.28 lakh in five bank accounts.The chief minister has in 16 listed companies including Reliance Industries Ltd, that are collectively valued at ₹1.07 crore as on April 30, 2020. He also has shares in four unlisted companies which are valued at ₹20.45 crore as on April 30, 2020. Rashmi Thackeray has shares in 38 listed companies that are valued at ₹1.81crore as on April 30, 2020. Besides that, she also owns shares worth ₹31.93 crore in eight unlisted companies.Among the jewellery and silverware, the Thackerays own diamond jewellery worth ₹1.52 crore, gold jewellery worth ₹30.28 lakh, and silver utensils worth ₹29.19 lakh.Thackeray, as per the affidavit, has five agricultural plots that are collectively worth ₹11.53 crore, non-agricultural plots worth ₹13.64 crore, commercial properties worth ₹3.15 crore and jewellery, bullion, etc. worth ₹2.18 crore. Thackeray’s liabilities as listed in the affidavit is ₹4.06 crore, while his spouses stand at ₹11.44 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-declares-assets-worth-143-26-crore/story-qh6IjiCKCBcMugVAA7M48L.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Ratnagiri accident: High court orders crime branch to probe||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday transferred an accidental death case to the local crime branch of Ratnagiri police after noticing that it could be a murder.“Prima facie, there seems to be some substance in the allegations made by the petitioner,” said justice Revati Mohite-Dere, regarding the death of Sachin Narkar, who his mother Sheela Narkar claimed was murdered.On March 6, the Sagari police station in Ratnagiri district registered an accidental death case after Narkar was found dead in his car. Local police claimed that the car turned turtle and he died in the accident.His mother, however, approached the high court, alleging that her son was murdered and his body was placed in the car to make it look like an accident.She pointed out that though Narkar was purportedly driving the car, his body was found upside down on the back seat. Besides, her lawyer advocate PR Pandey also pointed out that the post-mortem report revealed that the deceased had multiple incised wounds, which could not have happened in the accident.Justice Mohite-Dere also noted some other aspects which created doubts about the accident. “Prima facie, it appears that if the car had turtled in the manner as alleged, the car would have several dents and huge damage,” said the judge. “The photos of the car show none.”Besides, the judge said, the injuries sustained by the deceased were only on the head and neck and there was no fracture of ribs as normally found in motor accident cases.Against this backdrop, the judge thought it appropriate to transfer the investigation to the local crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ratnagiri-accident-high-court-orders-crime-branch-to-probe/story-uC45aj6217v77BrMlwglnM.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar: Biologist on Covid duty shifted to anti-malaria unit||A biologist based in Hisar, who held the post of local Covid-19 quarantine in-charge, has been transferred to the district malaria control unit. Ramesh Punia, while claiming that the reshuffle was ‘politically motivated’, said, “A man had recently arrived from Gurugram and I, along with a team of health department, went to his house to take him to the isolation ward. His samples were tested for coronavirus and the report came back negative. But, as he had returned from Gurugram, my team on Sunday evening reached his house to paste ‘home quarantined’ poster where we faced opposition from his family members.”“On Monday morning, I came to know that I have been shifted to the anti-malaria unit. The man is politically connected and used his power to remove me from the post of quarantine in-charge,” he claimed. Chief medical officer Dr Yogesh Sharma, however, said, “Ramesh Punia basically works under the district malaria officer. Hisar has no malaria case and we intend to maintain that status. Punia has been asked to control malaria spread in the district. There is no political pressure on the health department.” Despite repeated attempts, comments of the Hisar man could not be elicited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hisar-biologist-on-covid-duty-shifted-to-anti-malaria-unit/story-lSvr0ef92OACWIqti89uIM.html
11-05-2020||Pune||No food, no money, no work, will return when situation normalises, says labourers||There was chaos in a lane near Dandekar bridge on Monday as labourers from nearby areas, who had filled application forms to go to their hometowns, gathered to check if the special police officers called out their names among the list of people who will return home.A group of labourers did not even realise that the list of names being called out was only for trains which will be leaving for Uttar Pradesh. Among them was a group of cloth handiwork - stitching and embroidery - workers from Darbhanga in Bihar. They sat at the end of a 130-150-metre long line waiting for their names to be called out.Mohammad Salauddin Ansari, 42, a native of Darbhanga, who currently lives in the interiors of Dattawadi, said, “I am staying here for the past 10 years, but I have to return as I do not have food or money left.”“Pre-Diwali is the peak season for the business. During this time we get money to survive during the low seasons. Currently, work has come to a standstill. We work for some shops owners and they have shut shops now,” said Ansari.“I will come back if the almighty wants me to come here and I hope this pandemic ends soon,” said Ansari.The workers get paid per piece they stitch or embroider - dupatta, saree, dress, scarf among other cloth items. Among the same group was Mohammad Hashim Shaikh, 27, who had come to the city a year ago and hopes to come back when the pandemic is over.“Ration was distributed in the areas close to the main road. Nobody bothered to come in the interiors of the lanes where we live,” he said before turning his attention back to the public announcement system.While the two workers waited with 25-30 others with them, a family of three waited for their names to be called by the group of special police officers helping the staff of Dattawadi police station.“I have been working at a laundry for a few months now. My wife came here to visit me around January with my 5-year-old daughter. She was scheduled to leave on April 3. Now I will go back with her and wait for the lockdown to be over,” said a well-dressed Pravesh Kumar Sishad, 37, who waited for their names to be called out along with his 30-year-old wife Sushma Devi and their daughter - all wore masks.“Afterwards, I will try to come back. We last got paid in March. No money in April,” he added. They were hoping to make their way to Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh.While their fate was not shared by others, the sentiment was shared by Shyam Sundar Maurya, 25, who wanted to reach Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh.“I work in a furniture shop. I came here in January. My brother came here, two months before me, in November 2019. We could hardly work for two months before work stopped completely and we had to ask for money from home where nobody is earning,” said Maurya.While Shyam’s name was on the list of applicants approved and returned from Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, his elder brother’s name was missing.However, Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, who was present on the spot assured them that his brother will receive help.“I have 15,000 labourers in my zone. Today (on Monday) 1,310 labourers will be leaving - the first batch from my zone. PMPML is providing buses from verification points to railway stations,” said DCP Gaikwad.“The process is challenging - first registration because of the sheer number of people as against the 30-40 police staff and second was the assessment. All 15,000 people in my zone got medical certificates before it was not a requirement anymore. Now their mobilisation is our task,” said DCP Gaikwad.When asked about the issue faced while dealing with a desperate crowd, DCP Gaikwad said, “They are just poor people wanting to go home after being here without work or money for 45 days.”In zone 3 there were seven other points like the one near Dandekar bridge where labourers had gathered - two managed by Sinhgad road police station, three (including Dandekar bridge) in Dattawadi, one in Kothrud and two in Warje, according to DCP Gaikwad.The ones who made it through the lane and onto the PMPML bus left Pune on a train scheduled to leave Pune station at 8:30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-food-no-money-no-work-will-return-when-situation-normalises-says-labourers/story-4W5CwRQKXf2zdexiG5kZzN.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM files nomination for legislative council elections||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray filed his nomination papers for the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) election on Monday. Besides Thackeray, four other candidates of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) too filed their nominations for the biennial election of the upper House of the state legislature.Thackeray becomes the first Shiv Sena chief to enter the legislature as he along with others are set to get elected unopposed. He is the second member from the Thackeray family to contest an election after his son and minister Aaditya, who contested assembly polls in October 2019. Thackeray was accompanied by wife Rashmi and sons Aaditya and Tejas while he filed his nomination papers.As Congress decided to withdraw one of its candidates from the upcoming legislative Council polls on Sunday evening, the elections to the nine seats will be unopposed. Thackeray will be elected to the upper House of the state legislature without an election being held.Shiv Sena’s Neelam Gorhe also filed her nomination papers. Gorhe is the deputy chairperson of the legislative Council. Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) candidates Amol Mitkari, who is known to be close to Ajit Pawar, filed their nomination papers. Mitkari is the state general secretary of the party who played a vital role in last year’s assembly polls. NCP’s Shashikant Shinde also filed nomination. Congress party fielded Rajesh Rathod; he too filed his nomination papers later in the afternoon.Besides the candidates announced by the four parties, two more candidates from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and NCP, and one Independent also filed nomination today. BJP’s Sandeep Lele and Ramesh Karad, and NCP’s Kiran Pawaskar and Shivajirao Garje along with Rathod Shahbaaz Allauddin, an Independent filed nomination on Monday. However, sources said that these are dummy candidates and would withdraw their nomination by May 14, which is the last day of withdrawal of candidature.“The election will be unopposed. In the end, only nine candidates will remain in the fray. We did not want to engage in any politics, as it is not the time for politicking. The chief minister said that this was a time to tackle the situation and the Congress party responded to his appeal and fielded only one candidate,” said Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut.Senior leaders from the Shiv Sena, Subhash Desai, Eknath Shinde Arvind Sawant, among others were also present with the CM at the Vidhan Bhawan. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar, NCP’s Jayant Patil. Congress leaders Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat and Nitin Raut were also there to lend support.On April 30, the Governor shut the nomination door on Thackeray and requested the Election Commission to hold elections for nine seats to the state legislative council at the earliest to end the political uncertainty in the state. Thackeray, who took oath on November 28, has time till May 27 to get elected as a member of either the assembly or council.The BJP has already fielded four candidates, who filed their nomination last week. The BJP has fielded Gopichand Padalkar, Pravin Datake, Ranjitsinh Vijaysinh Mohite-Patil and Dr Ajeet Gopchade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-files-nomination-for-legislative-council-elections/story-ylGefu13O8IaVx1cfFp9GN.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||65-yr-old Faridabad man is Haryana’s 11th fatality||Haryana reported eleventh death due to Covid-19 on Monday. Senior doctors said the deceased was a 65-year-old man from Faridabad, the district which has till now seen four corona-related casualties. The victim was also a heart patient and had undergone three surgeries in the past.The count of positive cases in the state has now reached 730.The maximum new cases — nine — have been reported from Jhajjar since Sunday evening, including three members of an already infected person’s family. Seven new cases were detected in Faridabad, five in Sonepat, three in Gurugram, two in Charkhi Dadri and one in Mahendergarh, the health department bulletin stated.Senior doctors said the seven cases of Faridabad included five vegetable sellers or their contacts, a bank employee and a shopkeeper. In Sonepat, the new patients included the wife and son of an infected vegetable seller from Ganaur, a contact of a nurse working at a private hospital in the district, a woman from Kasampur village and a man from Garh Shahjahan Pur village. In Charkhi Dadri, one of the patients was a man who returned from Gujarat last week and in Mahendergarh, the patient had a Delhi connection. He had gone to Delhi to bring his father, who works with Rajasthan Police.11-YEAR-OLD GIRL TESTS POSITIVE KURUKSHETRAAn 11-year-old girl has tested positive in Dhanani village of Kurukshetra. Chief medical officer Dr Sukhbir Singh said the girl was in contact of the 27-year-old woman cook posted in a Panchkula police station. In Hisar, a 43-year-old Border Security Force (BSF) jawan has been found infected, said Covid-19 nodal officer and deputy chief medical officer Jaya Goel.She said the jawan had returned from Delhi on May 7 and was kept under isolation at a centre in Hisar.Goel said the health department has started tracing his contacts and they will be quarantined as well.Both these cases have not been included in the state’s health bulletin. 37 CURED, DISCHARGEDAs many as 37 patients were discharged after their treatment on Monday — 27 in Ambala and 10 in Sonepat. It was the highest number of persons cured in a day in the state so far. With this, there are 382 active cases in the state now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/65-yr-old-faridabad-man-is-haryana-s-11th-fatality/story-5qgCLfkccyn0IdR4ekA9DP.html
11-05-2020||City||Central team visits Tadiwala Road, reviews Covid-19 response||A team of public health department officials from the Centre, on Monday, visited the containment zone area of Lumbininagar on Tadiwala road and reviewed works carried out by the civic administration.The team also visited the Mahatma Jyotiba school, a quarantine facility for the area located on Dhole Patil road, and checked the facilities along with food quality.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, sugar commissioner Saurabh Rao accompanied the central team on their site visit.District Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “The central team visited Tadiwala road as well as Dhole Patil road. They were satisfied with our efforts of containment and swab centres started in these areas.” The team also spoke to people who have been quarantined at the centre.Before the site visit, a detailed review was taken at the district collector’s office of the ongoing Covid-19 situation in Pune district.The officials who are part of the team from the central public works department are deputy director-general Sudhir Gupta, Manas Pratim Roy, and Arvind Alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/central-team-visits-tadiwala-road-reviews-covid-19-response/story-uOWbHESOf2Z52tQxKkL5QP.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching case: 5 more arrested by CID||The state CID which is investigating the 16 April lynching case where three people, including two sadhus, were killed on Sunday night, arrested five more accused. The total number of arrested accused so far has risen to 120, including nine minors who are in a children’s remand home in Bhiwandi.The five accused were produced before Dahanu court on Monday, said Irfan Shaikh, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID). “The accused have been remanded in CID custody till 19 May. They were arrested from Gaddchinchale village,” said Shaikh.Around 120 armed personnel from the State Reserve Police and Riot Control Police are camping in the forest to nab more accused, said the officer.Meanwhile, the police have stopped using the drones to trace the accused owing to thick forest cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-case-5-more-arrested-by-cid/story-G3Mzhm2pVOkFlJMX7I7CtK.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Start construction work to absorb migrants’, CS asks departments||Uttar Pradesh government chief secretary, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Monday directed the concerning departments to immediately start construction activities with the laid down protocol to absorb a large number of migrant workers that are returning from other states every day. He said such departments should also conduct a weekly review of construction work and provide the details to the government.Holding a meeting with the departments that carry out construction works, the CS, however, clarified that no such work will start in the Covid-19 containment zones at all. He asked officials to make proper arrangements of food, stay etc for workers at the places where construction works could be resumed.He said the skill mapping data of all workers was being prepared and asked the concerned departments to obtain their details from the district magistrates (DMs) and engage migrant workers in the construction work as per their suitability.The meeting was attended by principal secretary, PWD, Nitin Ramesh Gokran, principal secretary, housing, Deepak Kumar, principal secretary, social welfare, Manoj Kumar Singh, UP Jal Nigam, managing director, Vikas Gothwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/start-construction-work-to-absorb-migrants-cs-asks-departments/story-SKbL97QvjdZcHAMBzRPxJN.html
11-05-2020||City||4 Sangrur cops booked for torturing dalit man||Four days after a dalit man alleged police torture, two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs), a sepoy and a homeguard volunteer, all posted at the Sandaur police station, have been booked for wrongful restraint. Complainant Simranjit Singh, 26, of Kasba Bharal, had alleged that the cops had tortured him when he went to the police station to lodge a complaint of loot on May 6. He has also accused the cops of passing casteist remarks and of being drunk on duty. The accused are ASIs Sukhwinder Singh, Yadwinder Singh, sepoy Gurdeep Singh and homeguard volunteer Kesar Singh. Sangrur SSP Sandeep Garg said, “They were already suspended and now an FIR has been registered. A departmental inquiry is underway.” The accused have been booked under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sandaur police station. “We will take further action, including arrests, after the departmental probe report,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-sangrur-cops-booked-for-torturing-dalit-man/story-OeiDQsvhvbpYnfvZCqQQEL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rural belt of 5 Haryana dists hit harder by virus, health dept worried||As the state continues to grapple with increasing Covid-19 cases, a data assessment has revealed that the rural areas of five Haryana districts — Sonepat, Jind, Rohtak, Dadri and Bhiwani — stand more affected by the contagion than their urban sectors.These districts have witnessed 136 cases till now, out of which their villages make up for 86 (63%) infected patients.As per the data crunched by Hindustan Times, Sonepat has 105 Covid-19 cases, of which 61 pertain to rural areas and 44 to its urban localities. Of Jind’s 17 cases, 15 are from villages and two from the urban part. Rohtak has seen four of its five cases from the villages, while Dadri has reported all three cases from rural areas, and Bhiwani got three cases from villages and three from Vidya Nagar area, which lies in the heart of the city.Sonepat district has the highest number (27) of affected villages in the state. Also, Sonepat and Gurugram each have 91 actives Covid-19 — highest in the state.Going by village-wise data, Khubru in Sonepat is the most affected village with 10 cases, followed by Gayaspur (7), Pubnera (5) and Rasoi (3) villages. In Jind, Ghaso Kalan village is the most hit by Covid-19 with four infected patients, all of whom are undergoing treatment at PGIMS, Rohtak.When contacted, Jind civil surgeon Jai Bhagwan Jattan said they have reported 15 Covid-19 cases from seven villages, and most of them are linked to Delhi.“We have sealed these villages and conducted sampling of 3,400 persons in the district. Both the patients of Nidani village have been cured. On tracking the history of patients, we found that Delhi’s Azadpur mandi is a big threat to us as far as the contagion is concerned,” he added.Sonepat civil surgeon B S Rajoura too attributed the rise in cases to the Delhi connection.“The villages have reported more infected patients as we had tracked them by carrying out random sampling. We have collected samples of vegetable sellers, who frequented Delhi’s Azadpur mandi. Those commuting from Delhi on a daily basis are also being tested. Our main focus is to carry out more sampling in rural and urban areas so that patients can be cured on time,” said Rajoura.Requesting anonymity, a health official from Sonepat said that the cases in villages were increasing because patients were not approaching them till the field staff would visit their homes.“On many occasions, people don’t cooperate by revealing their contacts and travel histories,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rural-belt-of-5-haryana-dists-hit-harder-by-virus-health-dept-worried/story-p6w2Ynh93GZCu6qRSRryJN.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Western Command lauds tricity veterans for abiding by lockdown rules||The Canteen Stores Department unit has been witnessing a huge footfall after it resumed operation on May 7. However, the defence veterans were very cooperative in ensuring smooth services amid the Covid-19 outbreak, a Chandigarh-based defence spokesperson said.“The facilities are operating smoothly with all precautionary measures in place, including social distancing, pre-booking, adequate spacing of counters, sanitisation measures, screening at entry points and use of ArogyaSetu app,” he said.Westen Command appreciated the role of veterans in respective societies and younger generations in adhering to the guidelines laid down by the government.The Western Command lauded the efforts of the veterans as they exhibited patience and discipline to protect the society.The CHS polyclinics have been functional throughout to take care of all health needs of veterans and there are provisions that allow them to buy routine medicines from any medical store to ensure minimum travel and exposure to risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/western-command-lauds-tricity-veterans-for-abiding-by-lockdown-rules/story-dEAi2cx7ejLvXFpHAveWKI.html
11-05-2020||City||Former Punjab DGP Multani was tortured in Saini’s presence: Eyewitness||Though former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini has been granted anticipatory bail in connection with the disappearance of one Balwant Singh Multani of Mohali in 1991, an advocate got her statement recorded before a magistrate, claiming she was witness to the victim’s (Multani’s) torture in police custody. Saini and six others were booked recently in connection with the disappearance of Multani, a junior engineer posted with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO), after a terrorist attack in 1991.“Multani could hardly walk when I last saw him then how could he escape from custody,” said advocate Gursharan Kaur Mann. She got her statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC before judicial magistrate Amit Bakshi on Monday.“We could hear Multani scream through the night. Next day (December 13) when I went to the bathroom, I saw him (Multani) lying in the verandah bleeding. Saini came and asked the policemen to throw Multani in the vehicle and that was last we saw him (Multani),” said Mann whose husband was Multani’s classmate in engineering.Claiming to be the eyewitness to Multani’s torture, Mann said she, along with her husband and 2-year-old son, was picked up by the police on intervening night of December 10-11, 1991. Mann said she later came to know that they were arrested in connection with a 1991 blast (assassination attempt on Saini).“We were taken to Sector 17 police station Chandigarh. Next day, I saw Multani in pain owing to the torture by police. He could hardly walk, Saini kicked him multiple times, threatening to kill him,” said Mann. “One witness got statement recorded before the court. We are hopeful more people will follow,” said Pradeep Virk, counsel for the complainant.Mann, along with her husband, was an accused in the 1991 blast case and was acquitted later. She recorded her statement in connection with a fresh FIR registered Mataur police station against former DGP Saini on the complaint of Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Singh Multani.The case was registered under Sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of the IPC on May 6, 2020. Mann had already got her statement recorded before the police on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-punjab-dgp-multani-was-tortured-in-saini-s-presence-eyewitness/story-JKsAY6tKhKVUA4oyybhnQO.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||PM-CMs video conference: Captain Amarinder Singh for continuation of lockdown, with exit plan||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday pitched for extension of the ongoing lockdown, but with a carefully crafted strategy for fiscal and economic empowerment of the states. At a video conference of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Amarinder said the states needed to be given greater flexibility in micro-planning as part of an exit strategy in view the increasing Covid-19 cases across the country.“The exit strategy should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the states, which are responsible for the real action directly affecting livelihood of the common man. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to be allowed to function in red-zone districts with proper safeguards. The decision on designating the red, orange, yellow and green zones should be left to the states,” the Punjab CM said.Amarinder demanded immediate financial assistance to the states to meet at least 33% of their committed liabilities, along with revenue grants for three months to meet the shortfall in revenue and to fund expenditure on Covid-19.He also called for a national strategy on testing for making the battle against Covid-19 more effective, pointing out that he had also written to the PM to direct central institutions in Chandigarh and Punjab to increase their testing capacity.Punjab has so far carried out 40,962 tests with current daily testing rate at 2,500, which the state government is planning to scale up to 6,000 a day by end of the month, he informed.Pointing out that the state has procured 115 lakh metric tonnes wheat, adhering to the Covid protocols, Amarinder requested for an early declaration of minimum support price (MSP) for paddy and a bonus on non-burning of stubble.Besides, he informed Modi that Punjab was losing ₹3,000 crore every month in revenue. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was facing a loss of ₹30 crore daily, he claimed.He reiterated his demand for immediate release of the state’s Goods and Service Tax (GST) arrears of ₹4,365.37 crore.He said around 56,000 persons from Punjab stranded in other states had registered on the government portal.As many as 11.50 lakh migrants in Punjab have registered for moving to their home states, mainly UP, Bihar and Jharkhand, with 50 trains carrying migrants having already left, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-cms-video-conference-captain-amarinder-singh-for-continuation-of-lockdown-with-exit-plan/story-ulNzqtGqXi7QQr0ssrTsJN.html
11-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai civic chief sets May 25 deadline to complete pre-monsoon work||Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal has directed all ward officers to complete pre-monsoon nullah cleaning work by May 25.“Manual cleaning of drains started a week ago. Most of the gutters have been cleaned in all the eight wards. Desilting of major gutters and removal of blockages is in progress and would be completed by May 25,” said Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s public relations officer.The annual pre-monsoon work has been delayed because of Covid-19.“Cleaning work of 91 major gutters is in progress and is being monitored by the officials. The workers have been given safety kits and are maintaining social distancing,” said an NMMC official.While NMMC has started pre-monsoon work, its neighbour Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has not.PCMC chief Ganesh Deshmukh said, “Most officials are busy with the Covid-19 work so we will start a little late.”Panvel sees severe waterlogging during monsoon. Last year too, PCMC started clean-up work late, leading to heavy waterlogging in Patel Mohalla, Kachhi Mohalla, Panvel Koliwada and Bunder Road are completely flooded during monsoon.“We have been going through a flood-like situation every year during heavy rains. Homes are flooded but the civic body is not taking this seriously. We feel this year too it will be the same story,” said Prashant Rao, 40, a resident of Kachhi Mohalla in Panvel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-civic-chief-sets-may-25-deadline-to-complete-pre-monsoon-work/story-hgpYKKKYK15Rnb41QFkc3N.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Seeking re-testing, patients protest at Tarn Taran hospital||Around 50 covid-19 patients, roughly half of the 110, admitted at the isolation ward building of the Tarn Taran civil hospital came out of the building in protest on Monday evening, claiming they were not being provided basic amenities and seeking retesting for them to go home. All of them are Nanded returnees and this protest came two days after a 34-year-old patient had fled from the hospital on Saturday; he was later caught and brought back. “Most patients in the hospital had returned from Nanded on April 27, and our tests were conducted on April 28. Reports were received between May 1 and May 6. Fourteen days have passed since we came here, but our retesting has not been done. Most patients are asymptomatic,” claimed a 24-year-old patient, who was among the protesters. The protesters also claimed that in eight families, only the child had tested positive, but with parents staying with them, their cases needed priority. “At least, the re-testing of such children, who have completed 14 days must start,” said a protester. Protesters were finally pacified after the assistant deputy commissioner (ADC) assured them their grievances will be resolved.Civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said, “Patients have been assured that their retesting will be conducted. They have also been informed about relevant government procedures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seeking-re-testing-patients-protest-at-tarn-taran-hospital/story-ig2dXawrFwa5gVUi7x4OSK.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s quarantined cop links copper wire thief to TikTok video, cracks case||Being quarantined for Covid-19 can have its benefits, as proved by a Chandigarh police constable who used the spare time to crack a case of theft after getting leads from TikTok videos and CCTV camera grabs, police said on Monday.Constable Gurjant Singh, working with deputy superintendent of police (DSP) central, Krishan Kumar’s team, identified Mukesh Singh, 20, and Manish alias Golu, 18, as the men who had attacked and injured city advocate Amit Sethi as he tried to stop them from stealing copper wire from the rooftop of his Sector 9 house on March 17.Gurjant Singh, who was given the task of scrutinising the social media accounts of people who worked in Sethi’s house while quarantined, found similarities between the suspect spotted in a CCTV grab and the TikTok videos of a domestic helper.Further investigations revealed that the helper was Mukesh’s sister and that he too had been worked for some time at Sethi’s residence.“The… person in the TikTok video resembled the thief seen in the CCTV video. That was our first clue that led us to Mukesh,” said Krishan Kumar.After his arrest Mukesh admitted that he had worked in the past with Sethi and had decided to steal the copper wires from there. But as Sethi, on hearing noises, decided to come up and investigate, Mukesh and his accomplice attacked and injured him.After committing the crime the two wanted to escape to West Bengal and had also booked train tickets, but the Covid-19 lockdown forced them to stay back, Krishan Kumar added.The two men were booked under Section 34 (acts done by several persons with common intention), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 379 (punishment for theft), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sethi had been treated at the hospital for injuries and released later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-quarantined-cop-links-copper-wire-thief-to-tiktok-video-cracks-case/story-TBNSLU2ePITrHeMiInqQpI.html
11-05-2020||City||Gym owner with criminal record shot dead in Kherki Daula||Gurugram: A 35-year-old gym owner was allegedly shot dead by at least three men over personal enmity at Naurangpur village in the Kherki Daula area on Monday morning. The gym owner, who had a criminal record, sustained at least 14 gunshot wounds, the police said.According to the police, the incident took place around 5.30am when the victim, Manjeet Yadav from Shikohpur, was taking a morning walk at a mini stadium in the village with his son, aged 8, and 15-year-old daughter. However, his two minor children escaped unhurt as they were in a separate area of the stadium at the time of the incident, said the police. Yadav was accused in at least five criminal cases, including the murder of a toll operator at Kherki Daula in 2011, in which he was later acquitted, the police said. Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Manesar, said, “The victim was also accused in at least three cases of assault and possession of illegal weapons. Preliminary probe suggests that the suspects had conducted a recce. Past enmity seems to be the motive. Several crime teams are trying to trace the suspects.”When Yadav was sitting on a bench, at least three armed men alighted from an SUV outside the stadium and approached him, the official said, adding that he was shot at from a close distance. The victim sustained at least 14 gunshot wounds in the chest, abdomen, head and legs. “Yadav was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared brought dead. At the time of the incident, his children were playing at a distance and heard the commotion. We are questioning them to identify the suspects,” said the police official, adding that Yadav was earlier an associate of gangster Bhanwar Singh, who was killed in a police encounter in 2018. In a police complaint, Yadav’s maternal uncle said that personal enmity was suspected to be the reason for the murder. “I received a phone call around 5.30am and immediately asked two relatives to rush to the spot,” he said in the FIR. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Kherki Daula police station on Monday. In 2011, a toll operator was allegedly shot dead after an argument over payment of Rs 27 toll fee in Kherki Daula. In the subsequent probe, Yadav was arrested as an accomplice of the main accused. However, he was acquitted in the case in 2015 for lack of evidence, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gym-owner-with-criminal-record-shot-dead-in-kherki-daula/story-aCRRJTuJ70J05X25iwwQyO.html
11-05-2020||City||State ASHA workers battle abuse, poor salary and lack of proper training||Gurugram On April 23, Rekha Sharma, 39, an ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activists) worker in Ballabgarh, had gone to a society in Sector 65, Faridabad, to conduct a door-to-door survey for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. As she was questioning the members of a family about their travel history, they started insulting her. Within minutes, a crowd gathered around her and started abusing her. “People were aggressive and abusive. They fished out wooden sticks from their houses and threatened to take us hostage. Within ten minutes, a police team arrived at the spot. Although they tried to intervene, they too were assaulted sticks and rods,” she said.Five people were arrested in the incident, which left Sharma and two police officials injured. Sharma’s case is not an isolated incident. A day later, another ASHA worker was allegedly assaulted by three men who had accused her of collecting data for the controversial National Register of Citizens (NRC), while conducting the survey in Nuh. Last week, another ASHA worker was harassed while her daughter, who was accompanying her, was allegedly assaulted by a family when it was asked to quarantine.Incidents of physical violence against frontline workers, such as medical professionals and ASHA workers, have been reported from across the state. The ASHA workers are tasked by the district administration to conduct door-to-door surveys in residential areas and collect data on people’s medical history. They are also required to advise residents about precautions, use of masks and social distancing norms. However, despite their difficult job requirements and stressful conditions, the ASHA workers in the state are battling several other challenges. These include harassment, violent attacks, inadequate training and lack of devices such as smartphones.Fighting misinformationOne of the toughest challenges faced by ASHA workers is the misconceptions people harbour against the exercise of collecting information. Parmila Sarvakar, an ASHA worker in Gurugram, said, “When we ask questions related to symptoms or travel histories, people get agitated and refuse to cooperate. They are sceptical and assume that the government is gathering information for other purposes. Some assume that the government will provide them with free ration. We are helpless at times as we are not giving away any free ration but simply taking down medical details,” said Sarvakar.Sajida, an ASHA worker in Nuh, said that she was assaulted after people thought that she was collecting details for the National Population Register (NPR). “On April 21, I had gone out to conduct a Covid-19 survey along with an Anganwadi worker in Nuh. In one house, people got irritated upon seeing us and asked us as to why we were conducting an NPR survey. They took away all our forms. I was beaten up in front of the sarpanch when I asked them about their symptoms,” said Sajida.As the ASHA workers come under the National Health Mission (NHM) the Haryana head of NHM said that workers have to write to the chief medical officer (CMO) and the deputy commissioner (DC) of their respective areas, asking for security. The mission director (MD) of NHM Haryana, Prabhjot Singh, said, “Assigning police does not fall under my domain; rather it is the duty of the deputy commissioner. The superintendent of police (SP) and the DC are required to maintain the law and order situation of their area.”Challenges of collecting informationThe health department has directed the ASHA workers to cover at least 50 houses in a day. Several ASHA workers said that people often withhold information about their illnesses due to the stigma attached to the disease and the fear of being quarantined.Hemlata Goyal, an ASHA worker in Faridabad, said, “In certain cases, people do not disclose the correct information. People are scared to report that a family member has flu-like symptoms as they fear that the health department will quarantine them,” said Goyal.Several ASHA workers said that the changes in guidelines for collecting information have also compounded the problem. Before April 9, the ASHA workers were given a three-point survey form requiring details, such as a person’s name, address and whether or not they were feeling well. The workers said that two days later, another elaborate form was given to them, asking them to return to the houses, where the survey had been completed.Meera Devi, a senior ASHA worker in Gurugram, said, “On April 11, we were given a 13-point form, requiring details of high-risk people, including details about a possible pregnancy, diabetes, high blood pressure, a heart condition, cancer, tuberculosis, kidney ailments, asthmatic conditions and their age.”“People got irritated when they were asked for additional details for a second time. A few of them even abused us,” said Sajida.Lack of trainingASHA workers alleged that they were provided training for barely two hours, which included inputs on how to differentiate between symptoms of coronavirus and influenza and how to recognise people who were at a higher risk of contracting the virus.“We were given training only for a few hours on how to do the survey. The training was verbal and nothing was given to us in writing,” said, Rekha Kumar, an ASHA worker and facilitator in Mewat.The ASHA workers also said that earlier they were given physical forms to fill up the information, which was handed over to their supervisors, who would then upload the information. But now they have been asked to upload the information on a smartphone, which many of them do not have.“Our seniors told us in the last week of April that we need to buy smartphones to fill in the details of the coronavirus survey. Most of the ASHA workers come from poor families and they cannot afford an android phone,” said Devi, an ASHA worker from Gurugram.Officials of NHM said that buying android phones won’t be an issue for the frontline workers but they can’t specify any date by which the phones will be given to them.“We have not sent out any written guidelines for the ASHA workers to purchase android phones. The process to procure mobile phones is underway,” added Singh.No monetary rewardsAnother issue bothering these workers is that while Haryana government has doubled the salaries of some frontline health workers, such as doctors, nurses and health workers, the ASHA workers have been left behind. Several ASHA workers complained of discrimination and demanded higher salaries and smartphones that would enable them to carry out their jobs.“The state government has discriminated against us. We are only getting ₹4,000 as salary. We don’t even know if the insurance announced by government covers us and whether our family members will even get the sum insured after our death,” added Goyal.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, however, had earlier announced that a life cover of ₹50 lakh against Covid-19 announced by the Government of India will be given to all doctors, nurses and Group C and Group D employees posted in Covid isolation wards, Covid ICU and Covid OTs. The ASHA workers fall under Group D category of employees. Khattar also announced an additional life insurance cover of ₹10 lakh for various employees including ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, police personnel and sanitation workers who are working in the containment zones and for all accredited and recognised journalists in Haryana, up to June 30, 2020.“The insurance cover is for ₹50 lakhs and government of Haryana is providing another ₹10 lakh ex-gratia amount also to them,” said Prabhjot Singh.Personal protectionThe ASHA workers said that they are provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) when they go out to the containment zones. Sarita, an ASHA worker in Gurugram, said, “We are given PPE kits when we go out and do a survey in a high-risk zone. When the survey had started initially, we were not given masks but then after a week or so we were provided with masks, one soap and a hand sanitiser. We have coped with every situation and are trying to survive in challenging circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-asha-workers-battle-abuse-poor-salary-and-lack-of-proper-training/story-98mtrqPfCjRavHIJvtVETO.html
11-05-2020||City||Three labourers buried alive in Haryana’s Sonepat||Three labourers engaged in sand excavation operations to lay a water pipeline in Sonepat’s Lath village died when a mound collapsed and buried them alive late on Sunday, police said.The victims have been identified as Ajit Kumar and Mukesh Kumar of the same village and Pradeep of Panipat’s Shaharmalpur town.Mukesh’s brother Rajpal said, “They were laying pipeline illegally to supply water from one field of a farmer, Pradeep, to another.” ASI Ramesh Chander of Gohana Sadar police station said they have sent the bodies for autopsy at the local civil hospital.“We have booked Pradeep under Section 304-A (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and started investigation into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-labourers-buried-alive-in-haryana-s-sonepat/story-1Quj5FCDqJZ5hOJS3WNHaJ.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Five-year-old among three new Covid-19 cases; Gurugram’s total count reaches 145||A five-year-old girl from Basai Enclave was among the three new cases that tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday. The two other positive cases include a man from Krishna Nagar and another from Sector 105. A total of 145 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Gurugram so far of which 67 persons have been discharged.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, district chief medical officer (CMO), said, “Three positive cases have been reported on Monday. A five-year-old from Basai Enclave contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus from her mother, who had tested positive last week. The mother and daughter were in contact with the family of a Covid-19 positive man who works as a driver for Delhi Police.” The man had confirmed positive for Covid-19 on May 3. In April, a two-year-old boy, a resident of Jharsa, had tested positive for the deadly infection, and was the youngest Covid-19 patient in Gurugram. Last week, he was discharged from the Covid-19 facility at SGT Medical College Hospital along with his mother. A 45-year-old bank employee, a resident of Krishna Colony, also tested positive for Covid-19. CMO Punia said the man was in contact with a colleague who was admitted to a private hospital last week after testing positive for Covid-19. The colleague has now been shifted to ESIC hospital. The health team is trying to trace the contacts of man from Sector 105 who tested positive on Monday. The man works as a taxi driver. “We are still probing how the man contracted the virus. Based on the information he gave, he used to visit a milk booth in his neighbourhood from where he seemed to have contracted the infection. The contact tracing in the case, however, is ongoing,” the CMO said.The district health team on Monday collected 139 samples for testing. Till now, over 8,356 samples have been collected in Gurugram as a part of contact tracing, targeted and random sampling. Out of these, 7,738 have tested negative, while test results are awaited for 473 samples. As many as 61 persons are under institutional quarantine in a Sector 9 facility.FOURTH COVID FATALITY IN FARIDABADA 65-year-old man died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Faridabad on Monday. This is the fourth Covid-19 death in the district. The man was a Sector 18 resident, and his death is the second Covid-19 fatality in the district in the last two days after a 72-year-old died of the virus on Sunday. Six more people also tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday in Faridabad, and the total number of cases in the district is now 102.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-year-old-among-three-new-covid-19-cases-gurugram-s-total-count-reaches-145/story-5qM66Cs5AwxLuEAFooxVzK.html
11-05-2020||City||Ggm: 36 private schools issued notice for flouting fee rules||Gurugram: The district education department on Monday said that it had sent a notice to 36 private schools for demanding fees, in addition to the monthly tuition fee, in contravention of the directives issued by the state government last month. In a statement released on Monday, district education officer Indu Boken said that the department had received around 175 complaints against 36 private schools in the district, following which action was taken against them as per rules. “We served a notice to the erring schools and asked them to comply with the government orders. All schools have resolved the concerns. Further action is not required since they are now complying with the government directives,” said Boken. Boken further said that the livelihood of many people had been adversely affected amid the lockdown due to which the government had prohibited payment of additional fee heads. She reiterated that schools could not take any punitive action against students for non-payment of fees.As per rule 158 of Haryana School Education Rules, the department can check the accounts of a school and take appropriate action in case of fee-related complaints. Schools are required to submit the details of fees charged in Form-6 every year.In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, the Haryana government had issued orders regarding the payment of fees on April 23, according to which only monthly tuition fee can be sought during the lockdown. Payment of other charges such as building fund, maintenance fund, entrance fee, and computer fee, under additional heads has also been deferred. The government also prohibited private schools from hiking the tuition fees or introducing hidden charges in the fee, and asked them to collect the tuition fee on a monthly basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ggm-36-private-schools-issued-notice-for-flouting-fee-rules/story-NibuGYixtIg6ZpldojkzuM.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||How prepared are you to tackle health crisis amid Covid-19: HC to hospitals||The Allahabad high court on Monday asked the state government to apprise it of medical facilities available in 11 hospitals of Prayagraj to cope with current health crisis risen due to spread of Covid-19.The hospitals are SRN Hospital, Prathamik Chikitsalaya Kendra, Dufferin Hospital, Colvin Hospital, Kamala Nehru Hospital, SN Children Hospital, Sardar Patel Memorial, TB Sapru Hospital, TB Hospital, Rajkiya Medical Care Unit, Phaphamau and Government Hospital, Prayagraj.The court has also asked the state government to inform it whether these hospitals have intensive coronary care units, intensive care and dialysis units, ventilators and mobile X-ray machines or not. The bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Siddhartha Varma further asked the state government to inform it about the number of qualified doctors and nurses working in these hospitals. Further, the state government was asked to furnish details regarding sanitisation and cleanliness drives carried out in these hospitals. On May 7, the high court took cognizance of a letter addressed to chief justice raising the issue of death of one Virendra Singh (of Prayagraj) who was corona positive and allegedly died due to laxity in treatment.The court also took cognizance of a video clip which is in circulation disclosing pathetic conditions at quarantine centres here.On Monday, the state government counsel apprised the court on the issue after which the bench observed, “The video which had been floated by the wife of the deceased also showed certain slackness on the part of the administration so far as the maintenance of the quarantine centres were concerned.”“The instructions as have been received by the e-mail show that there were sufficient steps taken by the state to improve the quarantine centres. The treatment which was administered to Sri VK Singh also appears to be appropriate,” said the bench on allegations that Singh died due to laxity in treatment. On May 5, advocate Gaurav Kumar Gaur sent an email to chief justice that wife of Virendra Singh had informed him that the quarantine centre where her husband and other family members were kept lacked hygienic conditions and that no adequate treatment was provided to her husband who later succumbed to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/how-prepared-are-you-to-tackle-health-crisis-amid-covid-19-hc-to-hospitals/story-Oc1vhSa4sdMXuvTKz2bexK.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Colleges yet to receive guidelines on exams, summer vacations||College students in the city, whose semester schedules have been disrupted by the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said that they were uncertain about the future course of action with little clarity over exams and results. Students said that they were worried about missing summer internships and placements and were hoping that the situation is resolved soon.The University Grants Commission (UGC) recently issued guidelines for examinations and the academic calendar, and suggested that colleges may adopt the calendar or modify it as per their needs. The state higher education department, however, is yet to issue any direction on the subject. College principals said that they had not received any specific directive from the higher education department on exams, assessments, and in the absence of any guidelines, remote classes would take place until the end of the lockdown.Pooja Khullar, principal, Dronacharya Government College, said that colleges were awaiting directions from the department and until then, online classes were taking place. “We have been informed that we will get an update soon. We will apprise students as and when we get clarity from the administration but until then, we can only wait and watch,” Khullar said.She added that teachers had been receiving many queries from worried students. “We have been receiving a lot of queries from students. Students in the final year, especially, tend to get worried as many of them plan to pursue higher education,” Khullar said.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that though the UGC had issued guidelines, the state government was yet to issue the guidelines that were to be adopted. He said that online classes would continue routinely till May 17 until there is clarity on the lockdown. Yadav said that the resumption of physical activities in the college might take a long while since it had been turned into a quarantine facility. “We are trying to utilise online resources wherever possible. While placement couldn’t take place on campus, we have tied up with a tech company for online courses which will help students in placements in the future,” Yadav said.Deepakshi Antil, a 20-year-old student of the Government Girls College in Sector 14, said that while there was no clarity on the final exams, classes were continuing remotely. “Class notes and assignments are shared with us. We also took an online internal assessment exam comprising multiple-choice questions,” Antil, a final-year student of History honours, said. She added that students were stressed since placement prospects looked bleak and there was little they could do in the absence of a clear schedule. “A job fair that was supposed to take place at our college was cancelled due to the lockdown. Right now, we cannot initiate anything new on the job front. We don’t even know when and how the exams will take place. Ambiguity prevails over the final exams and results too,” she said.Deepak Swamy, a final-year English honours student of Dronacharya Government College, said that many universities had already started seeking applications while exams were yet to start. “Some universities have already given out forms. With the current state of affairs, some of us are unsure if we should apply or wait until the situation improves,” Swamy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/colleges-yet-to-receive-guidelines-on-exams-summer-vacations/story-b1JYhwrTAsKE3fcwXu6NhP.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Three private hospitals collaborate to run a designated Covid-19 hospital||In a one of a kind initiative, three private hospitals in the city—Medanta, Fortis and Artemis—are collaborating to operate the Medeor Hospital in IMT Manesar as a designated Covid-19 hospital. The three hospitals will be providing their doctors, health staff and equipment to tackle Covid-19 cases. Officials and senior doctors said that setting up the dedicated facility will also help resume normal functioning and surgeries in city hospitals.The facility will be in addition to the other Covid-19 hospital, ESIC in Sector 9A, which is already under considerable strain after a surge in the number of cases in the city. Of the city’s 142 cases, over 60 patients are admitted to the 100-bed ESIC hospital. The district administration and the health department have also roped in six private hospitals—Metro, Naryana, Signature, Columbia Asia, Park and W Pratiksha—which will reserve 100 beds each for Covid-19 patients, adding 600 beds to the existing capacity.VS Kundu, monitoring in-charge for Covid-19 in Gurugram, said, “Medeor wasn’t functional initially as it lacked the adequate manpower and experience required to handle the Covid-19 load. The state health department’s initial plan was to requisition health staff and equipment from other districts to run the hospital but it was not sufficient. Instead, we thought of collaborating with private hospitals to make it functional.” The health department had first declared Medeor a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 treatment in March.According to Kundu, the idea to run a collaborative designated Covid-19 hospital was floated by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Medanta’s chairman and managing director Dr Naresh Trehan.Each of the three hospitals will provide four doctors along with 18 nurses in the first two weeks. Later, 18 additional nurses will be deployed. This will be in addition to Medeor’s current staff of 100 nurses and 30 doctors. Currently, Medeor has dedicated 120 beds for Covid-19 patients, which will be increased to 180 beds. A 20-bed ICU facility has also been set up to take care of critical patients. “We are currently limiting hospital services for Covid-19 patients. It is a 500-bed hospital, of which at least 120 beds are dedicated for Covid-19 patients,” Nihaj Muhammed, COO, Medeor Hospital, said. Dr Naresh Trehan said, “The hospital will cater to all Covid-19 patients, whether asymptomatic or critical. Later the plan is to involve a hotel or a facility in the vicinity of the hospital to keep asymptomatic patients or patients with mild symptoms.”“With this initiative, we will be able to help non-Covid-19 patients who are waiting for their surgeries and treatments. Surgeries have been paused in the last five weeks,” Dr Trehan said, adding it would help take away the psychological fear that visiting a hospital would make people contract the virus.Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, CEO, Fortis Healthcare, said, “A 120-bed hospital is sufficient for a couple of months. If necessary, we will increase the number of beds. We are utilising good infrastructure by pooling in resources. It will be easy for us to take care of non-Covid patients who are in immediate need of therapy, surgery and dialysis.”The three hospitals have been admitting patients since March after Covid-19 cases with travel history started being reported. Dr Sushila Katariya of Medanta hospital will handle the team of doctors at Medeor. She was a part of the team that treated 14 Italian tourists who tested positive in March and were admitted in Medanta.The state health department has also permitted home isolation of Covid-19 patients who have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic, only in case of requisite arrangements at the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-private-hospitals-collaborate-to-run-a-designated-covid-19-hospital/story-xSMxxnJEUECIsqFMkmq4RL.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Migrants, students distressed, anxious as landlords push for rent||A fortnight ago, Dinesh Kumar, his wife and his three children were allegedly evicted from their rented room in Bas Kusla village, Manesar, after Kumar, the sole breadwinner in the family, could not pay the monthly rent of ₹2,900 to his landlord. Kumar, a migrant worker, had arrived in the city in March from Panchhi, Kanpur, and started working at a garment company. After the lockdown was imposed, he lost his job.“The landlord asked me to either pay rent for April or to vacate the house. I pleaded with him and said that since I could not go to work, I did not have any income with which to pay him. He started misbehaving with us and asked us to leave,” Kumar said.Kumar packed his essentials in two bags and set off for Kanpur on foot, but was asked by the police to return. Finding no refuge, he settled in a vacant shanty in a slum near IMT Chowk. “We have been surviving on pulses and rice distributed in a government school nearby. Twice a day, I get food from the school. If the situation does not change and the lockdown continues, I shall try to start walking back to my village in Kanpur again,” he said.Kumar is among the many people in the city who have been hit the hardest due to the lockdown that was imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Struggling to foot bills as economic activity remains restricted, many—especially migrant workers and students—have been unable to pay rent and face eviction. The tenants said that they had been living in ‘perpetual anxiety’ as landlords continued to ‘push’ for rent. Several alleged that landlords had issued veiled threats of eviction and in certain extreme cases, threatened police action, to force them into paying rent.In April, the Haryana government had issued directions stating that landlords should not demand house rent for a month from migrant workers, students and paramedics in rural areas of the state. In the order, the authorities had said that if any landlord was found forcing such tenants to vacate, they would be liable to face strict criminal action. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued an order on March 29 asking landlords to stop demanding rent from students, workers and migrant labourers for a month.Despite the order, tenants allegedly continue to face harassment and repeated warnings. In April, at least seven landlords were booked and arrested for forcibly demanding rent from tenants in the city. Mukul Arya from Uttarakhand, who is a BA student in the city, has been renting a room for ₹6,000 per month at U-block in DLF Phase 3. “My father sends me the rent money but since the pandemic, his travel business has suffered. I told my landlord to defer the rent collection for a few weeks, hoping that the lockdown would end. But the landlord kept asking me for the rent. Last week, I vacated the room and have been staying with a friend since I did not want to burden my parents for the rent money in such a crisis,” he said.Anand Shankar, a postgraduate student of law at a private university, said that he had to borrow ₹10,000 from a friend to pay his rent for last month. “I do not know how I will pay another month’s rent. My father used to wire me money from Punia, Bihar, every month for rent. Since the lockdown, he has not been able to go to the bank and he is not well-versed with online payment methods. I have requested the landlord for some relaxation. Otherwise, I shall have to move to a smaller room with more affordable rent. But how do I hunt for a house during the lockdown?” he asked.As the lockdown continues, migrant workers continue to face the uncertain choice of leaving for their far-flung hometowns for an indefinite period or surviving on a pittance, hoping for work and economic activity to resume. Many, who were forced out of their shanties due to non-payment of rent, took shelter at relief centres run by the district administration for a few days before opting to return to their villages.Rohit Rawat, who worked as a cook in the city, stayed in a relief camp in Sukhrali as he could not afford to pay rent after losing his job. “I had no money or savings. The eatery where I worked closed down, forcing me to leave. I took shelter at a relief centre. But one cannot stay there forever. So, I returned on a bus to my hometown in Pauri Garhwal in Uttarakhand. I do not think I shall ever return,” he said.Harish Chand, who worked as a mason in the city for nine years, said that three days after the first lockdown was announced, his landlord asked him to pay rent or vacate his shanty in Gurgaon Gaon. “I was not getting any work and the landlord was continuously threatening me for the rent. So, I vacated the shanty and left for Tikamgarh, Madhya Pradesh, leaving all my belongings behind,” Chand said. He, his wife and five children walked 60 kilometres, took several buses along the way and hitched a ride from a truck driver to finally reach their village. It took them five days.Varinder Singh Kundu, the additional chief secretary of Haryana and nodal officer for Covid-19 in Gurugram, said, “In this regard, the administration is ensuring compliance with the orders of the government. Till the orders are not revised, they will be implemented. We had received feedback that some people were forcibly demanding rent and action has been taken in those cases,” Kundu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/migrants-students-distressed-anxious-as-landlords-push-for-rent/story-VqxqxlwtaceoLb0asU7aeJ.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Warring’s bid to cash in on migrant labourers’ travel home raises eyebrows||The local Congress leadership is facing social media flak and opposition disapproval for trying to draw political mileage out of migrant labourers’ crisis, after its Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Waring and other party workers distributed pamphlets among them, crediting the party with paying for their travel.The first such train from Bathinda, the Shramik Express, carrying 1,388 passengers had left for Muzaffarpur in Bihar on Sunday morning in which pamphlets were distributed. The pamphlets were distributed from the platform, with a video of the incident going viral on social media on Monday. Another train for Daltonganj in Jharkhand left Bathinda Sunday evening. To take credit, Congress leaders verbally said to labourers that its their party president Sonia Gandhi and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who paid for their travel. The pamphlets claim that its the Congress party which has come to help the people. “The central government is wrongly claiming that its making contribution in paying the rail fare of labourers but the fact is that Punjab government is fully paying the fare,” claim the pamphlets. Sharing the video over Facebook, a user Jagsher Sidhu commented, “People doing this should be ashamed, as irrespective of who paid for the travel, taking political mileage out of the plight of stranded migrant labourers is not done.” Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the administration had paid for travel expenses of migrant labourers from the State Disaster Relief Fund. NGOs helped with making arrangement for food, he added. Former Bathinda (urban) MLA and SAD leader Sarup Chand Singla said, “It is unfortunate that Congress leaders are trying to draw political mileage out of the condition of migrant labourers. The Congress has failed to provide help to the needy during the lockdown.” Bathinda Improvement Trust chairman KK Aggarwal, who also distributed these pamphlets said, committees of Congress workers had been formed to coordinate with the administration to ensure that the migrant labourers don’t face any problem. “There is no politics in what we did as it is not even certain if these workers will back and vote in Punjab. The state party leadership had designed these pamphlets.”Warring couldn’t be contacted despite repeated calls on his mobile phone. The former Youth Congress president, however, is no stranger to controversies. During a campaign address in Pilibanga assembly segment in Rajasthan assembly polls in December 2018, Warring had spoken of giving “Khansi Wali Davai” (cough syrup) to those who come to Punjab after electing a Congress candidate. He was accused of promoting liquor consumption.During panchayat elections in Punjab in December 2018, his video of allegedly saying that state government has many methods to reject or accept the nomination papers had also gone viral on social media. At the time, the SAD and the AAP had been accusing the Congress of rejecting nomination papers of their nominees on frivolous grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/warring-s-bid-to-cash-in-on-migrant-labourers-travel-home-raises-eyebrows/story-mMzdxsUy0v3x96qug5mZ7L.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University vice-chancellor nominated member of academic council of Central University of Haryana||Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has been nominated member of the academic council of Central University of Haryana. His three-year term started on May 7. Kumar said he will fulfill his responsibility to the best of his ability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-vice-chancellor-nominated-member-of-academic-council-of-central-university-of-haryana/story-Y1JWsxyiJYmExGzsTdpaeL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Woman sent home for ‘testing -ve’, brought back next day as ‘infected’||A 42-year-old Nanded-returnee woman from Baba Bakala sub-division in Amritsar district was sent home by the health department on Saturday for having tested negative for Covid-19 but was brought back the next day saying she was found positive for the disease, putting a question mark on the credibility of the testing process. The Lohgarh village resident, who returned from Nanded in one of the buses sent by the Punjab government on April 29, was quarantined at the congregation centre of Dera Radha Soami at Verka on the outskirts of Amritsar city.Her husband said, “The health department collected swab samples of my wife and other pilgrims who were quarantined on May 1. Of the 41 persons, 14 tested positive and were admitted to the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH0, Amritsar. The rest of 27 who tested negative were kept in isolation till May 9.”“I received a phone call on Sunday afternoon. The person on call informed me that they are coming to take my wife again as her report was positive. I brought it to the notice of the tehsildar concerned who too said the reports of 27 pilgrims, including my wife, were negative. But a health department team along with police personnel took my wife along,” he added.“I demanded from them the report in which she had tested positive. The report they provided me has no stamp and signature and looks like a forged one. The matter should be investigated thoroughly,” he said.Verka senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Desh Raj said, “This happened because there were two women of the same name.”On the other hand, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said, “She had not tested negative, but her report was pending. She along with other Nanded-returnees was sent home because we had to vacate the quarantine centre for more persons to be put under quarantine. Her report came on Sunday evening, according to which she tested positive.”Charandeep Singh Bhinder, a social worker who raised the issue with the health department, said another test should be conducted on the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-woman-sent-home-for-testing-ve-brought-back-next-day-as-infected/story-YCbitGz1nzEUxx3Y5c4PnL.html
11-05-2020||City||₹411 crore loan fraud: Arhtiyas allege cheating of ₹9.5cr by 3 Karnal exporters||Two days after the Central Bureau of Investigation registered an FIR against Ram Dev International and its directors Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Sangita, for allegedly cheating a consortium of six banks to the tune of Rs 411 crore, the commission agents of Karnal grain market allege that they also duped over 100 arhtiyas of Rs 9.50 crore.The commission agents on Monday alleged that the trio duped them of Rs9.54 crore as they had purchased paddy from Ram Dev International. The commission agents said that they were “the victims of the faulty policies of the government”.“We had raised this issue with the government in 2015 and 2016 but they did not take it seriously. The commission agents even took Sangita to the police station but no action was taken against her and other accused,” said a commission agent of Karnal grain market.They alleged that Sangita had come to Karnal to sell her plot and was arrested by the police who failed to take prompt action against her and she was later bailed out, they alleged. Responding to the allegations, Karnal superintendent of police Surender Singh Bhoria said, “The incident was reported in 2016-17 and I was not much aware of it. But the Karnal police were ready to extend all support to the CBI and other investigating agencies in the case if required.”Secretary of Haryana Ahrtiya Association Vikas Singhal said the government has a policy for procurement of parmal rice varieties which is procured by government agencies, but in case of procurement of Basmati varieties, the government does not have any role. “The government should take steps to protect arhtiyas so that such incidents can be stopped in future”, he added.“On one hand, the government has formulated a policy on procurement of paddy for government agencies, but on the other hand they do not intervene in case of procurement of basmati rice as it depends on the relationship between the buyers and arhtiyas”, said Karnal District Food and Supplies Controller Anil Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/411-crore-loan-fraud-arhtiyas-allege-cheating-of-9-5cr-by-3-karnal-exporters/story-Dp1c0mhOkOS0AJvBYDbnKL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||As migrant workers head for home, BJP, Cong play politics in Punjab||In the midst of the battle against the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress in Punjab are attempting to make the most of the migrant workers’ crisis.As members of the state unit of the BJP claimed that the Congress-led government did not provide the migrants any relief or benefits, because of which they had left the state, the Congress blamed the worker exodus from around the country on the BJP, saying it had “abandoned” them.In Mohali, around 1 lakh migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand have registered with the administration to go back to their states, of which around 12,000 have already left by trains and buses. Some have walked back. More trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are scheduled for the coming week from Mohali.Sahibee Anand, national executive member, BJP Youth Wing, said on Monday: “We tried to stop some of the migrants who were going to Bihar, but they were adamant, saying that for the past two months they had not received any dry rations from the government.”“The state government has not done anything to stop them. This will result in huge economic loss to industry and agriculture,” added Arun Sharma, BJP councillor.Accusing the BJP of stooping “low in this time of crisis,” Rajinder Singh Rana, former district president of the Congress, Mohali, said, “migrant workers are not only leaving from Punjab, but the entire country as the Union government has failed to provide them food and shelter in the most difficult times.” “It’s BJP’s habit to play dirty politics every time. Now the migrants have understood BJP politics in the entire country, and how they have been treated in this bad phase in their life,” said Rishabh Jain, senor deputy mayor.He said he hoped they would be back in two months when the situation normalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/as-migrant-workers-head-for-home-bjp-cong-play-politics-in-punjab/story-cjLKDZYmfAdXhmbXPjXY9O.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt to build database of migrant workers||The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the revenue department to prepare a data base of migrant workers coming back to UP from various states. This database will be uploaded through software.Giving this information, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officers of all the state government departments to prepare a work plan for generating 20 lakh jobs for employing migrants in various sectors. Work in this regard has started.The revenue and labour departments will register the details of all the migrants, whether they are skilled or unskilled, he said.Around 22.27 lakh labourers were given jobs in various schemes being run in 44,242 gram panchayats, he said, adding 17 lakh workers will be employed in 64,912 medium and small scale industries in the state. Besides, 11,000 labourers have been employed in 544 projects launched by the public works department and another 10,000 labourers have been employed in construction of expressways, he said. MIGRANT INFLUX: SURVEILLANCE PANELS PUT ON ALERTThe state government has alerted the surveillance committees headed by gram pradhans in rural areas and ward councilors in urban areas about to the arrival of a large number of migrant workers from across the country to Uttar Pradesh.Giving this information, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the gram pradhans and ward councillors were directed to maintain vigil on the migrant workers arriving at the quarantine centres in the respective gram panchayats. They will also have to keep watch on the migrants who have been sent to the villages for 21 days’ home quarantine.They will have to ensure that migrant workers adhere to the state health department’s Covid protocol by remaining in home quarantine, not mixing with local people and going for regular screening. Their health report will be dispatched to the district magistrate and the chief medical officer’s office.The surveillance committee will have to alert the district administration and the health department if the migrant workers reach their native place without screening or completing 14 days quarantine.The officers said several migrant workers were returning from red zones. Hence, the surveillance committees have been directed to ensure that migrants do not go home directly from the railway station. They should first visit a shelter home and get screened, the officers said. Those cleared by the health team will go home for 21’ days home quarantine, while those infected or having symptoms will stay in quarantine facilities for 14 days, the officers said.The village surveillance committee headed by the gram pradhan includes Asha (accredited social health activists), anganwadi workers, and volunteers of Yuvak Mangal Dal. In urban areas, the ward councilor heads the surveillance committee. Asha workers, civil defence members and representatives of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) are its members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-to-build-database-of-migrant-workers/story-VO5nCXnRXGPI0MhM8SrgLM.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: One death, 39 fresh cases in Punjab, tally now 1,932||A 91-year-old Jalandhar resident found infected with the coronavirus died at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, while 39 more people tested positive for the disease on Monday, taking the state’s infection tally to 1,932.The state so far has witnessed 32 Covid-19 deaths. The nonagenarian, Darshan Singh, a resident of Kaboolpur village, was earlier admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar with renal problem and was referred to the CMCH later. His was reported sixth death due to the coronavirus in the district.14 FOUND INFECTED  IN JALANDHARFourteen fresh cases were reported in Jalandhar district which so far has 188 positive cases. Of the 14 patients, 12 Qazi Mohalla residents, including three children are close contacts of a 30-year-old man who died at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. Two more youths, aged 17 and 15, also tested positive.A 29-year-old man of Hoshiarpur district’s Tote village, who had returned from Delhi, tested positive. Also, a resident of Mehrampur village near SBS Nagar district’s Banga town was detected to have been infected.AMRITSAR GETS 10 MORE CASESIn Amritsar district, the samples of 10 more persons, including five labourers, came positive for the coronavirus on Monday.Now, the total tally of the district has reached 296.The labourers were living in a rented accommodation in the city, health department officials said.Also, a 40-year-old man was tested positive in Tarn Taran district on Monday. With this, the tally of total cases in the district has reached 162.9 CASES SURFACE IN FATEHGARH SAHIBNine persons, including a Punjab Police constable, were tested positive for the coronavirus in Fatehgarh Sahib on Monday, with the district tally rising to 57.Civil surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said the constable, a Patiala resident, is posted at the district excise department. Four cases were reported from Behrampur village, three from Khamano and one from Kotla village of the district.Contact tracing has been initiated, he added.TWO CASES IN MOGA,  ONE IN FARIDKOTTwo persons, who had come in contact of infected Hazur Sahib pilgrims, tested positive for the disease in Moga, taking the district’s count to 58.One of the patients is a resident of Baghapurana sub-division. He has been isolated in a government hospital there while the second patient is resident of Daulewala and was admitted to the isolation ward of the Moga civil hospital.Also, a 60-year-old Faridkot resident was tested positive in Ludhiana.The district presently has 42 active cases.“The fresh swab samples of 26 suspected persons, who had returned from Takht Sri Huzur Sahib, were sent for test after results of their previous samples were reported inconclusive,” civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said. (Inputs from Faridkot and Moga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-one-death-39-fresh-cases-in-punjab-tally-now-1-932/story-eh7DRk5VhU6AFfWXyShYgP.html
11-05-2020||Noida||One killed, two injured as car rams stationary truck on Yamuna Expressway||One person was killed and two others injured when a speeding Hyundai Xcent car hit a stationary truck on the Yamuna Expressway, near Rojina village underpass in Rabupura on Monday. The victims -- Rupendra, Shafeek, and Soshan --were on their way to Narela in Delhi from the Agra side when the accident took place. Soshan was killed while the other two are undergoing treatment at Kailash Hospital.Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said a wheat-loaded truck was coming from Agra to Ghaziabad which broke down near Ronija underpass around 6am. “The truck driver had parked the vehicle on the left and he was trying to fix it. Around that time, the three persons in the speeding car reached the spot and the car driver could not spot the stationary truck. The car rammed the stationary truck,” he said.Police said it seems that the car driver may have fallen asleep at the wheel, resulting in the accident. A police team reached the spot after getting information from passerby. “The victims were rushed to Kailash Hospital where doctors declared Soshan dead on arrival. Shafeek and Rupendra are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Their condition is not yet stable and they were not able to make a statement to the police,” he said. Police said the body of was sent for a post-mortem examination and the reports are awaited.Police said they are trying to contact the victims’ family members. Police have not received any complaint in this regard as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-killed-two-injured-as-car-rams-stationary-truck-on-yamuna-expressway/story-uJ14JOyPutDrTs50rfEQ4O.html
11-05-2020||City||19-year-old design engineer becomes first plasma donor in Noida||19-year-old design engineer Neha Jha on Monday became the first patient to donate her plasma for the convalescent plasma therapy after recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The design engineer is an employee of fire solutions company Ceasefire —which is responsible for at least 44 coronavirus cases in Gautam Budh Nagar. Jha donated her plasma at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida. According to officials at GIMS, a total of four patients who have recovered from Covid-19 will donate their plasma for the experimental procedure. “We are extremely thankful to Neha for donating her plasma, as it can prove helpful in treating critically ill patients. She is the first one who has donated plasma in our hospital, but there are other recovered patients, who are willing to donate their plasma. The plasma can help in treating Covid-19 patients as it can increase the fighting capacity of their immune systems. We will soon collect plasma from other patients, and use it for treating patients,” Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS, said. Jha was admitted to GIMS on March 26, and had tested Covid-19 positive on March 29. After she recovered from the deadly disease, she was discharged from the government hospital on April 22.“I decided to donate my plasma because I want to help others against coronavirus. I want to tell people that if one is mentally strong and motivated, then defeating the virus is not very difficult. Doctors at GIMS kept us motivated through counselling sessions and regular interactions,” she said. Jha is a resident of Sector 27, and working at Ceasefire— where she got infected with Covid-19— was her first job experience.Meanwhile, doctors GIMS and all officials handling the Covid-19 outbreak are all set to create a plasma bank at the Greater Noida facility.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, who is also the district in-charge of handling Covid-19 efforts, said the plasma bank can help in treating serious Covid-19 cases at GIMS in the future.“We have expressed our gratitude to Neha for being brave and coming forward to donate her plasma. She is a corona warrior in the true sense because after defeating the disease she is helping others to fight it. With the plasma bank treating patients in future at GIMS and other hospitals can be easier,” said Bhooshan, who thanked Neha via a video call.GIMS officials said they have received the green signal to start clinical trials for convalescent plasma therapy “We will give the plasma to critically ill Covid-19 patients. One plasma donor can help many others in getting this treatment. The plasma therapy involves taking antibodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from Covid-19 and transfusing those antibodies into an active Covid-19 patient to help initiate the immune system to fight the infection,” Dr. Gupta said.So far, a total of 135 patients, out of 224 Covid-19 cases, have been cured in Gautam Budh Nagar. Two patients have died in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-design-engineer-becomes-first-plasma-donor-in-noida/story-cf5mdzfoNxdOf8fGqkPBWL.html
11-05-2020||Noida||Many sneak out for work from sealed Khoda, cops stop their re-entry||Hundreds of daily wage earners who had snuck off to work on Monday morning from Khoda colony —a locality that was sealed by the Ghaziabad administration on Sunday after 15 Covid-19 cases were reported from there— were unable to return home in the evening with the police stopping them from entering the locality.On Sunday afternoon, about 50 of the 52 entry/exit points of the colony were barricaded and entry and exit to the general public was disallowed, except for those involved in essential services. According to the Ghaziabad health department officials, Khoda has reported about 17 cases (including two residents testing positive on Monday) since April 22 and a death, though the death audit report is yet to confirm the cause. The man, however, had tested positive for Covid-19.On Monday, as certain industrial units resumed operations in Gautam Budh Nagar, many daily wage earners left their residences in Khoda for their workplaces in Noida in the morning. But while returning, they were stopped at the Noida border and not allowed to enter Khoda.“We returned by the same route that we took in the morning but now we are not being allowed to go back because police say that the border is sealed. If so, why were we not stopped in the morning? I have children waiting for me at home. Now police are chasing us away from the border. How will my children manage if I don’t go back home?” said Sumita, a resident of Khoda working at a factory in Sector 58.According to estimates, Khoda spreads over an area of about five square kilometres and is located between Noida, Ghaziabad and Delhi. The officials say Khoda’s population is about 2.85 lakh but it’s estimated that the actual population may be more closer to four lakh.Khoda is vital to all three surrounding cities as a majority of workers in industrial areas, domestic helps and others engaged in small-time jobs in these cities live in the colony.Noida police said that any interdistrict movement is not allowed as per the government guidelines and most of these people often fine alternative routes to enter the district.“Crossing district boundaries is a violation of lockdown norms. Only people involved in essential services are allowed to do so,” additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh said.The Ghaziabad district magistrate did not respond to calls seeking his comment on the matter.“In Red zone and Orange zone (areas with most number of Covid-19 cases) , movement of people is not allowed without passes. We have made repeated announcements in Khoda that there is a restriction on people’s movement. If any person sneaks out from Khoda, then that person has violated a law and will face consequences,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), Ghaziabad, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/many-sneak-out-for-work-from-sealed-khoda-cops-stop-their-re-entry/story-Uo5hmmGHpkIT4cGwp0iOGP.html
11-05-2020||Noida||Lok Nayak Hospital nurse among six new Covid-19 patients in GB Nagar||Six new Covid-19 cases were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases to 224 in the district. The new cases include a woman from Sector 12 who works as nurse at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital and three residents of Sector 66, health officials said. Giving details of the new patients, the officials said that a 22-year-old man undergoing treatment for some neuron disorder at Kailash Hospital in Sector 27 was found positive for coronavirus. The man is a resident of Sector 8 which is the most problematic cluster for the officials to contain the Covid-19 spread in the district. Around 52 persons have been found positive for the deadly virus from the JJ Colony of sectors 8, 9 and 10 till now.“The contact tracing team of the health department is identifying all the medical staff of the hospital and others who came in contact with the infected person. All such persons will be put under quarantine for 14 days,” said a senior official from the health department. Kailash Hospital authorities could not be contacted for comment despite multiple attempts.Also, a 40-year-old woman related to the 62-year-old man from Sector 66, who died of Covid-19 on Friday night, was found positive for coronavirus. Besides, two men, a 27-year-old and another 29-year-old, were also found positive for the infection from Sector 66. The duo had links with another patient from the area who was found positive earlier.Another two Covid-19 patients include a 53-year-old woman and her 48-year-old husband from Sector 12 of Noida. The woman is a staff member at the Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi. The officials suspect that she contracted the infection at the hospital.Till now, over 37 medical and paramedical staff of different hospitals have been found positive for Covid-19 in the district.Meanwhile, district magistrate Suhas LY said that around 90% of the patients admitted by May 1 have been cured in GB Nagar. Till now, 135 patients have been discharged from various hospitals after being cured, while two people have succumbed to Covid-19. “We are giving hydroxychloroquine for one week and Tamiflu for five days in the first week. If the viral clearance report is positive, then only hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin are given in the second week. Our results have been very good. Condition of none of our patients who had developed pneumonia got deteriorated as the treatment is working on them,” said Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, head of medicines, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).Meanwhile, GIMS has started collecting plasma from the discharged patients to upgrade the treatment of Covid-19 patients as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Four recovered patients have donated their plasma for the treatment of others.As per the ICMR guidelines, the convalescent plasma therapy will be used on moderately severe patients. The officials said they have identified one patient who has been recently admitted at GIMS to use the new therapy on. By Monday night, the health department collected a total of 4,034 samples. Currently, there are 87 active Covid-19 cases in the district, while 452 persons are under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/lok-nayak-hospital-nurse-among-six-new-covid-19-patients-in-gb-nagar/story-oDqJ8yxZVbxfIAGflFyvaK.html
11-05-2020||City||Ramprastha colony sealed 8 days after woman tested Covid positive||In an alleged case of laxity, the district administration took more than a week to seal an area of Ramprastha Colony, after a woman living in the area tested positive for Covid-19.According to norms, an area is to be sealed within 24 hours of a positive case being detected.Officials on Monday also said that they had issued notices to three highrises and sought their response over certain directions issued by their respective RWAs.In connection to the Ramprastha Colony issue, a 43 year-old-woman from the area had tested positive on May 1. But the sealing of the area was allegedly taken up a week later, on May 9, as per directions issued by additional city magistrate Devendra Pal Singh, who is also the incident commander of the assigned area.“It was probably after someone called up and informed the officials that they arrived to seal the area on May 9. Restrictions had been put in place before the sealing and one back gate of the colony had been locked,” said AK Gupta, a resident.The residents said that about 100-125 houses are affected due to sealing.Additional city magistrate Devendra Pal Singh, however, claimed that he issued directions for sealing as soon as he received the written information from the health department.“We issued the order of the sealing only when we received the letter from the health department. There was probably some delay on part of the health department in issuing the order. The total houses affected could be about 12-15, as per our estimates,” he said.Chief medical officer of the district, Dr NK Gupta, said that the sanitization of the areas is to be taken up immediately once a patient is identified as Covid-19 positive. The area is to be sealed immediately.“We issue the order to request sealing on same day or the next day. We will probe to find out when the order was sent to the administration officials,” he added.Meanwhile, the district administration on Monday also issued a statement stating that they have issued notices to three highrises — Gaur Green Avenue, Apartment Owners Association of Neelpdam Kunj and River Heights Phase-1 — after they allegedly issued some orders which were beyond their purview.Subodh Tyagi, the president of the River Heights Phase-1 apartment owners’ association (AOA) said that they had put up notices in their society in which they had threatened to levy penalty of Rs 11,000 against anyone who brings in outsiders in side the society, which has 750 flats.The notice put up by the AOA also said that in case the penalty is not deposited, the light and water connection of the resident may be disconnected“We simply put up a notice as a deterrent and have not collected any fine till date. The notice was put up as people have been bringing their relatives, friends and outsiders, whose health status we don’t know. They also misbehave with the guards. We have sent a communication to the district magistrate and sought his permission to implement the order,” Tyagi said.“But there has been no response till date. What do we do if the infection spreads in the highrise? ,” he added.The RWA of Gaur Green Avenue also said that they will speak to the district magistrate about the notice.“We have put up certain restrictions about entry of domestic helps and milk vendors. Some resident might have complained. We will speak to the administration,” said Deep Pant, secretary of Gaur Green Avenue RWA.A notice was also issued to Apartment Owners Association of Neelpdam Kunj. Office bearers of Neelpdam Kunj association said the notice might be due to an earlier letter issued by them, which was based on an “appeal” issued by CMO and the municipal-commissioner.In their letters, the two officials had asked the zonal in-charges to get in touch with the respective RWAs and councillor and request doctors and healthcare workers, working in Delhi, to restrict their movements to Delhi.“The matter was resolved after a detailed meeting by district magistrate along with Indian Medical Association u=in which we were present there. Our communication was withdrawn on the same day. It was based on an appeal issued by the CMO. We will approach the administration about the notice issued,” said Ram Tiwari, president of the board of managers of the association.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and chose not to reply to a detailed query sent to him about the issue.The members of the federation of association of apartment owners said that they had written letter to the district magistrate last week and sought directions for entry or restricting activities of domestic-helps, plumbers, technicians etc among other points.“The Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate had issued certain guidelines in this regard but no such guidelines have been issued in Ghaziabad. It is because there is no clarity from the administration, the RWAs or the AOAs are forming their own set of directions which are creating confusion,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ramprastha-colony-sealed-8-days-after-woman-tested-covid-positive/story-ks1QmUV2wMgNaPhfjlPVwM.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt invites suggestions on protocols for classroom learning after lockdown lifts||: The Delhi government on Monday invited suggestions from students, parents, teachers and school principals to develop a protocol for schools once they open after the Covid-19 lockdown.Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said he will initiate a dialogue with key stakeholders of school education before finalising protocols. “We have faced challenges in the past; the difference this time is that the entire world is facing it together. Soon, we will learn to live with the coronavirus disease. Slowly, things will open up and so will the schools. However, this also means that new ideas of schools and learning will have to be scripted,” he said.The education minister said that the time has come to think out of the box. “For decades, schools had a set pattern, standardised classes, times, way of functioning. These need to be re-imagined now,” he said.The Directorate of Education (DoE) has also put up a form, through which suggestions can be made, on its website. “Students, teachers, principals and parents whose children are studying in schools can give their inputs. Respondents submitting practical and out of the box suggestions will be invited to share their thoughts with the Education Minister of Delhi through an online platform,” the Delhi government said in a statement.Sisodia will invite stakeholders from across the city for discussions in the next few weeks. “The dialogue sessions will be centred on how each stakeholder views the challenges and opportunities created by the Covid-19 situation, constraints we are likely to face in times to come and steps that need to be taken from now onwards to create an education set up that ensures equitable quality learning and well being of all children in post lockdown phase,” the statement read.Principals of private schools in the city said that the way schools operate will now completely change. Principals say that social distancing, rotational classes, regular sanitisation of the buildings and discontinuation of large gatherings, for annual day and sports days, will be the new norm when schools reopen.Amita Wattal, principal of Springdales School on Pusa Road, said that the schools will have to make major changes in the allocation of funds. “We will have to spend more on technology, buying licences of online platforms, sanitisation and hygiene. The schools will have to cut down on functions like annual events and sports day to avoid gathering and unnecessary expenditure. We will have to spend more on online training for teachers,” she said.Some said they will explore the possibility of holding both online and offline classes to avoid all students on campus.Manju Sethi, principal of Bluebells School International, said, “We will have to call students in batches only. We can’t call all of them at a time since it’s unsafe for them to travel in buses in a large number. For that, we need a blend of online and offline modes of education throughout the year. We will wait for the DoE protocols.”Experts say that the schools should hold have only one-fifth of the class strength on campus and rotate the students in batches. “This could be done till the vaccine is found or we are able to handle the peak,” said educationist Meeta Sengupta.However, if students were to be divided into multiple batches to ensure social distancing measures, completing the usual syllabus can be a challenge. “Schools could think of dividing curriculum into red, orange, and green zones and divide them into concentric circles, depending upon their importance. The division should be such that core syllabus should enable students to do self-study in non-core areas,” said Sengupta.On newer avenues for the education system, Sengupta recommends a community-based learning model where schools could function as smaller units, locally. “The Delhi government has already created a mohalla clinic model. They could think of something similar, like a mohalla education model where students could approach a parateacher or support staff to help them with their learning,” said SenguptaThe National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) is also preparing school safety guidelines to be followed when classroom learning resumes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-invites-suggestions-on-protocols-for-classroom-learning-after-lockdown-lifts/story-TRDfSuoqpRHx7QXVhuS8KM.html
11-05-2020||Noida||Covid test results stuck after NIB’s machine malfunctions||Gautam Budh Nagar district is facing delay in getting Covid-19 test reports, following a technical snag in the sample testing machine at National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) in Noida. Over 100 samples from NIB have been shifted to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida after the snag was reported.The district health department has been facing trouble in getting Covid-19 sample reports for the last few weeks. Following the crisis, GIMS was asked to develop its lab for Covid-19 testing, along with NIB. In the month of March and the beginning of April, samples were being sent to labs at Aligarh Muslim University, Meerut, National Centre of Disease Control and other places. Later, NIB and GIMS were roped in to exclusively test Covid samples for Gautam Budh Nagar district .Till Monday, the district had reported 224 Covid-19 positive cases and two deaths.In the last week of April, GIMS authorities had to face criticism after hundreds of samples were ‘wasted’ and most reports came out to be ‘inconclusive’.The inconclusive reports forced officials to collect samples from suspected Covid-19 patients a second time, leading to panic and restlessness among those who are currently under quarantine at various government centres in the district.On Sunday night, samples from NIB were shifted to GIMS, which led to delay in results. GIMS authorities started conducting tests from 6am on Monday, with a target of testing at least 250 samples. “We have received samples from NIB and are conducting the Covid-19 tests. We started testing from 6am on Monday because we wanted to complete testing of around 250 samples. Our teams are working round-the-clock to clear the pending lot,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director GIMS.Uttar Pradesh government has also given its nod to use the molecular labs of Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida and Jaypee Hospital in sector 128 in Noida for testing samples. These two were waiting for a final go ahead from the state government.“We have sent all Covid-19 samples to GIMS as our testing machine has malfunctioned. The problem started from Saturday evening. We are expecting that the problem will be resolved by Thursday and we will be able to conduct tests again,” said a senior official from NIB.Meanwhile, the family of a 55-year-old woman continued waiting to claim her body from GIMS mortuary till Monday evening, despite her Covid test result coming negative. The woman was a resident of sector 128 and her husband is a constable with the Delhi police. The woman had complained of vomiting after which she was taken to the district hospital in Sector 30 of Noida.Doctors at the district hospital suspected her of having the virus and her sample was collected. On May 6, the condition of the woman deteriorated after which she was referred to GIMS, where she died during treatment.Authorities were not able to hand over the body before they get her Covid-19 reports.“We will now be handing over the body to her family members as she has been found negative for the virus,” said the GIMS director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-test-results-stuck-after-nib-s-machine-malfunctions/story-YfIv6bmdEWQLQ3JcpzjliI.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||One more tests positive in Kangra; state tally now 59||One more person from Kangra district tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday taking the state’s tally to 59.The 63-year-old patient, a resident of Choundha village of Kulthi panchayat near Kangra town has been admitted to Dharamshala Zonal Hospital after developing flu-like symptoms and his sample was sent to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda for testing which came out positive today.The patient has been shifted to a Covid treatment facility at Baijnath and authorities have started his contact tracing.Kulthi Panchayat and surrounding villages are being sealed and no movement will be allowed in the containment zones.With the fresh case, the total tally of Kangra has gone up to 10 including one fatality. Currently, there are five active cases in the state.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a jump in Covid-19 cases with a total of 19 cases reported in eight days including one fatality.The number of active cases has jumped from one to 18, in the corresponding period.So far, the state has recorded 59 cases, including two casualties. The first case was reported on March 20 in Kangra. Thirty-five people have recovered, so far.Una is the worst-hit district with a total of 17 cases followed by Chamba with 12 cases.Ten cases have been reported in Kangra; nine in Solan; four in Hamirpur; three in Mandi and; two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur.As many as 11,269 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state and more than 14,200 are currently placed under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-more-tests-positive-in-kangra-state-tally-now-59/story-U2ieWpvJIyiz4hTWs955KJ.html
11-05-2020||City||Match the following: Projects needing workforce, shelter home inmates desperate for jobs||As thousands of migrant workers, many of whom have been rendered jobless by the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), continue to return to their villages and home towns, infrastructure agencies such as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) are struggling to find the workforce needed to complete their projects in Ghaziabad.The district administration on Sunday said it has sent about 3,000 migrant workers to their respective home towns on buses and, last week, had sent another lot of 350 workers to Rajasthan. A majority of migrant workers were taken to shelter homes set up in the district soon after the lockdown was announced and they have now been dispatched in buses to their home towns.The officials, however, seem to have no plan at hand about using these workers for infrastructure projects, a move that could help address two crucial problems -- joblessness and workforce shortage.“Currently, we have got permission to restart work on the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) project but we have only about 27% of our workforce available for the construction of Phase 2 and Phase 4 of the DME. The workers who are at shelter homes can help with our project, provided they are ready to work and has the required skill set. We have proper arrangements to house workers at two of our bigger camps in Dasna and Bhojpur -- both have a combined capacity to accommodate about 1,000 workers,” RP Singh, project director, NHAI, said.The NHAI contractors, who require unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers, are presently hecticly searching for labourers, even in nearby districts of Aligarh, Bulandshahr, etc. “We require about 1,200 workers for Phase 2 of the DME project and currently we have only about 350. We are searching for workers in areas such as Bulandshahr, Bareilly and Muzaffarnagar. But most workers have returned to their home towns. We also tried to search for workers in Khoda, but that locality is sealed now. We will now try to contact workers at shelter homes. If they are willing and have the required skill set, they can be hired. We will get in touch with the district administration about this,” said Vinod Kumar, senior engineer (planning) from Apco Chetak, the concessionaire company taking up Phase 2 construction of the DME project, said.The NHAI said the ongoing lockdown will further delay the completion of the DME project and will overshoot its revised deadline of May 2020. The shortage of workforce has only aggravated the delay.Likewise, the work on the Regional Rapid Transit System project, being carried out by the NCRTC, will also be affected, though work has restarted at its casting yard.The NCRTC officials, too, feel that migrant workers can be gainfully employed by them, if they have the required skill set.“Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the demand and supply of manpower. While workers staying in shelter homes are looking for employment opportunities, employers are facing worker shortage after their regular workers returned to their home states. As such, matching available skill set with the demand is one of the challenges being faced by officials and any idea that can help bridge the gap is welcome and will help both the industry and workers,” Sudhir Sharma, chief public relations officer, NCRTC, said.Sources in NCRTC said they have restarted work with a workforce of about 1,000 and their numbers will have to be scaled up once construction picks up speed.District labour commissioner Rajesh Kumar Mishra said the possibility of such an engagement of migrant workers can be facilitated with the help of the district administration.“It is up to the workers in the shelter homes if they wish to work for these agencies. We have about 28,700 registered workers with us who work at different construction sites. Even agencies like NHAI and NCRTC have to get their workers registered with us. At present, there is no such mechanism wherein the workers sitting idle at shelter homes can be engaged. But the agencies will have to get in touch with district officials on how to go about engaging them,” he said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and messages, seeking his response on the issue.The Uttar Pradesh government had asked district officials concerned to get forms filled up by migrant workers, specifying their work experience and skill set. Using this information, the state government plans to build a database of about 20 lakh workers who can be provided with employment opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/match-the-following-projects-needing-workforce-shelter-home-inmates-desperate-for-jobs/story-UiES5dYXkOO0qGbg0lUZCL.html
11-05-2020||City||Greater Noida allows 356 industries, 91 housing projects to resume operations; 36,000 workers to be engaged||Amid some relaxations in the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown, the Greater Noida authority has allowed 356 industrial units and 91 housing projects in the city to resume their operations. Authority officials said that these commercial activities will be able to engage thousands of skilled workers and construction labourers. In 356 industrial units, a total of 24,220 employees will get work, while 12,186 labourers will be engaged in work at the various construction sites, the officials said. The authority hopes that allowing construction projects to resume work would help stop migration of labourers to some extent.“We have issued permission to the industrial units and housing projects to resume work as per the guidelines issued by the state government. We have rejected permission to those entities, which do not fulfil the laid down norms. The move is likely to engage construction labourers and skilled workforce,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority.Of 1,105 industrial units, which had applied, 749 were rejected permission to operate as they did not fulfil the conditions mentioned in the guidelines of the state government, said the authority officials.The industrial units have been told to properly sanitize their premises before starting operations, and they will have follow all standard operating procedures and social distancing norms. If any unit fails to adhere to norms, then it will be shut immediately and action will be initiated against the company, the officials said. Similarly, the real estate developers will have to sanitize their respective sites before resuming construction works. The developers can resume construction at those sites only where labourers are staying. Pankaj Singh, president of Greater Noida industry association, said that those industry owners who have got permission are engaged in the task of opening up their respective units. “Resuming operations after the closure of one-and-a-half months is not easy as it takes time to arrange workers and restart machines. Besides, the industries will have to face problems with restrictions at Noida-Delhi borders because many workers travel between the two cities. It will take time to come to normalcy,” Singh said. According to the officials, there are at least 60,000 migrant workers and dependent people, who are staying in Greater Noida.“If the migrant workers get jobs and food, then they will not need to go to their hometowns. We aim to allow operations at as many industrial units and construction sites, which want to resume work following social distancing norms,” said another authority official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-allows-356-industries-91-housing-projects-to-resume-operations-36-000-workers-to-be-engaged/story-MYdKGdMb11KePD0hXKH9vK.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Students write to state govts seeking financial assistance to pay rents||: A section of students living in rented accommodations — private hostels, PGs and apartments — in Delhi have written to chief ministers of all 28 states and the principal secretaries of eight Union Territories seeking financial assistance to pay their rents. The students, part of a recently formed students’ group called Student Tenants’ Union Delhi, on Sunday sent emails to their respective states and union territories for help. The group has around 250 students residing in different parts of the city.“We are writing to you to draw your attention towards the plight of a large number of students who are finding it difficult to pay rents due to the financial instability that has been placed on them and their families due to the nationwide lockdown. Even after the lockdown is lifted, it won’t be possible for them to pay a bulk amount of rent for all the proceeding months, which fall under the period of lockdown,” the letter read.“The ministry of home affairs and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has issued two separate orders, stating that eviction of any student tenant from their rented accommodation in any circumstances during the lockdown period is illegal. However, the orders does not mention anything about forgoing rent. Many students, despite the order, have had to face eviction threats and attempts have been made by the landlords to coerce them into paying complete or partial rent,” the letter added.The students said they understood that the landlords will incur losses owing to non-payment of rents, and have therefore requested the state governments to intervene. “Please have a dialogue with the Delhi government to compensate these landlords in a way you might deem fit,” the letter added.The students contended that an order issued by the Delhi government on April 22 — wherein it had asked landlords not to demand payment of rent for one month — will expire soon. “Wherever the workers, including the migrants, are living in rented accommodation, the landlords of those properties shall not demand for a period of one month. And if any landlord is forcing labourers and students to vacate their premises, they shall be liable for action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the order had stated.Media advisors to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal refused to comment on the issue.Landlords are saying they will take full rent from this month citing the fact that the order was for last month. Students are really under stress. We had written to the Delhi government last week. Now we have approached our respective state governments to seek help. Till now Kerala and Chandigarh have responded to the requests and said they will take up the issue,” said Varkey Parakkal, a member of the students’ group and a Delhi University student.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA joint front said they would welcome assistance from the state governments. “It will be better if the state government help students to pay rent to landlords. Some landlords completely depend on the rent for their existence. We have already requested the landlords to cooperate during the lockdown, if they can afford,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/students-write-to-state-govts-seeking-financial-assistance-to-pay-rents/story-ReaB970XuqNAn7737fFpxJ.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD demands dismissal of Congress-led Punjab government||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday urged Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore to dismiss the state government on grounds of breakdown of the constitutional machinery even as it condemned Congress ministers for browbeating the executive in the meeting of council of ministers.Addressing the media here, former minister and SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the state cabinet should resign on moral grounds or be dismissed for refusing to acknowledge the head of civil services appointed by the chief minister. He also made it clear that the entire drama had been enacted by the ministers to safeguard their illegitimate loot at the cost of the state exchequer.Majithia added that the ministers took on the chief secretary because the latter had earlier pointed out in a pre-cabinet meeting that the state had incurred revenue loss because Congressmen were patronising illicit liquor, with special reference to Bathinda district. “A free and fair inquiry by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court is needed to unravel the Rs 2,000-crore scam,” he demanded. The SAD leader said Karan Avtar Singh was handpicked by the government by superseding other officers. He said that the officer had always been given outstanding reports during the Congress regime, but had now turned “bad” suddenly four months before his retirement. “It is clear that the ministers have ganged up against him as he is the last defence and bulwark of the system,” Majithia alleged.Holding finance minister (FM) Manpreet Singh Badal solely responsible for the current state of affairs, Majithia said the FM had announced only a short while ago that the state was revenue surplus. “Now, he is stating the opposite even though the lockdown happened in the last week of March when the financial year closes,” he added.Stating that it was the people who were suffering while Congress ministers tried to bully bureaucrats to do their bidding, the Akali leader said Punjab had the worst mortality rate in the country as far as Covid-19 was concerned. He said even as the health system was in a shambles, people were being denied ration which had led to one suicide already.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-demands-dismissal-of-congress-led-punjab-government/story-nnVFgh4cZTWMacAAK8fBjJ.html
11-05-2020||Noida||Staring at heavy losses, realty sector seeks waiver on taxes, deferment of payments for a year||The global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has entailed a nationwide lockdown since March 25 to control its spread has brought sales to a halt in the realty sector, stopped all business activity and suspended constructions for the last 46 days. The unprecedented crisis has prompted developers to seek a slew of relief measures from the Uttar Pradesh government and the Centre, without which, major developers Monday said, the survival of the sector itself would become a challenge. “Without a relief package from both the Uttar Pradesh government and the Centre, we do not believe that the business will survive in the post-Covid-19 days. The revival of this already crisis-ridden sector is a distant dream in view of recent liquidity crisis if the government will not announce quick financial help. As of now, we are focusing on survival and need immediate help from the government,” Prashant Tiwari, president, western UP wing of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), a builders’ lobbying group. Credai is set to demand the postponement of land cost dues, waiver on taxes, waiver on stamp fee and other benefits in an interaction via video conferencing on Tuesday with the Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister for industrie Satish Mahana and principal secretary (infrastructure and industrial) Alok Tandon. The developers’ demands also include mortgaging unsold stock (ready flats), the reduction of interest on project loans, waiver of interest on land cost dues if civic amenities are delayed, a waiver on time-extension charges, financial dues delinked from occupancy certificate issuance, the postponement of financial dues on housing projects, a waiver in stamp duty for one year, the reduction of prevailing impractical circle rates (property cost at which flats or plots are sold) to boost sales, and a waiver on electricity charges for builders during the lockdown period, among others.Around 50% of total the 3.5 crore daily wage labourers, who were earlier employed in realty projects in different cities across the state, have lost their livelihoods and more may stand to lose jobs in the absence of a relief package, said a survey conducted by the National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), another builders’ group. The same survey said this crisis will not only affect livelihood of seven crore (in the country) daily wagers and skilled or semi-skilled professionals, but also negatively impact homebuyers who have invested around ₹32.24 lakh crore in the real estate sector across the country. In Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway region alone have an investment of around ₹50,000 crore, according to an estimate done by NAREDCO.“If the Uttar Pradesh government will not quickly address the crisis, then things will get out of hand. The UP government must declare one year after Covid-19 as a “zero period”. During the zero period, the UP government must postpone collection of housing land cost. Besides that, the government should not charge lease rent, stamp fee and other taxes for the period so that the sector can get a chance to stand on its feet. The ministry of finance should restructure business loans, reduce interest rates, reduce goods and services tax, simplify fresh loans, ensure handholding by banks and make way for last-mile funding from banks at low interest rates if they want this sector to survive. Realty has already lost ₹2 lakh crore in the past 45 days of closure,” said RK Arora, president, NAREDCO, Uttar Pradesh.In Noida, 20 builders have sought permission to resume constructions and Greater Noida has given permission to restart work on 91 realty projects. In Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway region, around 600 ongoing housing projects owe the government around ₹40,000 crore in land dues. And they are repeatedly failing to repay land cost dues owing to a the dip in sales over the last two to three years. On repeated defaults, these three authorities are imposing compound interest that can go up to 20%. And now the Covid-19 crisis has further aggravated the financial distress, developers said.“Our sales offices are shut, nobody can come out of their homes or purchase inventory, and construction sites are already closed. Labourers are leaving for their home towns. Covid-19 has made things worse for most builders who were already battling a financial crisis. And as the business is hit, all other dependent businesses such as supply of labour, construction material, and small scale industries are suffering. The UP government should give us a year’s time to finish construction and deliver projects. Along with the time extension, the government should also defer payment of all kinds,” said Amit Modi, vice-president, Credai.Industries minister Satish Mahana said the government will extend the zero period sought by developers. “The UP government will certainly give a zero period as the real estate sector was affected due to Covid-19 pandemic as all activities including construction remained shut. The government is seriously considering all demands made by builders because we do not want homebuyers, who have invested their hard-earned money to suffer. And the livelihood of labourers and professionals who are employed with developers and the survival of other dependent businesses are interlinked with real estate sector. Therefore, the government will address all issues being faced by them (developers).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/staring-at-heavy-losses-realty-sector-seeks-waiver-on-taxes-deferment-of-payments-for-a-year/story-wi7H8fBuIm1zjK77Z9YbLJ.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Digital farewells in the time of Covid-19||Earlier this year, Ritika Agarwal, a final-year undergraduate student at Delhi University’s Miranda House, picked out a purple saree for her college farewell, which was to take place in the second week of April. With the nationwide lockdown in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the 20-year-old had given up all hope of saying a proper goodbye to her classmates and teachers. Her juniors, however, had other plans.“We didn’t expect anything because of the pandemic. One day, out of the blue, our juniors shared an Instagram account with us. What we saw overwhelmed us,” Agarwal said.Through the Instagram account, the Economics department of Miranda House organised its first-ever virtual farewell for the outgoing batch, complete with activities, testimonials, Instagram filters, and dance performances.Bahana Saikia, president of the Economics Society, said they realised that holding a farewell on a video conferencing session with over 200 students would be a difficult task. “So we created an Instagram account with a virtual yearbook that had a small note on each of our 68 seniors,” she said.The group also worked on a customised Instagram filter with the departmental logo on a graduation cap and asked their seniors to put on their farewell outfits at home.Those who attended the four-day farewell, which began on May 5, said the filter was an instant hit and photos started pouring in the moment it was up online. “We asked our seniors to dress up since we knew many of them had already bought sarees for the farewell. With the north-east Delhi riots in February, followed by the Covid-19 pandemic in March, they were already stressed out. They didn’t even know that the last day they attended college would end up becoming their actual last day at college. We just wanted to do something nice for them,” Saikia said.The juniors posted dance performances and several photographs to the private Instagram account.“All of us were excited and kept waiting for the posts throughout the day so that we could comment on them simultaneously. When we were all asked to dress up, I video-called some of my friends and we even danced together at our homes,” Agarwal said. “This virtual farewell let us acknowledge our memories and talk about things. This might not have happened at the actual farewell since there is very little time and people are mostly engrossed in clicking photographs. The best part is that we can keep revisiting the page.”Miranda House principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said that the college was also planning to hold a virtual Founder’s Day ceremony and graduation farewell programme towards the end of the month.Students from several other higher educational institutes in the Capital besides Miranda House, including Gargi College, St Stephen’s College, IP College for Women, Hindu College, and Delhi Technological University (DTU), have also been organising virtual farewells for their seniors.Like Miranda House, DTU created an Instagram account for the farewell of its outgoing batch. While the event was scheduled to wrap up by May 10, the account is still active as students continue to upload posts for their seniors.The account saw live artist performances, a DJ night, and messages from the university’s cultural council which organised the farewell for around 2,000 graduating students.“At previous farewells, students would have a Scribble Day where they’d write messages on each other’s shirts. For the virtual version, we created an online form to collect personalised messages for final-year students and create their own scribble-board on Instagram,” Bhavya Akhoury, 20, a member of the cultural council said, adding that they hosted performances on Instagram between May 8 and May 10.Pranav Gupta, 22, a final-year student at DTU, said, “It cannot be compared to a regular farewell but it did cheer us up during a trying time. The DJ night was a unique experience. We have organised multiple farewells and so we were expecting to have fun during our own as well. The most fun part was the titles they bestowed on us. They made customised posts as well.”The filmmaking society at Gargi College took things further and organised movie and game nights during the three-day virtual farewell celebrations, asking their seniors to follow the “strict no-casual wear policy.”Karnika Gupta, 19, said that for the movie night, the seniors decided to watch Bollywood flick Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham with the members of their society. “We were simultaneously dissecting the movie on WhatsApp and making memes. Next day, the four-hour-long game night was held over a video conferencing app since our society has only 24 members. We also recorded a video for them wherein each member recited a line of the poem written for them superimposed on photos.”But did these efforts match up to the excitement of a real-life farewell? Zara Khan, 22, a final-year student at DTU, said. “The event shone like a ray of hope during an uncertain time. Maybe digital is the way forward and this is what the new normal will be. The event gave us a chance to get comfortable with that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/digital-farewells-in-the-time-of-covid-19/story-hQZg2Lbtgc2ZyRihc0YdXP.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||UP: Liquor costlier, new excise policy starts on gloomy note||The Uttar Pradesh excise policy for 2020-21 came into effect from Monday, 10 days behind schedule, with liquor business starting to a low-key response. The new liquor prices, announced by the state government on April 6, also came into effect from Monday but vendors said the business was doing badly due to the lockdown.“Shops have opened but the lockdown is also in force and this means that customers are hardly able to visit us. Curtailed sales’ timings – by three hours – has also impacted trade. The increase in liquor prices too could deter some. The rush for buying liquor was seen on May 4, when liquor shops opened to long queues. Ever since, barring some centres in western UP, the queues have died,” a vendor said.“New rates have come into effect from Monday. Excise inspectors visited our shop on Sunday night to find out how much old stock we have left and told us that only new stock with latest prices will be sold,” a liquor seller, who had applied for renewal of his shop, said.“The excise department made it mandatory for new licensees, who took over the liquor business on Monday, to procure licences before starting their business, as against the previous practice of allowing them to function even as licenses were being made,” another liquor seller said.Many liquor sellers said that they plan to approach the government citing relaxation in minimum guarantee quota (MGQ) for country liquor as well as in the liquor licence fee, which has already been deposited for the entire year by nearly all shopkeepers. The government is looking to mop up an additional revenue of Rs 2,350 crore from the increase in liquor prices.For most of Sunday, excise officials were in their offices finalising fresh liquor sales’ arrangements as those sellers whose liquor licence expired on March 31, but were given seven days time to clear stock, would now hand over the shop to new licensees. “There are several renewal cases and all in all, from Monday, several new liquor sellers will arrive in the business,” an official said.The state government had set an excise target of Rs 31,600 crore for 2019-20, against which it earned Rs 27,323 crore till March. The lockdown started at the end of March and the six-week closure of liquor shops cost the state exchequer heavily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-liquor-costlier-new-excise-policy-starts-on-gloomy-note/story-CMWQEKfoFFW1XIna1ktyAP.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||J&K chief secy reviews arrangements for arrival of stranded residents at Jammu rly station||Chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam on Monday visited the railway station and took stock of the arrangements put in place for the receipt of stranded UT residents set to arrive by train from other parts of the country.Subrahmanyam said it is imperative that all the passengers deboarding at the railway station go through the mandatory protocol and follow the guidelines issued by the administration.He informed that the administration has ensured all arrangements with regard to testing and providing quarantine facilities to the passengers.Deliberating on the measures taken to ensure registration of all the returnees, he said data entry operators have been deployed to record the particulars of the passengers at the railway platform.The passengers will be asked to follow social distancing norms while getting off the train to check the spread of coronavirus disease during the process, Subrahmanyam added.The district administration has been asked to ensure registration and allocation of buses to the passengers for their onward journey to their home districts without hassle and inconvenience.TRAINS LEAVE FROM BENGALURU, GOAThe first train carrying stranded J&K residents started its journey from Bengaluru on Sunday morning with around 1,000 passengers. As per an official statement, this train is likely to take 48 hours to reach its destination. “The entire process of boarding was organised while strictly adhering to the standard operating procedures to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” the statement read.Another train from Goa too left with J&K natives and is likely to reach Udhampur in 36 hours. Similarly, 37 stranded persons, including 11 students (four girls and seven boys) left from Agra on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-chief-secy-reviews-arrangements-for-arrival-of-stranded-residents-at-jammu-rly-station/story-CT5kwXXyGzc02rJlWYXftL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||All arrangements in place, train returnees to be tested, quarantined: J&K principal secy||All set for the return of J&K residents stranded across the country, UT principal secretary Rohit Kansal said on Monday that arrangements were in place and the special trains would start reaching Udhampur from Tuesday.The inflow through trains was preceded by the regulated road transportation of the stranded persons via Lakhanpur and airlifting of Kashmiri students from Bangladesh.Kansal told HT that each one arriving in Jammu and Kashmir, be it by road via Lakhanpur, trains or by air is being tested for Covid-19. “Same procedure will be followed for those coming to Udhampur in trains,” he said.Two trains from Bengaluru and Goa, which are already on their way to J&K, will reach Udhampur on Tuesday morning.The UT administration has decided to allow arrival of only two trains in a day, keeping in view the handling capacity of the railway station and testing facilities at Udhampur.“While adhering to social distancing guidelines, the passengers will be ferried in state road transport buses, which would be disinfected twice before and after each trip,” said Kansal.Stating that a proper quarantine protocol had been put in place, the principal secretary said, “While some returnees will be sampled and tested in Udhampur, those hailing from Jammu, Kathua, Samba, Kishtwar, Doda and Kashmir division will be tested in their respective districts.”All of them will be sent to administrative quarantine facilities in their respective districts.Kansal informed that the administration has made an app — transit management information system —wherein records of all passengers will be available.“After deboarding the trains, details of the passengers will be uploaded in the app at the control room. It will have all their particulars, including information of sampling and results for easy and efficient monitoring,” he said.As per rough estimate, over one lakh J&K residents are away from home.“They include students, labourers, families and people working in various sectors. As of now, J&K has four modes of entry — by road via Lakhnapur, through Shramik Special trains, other trains and air travel. Irrespective of the mode, every single person entering the UT shall be tested for Covid-19 infection. This hasn’t been done by any other state or UT, but we are doing it to be doubly sure that the infection doesn’t spread into the community,” the principal secretary ensured.The Udhampur administration has created a fresh sample collection capacity of 1,000 per day for the train returnees.District commissioner Dr Piyush Singla said magistrates along with other staff members have been deployed to receive these passengers at the Udhampur railway station. Data entry operators have been deployed to guide the passengers about the process of online registration on the app.The nodal officer at the control room will get the real-time data for database management, which will facilitate the allocation of buses for onward journey of these people to their hometowns immediately.“Returnees shall be provided refreshment and water bottles at the railway station. We have earmarked a holding area with district-wise seating arrangements, proper shade and chairs. Sanitisation tunnels have also been established and sanitisers will be made available. Packed meals with water bottles will be served to these people ahead of their bus journey. Sufficient staff has been deputed to guide these passengers for registration and sitting in the buses concerned,” Singla said.Meanwhile, Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh said that the first passenger train that was scheduled to leave from Delhi to Jammu on May 12, will now depart on May 13.“This has been done to give authorities more time to make necessary arrangements,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/all-arrangements-in-place-train-returnees-to-be-tested-quarantined-j-k-principal-secy/story-gWvK0Zvt8FuD8PXYKbkDLJ.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Public dealing in Chandigarh offices put off till May 18||The UT administration, on Monday, postponed the start of public dealings in its offices from May 11 to May 18. As per the order issued by UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, all Sampark centres will now open on the morning of May 18.The offices will continue to function with maintenance of proper hygiene, social distancing and sanitisation. About 33% staff in C and D categories will continue to attend office, but in case of urgency, the heads of departments have the freedom to call any employee for any duty, stated the order.The decision comes in the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases reported in the city in the last week. The Centre, on May 1, had also extended the nation-wide lockdown till May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/public-dealing-in-chandigarh-offices-put-off-till-may-18/story-VEsXwbiZPgijRxEmXncUqM.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn to test all incoming NRIs for Covid||All non-resident Indians (NRIs) returning to Chandigarh from abroad will be tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) three days after they have arrived in the city.“A confirmatory Covid-19 test and a 14-day quarantine in the city’s hotels will be mandatory for the returnees,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.In the daily review meeting on Monday, Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the health officials to ensure that all foreign returnees are duly tested.Officials have maintained that around 5,000 NRIs are expected to return to Chandigarh. But the number may vary depending on foreign approvals and Indian government’s capacity to fly them back.Most of these are expected to come via Delhi, and the rest from Amritsar and Chandigarh international airports.“Presently, we have not got any list of persons coming. But, on Tuesday and Wednesday, two international flights are arriving in Delhi. We are expecting to get more details about them soon,” said the official.In March too, around 2,200 NRIs and city residents travelling abroad had returned to the city. Notably the first positive case in the city was that of a foreign-returnee.CTU BUSES TO BRING BATCHESEven though two foreign-returned persons have already landed in Delhi, they haven’t been brought back to the city. They have been quarantined in a Delhi hotel.“Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses will be sent to Delhi for bringing back the foreign-returned persons to the city in batches. Till then they will be quarantined there,” said the official.Earlier on May 8, the UT administration had decided that all those landing in Delhi will be quarantined there and those landing in Amritsar as well as Chandigarh airports will be isolated in city hotels on payment basis.But the decision had to reversed after Delhi authorities on May 9 said they can’t keep them there for more than three days. 5 PRIVATE HOTELS SHORTLISTEDMeanwhile, the administration on Monday shortlisted five private hotels for quarantining the persons returning from abroad. “Hotel Lemon Tree, Industrial Area Phase 1; Hotel Fern Residency, Industrial Area Phase 2; The Piccadilly, Sector 22; Homtel Hotel, Industrial Area, Phase 2; and Hotel Regent, Sector 35; have been shortlisted. Their final confirmation is awaited,” the official said.Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) hotels - Mountview in Sector 10, and Shivalikview in Sector 17 - have already been declared as quarantine facilities.Principal secretary, health, Arun Kumar Gupta said necessary arrangements have been done to enlist a panel of hotels for accommodating the foreign-returnees.Badnore directed the UT officials that since the paying capacity of the returnees will vary, there should be a range of payment option.Meanwhile, Hotel Mountview premises have been sanitised and the staff has undergone requisite training for handling the guests. Hotel Shivalikview is also all prepared to provide the facility, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-test-all-incoming-nris-for-covid/story-0Oo5VYeuex6Oc6hKGLlwGP.html
11-05-2020||City||Alarm in police force as 8 more BMP jawans test +ve||PATNAEight members of Bihar Military Police (BMP) were among 50 people who tested positive for coronavirus in Bihar on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 746 in the state.Eleven cases were reported from Patna, five each from Khagaria and Sheikhpura, four each from Begusarai and Nawada, three each from Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur, two each from Supaul, Madhubani, Nawada, Gopalganj, Bhagalpur and Banka and one each from Purnea, Sitamarhi and Saharsa.With eight more cases in the BMP, the total number of infected in the Bihar Police has gone up to 21, including 13 from the BMP alone.All eight fresh cases were reported from Khajpura area of Patna, where the BMP station, housing over 10,000 personnel from different battalions, is located. While Khajpura was earlier declared a hot spot, the BMP campus itself was designated as a containment zone after five jawans tested positive.Sources said samples from over 320 jawans have been sent for tests. Apart from 13 BMP members, eight other policemen have also got infected.“Policemen are here, there and everywhere. Be it railway stations, main roads, hospitals or even different colonies and villages, they move to places they also have no knowledge about in advance and hence are more vulnerable,” said a medical officer.The home department has asked the police headquarters to boost the immunity of all jawans and provide proper supplements after consultation with experts.ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the police headquarters said, “We have already asked for door-to-door screening on the BMP campus. That is important now.” Meanwhile, 23 patients recovered during the last 24 hours from different facilities in the state. Out of the total 746 Covid-19 cases, 377 patients have recovered while six have died, the most recent fatality being on Sunday.As on Monday, Munger topped with 115 cases, followed by Patna (72), Rohtas (59), Buxar (56), Nalanda (50), Siwan (33), Kaimur (32), Begusarai (31), Madhubani (26), Bhagalpur (25), Bhojpur, Gopalganj (20 each), Auragabad (15), East Champaran, Darbhanga (14 each), Nawada (13), West Champaran, Katihar, Arwal, Khagaria (11 each), Saharsa (10), Madhepura, Kishanganj (9 each), Saran, Samastipur, Gaya (8 each), Muzaffarpur (9), Sitamarhi, Sheikhpura (7 each), Banka, (6), Jehanabad (5), Lakhisarai, Araria, Vaishali (4 each), Sheohar, Supaul and Purnea (3 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/alarm-in-police-force-as-8-more-bmp-jawans-test-ve/story-sTRh8MPn83HmO6CuHhFypJ.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Gas cylinder delivery man dragged for 50 metres while trying to recover cash robbed by three Iranians||A 29-year-old man clung on to the window of a Honda City car that dragged him for about 50 metres after three men, suspected to be Iranians, robbed him near the Chirag Delhi Flyover in south Delhi on Friday afternoon, police said.The desperate effort of the man, who delivers LPG cylinders, to recover his money did not go in vain as motorists on the road came to his help and blocked the car from escaping.Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police (south), identified the gas cylinder delivery person as one Satish Pathak, a resident of Khanpur.“Around 2.30pm on Friday, Pathak was riding towards Chirag Delhi Gaon with gas cylinders on his bicycle. At a U-turn near the Chirag Delhi Flyover, three people, including a woman, pulled up in their silver Honda City next to him and asked him for the rate of a gas cylinder,” DCP Thakur said.When Pathak told them the rate, the woman allegedly pretended not to understand either Hindi or English and asked him to show him the amount.“When Pathak brought out ₹11,800 from his pocket, one of the two men stepped out of the rear of the car and snatched the money. He then pushed Pathak down and got back in the car,” the DCP said.But Pathak got back up immediately.“It was a lot of money to lose. I couldn’t let go, so I clung on to the car’s window and refused to let go,” Pathak said. “The man occupying the rear seat repeatedly kicked my hands, but I didn’t let go,” he added.DCP Thakur said the car dragged Pathak for about 50 metres, but he escaped unhurt by keeping his legs in the air.“Suddenly, I noticed a scooter rider pass by. I shouted for help and he parked his scooter in front of the car. Soon, another man parked his motorcycle in front of the car,” Pathak said.Pathak and the public cornered the suspects. The police soon arrived at the spot and took the suspects to the Hauz Khas police station where they booked and arrested them for robbery.The police identified the arrested persons as a couple and their male friend from Iran. “We are investigating if this is their first offence or if they have been involved in more such crimes,” the DCP said.The attempted robbery took place amid the Delhi Police’s claims that most crimes have dipped in the national Capital since the lockdown came into effect. According to their data, robberies and snatching dipped by 62% and 253% respectively between April 1 and 15, compared to the corresponding period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gas-cylinder-delivery-man-dragged-for-50-metres-while-trying-to-recover-cash-robbed-by-three-iranians/story-TvuxsotKTDqTbn5GB5fRxJ.html
11-05-2020||City||Man kills pregnant wife for stepping out of the house in Dakshinpuri||New Delhi: A 29-year-old woman, who was five months pregnant, was allegedly murdered by her husband at their home in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri near Ambedkar Nagar late Sunday night. After strangling his wife, the man walked to the Ambedkar Nagar police station and confessed to the crime. The police rushed to his home, where they found the woman dead on the bed.Police said the man, Vijay Sonewal, told them that he was angry because his wife, Hemlata, had stepped out of house during the lockdown. His wife’s family, however, alleged that Sonewal was an abusive husband and often got violent during arguments.Sonewal, an auto driver, had found his house locked and his wife talking to some people in the neighbourhood when he returned with food from a nearby eatery around 9pm on Sunday, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur, quoting Sonewal’s statement.Hemlata’s family members on the other hand alleged that Sonewal used to torture her ever since their marriage in December 2018. They said that Hemlata had filed for divorce barely six months into the marriage because of the domestic violence and Sonewal’s abusive behaviour.“However, the court had asked my sister and Sonewal to resolve their marital discord by staying together. But Sonewal never mend his ways and the domestic violence continued,” said Hemlata’s sister Asha. Police couldn’t immediately verify if the case was indeed filed. Around 12.30am on Monday, Sonewal came to the police station and claimed that he had murdered his wife at home. A police team was sent to his home, where his wife was found strangled to death on the bed on the ground floor, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said.“A case of murder was registered and Sonewal was arrested. His wife’s body was sent to AIIMS mortuary for autopsy,” the DCP said.The police said Hemlata was Sonewal’s third wife while her’s was also the second marriage after her husband passed away almost five years ago. Hemlata’s eight-year-old daughter was at her maternal grandparents home when her husband allegedly murdered her after a fight.Asha said that her sister worked as a caretaker in a private school. “She had to leave the job because of her husband,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-pregnant-wife-for-stepping-out-of-the-house-in-dakshinpuri/story-VESof7ONFd7BFf8n2PMPWI.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmir on high alert amid threat of attack on security forces||Anticipating attack on security forces, high level security arrangements were put in place across Kashmir on 17th Ramadan, the day of Badr, when a few hundred Muslims led by Prophet Muhammad took on their powerful opponents in Arabia and won. The attack was speculated as militants have also targeted security forces in the valley on this day on several occasions in the past. Last year also, there were similar reports about the possibility of attack on 17th Ramadhan.“Keeping in view, the past experiences when militants chose this day to target security forces on this day, the security was beefed up in Kashmir,” a senior security officer said.Meanwhile, mobile internet that was suspended last week after Hizbul operational commander Riyaz Naikoo was gunned down by security forces at his village Beghpora in Pulwama was yet to be restored.Keeping in view the two attacks on the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in north Kashmir’s Sopore and Handwara areas which left six CRPF personnel dead and more than five injured, the officials were apprehending similar attacks on CRPF.During a high level meeting in Baramulla last week, IG Kashmir Vijay Kumar had asked forces personnel, especially CRPF, to maintain vigil on ROP and Naka duties to foil militants bid to attack them.Meanwhile, additional checking points were set up on national highways and other sensitive places and messages were passed to security installations asking them to be on alert. Even the army’s RR units have enhanced the mobile patrolling in towns and villages.Meanwhile, the day passed off peacefully without any attack on forces in the Valley.2G INTERNET TO BE RESTORED AFTER RAMADAN 17 Top officials told HT that only once Ramadan 17 passes of peacefully that the 2G services could be restored in the Valley.Sources said that the government had decided to restore prepaid mobile phones on Friday night, however, during a high level meeting attended by top officials of security agencies in Srinagar, it was decided that mobile internet would remain suspended till Monday.“It was decided to restore internet only after Ramadhan 17, as there were inputs that security forces might come under attack on this day ,” the security officer said.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole termed the suspension of internet as temporary. “The mobile internet will be restored soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmir-on-high-alert-amid-threat-of-attack-on-security-forces/story-oggRon1DgmzqcixBHPVYnK.html
11-05-2020||City||Chandigarh University introduces scholarship to empower women||Chandigarh University launched a scholarship plan for all its distance education programmes of the July 2020 session to promote women’s empowerment.The announcement was made to mark International Mother’s Day. Under the plan, 20% academic scholarship will be offered to housewives, women working in government and private sectors, anganwadi workers, Asha workers, those working in unorganised sector and drop-out female students for all distance and online education programmes offered by the university. Satnam Singh Sandhu, chancellor, Chandigarh University, said, “We are offering academic scholarships to encourage women to continue with higher education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-university-introduces-scholarship-to-empower-women/story-VWJHXL7LwZNcDjVzbTpdKP.html
11-05-2020||City||GMADA office to reopen with 33% staff on rotation, no public dealing||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) office will reopen on Tuesday with 33% staffers after a gap of 50 days. There will be no public dealing until further orders are passed. The GMADA office is situated in Sector 62 and had been shut due to nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.According to the orders issued on Monday, the staffers will come on rotational basis. However, all employees of the engineering department will have to attend office.A senior GMADA official said the officials will be clearing pending files and will come on rotational basis according to the roster.He said people can send communication regarding any case through post, courier or via electronic mode at helpdesk@gmada.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-office-to-reopen-with-33-staff-on-rotation-no-public-dealing/story-RwRA3Ok6QIkxLn5QMgpPVK.html
11-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 23 new cases; tally touches 344||Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) recorded 23 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total tally to 344.A total of 39 patients were discharged -- the highest in a span of 24 hours.The KDMC health department said the revised rules for discharge of Covid-19 patients have led to more discharge of patients in the city from Monday. “As per the new guidelines, more patients will be discharged from hospitals. Monday saw the highest number of discharge. A total of 39 patients were discharge from two Covid hospitals and a quarantine centre,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.Of the new cases, are a one-month-old baby from Dombivli and a 16-year-old boy from Kalyan. Nineteen of those who tested positive are of those travelling to Mumbai for work and their close contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-23-new-cases-tally-touches-344/story-7FvpatTiYQGsjhwYsv2FXO.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Schools in and around Chandigarh chalking out plan to reopen with precautions||Making use of odd-even scheme, combining online with classroom education, providing disinfectants and sanitizers at every point, and training on social distancing—these are a handful of practices that various schools of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula are planning to adopt after the lockdown ends and institutes reopen.After reports that the ministry of human resource and development and the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) were planning to reopen schools, many heads in the region have written to officials for clarification.Niyati Chitkara, principal of Chitkara International School, Chandigarh, said, “The reopening of the school would require infrastructural changes. It should be done in phases with skeletal faculty and students to begin with.”Reema Dewan, principal of Delhi Public School, Chandigarh, said, “Calling a limited number of students, staggered recess timings, no functions and assemblies, thermal scanning, hand hygiene practices, and using masks, gloves and sanitizers will become the new norm.”“Schools will pose the biggest challenge in terms of social distancing,” she added.‘PARENTS WON’T SEND KIDS’On the other hand, parents remain sceptical. Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh Parents Association, said, “Social distancing is impossible even at 50% strength. Even if the schools open, the parents are not willing to send their children just yet.”The summer vacations announced in UT government schools will be over by May 14. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director school education, said, “We could start with senior classes in shifts of 50% student strength subject to the approval of competent authorities.”‘WILL NEED GOVT SUPPORT’President of Panchkula Public Schools Association Piyush Punj said, “Already, schools are struggling with unpaid fees. To provide disinfectants, sanitizers etc, we will need some monetary support from the government.”Chandigarh-based Independent Schools Association (ISA) has requested the UT education department to allow a skeletal staff to visit schools to make videos for students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/schools-in-and-around-chandigarh-chalking-out-plan-to-reopen-with-precautions/story-0PRVNY9mFh9Xo7mvW9LRJP.html
11-05-2020||City||Delhi records jump in severe cases, central team visits containment areas||New DelhiDelhi recorded 310 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the city’s count to 7,233, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The death toll remained at 73 as no fatalities were recorded on Monday.The government had on Sunday mandated that all Covid-19 hospital send death reports at 5pm everyday to ensure the timely reporting of deaths. HT had earlier pointed out a discrepancy in the number of deaths being reported in Delhi government’s health bulletin and individual hospital toll count.The new cases bring Delhi’s doubling rate to just over 10 days from 13 days in April end. The number of people in the intensive care units of the city have doubled from around 50 persons in April end to 97 on May 11. The number of people on ventilators has gone up from disproportionately from just 5 on April 30 to 22 on May 11.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital said, “The number of people on ventilator going up does not mean that the severity of the disease is going up. We know that around 2 to 3% of those infected will develop severe symptoms and as more cases come more people will need ventilators. But why it has not gone up proportionally is because a person on a ventilator will not recover in just seven days and go home unlike those with mild symptoms.”“The doubling rate shows how much time it takes for the number of cases to double, which indicates the spread of the disease. We have to aim to increase this doubling rate. Although positivity -- or the percentage of people who test positive among those tested -- is a better metric of understanding the spread in the population, but it will only work when a lot of tests are being done,” said Dr Kishore. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had blamed the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in May on reports of pending samples coming in. “The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has come down and the reason for this is that several pending reports – in thousands -- are now coming back,” Jain had said.Of the 5,031 people still with the infection, 1,623 are admitted to 10 designated Covid-19 hospitals in the city. Another 1,560 people with mild to moderate symptoms have been admitted to the Covid Care Centres or Covid Health Centres. In Delhi, 981 people with the infection have been put under home isolation, according to the data.The report shows that so far 2,129 people have recovered from the viral infection. The recovery rate of Delhi is over 29%, almost the same as the national average. It is much better than Mumbai, which has the highest number of cases in the country and a recovery rate of almost 19%.A team of central experts visited some containment area and a migration camp in Delhi on Sunday. “The report is being prepared,” said an official not wanting to be named. The Delhi government on Monday de-sealed A-block in Mansarovar Garden in west district after no new Covid-19 case was reported from the locality in the last 28 days.This visit is part of an ongoing exercise in which central teams assist the state in containing the spread of the disease. So far, 50 such teams have been sent to different states. The latest batch was sent to 10 states where the maximum cases were being reported -- Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-records-jump-in-severe-cases-central-team-visits-containment-areas/story-piapQrcfByhXCaaVpqk8aP.html
11-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records highest single-day spike with 105 new cases||Navi Mumbai recorded its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 105 new cases on Monday. The total number in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation is now 779. Cases related to APMC market continue as more traders, workers and their families are testing positive. Kopar Khairane with 30 cases is the worst-affected.Turbhe saw 34 cases, Ghansoli 16, Nerul eight, Belapur four, Vashi four, Airoli five and Digha had four new cases on Monday.Fourteen patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals and care centres on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-105-new-cases/story-XvpBD1o8T1wOL3LtHzhRCP.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Home guard held for shooting at wife in Solan||A home guard was arrested for shooting and injuring her wife with his service rifle at Damrog village, Solan, police said. The accused has been identified as Bhupinder Kumar, resident of Solan, while the victim has been identified as Suman. He was posted as a home guard in Parvanoo. The incident took place on Sunday night when the accused reached his in-laws house and tried to break into it. When no one opened the door, he fired two gunshots at the window of the house. The accused then entered the house by breaking the door open and fired five shots at prayer room, where his wife and her family members were hiding. One of the bullets hit his wife’s shoulder. The accused fled the house after threatening the family and was later arrested by Solan police.The victim was rushed to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, where her condition is said to be stable.Solan superintendent of police (SP) Madhu Sudan confirmed the report and said a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and 452 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused and his service rifle has been seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/home-guard-held-for-shooting-at-wife-in-solan/story-kY3CCNOD628dIWJ9hA3XnM.html
11-05-2020||City||Doc dies after heart attack during duty in Ambala, Covid-19 ruled out||A doctor at a community health centre (CHC) died after a heart attack on duty on Sunday night. His tests, however, ruled out coronavirus.Meanwhile,Ambala district reported zero active Covid-19 cases on Monday with 24 patients discharged from the designated Covid hospital at Mullana and one from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.This comes almost a week after 28 cases were reported in the district.Two health workers among three patients were discharged on Sunday.“We have discharged all the coronavirus patients today after they tested negative from the designated Covid hospital at Mullana. A 42-year-old patient from Tharva village being treated at PGIMER was also discharged after testing negative. He has been admitted for dialysis in Ambala,” Dr Kuldeep Singh, civil surgeon, Ambala, said.Restrictions at three old containment zones in Shahazadpur, Timber market and New Colony in Ambala Cantonment had also been lifted, he added.On the death, Dr Singh said Dr Kamal, aged 42, was on duty at the CHC in Chourmastpur village when he suffered a heart attack at around 10:30 pm. “He was brought to the Civil Hospital in Ambala city where he lost consciousness and was declared dead. He had hypertension and was diabetic too. His samples, however tested negative for Covid.”Dr Kamal had been working with the city’s medical team for the last 10 years, Dr Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doc-dies-after-heart-attack-during-duty-in-ambala-covid-19-ruled-out/story-rjubCMaWFnt6fwBTlC6GdL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Western Army chief reviews operational readiness at J&K forward posts||Amid a spike in ceasefire violations along the Line of Control and Indo-Pak border, Western Army Commander Lt Gen R P Singh visited the forward areas of Rising Star Corps in Kathua and Samba districts of J&K on Monday to review the current security situation and operational readiness of the troops.“The Army Commander was accompanied by Rising Star Corps GOC Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi. He interacted with the commanders of field formations and was briefed about the operational and logistical preparedness and upgradation of security infrastructure,” said Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.Lt Gen Singh lauded the troops for their high morale and motivation.“He appreciated the high state of preparedness of Rising Star Corps to thwart any threat manifested by inimical and anti-national elements. He also commended the efforts of the formations in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic,” added Col Anand.The Army chief’s visit to the strategic western border follows close on the heels of the two back-to-back terror attacks in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district wherein India lost eight security personnel that included Col Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, a police sub-inspector, two soldiers and three CRPF personnel.Following these attacks and fearing a backlash, Pakistan had reportedly increased flying operations within its territory.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan had also tweeted about a possible false flag operation by India after New Delhi stated that Pakistan was behind the violence taking place in India.“I have been warning the world about India’s continuing efforts to find a pretext for a false flag operation targeting Pakistan. Latest baseless allegations by India of ‘infiltration’ across LoC are a continuation of this dangerous agenda,” Khan had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/western-army-chief-reviews-operational-readiness-at-j-k-forward-posts/story-WX0fCPorrmrpHhhDCQU7AO.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||NHM staff in Chandigarh not celebrating International Nurses Day, will wear black ribbons||Feeling undermined and unworthy, the Chandigarh NHM Employees Union (CNEU), which comprises medical and paramedical staff, will not celebrate the International Nurses Day on May 12. They will also mark their protest by wearing black ribbons on May 13 to highlight the plight of nurses employed under National Health Mission, Chandigarh.“On Nurses Day, the staff will observe two minutes of silence and light candles in the memory of those who died for humanity, while serving in the Covid-19 epidemic. We hope their families will be paid the insurance provided by the Centre,” says the official statement.On May 13, the union will protest to highlight the ‘exploitation of nurses’ by the government, said Amit Kumar, general secretary of CNEU. “The wages of contractual nurses under NHM are meagre as compared to those outsourced and the regular cadre who perform the same duties and have the same responsibilities,” he said.He added that the Punjab government had hiked the salaries of Punjab NHM employees by 18%, but the Chandigarh NHM employees have had no annual increment for three years.“A nurse under NHM draws just ₹9,000 to ₹11,000, while the outsourced cadre and regular employees draw ₹28,000 to ₹75,000 respectively. The protest aims at expressing resentment against the Union government and Chandigarh administration for undermining the worth of NHM nurses,” said the CNEU general secretary.Amit Kumar also said the staff will observe a ‘black day’ by wearing black ribbons on May 13 during duty hours. “We won’t neglect duty. We will observe a protest against this discrimination with posters, videos, etc., and circulate it across all social media to make the public aware of the issue. We have informed Chandigarh administration and NHM about the agenda,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nhm-staff-in-chandigarh-not-celebrating-international-nurses-day-will-wear-black-ribbons/story-T32baxxLGKc8oCZMzDQtMN.html
11-05-2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Kota hospital admin wants it shut after 5 women test positive||The superintendent of Kota’s JK Lon Hospital on Monday recommended its closure after five pregnant women tested positive for coronavirus there, making other patients admitted in the government hospital vulnerable to catching infection. The pregnant women, hailing from different areas of Kota district, were admitted to the gynaecological ward on Sunday. They were tested for coronavirus soon after their delivery in which they were found positive for Covid-19. According to hospital sources, around 100 women patients and 120 kids are at present being admitted there. JK Lon Hospital superintendent Dr Suresh Chand Dulara said, “All five infected women have been shifted to the Covid-19 dedicated hospital where their treatment is underway”. When asked about possibility of the women contracting the infection at the hospital itself since they all belonged to different areas, Dr Dulara denied such a possibility. “The incubation period of Covid-19 is between 5-7 days whereas these women were tested positive on the second day after their admission. So there is no possibility of spread of Covid-19 infection from JK Lon Hospital”. He said that around a dozen doctors and paramedical staff, who came in contact with the Covid-19 positive women, have been quarantined. However, Dr Dulara said that the JK Lon Hospital administration has written to the Principal of the Government Medical College Kota, recommending closing it down. Rajasthan has reported 3,814 Covid-19 cases including 107 deaths from the disease, as per the Union health ministry data till Monday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-19-kota-hospital-admin-wants-it-shut-after-5-women-test-positive/story-q4KmzfyKNfhG7PoAhq3SyM.html
11-05-2020||City||Thane records 3 Covid deaths, 40 new cases||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) recorded 40 new Covid cases on Monday and three deaths. A 51-year-old man from Mulund, who was admitted to Vedant Hospital, an 80-year-old woman, who was admitted to Kaushalya Hospital, and a 50-year-old man, who was admitted to Kalsekar Hospital, both from Kausa, died in the past 24 hours.Thane has recorded 32 Covid deaths till now. The city has a total of 752 positive cases. “We have 161 containment zones and have taken more steps to break the chain and the spread of the virus. We have also seen an increase in the recovery rate in the past few days -- from 18%, it rose to 30% on Monday,” said Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer, TMC. Around 100 Covid patients were discharged on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-3-covid-deaths-40-new-cases/story-jDaMc6Bgxn0ctB7824b0BJ.html
11-05-2020||City||Two Shramik trains leave Mohali for Jharkhand, UP with 2,550 migrants on board||Two Shramik special trains left Mohali Railway Station carrying 1,216 migrant to Jharkhand and 1,335 migrants to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on Monday.The migrants were ferried to the railway station from the eight collection centres where they underwent medical screening before boarding the buses to railway station.The district administration provided them with packed food packets, water and biscuits.The migrants expressed gratitude for facilitating their journey.In all, five special trains have carried migrant workers from the district back to their home states so far.Earlier, 1,288 workers left for Hardoi via the first train and 1,301 migrants left for Hardoi in the second train.The third train carried 1,192 migrants to Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, while the fourth train left for Jharkhand carrying 1,216 migrants and the fifth train carried 1,335 migrants to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.A total of 6,332 migrant workers have been sent back by the district administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-shramik-trains-leave-mohali-for-jharkhand-up-with-2-550-migrants-on-board/story-hkBH0eKY4PZFUt6VvVCZ1I.html
11-05-2020||City||Five Covid hotspots in Thane sealed||With the number of Covid cases at Lokmanyanagar, Savarkarnagar, Indiranagar, Gyaneshwarnagar and Kajuwadi increasing, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has decided to completely seal the areas till further notice. TMC reported 40 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 752. Among the 752 cases recorded with TMC, more than 300 are from these areas.“The lockdown is not being followed strictly in these areas. Many continue to crowd markets or shops without following social distancing norms. We have noticed a rapid increase in the number of cases in the areas. Only dairy and medical shops will be open. All other shops will be shut,” said Shyam Holkar, assistant municipal commissioner, TMC.No home delivery of essential items will be allowed in these areas.Lokmanyanagar had been sealed completely for a week. However, after curbs were lifted, the number of cases increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-covid-hotspots-in-thane-sealed/story-7fmY1K0C3BnLIAaJMO9ODP.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||16 trains to take migrants in Chandigarh back home||Sixteen trains will be taking migrant persons to their home states from Chandigarh with one train scheduled to leave the city every day for the next couple of weeks.The first train left the city for Gonda district in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday at full capacity with a total of 1,188 passengers. The second departed the city for Kishanganj district in Bihar on Monday.UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida, on Monday, as soon as the central government decided to allow movement of stranded persons, the UT administration arranged the trains to take migrants stuck in the city to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Manipur.The administration has also requested for trains to Kishanganj, Bhagalpur, Purnea, Sitamarkhi, Madhubani, Saharsa, and Barauni.Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed happiness that the passengers were provided adequate food and water, and all expenses, including the cost of rail tickets, were borne by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-trains-to-take-migrants-in-chandigarh-back-home/story-IrU6H7w7mTxkwwTMV7VPYK.html
11-05-2020||City||Punjab govt brings home 25 pilgrims stuck in Delhi||The Punjab government has brought home 25 pilgrims who were stuck at different gurdwaras in Delhi since the lockdown was imposed in March. These pilgrims were brought to Ludhiana in special buses and sent to the isolation centre set up at the Meritorious School, here.Pilgrims Amrik Singh, Bhag Singh and Abhishek stated that ever since the lockdown was imposed, they have been staying at different gurdwaras in Delhi, including Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla and Shri Bangla Sahib. Later, they were shifted to different schools by the Delhi government. They said that the arrangements of food and other essentials were very poor in those schools, whereas the arrangements at this particular isolation centre are far better as compared to Delhi. They informed that in Delhi, they used to get only rice to eat, and even drinking water was not clean, due to which many of them suffered from diarrhoea.The doctors present on duty, namely Dr Moin Ansari and Dr Jyotika, informed that till date, 195 pilgrims have been brought to this particular isolation centre, out of which 135 pilgrims have been sent to quarantine centres in their respective villages or their homes after their reports came negative. They said that the 52 pilgrims whose reports came positive, have been shifted to the civil hospital for treatment.The isolation centre set up at Meritorious School, here, has now started functioning as a 500-bed hospital. The place where this isolation centre has been set up was once the girls hostel of the Meritorious School and all facilities have been added to it later. All the facilities have been added to this isolation centre from scratch as earlier, this facility only had beds. Now, this centre also has an operational laboratory, where the samples of all persons staying in it can be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-brings-home-25-pilgrims-stuck-in-delhi/story-0u0TlXxaBekhfaICOCnBfJ.html
11-05-2020||City||Gangster on parole among 4 arrested in kidnapping case in Ambala||Gangster Randeep Singh alias Rana, who was out on parole due to the Covid outbreak, was arrested with three aides in a kidnapping case registered at Ambala Cantonment police station on May 9. His aides have been identified as Rajat alias Janu and Ankit Pandey, of Kachha Bazaar and Gaurav, a resident of Babiyal in Ambala Cantt.Sharing details, superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said, “Rana, a notorious criminal serving a life sentence, with dozens of heinous criminal cases registered against him, carried out the kidnapping. He was out on special parole from Central Jail in Ambala.”In his complaint on May 9, Satyam Sood, a resident of Ahluwalia Building in Ambala Cantt, had told the police that Rana, Gaurav, Rajat and Ankit Pandey had kidnapped him and his brother at gunpoint, thrashed them and threatened to kill them. As per the complaint, the accused had extorted ₹5 lakh from them, handed over by Satyam’s friend, before releasing them.“Given the gravity of the situation, the case was handed over to the detective staff. All the accused were arrested on Sunday and presented before a court on Monday. Rana was sent to two-day police remand while others were sent to judicial custody,” Jorwal said. A case was registered under Sections 34 (acts done by several persons with common intention), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping), 341 (wrongful restraint), 387 (death threat for extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and section 25 of the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gangster-on-parole-among-4-arrested-in-kidnapping-case-in-ambala/story-zNdbNleoyAfm2skvbajB7M.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association wants normal court proceedings to resume||A group of lawyers representing the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) on Monday assembled at the high court premises and demanded that besides e-courts, normal court proceedings should also resume.In a resolution sent to chief justice RS Jha, the Association has contended that avoiding normal court work (without physical presence of lawyers and judges at court premises) is not the solution and it should be started while taking all steps to avoid the spread of coronavirus.The lawyers said steps such as allowing fixed number of lawyers, listing of cases in a staggered manner (one category in first half, second category in second half) and changing seating patterns inside the courts to ensure social distancing could help restart regular work.The high court had restricted court work on March 16 and cases were being taken up through video conferencing only. Initially only two to three benches were constituted. But now 10 benches have been constituted and only those cases where the court thinks some urgency is involved, are being allowed to be listed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-bar-association-wants-normal-court-proceedings-to-resume/story-ekfUZWWDy8oCS0l5Uf7FpL.html
11-05-2020||City||Keep used gloves, masks in paper bag for 72 hrs before dumping: PPCB||Suspecting the spread of coronavirus through used masks and gloves, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has urged residents to keep these in a paper bag for at least 72 hours (three days) before discarding. The virus survives on gloves and masks for three days, they should be kept in paper bag for 72 hours. Besides, residents should also cut these in pieces before dumping, so that used ones are not reused by someone, said PPCB officials.As per officials, the board had also issued a public notice a few days ago to sensitise the masses about the correct usage and discarding of masks and gloves.Citing that residents have been dumping used masks and gloves as domestic waste, board officials said that this puts sanitation staff and workers involved in door-to-door lifting of garbage at risk of infection.The officials said these have to be dumped with the domestic waste but, separately, and residents should apprise the garbage collectors about the same.They said the gloves and masks, being collected from isolation centres and quarantine facilities, have to be treated as biomedical waste, but those collected from houses are domestic waste only. Member secretary, PPCB, Krunesh Garg, said, “It is a precautionary step to avoid spread of the virus through masks and gloves, which are used by residents at large.”Earlier, the municipal corporation (MC) had also issued directions to its staff to bury gloves and masks collected from houses in soil at the dump site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/keep-used-gloves-masks-in-paper-bag-for-72-hrs-before-dumping-ppcb/story-QL6Kp1NenahpFT6sTph4xO.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University gets nod to reopen administrative offices with 33% employees on rotation||Panjab University has got the Chandigarh administration’s nod to reopen its administrative offices with 33% staff on rotation.The varsity, in line with the UT higher education department, had sought permission to allow staffers to attend offices for urgent work.However, “the permission is not for resuming classes”, clarified Rubinderjeet Singh Brar, director of higher education, Chandigarh.Deepak Kaushik, president, Panjab University Staff (Non-teaching) Association, said: “We are in the process of letting staffers attend offices as per the regulations and timings of Chandigarh administration. We are planning to have a meeting with the registrar on Tuesday.”The university will sanitise branches of its administration block before allowing employees to attend offices. The proposal to allow a few employees to attend offices for urgent work had been discussed by the advisory committee of the university earlier.The branch heads will prepare the roster for their respective employees to attend work, Kaushik said.“We are planning to let residents of the campus attend office. Also, residents of green zones of the city should also be allowed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-gets-nod-to-reopen-administrative-offices-with-33-employees-on-rotation/story-wTWSN3eZ14giIGSAIl5CZI.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Light rain on the cards; more in store for Punjab-Haryana region: IMD||Light rain is likely in the region on Tuesday with chances of more on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials said only isolated stations will receive rain on Tuesday, but on Wednesday, a few stations in Punjab and many stations in Haryana are likely to get rain due to the effect of western disturbances. Rain up to 30mm can be expected along with gusty winds up to 50km/h and thunder. Warning for hail in isolated stations has also been issued.The weather remained clear on Monday with no rain recorded at most stations. However, maximum temperature saw a jump of 3-4 degrees at most stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-rain-on-the-cards-more-in-store-for-punjab-haryana-region-imd/story-o387boFasWEhRGXcNrAhgP.html
11-05-2020||City||NRIs returning to Mohali to be kept in paid institutional quarantine||The Mohali administration will keep all non resident Indians (NRIs) returning from abroad to the district in paid institutional quarantine facilities.Confirming the same, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said this had been decided in accordance with Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines and that each passenger, before boarding, has filled up an undertaking to abide by the same.In line with this, the administration has identified different categories of hotels from which the inbound traveller can choose to be quarantined in.Pertinently, two flights with native passengers returning from foreign shores are expected to land at the Chandigarh International Airport in a couple of days.Also, the residents coming to the district from other states, Dayalan said, will be de-boarded from their buses at a common central location, which, as of now, has been identified as Palm Banquets in Zirakpur. Thereafter, they will be sent back to their respective homes, where they will stay strictly home quarantined, under surveillance. However, high-risk travellers, if any, will be put in government quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nris-returning-to-mohali-to-be-kept-in-paid-institutional-quarantine/story-qW3nojpiS30xidMAm2Ez4L.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||4 men booked for pelting stones at Chandigarh Police constable patrolling containment zone in Dhanas||Four men were booked for allegedly pelting stones at a policeman patrolling Kachi Colony, a containment zone in Dhanas, Chandigarh, the police said on Monday.One of the assailants was identified as Rajbir Singh, who initiated the fight with the policeman on duty on Sunday. Police are still trying to ascertain the identity of the remaining three. “Rajbir was riding a bicycle and wanted to leave the sealed territory when he was stopped by constable Anil Kumar. Rajbir was asked to turn back because no one is allowed to enter or leave the colony. But he resisted and began screaming,” said a police official privy to the matter. He added that later three of Rajbir’s associates arrived and pelted stones at Kumar from a distance.Kumar made a call to the police control room around noon and was immediately rushed to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, as he had injured his right hand, the official said.A case was registered under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from duty), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Rajbir and three others at the Sarangpur police station. All the accused are currently absconding, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-men-booked-for-pelting-stones-at-chandigarh-police-constable-patrolling-containment-zone-in-dhanas/story-6kUifdQ4moKTTEJxzCZJEN.html
11-05-2020||City||On the frontline in battle against virus, Ludhiana’s anganwadi workers still awaiting March salary||Over 4,835 anganwadi workers in Ludhiana are awaiting salaries for the past two months even as they have been working tirelessly on the frontline in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.They, along with auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), have not just been involved in awareness activities but also in tracing Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) who entered the state in March. They had also been delivering cooked food to households with children below the age of six, until March 20 when the women and child development department directed them to provide dry ration to the children’s homes.Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union general secretary Subhash Rani, said, “The workers and helpers received their salary last in February. All of them have been working tirelessly as a frontline Covid warriors, but when it comes to paying them, the government takes no responsibility. The workers and helpers also have to run their households and many of them are using their savings to purchase essential commodities.” Jasvir Kaur, a worker at Anganwadi centre, said, “My household runs on my salary. But for the last two months, I have been using my savings to buy essential supplies. In these tough times, the government should have released the salary on time. Besides, they should also provide insurance cover for the anganwadi workers as they have been on the frontline in the fight against this deadly virus.”Amrit Kaur, superintendent at development project office in Ludhiana, said, “The anganwadi workers and helpers will get their salaries in the next two days as the child development project officers have been submitting bills in the district treasury office.”HEALTH WATCHAs many as 4,000 anganwadi workers in Ludhiana have been screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last four days. The screening was conducted at different dispensaries and civil hospitals in the district. On Monday, as many 200 workers and helpers were screened at the Government Dispensary Number 7. Anupriya, child development project officer, Urban 3, said, “We have covered almost all workers and helpers and a report has been sent to the district programme office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-in-battle-against-virus-ludhiana-s-anganwadi-workers-still-awaiting-march-salary/story-UYnGP4IsjXn40YKL1PhzfL.html
11-05-2020||City||Agra’s CMO removed as Covid-19 cases surge||AGRA In wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in Agra, the UP government removed the city’s chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats and additional director (health) Dr AK Mittal from their posts. With nine more positive cases in the last 24 hours, Agra’s corona tally rose to 752 on Monday.The outgoing CMO was attached to the office of the district magistrate (Agra) and replaced by Dr RC Pandey. Dr AK Mittal was attached to commissioner (Agra division) office while Dr Avinash Kumar Singh took over as new additional director (health), Agra.“Special officer Dr RC Pandey to take charge as Agra CMO with immediate effect, replacing Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats. The decision has been taken considering the current situation prevailing in Agra due to spread of Covid-19,” the order from state chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said.“The focus will remain on checking the spread of coronavirus. And for this, public participation is most important. Citizens will be asked to follow the protocol of lockdown. The health department will be there to help them out,” stated Dr RC Pandey, the new CMO.“Coordination and cooperation amongst stakeholders will help in better strategy to end the ongoing crises due to Covid-19,” he added.Prior to this appointment, Dr RC Pandey was serving as an officer on special duty (OSD) in the health department. Outgoing CMO Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats was attached to the office of the District Magistrate (Agra).Both the outgoing officers, Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats and Dr AK Mittal were to retire in June.So far, Agra had witnessed 25 Covid deaths while 326 patients were discharged after being cured. In all, 9,310 samples were tested in the district while the number of active cases remained at 401, informed Prabhu N Singh, district magistrate.Meanwhile, a five-member team from Lucknow reached Agra to review arrangements to control the spread of Covid-19. The team included Alok Kumar, principal secretary (industrial development); Rajneesh Dubey, principal secretary (medical education): Vijay Prakash, inspector-general; Dr Avinash Kumar Singh, officer on special duty and Prof Alok Nath – head of department, pulmonary department, SGPGI.The officials held a meeting with officials of Agra at Circuit House. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on Sunday ordered high-level medical teams and senior bureaucrats to go to Agra, Meerut and Kanpur as these three districts recorded an unabated spike in coronavirus cases. The officers will submit a report regarding the districts to the chief minister every morning and evening. Yogi Adityanath issued this directive at a review meeting with chairpersons of 11 committees set up for Covid-19 management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agra-s-cmo-removed-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-xGw8ayPC6WILv7M1n1SkbK.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||Feeding the poor in corona times||It needs grit and resolve to lend a helping hand to the poor in tough times. And some students of Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Gorakhpur University have shown these qualities in them as they have been feeding the needy, including rag pickers, rickshaw pullers and slum dwellers, ever since lockdown on announced to check corona spread in March.Shiv Shankar Gaur, 25, a student leader and a Samajwadi Chhatra Sabha activist, and his team of 8 students ensure food for the poor who can’t afford it on their own as they are jobless these days. Eminent people, well-off families and teachers make monetary contribution to keep the social service going. Sporting a red cap, kurta and Nehru jacket, diminutive Gaur, a law student, along with his team reaches out to the poor living under Dharam Shala overbridge, Tarang overbridge and in slum areas around railway station.So far, Gaur and his team have fed roughly 8500 poor people hailing from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Nepal or other regions. Resources are limited and hired car of a team member is used for delivering food. For 45 days, the team cooked and served meal to the poor. However, from Sunday (May 10) onwards, the team started distributing raw ration as they no longer can sustain food preparation cost.They have set a target of distributing 100 ration packets daily. Each packet has pulse, rice, flour, vegetables and other essential items like soap and tooth paste. Food grain is enough to last two times.“In the last 45 days, I have developed an emotional bond with these people who also share their pain with us,” Gaur said. A positive change that Gaur has noticed in them is that these poor people have started wearing masks and washing their hands as the result of an awareness campaign that he undertook while distributing food packets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/feeding-the-poor-in-corona-times/story-4TCjODd2PYAekxOYnyyg2N.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fake licences, no masks: Chandigarh residents body complains to UT adviser about veggie vendors||The Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) has written to UT adviser Manoj Parida raising concerns about the entry of unauthorised vegetable vendors into the sectors in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Unregulated movement of vendors who are not screened could exacerbate the epidemic, says the letter.Talking about this, CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri said, “When asked to show licences, many vendors with their vegetable carts who come to our sectors are unable to produce a licence. They are usually seen wearing protective equipment just for the heck of it. Their reusable masks and gloves are not washed. They keep their masks lowered which makes residents nervous.”Speaking more about the issue, Kuljinder Singh Sra, general secretary of Sector 33-B resident welfare association (RWA), said, “There are around 10 veggie vendors using the same permission slip to enter the sector. Many times they are found going into streets which have quarantined houses, that too without masks.” The RWA’s finance secretary, Nimit Gupta said he had informed the local police about it but no action has been taken.Many vendors were using fake licences said Vijay Chakarsal, president of Sector 41-A RWA. “The spellings of words such as vendors is written incorrectly in the licences they show me. They usually come here from Punjab side. I have asked them to stop coming at least until the lockdown is over but they couldn’t care less.”Kuldeep Singh Gill, president of Sector 21-B RWA said residents there too were facing similar problems. “Police must deploy policemen in civilian clothes to catch these vendors who enter our sector without permission,” Gill said. Meanwhile, UT officials said all vendors are screened when they come to purchase vegetables from the wholesale mandi being set up at Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 17. Police officials, too, said that vendors were being stopped at nakas in the city and vehicles of those found without passes are being seized. As many as 227 people have been booked for not wearing masks since March 23, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fake-licences-no-masks-chandigarh-residents-body-complains-to-ut-adviser-about-veggie-vendors/story-tS19xraCi32bDXWiAQo8xH.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||Parents of progeria patient want son’s safety amid corona||Ramapati and Usha Devi, a poor couple of Dhanaicha Malkhanpur village under Phulpur tehsil of Prayagraj district, are getting sleepless nights ever since a Covid-19 patient was detected in Bahadur block—a few kilometres away from their village last week. Reason: Their 24-year-old son Rupesh who suffers from a rare disorder, Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome (HGPS) commonly known as progeria. They want a safe shelter for Rupesh to save him from contracting the deadly virus as his immunity is very low due to his medical condition. This rare incurable disorder accelerates ageing process of children leading to premature death. Although the kids who are in the grip of this rare disorder die by the time they reach 15 years of age, Rupesh is one of the oldest living progeria patients. Ramapati, who is a rickshaw puller, claimed that despite several requests, no government support for his ailing son had been made available so far.“Covid-19 pandemic is spreading at a fast pace and has several cases in Prayagraj. A man, who had returned from Mumbai recently to Chatnag of Jhunsi locality, around 12 kilometres from our house in our Bahadurpur block has tested positive. It is a cause for concern for me as even a slight brush with virus can make him susceptible to the unthinkable,” he said.Rupesh’s mother Usha Devi also raised her concern about her son’s safety amid corona times. “My son has become very weak. The lockdown has left us penniless. If my son is not provided a safe shelter, he won’t survive,” she said.Social activist and managing trustee of Ashutosh Memorial Trust Dr Girish Tripathi, who looks after Rupesh, said, “If a room on the outskirts of the village in any government building is made available, Rupesh could be kept there till corona threat is over.”Meanwhile, chief medical officer, Prayagraj, Dr GS Bajpai said no special arrangement was available for such a case and that quarantine centres were made only for suspected Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-corona-death-toll-13-tally-of-infected-patients-773/story-aUUQqHUeIRCGnsur0wX26L.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||68,000 stranded Himachalis to return home soon: Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said the next few days are crucial for Himachal Pradesh as around 68,000 people, who had applied for the e-passes will be entering the state.He was addressing a meeting of deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers of all twelve districts of state through videoconferencing.He said, “A large number of these people will be coming from red zones. Therefore, must be placed under institutional quarantine.”Stressing on the need to strengthen quarantine facilities in each district, the CM directed the deputy commissioners to identify an adequate number of such facilities in their respective districts.“The district authorities must ensure that these facilities are away from busy areas; have separate toilet facilities and sanitisation and hygiene are taken care of,” he said.Thakur said all people coming from red zones and with influenza-like illness must be kept in institutional quarantine.He said each person entering the state should be thoroughly medically examined and only then should it be decided whether he/she has to be kept under institutional quarantine or home quarantine. Thakur said a special train ferrying stranded Himachalis from Bengaluru will reach Una on May 13 at 6am.Another special train from Goa will reach Una on May 15, he said, directing Una DC Sandeep Kumar to make foolproof arrangements to prevent chaos.“Elaborate arrangements must be put in place for screening of the people arriving in these trains and also for further journey to their native places,” said the CM.He said the district administration must arrange food packets and water to facilitate returnees.The CM said he also had a telephonic conversation with his Uttarakhand counterpart TS Rawat to help Himachalis stranded in the state. He said that the Uttarakhand Government has agreed to bring all stranded Himachalis up to Dehradun and from there adequate arrangements would be made to bring them to their native place.Jai Ram Thakur said intra-district movement must now be allowed without pass whereas inter-district movement should also be allowed with permit, except from the Baddi Police district comprising of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area.MUST START ECONOMIC ACTIVITYHe also stressed the need for starting economic activities in the state. He said steps should also be taken to develop a mechanism to make home quarantine more stringent. He said the deputy commissioners must involve representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions and health workers, so that people do not jump home quarantine.The chief minister said institutional quarantine facilities must be created in such a way that people willing to pay for better facilities are provided the same.STUDENTS STRANDED IN UKRAINE TO RETURN SOONThakur also said that around 300 students stranded in Ukraine will also arriving in Chandigarh soon. He said all students would be kept under institutional quarantine.Chief secretary Anil Khachi said that mass movement of migrants from the state should be staggered and efforts be made to provide adequate work opportunities to the labourers to check their migration.Director general of police SR Mardi, additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman, principal secretaries Onkar Sharma and JC Sharma and principal secretary to the CM Sanjay Kundu was also present during the video conference.Deputy commissioners of various districts also gave details regarding arrangements made by them in their jurisdiction to facilitate returnees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/68-000-stranded-himachalis-to-return-home-soon-jai-ram-thakur/story-07XjYgbvArtBptcUlfXHGI.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Revoke decision to turn DDU Hospital into Covid-19 facility: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxists) has demanded the state government to reverse the decision of making Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU), Shimla a dedicated Covid-19 hospital and restart its out-patient department (OPD) to provide relief to the people.CPI(M) has alleged that the state government has taken this decision hastily. People have already faced a lot of problems due to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) being turned into Covid-19 dedicated hospital and now turning DDU into a dedicated hospital and shutting its OPD will cause huge problems to the people as people from within and outside the town visit these hospitals for treatment.CPI(M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that more than 45 days have passed since nationwide lockdown was imposed but the state government still has not been able to formulate any concrete strategy to deal with coronavirus. Neither the government is able to conduct enough tests nor they have any concrete plan to quarantine the patients.Most of the districts do not have proper quarantine centres as many of them lack essential services like food and cleanliness whereas some quarantine centres in Chamba and Kullu districts and in Jogindernagar in Mandi district are in very poor conditions, he added.He alleged that due to the state government’s discriminatory attitude towards people who are being quarantined and allowing people to home quarantine, Covid-19 cases have increased in the state in the last four days.CPI(M) has demanded that Indus Hospital, Shimla should be turned into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital and to make better arrangements for quarantine at the local level. If the state government cannot provide quarantine in government buildings then arrangements should be made in hotels like in other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/revoke-decision-to-turn-ddu-hospital-into-covid-19-facility-cpi-m/story-AGDweLt5iBEJA0794dbm0N.html
11-05-2020||City||Depressed over postponement of exams, pharmacy student commits suicide||Depressed over the postponement of examinations due to the coronavirus outbreak in the region, a student of the diploma of pharmacy course allegedly ended his life by hanging self from a ceiling at his home in Abdullapur Basti on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The victim was desperate to secure a job after completing his studies to support his family. A company had also offered him a job, but he was supposed to join it after completing his course.His elder brother was the first to see the body hanging with the fan. He told the police that the victim was studying hard to clear the examination, but was very depressed over the postponement of the examinations due to lockdown.Model Town station house officer (SHO) inspector Pawan Kumar, said, “According to the family, he went to sleep after having dinner on Saturday night. On Sunday morning, when his elder brother went to the room to take some money from an almirah, he was shocked to see Sahil’s body hanging from the fan and raised an alarm.”The SHO added that the police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC on the statement of family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/depressed-over-postponement-of-exams-pharmacy-student-commits-suicide/story-ejSer78AUxKn4ntjPxqwDL.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||Vizag tragedy fresh on mind, UP orders safety check of all hazardous units||A week after the leakage of toxic styrene gas from the LG Polymers chemical plant in Visakhapatnam claimed 12 lives; the Uttar Pradesh government has ordered inspection of all hazardous and chemical factories to ensure they have all the necessary safety mechanism in place.The government has asked the labour commissioner and the director, boiler, to get the inspection completed and submit the report in three days.The boiler department, on its part, has issued fresh guidelines to all such industrial units asking them to ensure their compliance for the safety of workers and others.“As the state government is allowing industries graded exit from the Covid-19 lockdown, the gas leakage at the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam has apparently caused concern because the tragedy happened during the course of efforts to restart it after lockdown relaxations,” a senior labour department official said.Referring to the Vizag gas leak, principal secretary, Suresh Chandra on Saturday wrote a letter to the labour commissioner asking him to get safety measures checked in all the hazardous industrial units.“I have been directed to ask you to ensure immediate inspection of safety measures in all the chemical factories and the factories that are using boilers and brief the government of action taken in three days,” Chandra has said in his letter.Sources said the labour department had begun inspection after identifying hazardous industrial units, including thermal power plants.A day after the government’s order, the UP boiler inspection department also issued detailed instructions for safe operation of boilers asking industries to avoid any structural alteration, addition or repair of the boiler without prior permission.They also said the boiler must not be used at a pressure greater than the pressure allotted in the certificate and safety valve of boilers must not be set to a pressure to such maximum allowable pressure.“The boiler must be operated with utmost care. In case of any discrepancy observed during operation, boiler must be stopped immediately to avoid any mishap,” said instructions issued by director, boiler, SK Gupta.There are also general instructions issued in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, like regular sanitization of boiler premises, ban on chewing paan/gutkha and spitting in the boiler premises and mandatory medical insurance of all the staff working on boilers.UP, according to sources, is extra cautious in view of a massive boiler explosion in the NTPC’s Unchahar thermal plant in November, 2017. More than 30 employees working on the boiler were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/vizag-tragedy-fresh-on-mind-up-orders-safety-check-of-all-hazardous-units/story-YyF9c5JIhTxhKtOzHjokNK.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 in Punjab: 60-year-old Faridkot resident tests positive in Ludhiana||A 60-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Ludhiana on Monday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “The Ludhiana authorities have confirmed that a Faridkot resident has tested positive for Covid-19. He had gone to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Ludhiana, for some tests. But on Monday, he was admitted in the isolation ward there after being declared infected. We are tracing his contacts in Faridkot district.”“Now, there are 42 active cases in the district. The swab samples of 26 suspected persons, who had returned from Takht Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, were sent for testing again after the results of their previous samples turned out inconclusive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-in-punjab-60-year-old-faridkot-resident-tests-positive-in-ludhiana/story-ETjx2UcS6t6D53oxuRj9cL.html
11-05-2020||Pune||MCCIA connects with members digitally during lockdown||The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has held 44 free webinars with a participation of at least 7,205 across programmes on MSME support, women entrepreneurs, agriculture, soft skills enhancement among others, since the nationwide lockdown has been announced on March 25.MCCIA remains connected with its members via the digital platform during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown conducting awareness programmes and leadership skill segments.Pradeep Bhargava, president, MCCIA said, “During these difficult times, MCCIA is trying to continue our responsibility of advocacy with various layers of the government at the Centre, state and local. Along with the advocacy, we are also continuing to engage with our members in the best possible way. Dozens of online programmes have been conducted which witnessed a participation of thousands of industries. Till the May 17 lockdown, all online programmes of MCCIA will be free.”Some of the programmes have focused on supporting MSMEs to sail through the difficult phase and as many as seven programmes discussed women entrepreneurs. MCCIA conducted four programmes to strengthen the agricultural segment and arranged interactions on themes like managing virtual teams: the future of work; food processing industries - discussions amid Covid-19, Covid-19: legal implications; journey of quality excellence; digital tools to run your business during lockdown; interaction with doctors; sessions on GST and decoding Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) amongst others.Focus on financial schemes and government interaction has also been a primary activity during the lockdown period. The MCCIA conducted special sessions on financial schemes with banks like Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi )and Bank of Maharashtra.An interactive session with Lokesh HD, joint director general of foreign trade, Pune and Rupesh Kumar Sharma, regional head, export import, Bank of India, Pune, focused on the continuation of the foreign trade policy and procedures, extension in time limit for compliances, addressing finance needs of exporters and information on concessions given to the exporters.Similarly, the session on supply chain and operations- challenges and solutions post lockdown, gave insights into aspects like inventory management, cost reduction techniques and leadership to be demonstrated by the small business owners post the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mccia-connects-with-members-digitally-during-lockdown/story-WPiehj1MKLgPqKrr5ElvyN.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||CCTVs installed in ward after videos of ‘apathy’ surface in Meerut||Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras have been installed at different places, including the isolation ward, of the Covid hospital of Meerut’s Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical (LLRM) College.The move was initiated after a few video and audio clips alleging apathy by health staff went viral on social media in the past couple of days.RC Gupta, principal, LLRM Medical College, said the CCTV cameras would help in better monitoring of treatment and other requirements of patients.“A few officials, including myself, would have access to recordings of these cameras through their mobile phones. It would ensure better monitoring of arrangements,” said Gupta.A young BJP leader, who died of coronavirus, had also accused the health staff of making inadequate arrangements for treatment in the Covid hospital. Samajwadi Party MLA Rafeeq Ansari had also briefed chief minister Yogi Adityanath about carelessness of health staff in treating Covid-19 patients after death of his uncle on May 9. The CM had assured him of taking care of it.Earlier, an audio clip of a patient also went viral in which he tried to expose mismanagement and inadequate treatment of Corona patients and lack of facilities, including timely delivery of food in isolation ward.Another patient Abid also released a video clip from the ward exposing pity condition of arrangements and made an appeal to authorities to improve facilities. Meanwhile, in view of the increasing cases of corona here, the state government has sent a team of Dr Suryakant and Dr Vivek Kumar to take stock of the situation.“The team discussed various issues at length for improvement of existing facilities and we were working on their suggestions”, said Dr Gupta. The district has witnessed 14 deaths due to coronavirus and the total cases has risen to 245 out of which 139 cases were registered only in 10 days of May against 106 cases during entire month of April.While five persons died of Covid-19 during April, nine patients lost their lives in first 10 days of May, which triggered an alarm for health officials and the district administration.Meanwhile, the state government also has authorized 10 private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients in order to ease the burden of treatment on government hospitals.Dr Gupta said, “It is a good decision and let’s see how they come up with their plan for providing treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cctvs-installed-in-ward-after-videos-of-apathy-surface-in-meerut/story-oMizko2xlE4vEQicjrnJFK.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||Former BSP MP arrested on extortion charges||Former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Dhananjay Singh was arrested on Monday in connection with alleged kidnapping of an Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (UPJN) project manager with the intent to grab a contract of material supply in construction of sewage treatment plant (STP) in Jaunpur, said police officials.Superintendent of police (SP) of Jaunpur, Ashok Kumar-III said the former MP was arrested from his house under Line Bazaar police station limits early morning on Monday and sent to 14-day judicial custody by a court of chief judicial magistrate.UPJN project manager Abhinav Singhal had registered a case against him at Line Bazaar police station on Sunday night.“Along with former MP, his aide Vikram Singh and two other unidentified persons, involved in kidnapping the project manager have also been named in the FIR registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 364 (kidnapping with intent to murder), 386 (extortion by putting person’s life under threat), 504 (insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation),” said another police official associated with the case.According to the FIR, Singhal alleged that the former MP’s aide Vikram Singh was randomly calling him on his mobile number asking to meet Singh at his house since May 4. He said he had earlier met former MP before Holi when he was pressurised to allow contract for supply of aggregate sand used in the construction of the STP.“On May 10, Vikram, along with two others, visited the project manager’s place and forcibly took him along in a SUV to the former MP’s place. He was held captive there for over an hour and the former MP threatened him holding pistol in his hand as well as hurled abuses,” the FIR reads and added, “The former MP then talked to the UPJN MD Mohan Lal Singhal after which he freed the project manager after assurance on the contract.”“The material supplied by the former MP’s aide was of poor quality following which their supply contract was cancelled. The project manager stated that the former MP’s aides were forcibly trying to supply low quality material,” the FIR further stated.The project manager had apprehended threat to his life while registering the FIR.He was reluctant to talk about the case when approached over phone.He said he had been trapped in a net and unable to think what to do further in the case.The role of the mafiosi-turned politician is also under scanner in the killing of gangster Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi.Bajrangi was shot dead inside Baghpat district jail by another gangster Sunil Rathi on July 9, 2018. Bajrangi’s wife Seema Singh had alleged the involvement of the former MP by hatching the entire conspiracy from outside the jail and getting it executed through Sunil Rathi. The Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/former-bsp-mp-arrested-on-extortion-charges/story-cgjBOgqvSlEYKhHYZMx7dO.html
11-05-2020||Today's||Lessons from the migrant worker mess | Opinion||The much-maligned migrant worker lubricates the wheels of the Indian economy. We know his value when he is not available; then the machine grinds to a halt.Estimates vary but their numbers could be up to 120 million, more than the population of all but 13 countries. Periodically, the migrant goes back home. That is the day his or her value is recognised. The only question the employer then asks is, “How soon can you come back?” When the country was locked down to fight the virus, supplies of newspapers, milk, vegetables, groceries and medicines were ensured. Virtual schools and work from home policies gave a semblance of continuity. With additional free provisions and money transfers for the poor, the state seemed to take care of everything.BLIND TO PLIGHT OF WORKERSYet, the migrant, without a below poverty line (BPL) card, or any other ID showing his workplace address, remained invisible to the state. India is not alone in this blindness. Singapore is considered the development model for Southeast Asia and even China. When the virus travelled from Wuhan to Singapore, the migrant workers, living twelve to a room, with dozens sharing a toilet, suddenly became visible as the scapegoats.While the state forgot the migrants, the “poor” employers expressed their inability to pay wages without work and work was impossible during the lockdown. The master sat on his wealth, while the worker stared at his dwindling savings.When the lockdown was extended beyond April 14, the dam burst. As migrant workers trekked and crowded rail stations, the state woke up to their presence. Assurances of food were held out but the trust had been breached. Finally, the state agreed to run trains and buses for their repatriation.The master, complacent so far, suddenly woke up from his stupor. The state had allowed him to run his industry, but the lubricant was gone. The master pleaded with the workers to stay on; he asked the old question, “How soon can you come back?” There was no answer. Many returning migrants repeated to the press the harsh words used by employers when asked for monetary help to tide over the lockdown. They vowed never to return.FORWARD THINKING COULD HAVE HELPEDIt is easy to be wise in hindsight. Yet, the government could have visualised that the migrants will be stuck without income and will go away. The state could have allowed the industries to run, while other institutions, markets, and offices were locked down. While shutting off passenger transport, goods movement could have been permitted to keep the supply chains open.The workers could have lived in tents on the industries’ premises, enjoying better social distancing and healthier meals instead of existing cheek-by-jowl in slums, whiling away the days sitting idle and surviving on one meal a day.The state governments would have avoided the “no production, no taxes” conundrum, with enough tax revenue. But all that is hindsight.It is clear that the economy is sick and is likely to get sicker if course correction is not done immediately. The questions are simple: How to prevent the remaining migrants from fleeing and how to bring back those who have gone away? The migrants have only one goal: To feed their families through their labour, even far away from home for a wage which often is not enough to buy a cup of coffee at one of the popular international franchisees. Workers in the legal loop have been allowed provident fund advance but migrants are deprived of it due to the collusion of our inspectors with the employers. Can the state give them an advance for survival for a month if they report to work within a prescribed period? Can the employer pay for their fare from home? Punjab farmers used to form reception committees for seasonal agriculture labourers at railway stations. The banners promised, among other perks, free liquor! To be back in business, the industrialist has to take a leaf out of the Punjab farmer’s book.LIFE-BLOOD OF THE ECONOMYThe much-criticised US president Donald Trump allowed goods transport to run during the lockdown; he held a reception for the truckers at the White House, calling them “the absolute life-blood” of the economy. The US did not shut down industries. When some meat plants closed down due to the virus, Trump used the Defence Production Act to reopen them. He directed supplies to six companies, including carmaker General Motors, to shift to making ventilators and N95 masks!This is not the first time that a virus has come out of the wet markets of China, and probably not the last time either. These wet markets, where faecal matter and body fluids mingle with meat, are open again. Next time, we should close borders much earlier but not shut down our industries and goods transport.Production, consumption, and the resultant multipliers are the life-blood of the economy. Come what may, the economy should not be allowed to bleed dry.(The writer is a Panchkula-based retired IAS officer of the Haryana cadre and formerly chairman, Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lessons-from-the-migrant-worker-mess/story-1mtjkzJp645ZRvGWVGRZhL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini granted anticipatory bail in 1991 abduction case||Former director general of Punjab police Sumedh Singh Saini was granted anticipatory bail on Monday by the court of additional district and sessions judge, Mohali, Monika Goyal,in a case related to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee in 1991.Saini had moved the Mohali court on May 8, seeking anticipatory bail in the 29-year-old abduction case, claiming he had been falsely implicated because of “vendetta”.Being granted bail means he will not be arrested in this case. Multani, a junior engineer with CITCO, was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, then senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.Former deputy superintendent of police Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.Hours after he was booked Saini was stopped from entering Himachal Pradesh by the state’s police for not carrying a curfew pass. He was reportedly headed for his property in Karsog (Mandi district) in Himachal when he was stopped at the HP border at 4 am on May 7 and sent back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-gets-bail-in-1991-abduction-case/story-Q72O214KCyEVmwMb8ygDlI.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 positive truck driver reaches Uttarakhand from Punjab, detained at border||A Covid-19 patient, who had tested positive in Fatehgarh, Punjab, last week, was detained by the Uttarakhand Police in the Bazpur border area in Udham Singh Nagar on Monday.The patient is a truck driver. Officials are trying to figure out how he managed to come all the way from Punjab.A health bulletin issued by the Uttarakhand government on Monday stated that the Fatehgarh district commissioner had confirmed that a 47-year-old male patient had tested positive in the area on May 7.The district administration immediately isolated the patient at Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani and has started treatment as per protocol.Udham Singh Nagar chief medical officer Dr Shailaja Bhatt said, “We are trying to find out how the patient managed to come here all the way from Punjab. In the meanwhile, we have isolated him at the hospital.”“Another person, a resident of Nanakmatta, accompanied him. The patient’s companion has been quarantined at a health facility and his samples have been sent for testing again as he had tested negative on May 7,” said Dr Bhatt.According to officials, the truck driver was detained by police officials by tracing the location of his vehicle after the Punjab administration notified the Uttarakhand government.The Uttarakhand health department will not count the new patient in the state’s tally of cases.Public relations officer of the state health department JC Pandey said, “Since the patient tested positive in Punjab and not Uttarakhand, he is not being included in the state’s tally. However, he is being treated here as per protocol.”As of Monday, with nine active cases, Udham Singh Nagar has the maximum number of active cases in the state. The doubling rate of cases in the district (based on the average of the past seven days) was found to be 9.9 days, whereas the doubling rate in the state is 45 days.Uttarakhand has had 68 positive cases and 46 recoveries. At present, there are 21 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-positive-truck-driver-reaches-uttarakhand-from-punjab-detained-at-border/story-4bSByLhrwPAfhhCMNms4hL.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: When will Bhavani peth yield on Covid-19 front?||Week after week, fortnight after fortnight, Bhavani peth-- the highly-congested, low income locality with as many as 22 slums in the heart of old Pune-- has dominated the coronavirus situation in Pune. No other part of Pune has been as badly hit by Covid-19 and is as worrisome as Bhavani peth. As of May 6, of the total 1,900 positive cases in Pune, Bhavani peth had 451- nearly one-fourth of the total and a good 104 cases more than the second worst-affected ward, Dhole Patil road.As of April 15, Bhavani peth had 96 positive cases, exactly twice the number of cases in Dhole Patil road, and almost a month ago, on April 12, 11 of the total 34 deaths in the city had occurred in Bhavani peth. While the whole of Pune is a red zone district, the most serious situation now stands limited to micro-containment clusters in five of the 15 wards, namely, Bhavani peth, Dhole Patil road, Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori, Shivajinagar-Ghole road and Kasba-Vishrambaugwada. Of these, Kasba and Vishrambaugwada have begun showing a flattening of the curve, as reported on May 10, and of the three remaining wards, the growth rate in positive cases is not as high in the Yerawada ward as compared to the other two. The fact that the number of positive cases and deaths have been continuously rising in Bhavani peth indicates that the situation here is quite challenging. One of the poorest sections of Pune city, this locality is dominated by Muslims, Dalits, and the underprivileged labour class belonging to various communities. It has wholesale markets dealing in timber, hardware, grains and steel. The locality draws its name from the Bhavani Mata mandir and the other famous landmark is Phule Wada - birthplace of the revolutionary social reformer, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, in the neighbouring Ganj peth. Health officials of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) say that the situation here is very challenging because of the high population density. People live in extremely small houses and slums where it is difficult to maintain social distance. The summer heat makes it difficult to stay indoors and so, they are out on the streets. The situation is compounded with common toilets and the civic body has taken to cleaning them thrice a day to keep them sanitised. The poor people of this locality have become restless because of the loss of income brought about by the lockdown. Late reporting of cases from this area has meant two disastrous consequences: the spread of the virus in the community and a rising death toll as the critical cases could not be saved in the hospitals.With two months having passed since the first Covid-19 case of Maharashtra was reported from Pune, the city’s health authorities would certainly have a better understanding of the challenges of Bhavani peth today. There will be no relief for Pune till this locality is brought under control. abhay.vaidya@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-when-will-bhavani-peth-yield-on-covid-19-front/story-gZqkceRFSS1xsP0jy2AvBO.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police SI suspended for thrashing three journalists in Jalandhar||A sub-inspector (SI) was suspended for thrashing three journalists in Adampur on Sunday.The incident took place when journalists, Harpreet Singh, Hatinder Mehta and Randeep Sidhu, working with a vernacular newspaper went to the bus stand where SI Baljinder Singh of Adampur was issuing challans to curfew violators. Later, an argument erupted between the cops and three journalists and the police officer beat them up on the road. A video of the incident was also recorded. Hatinder Mehta, a journalist, filed a complaint with senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal and an inquiry was launched.Superintendent of police Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu said the SI had been suspended and a department inquiry had been initiated against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-police-si-suspended-for-thrashing-three-journalists-in-jalandhar/story-CmBfylhTlUAAc1WO4KEKNI.html
11-05-2020||Kolkata||Bengal reports 1,939 Covid-19 cases, 338 containment zones in Kolkata||The Kolkata Police on Monday put up on its twitter account the list of 338 containment zones in the city.The list was made available to the police by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC).West Bengal at present has four red zones including the city, neighbouring Howrah,North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts.There are 11 districts in the orange zone and eight in green zone.According to the list of district-wise containment zones put by the Egiye Bangla website of the West Bengal government, Howrah has 76 such areas, while North Parganas has 92.In Hooghly, there are 23 containment zones while in Purba Medinipur there are three such zones.The death toll from Covid-19 climbed to 113 in West Bengal on Sunday with 14 more people succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours.Of the 14 deaths, Kolkata alone accounted for 10 while two each were from North 24 Parganas and Howrah districts.The highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases was reported in Hooghly district (47) while 18 people from Kolkata tested positive for novel coronavirus. A total of 1,939 Covid-19 cases have been reported in West Bengal so far, of which 1,337 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-reports-1-939-covid-19-cases-338-containment-zones-in-kolkata/story-qVAcaC0ntkylab38j8Jh5M.html
11-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM to discuss Covid-19 issues in state with PM Modi||Amid pressure from the opposition to seek a special Covid-19 economic package from the Centre, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said he will discuss all issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and put forth the state’s stand. “As Chief Minister of the state, I would clearly state our stand and suggest what needs to be done to the Prime Minister during the meeting,” Yediyurappa told reporters here. Asked whether he will seek any package, he merely said, “I will discuss about everything.” With the focus on boosting economic activities amid a graded exit from the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of various states via video conference later on Monday. This will be his fifth interaction with the chief ministers after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the country. Demanding that Covid-19 be declared a national disaster, a delegation of opposition parties led by leader of opposition Siddaramaiah that met Yediyurappa on Friday had asked the state government to pressurise the Centre to provide it a Rs 50,000 crore special economic package to help those in distress due to the lockdown induced by the pandemic. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy too on Monday asked Yediyurappa to urge Modi to announce ‘COVID package’ for the state. He said people, industrialists and parliamentarians have generously contributed towards PM Cares fund for the fight against the coronavirus and Yediyurappa should remind Modi about lack of financial assistance from the centre to face Covid-19. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will discuss with Chief Ministers of various states regarding coronavirus control and lockdown. In this meeting state CM B S Yediyurappa will also be present...he should urge Modi to give special COVID package for the state,” Kumaraswamy tweeted. Sating that the numbers reflect that Covid-19 is increasing in the state, Kumaraswamy said along with tightening medical measures, financial compensation need to be given to those who have faced losses. “A big state like Karnataka that contributes hugely to the centre by collecting taxes, should get package,” he said.During the meeting along with COVID package, Yediyurappa should also ask about GST amount,drought and flood relief amount that are pending, he said. Due to lockdown the state is facing financial distress and if there is no adequate assistance from the centre, controlling Covid-19 will be difficult,the JDS leader added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-to-discuss-covid-19-issues-in-state-with-pm-modi/story-RUHkOt2IxPPEZKA5k3ZqzH.html
11-05-2020||Bangalore||10 new Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka, state tally reaches 858||10 new cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Karnataka, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 858, the state Health Department said on Monday.“31 people have lost their lives due to coronavirus in the state and 422 persons have been discharged after recovery,” the Health Department added.A total of 67,152 confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been reported in India. 20,917 persons have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Monday.There are 44,029 active cases of Covid-19 in the country at present. 2,206 people have lost their lives due to the coronavirus in the country to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/10-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-state-tally-reaches-858/story-33faf0WtYPAfbBpHExNAfK.html
11-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 84 new Covid-19 cases, state tally at 3,898||Rajasthan recorded 84 fresh cases of coronavirus on Monday, taking the state’s virus tally to 3,898, an official said.The state has so far seen 108 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 57 deaths.“As many as 84 fresh cases have been reported in 12 districts of the state today, including 40 in Udaipur district,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.Besides Udaipur, 11 cases were reported from Jaipur; six from Ajmer, five each in Pali and Chittorgarh, four each in Rajsamand and Jalore, three from Kota, two from Tonk and Karauli and one each in Dungarpur and Nagaur.   A total of 3,898 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far.He said so far 2,253 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 1,993 have been discharged from hospitals.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer and 42 BSF jawans brought from Delhi.The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/84-rajasthan-records-84-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-at-3-898/story-v9AklmNgIP1tZtLM7t95IN.html
11-05-2020||Patna||11 new Covid-19 cases in Bihar, state tally reaches 707||Eleven more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Bihar, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 707, said Sanjay Kumar, Principal Secretary (Health).All 11 people who have tested positive in the state are male, from different districts.Meanwhile, with an increase of 4,213 cases in the past 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 count reached 67,152 on Monday, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The number of active cases in the country rose to 44,029, while 20,916 patients have been cured and discharged and one has migrated, according to the Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-state-tally-reaches-707/story-jpPNeLzrDKVDJ2JVIno7iN.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three labourers get buried under sand in Sonepat, dead||Three labourers were buried under a mound of sand while laying a water pipeline under a road in Sonepat’s Lath village late on Sunday night, police said. The victims are Ajit Kumar and Mukesh Kumar of the same village and Pradeep of Panipat’s Shaharmalpur town.In his complaint, Mukesh’s brother Rajpal, said, “My brother and two other workers were illegally laying a pipeline to send water from a farmer, Pradeep’s field to another field when they were accidentally buried alive under sand.”Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ramesh Chander of Gohana Sadar said they have sent the dead bodies for postmortem at civil hospital in Gohana.“We have booked the farmer Pradeep under section 304A (death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-labourers-get-buried-under-sand-in-sonepat-killed/story-icUPEQUJC5HNDHUoSqBOEK.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||‘It could be murder’: Bombay High Court asks police to probe accidental death||The Bombay high court on Friday transferred an accidental death case to the local crime branch of Ratnagiri police after noticing that it could be a murder.“Prima facie, there seems to be some substance in the allegations made by the petitioner,” said justice Revati Mohite-Dere on the suspicion raised by Sheela Narkar, mother of the deceased, Sachin Narkar.On March 6, Sagari police station in Ratnagiri district registered an accidental death after Narkar was found dead in a car which he was driving. The local police claimed that Narkar’s car turned turtle and he died in the accident.His mother, however, approached the high court alleging that her son was murdered and his body was placed in the car to make it look like an accident.She pointed out that though Narkar was purportedly driving the car, his body was found upside down on the back seat, behind the driver’s seat. Besides, her lawyer also pointed out that the post-mortem report revealed that the deceased had multiple incised wounds, which could not have possible in the accident.Apart from these aspects, justice Mohite-Dere noted some other aspects which created doubts about the accident. “Prima facie, it appears that if the car had turtled in the manner as alleged, the car would have several dents and huge damage to the car,” said the judge. “The photos of the car show none.”Besides, the judge said, the injuries sustained by the deceased were only on the head and neck and there was no fracture of ribs as normally found in motor accident cases.Against this backdrop, the judge thought it appropriate to transfer the investigation to the local crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/it-could-be-murder-bombay-high-court-asks-police-to-probe-accidental-death/story-8iemOLKHusLBlJbhlw1yhL.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||UK-based Khalsa Aid funds emergency food rations for Kenya||Khalsa Aid, the UK-based humanitarian relief organisation, has funded emergency food rations for the people in Kenya hit by the coronavirus pandemic. The organisation’s founder, Ravinder Singh, said in a tweet on Sunday: “UK based (Sikh) humanitarian organisation @Khalsa_Aid is funding 38 tonnes of food for those economically affected due to coronavirus in Nairobi.” Similarly, in a Facebook post, Khalsa Aid said: “We are funding emergency food rations for 1,000s of people in Kenya who are struggling economically due to the coronavirus pandemic. Khalsa Aid also thanked Ramgharia Youth Association (RYA) in Nairobi for their assistance. Besides Kenya, the organisation is also ‘supporting international students and migrant workers in Russia, Cyprus, Ukraine, Canada, the US, Australia and the UK with food rations’, the organization said on Twitter on Monday morning. Founded in 1999, Khalsa Aid is an international NGO, which provides humanitarian aid in disaster areas and civil-conflict zones around the world. The organisation is based upon the Sikh principle of ‘recognise the whole human race as one’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/uk-based-khalsa-aid-funds-emergency-food-rations-for-kenya/story-UfzMefWaZdmwRyohuBs71N.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: As Dharavi inches towards 900-mark, civic authorities plan special hospital for area||The Dharavi slum continues to be a major Covid-19 hotspot in Mumbai, recording 26 new cases on Sunday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Dharavi rose to 859.Twenty nine people have died of the disease till now, authorities said.Taking the rising number of cases in Dharavi into account, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to start a 100-bed hospital at the Urban Health Training Centre (UHTC), a branch of the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital or Sion hospital, to cater to Covid-19 patients in the area.Being the nearest municipal medical facility to Dharavi, Sion hospital receives a large number of patients from the area. Many Covid-19 patients are brought to the hospital at a later stage, when they are in critical condition. The new isolation facility in the area could help save more patients.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 1,278 new cases of coronavirus disease on Sunday, its highest in a single day till date. This took the state’s one-day tally to close to 2,000 cases.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state is 22,171.Maharashtra also registered its highest one-day toll of 53 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, which took the toll to 832.Mumbai crossed the 500-mark for Covid-19 fatalities as it recorded 19 deaths, taking its toll to 508. Total cases in Mumbai now stand at 13,739. Pune recorded 402 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its count to 2,377.Maharashtra has recorded over 50% of its toll in the past 12 days. According to the data of the Medical Education and Drug Department (MEDD), out of the 832 Covid-19 victims in the state, 432 or 51.92% of deaths were recorded between April 29 and May 10.Even as the mortality rate has reduced drastically from 7.12% on April 12 to 3.85% on May 9, the toll continued to rise. The Union health ministry, too, has expressed concern over the deaths in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-as-dharavi-inches-towards-900-mark-civic-authorities-plan-special-hospital-for-area/story-QAUWN0HbCnq86DJzHVNpQJ.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Three in Chamba test positive for Covid-19 after meeting infected truck-driver over drinks||Three people, who disregarded social distancing norms and met a Covid-19 patient over drinks, tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Chamba on Sunday.Chamba deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said the trio had attended a party with a truck-driver who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 6.The driver had returned from Baddi on April 30 with another labourer from his village, who has also tested positive.The driver flouted home quarantine norms and met with friends and villagers, said Bhatia.Authorities are tracing the patients’ contacts. Bhatia said four people, including the driver’s two-year-old daughter, had contracted the virus due to his negligence. “The number may further increase, as the three newly diagnosed patients have met others in the area,” he said.Bhatia said this incident is also a lesson for others who don’t follow social distancing norms or jump quarantine.“People coming from outside the state should religiously follow home quarantine norms. Even at home, they should stay away from immune-compromised, co-morbid and vulnerable family members,” he said.To deter people from jumping home quarantine, the Chamba district administration has also launched a naming and shaming campaign. Photos and names of those who jump quarantine are published on social media every day.Himachal Pradesh has witness a jump in Covid-19 cases with a total of 18 cases reported in last week, including one fatality. The number of active cases has jumped from one to 17, in one weekSo far, state has recorded 58 cases. including two casualties. The first case in the state was reported on March 20.Una is the worst-hit district with a total of 17 cases followed by Chamba with 12 cases.Nine cases each have been recoreded in Kangra and Solan, four in Hamirpur; three in Mandi and two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-in-chamba-test-positive-for-covid-19-after-meeting-infected-truck-driver-over-drinks/story-OlzuGkQYbpNAM7EwJ4wYIM.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two test positive for Covid-19 in Moga, count climbs to 58||Two persons, who had come in contact of infected Hazur Sahib pilgrims, tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease, taking the district count to 58. One of the positive persons is a resident of Baghapurana sub-division. He has been isolated in a government hospital there while the second patient is resident of Daulewala and was admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Moga.Civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said both the patients were relatives of Nanded returnees who had tested positive last week. “The patients were already in home quarantine and are asymptomatic,” Kang said.“We have started tracing the contacts of both positive cases,” she added. On May 5, seven contacts of Huzur Sahib pilgrims had tested positive for Covid-19 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-moga-count-climbs-to-58/story-ayzmXgjtIgwDIBOoYlvFcN.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||Agra’s top medical officer removed as Covid-19 cases surge||The Uttar Pradesh government has replaced Agra’s Chief Medical Officer (CMO) in the wake of current Covid-19 situation prevailing in the city.“Special Officer Dr. RC Pandey to take charge as Agra Chief Medical Officer with immediate effect, replacing Dr. Mukesh Kumar Vats. The decision has been taken considering the current situation prevailing in Agra due to spread of Covid-19,” the order from state chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said.Uttar Pradesh reported five more coronavirus deaths on Sunday as 102 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection tally to 3,467. So far, 79 people have died of the infection in the state.A health department official had said on Sunday that three deaths were reported from Agra and two from Meerut, the worst-hit districts in terms of fatalities.Till now, Agra has reported the maximum 24 Covid-19 deaths. Agra has so far reported 764 corona positive cases; 13 fresh cases were reported on Sunday.So far, 1,653 Covid-19 patients have been discharged after treatment while the count of the active cases in Uttar Pradesh stands at 1,753, according to state health department.Meanwhile, 12 inmates of the Agra Central jail tested positive for the deadly virus on Sunday night.“We had sent 24 samples of prisoners for lab testing and out of these, 12 reported corona positive by the SN Medical College (SNMC). Now, fresh samples have been collected for lab testing at the National Jalma Institute for Leprosy,” news agency IANS quoted Deputy Inspector-General (Prisons) Luv Kumar as saying.On Saturday, a 60-year-old convict of the Agra Central Jail, who was tested positive for corona, had died during treatment at the SN Medical College.The Covid-19 positive cases form the central jail have caused considerable worry for the health officials, indicating the possibility of community transmission in the prison which is now being sanitised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-s-top-medical-officer-removed-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-CPB1MyXcwrrWP8hD84xTgM.html
11-05-2020||Lucknow||29 killed in hailstorm, rains in 15 districts of UP||At least 29 people were killed across 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh after rains and hailstorm lashed several parts of the state on Sunday, officials said.Four people were killed in Kasganj, three each in Sitapur, Bulandshahr and Badaun, two each in Barabanki, Chitrakoot, Ballia, Pilibhit, Kannauj and Hardoi and one each in Lucknow, Fatehpur, Amethi and Aligarh.At least 38 districts of the state have been affected by the rains and hailstorm.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the deaths and directed district magistrates to give financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh each to their families.Adityanath also asked officials to make arrangements for proper treatment of those injured. He has directed officials to make an assessment of loss to human life, animals and property.The weather department in Lucknow on Sunday issued a warning that thunderstorm, dust storm, lightning, hail storm accompanied by squall (up to 50-60 kmph) were very likely at a few places in the state.The maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 35.9°C, which was 3.3 degrees below normal, and the minimum temperature stood at 25.6°C, 1.5 degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/29-killed-in-hailstorm-rains-in-15-districts-of-up/story-pohthFZ8sEwDNOzovLzc3K.html
11-05-2020||City||13-year-old girl from Khanna among 5 fresh cases in Ludhiana||Five more persons, including three from Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Patiala, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.Sharing details, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that out of 152 samples sent for testing, 148 came out negative, while five persons, including a 13-year-old girl from Khanna tested positive. The fresh cases include a 69-year-old from Gurdaspur and 53-year-old from Rajpura.Besides, a 31-year-old resident of Haibowal area of Ludhiana, who is a ward boy at a private hospital and a 60-year-old man of Faridkot also tested positive in a report that arrived on Sunday evening.10 MALAYSIA RETURNEES BROUGHT HOME FROM CHENNAITen people from Punjab who were stranded in Chennai for the last 42 days were brought to Punjab today by bus. They were first taken to the civil hospital for screening. After this, they were sent into home-quarantine. Two of them hail from Ludhiana, while three each are from Barnala and Mansa and two from Malerkotla.They had left from different districts of Punjab to go to Malaysia in the second week of March. But due to the coronavirus outbreak, they could not enter in Malaysia and were sent back on a Chennai-bound flight.By the time, the reached Chennai, India had already gone into a lockdown and they were stranded at the airport. They were brought home in a special bus from Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-positive-two-from-ludhiana/story-itgup6CaF2UiLM7BEiOhQO.html
11-05-2020||City||Nine buses ferried migrants from Thane to MP border||Nine state transport buses ferried migrants from Thane to Madhya Pradesh border, on Sunday. The passengers were allowed to board the buses while following all precautionary measures under the inspection of a local police team.“The buses were arranged for the migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, following the directions of the state government. Total nine buses were arranged from three different depots in Thane. Two buses from Anand Nagar, one from Kopri and six from Majiwada were operated between 3pm and 4.30 pm on Sunday,” said a senior police officer from Thane.“These buses were directed to carry the passengers till the Shirpur depot located at Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh border,” added a police official.An NGO provided the passengers with food packets, fruits and water, added the officer. “Each of these buses has 45 seats and there were 20 to 22 passengers on each bus. All of them followed social distancing and other precautionary measures. The operation of these buses till MP border gave a little relief to the passengers travelling towards their native places in the northern states,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-buses-ferried-migrants-from-thane-to-mp-border/story-MyGn83WZ2xRp192wjk9jzL.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Poonam Pandey, friend booked for lockdown violation||Model Poonam Pandey and her friend were booked for lockdown violation by the Marine drive police on Sunday. They were roaming around in their car, which was seized. The two were detained and then released after a notice. Her friend was identified as Sam Ahamad Bombay, 46, a film director and a resident of Bandra (West). They were roaming around in a BMW car on Sunday around 8.05pm. Sangramsingh Nishandar, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1 confirmed that Pandey and her friend were detained and later released for lockdown violation. Their car was also seized. A case has been registered against the two at Marine Drive police station under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the National Disaster Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/poonam-pandey-friend-booked-for-lockdown-violation/story-ivJSNguJwCXqk6uRa5KXfP.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Cleaner air could bring down pollution deaths by 6.5 lakh in India: Study||If the low levels air pollution reached during the lockdown period are maintained, India’s annual death toll could reduce by 6.5 lakh, says a study by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, and two Chinese universities – Fudan University in Shanghai and Shenzhen Polytechnic.Restricted economic activity during the first month of the lockdown, which was the most stringent, saw a 52% average reduction in excessive risk (health risk assessment due to air pollution exposure) for particulate matter (PM) across India. The latest study also estimated a four-time decline in health risks associated with other pollutants.Researchers studied concentrations of six pollutants, PM10 and PM2.5, carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), ozone (O3), and sulphur dioxide (SO2) between March 16 and April 14 from 2017 to 2020, in 22 cities across India. The study – ‘Effect of restricted emissions during Covid-19 on air quality in India’ – was published in the peer-reviewed science journal Elsevier Public Health Emergency Collection, earlier this month.“If this low concentration during one month persisted for a year, it would save the lives of 6.5 lakh people, which would have otherwise been lost due to air pollution health effects,” said Sri Harsha Kota, corresponding author from IIT-Delhi.A study by the Lancet Planetary Health journal, one of the first assessments for annual deaths due to air pollution, had recorded that close to 12.4 lakh deaths were attributed to air pollution in 2017 in India.In the latest study, researchers calculated the average annual concentration for previous years (2017 to 2019), compared it with the reduced average concentration during the lockdown, and analysed it for the rest of the year. “At the same time, we calculated the health risk in both scenarios using base-line mortality and population data to arrive at this conclusion,” said Kota.The pollutant measuring indicator – air quality index (AQI) – reduced by 30% pan-India, with a 44% drop in north India, 33% in the south, 32% towards the west, 29% for east, and 15% for central parts of the country, the study found.Among major cities, Delhi observed the maximum AQI improvement of 49%. The study used air quality dispersion modeling (AERMOD) for the National Capital Region (NCR) where they considered meteorological factors during the lockdown and compared it with unfavourable weather conditions during November 2019.“The results show that predicted PM2.5 could increase only by 33% during unfavourable weather. This means a significant improvement in air quality can be expected if strict execution of air pollution mitigation plans is implemented even if meteorological conditions are adverse,” said Kota.Delhi NCR was followed by Kolkata at 44%, Mumbai at 38%, Bengaluru (32%), and Chennai (28%). “Using simulations such as chemical transport models, we saw that cities in north and east India, with very high air pollution, generally persisting during this time of the year, benefited most from the lockdown. However, with the advantage of sea breeze, Mumbai witnessed maximum reduction across peninsular India,” said Kota.PM2.5 concentration reduction was a maximum across most regions, the study said. India witnessed a 43% drop for PM2.5, 31% for PM10, 10% for CO, and 18% NO2 during the lockdown compared to previous years. While there were negligible changes for SO2, a sharp rise (17%) was recorded for ozone concentration. Ozone, which affects climate, increased marginally (10-20%) across northern, western, and central India, but eastern parts saw a mammoth 89% increase compared to previous years.“Whenever there is a decrease in PM, ozone increases as there is more sunlight [photochemical] penetration through the atmosphere,” said Kota, explaining that various Chinese studies had similar results during their lockdown period.An independent expert, who was not part of the study, said the lockdown had helped identify new background air quality levels for different regions but cautioned about the surge in air pollution post lockdown. “The comparison with the World Health Organization (WHO) safe limits is not rational anymore, and we will realise after the lockdown that we can never reach the lowest levels of 10 micrograms per cubic metre, even if all anthropogenic sources are on hold. There is a need now for region-based air quality standards based on land-use pattern and socio-economic conditions,” said Dipankar Saha, former additional director, Central Pollution Control Board. “To boost the economy when the lockdown is called off, there will be a surge in emissions again but we must realise activities need to be opened up in a phased manner. Exceeding standards by 10-20% are acceptable but levels rising over 150% the safe limit will nullify all positive developments witnessed during the lockdown.” ‘NCAP needs to consider O3 as a secondary pollutant for city action plans’India’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which seeks to reduce pollution levels by 20-30% by 2024 across 122 non-attainment cities, identifies PM as the primary pollutant. However, the study suggested that secondary pollutants such as ozone also needed to be considered. “China’s Blue Skies Project went through a similar transition. India is already showing the indication of higher O3 levels when other pollutants reduce. During summer months, the Centre should consider precursors to ozone when they talk about non-attainment cities, and in addition to PM, O3 has to be kept in mind while preparing action plans,” said Kota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cleaner-air-could-bring-down-pollution-deaths-by-6-5-lakh-in-india-study/story-KbvzbebpYakX2MYpPz2smN.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||KEM Hospital in Mumbai receives ICMR nod for plasma therapy clinical trials||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval for King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital’s convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials. Doctors are hopeful that the therapy might be effective in saving more lives as the Parel-based tertiary-care hospital receives the highest number of critically-ill patients. The therapy involved injecting the plasma with antibodies of a recovered patient into an infected person to boost the latter’s immunity response to the virus. “We received the permission to conduct plasma clinical trials on Saturday itself but are yet to start the procedure,” confirmed Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital. According to ICMR, 450 patients across India will be enrolled for the Phase-II trial of plasma therapy to see its efficiency. Four other medical institutes in Maharashtra — Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital (Mumbai), BJ Medical College and Poona Hospital (Pune), RCSM Government Medical College (Kolhapur) and Government Medical College (Nagpur) — have also received ICMR’s consent to conduct the clinical trials. To be able to conduct convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials, a medical institute has to receive the consent of four bodies —the hospital’s authority concerned, the ethics committee, the Drug Controller General of India, and finally the ICMR.Fourteen hospitals are also awaiting the ICMR approval to start the clinical trials. These include Bombay Hospital, Sir JJ Hospital and Kasturba Gandhi Hospital from the city as well as Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai. In the absence of a vaccine or a specific drug, plasma therapies have been tested globally, albeit in limited numbers, as a treatment for coronavirus patients suffering from severe complications.Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, secretary of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), said, “There is a belief among the medical fraternity that the antibodies developed among recovered patients may help in neutralising the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. Through clinical trials, in which plasma therapy is tested on patients after the requisite approvals, we can establish if the theory can be proved true or not.”In Mumbai, the first plasma transfusion was conducted on a 53-year-old patient from Lilavati Hospital. However, the patient died 10 days after the treatment, despite his condition improving initially. Earlier, KEM Hospital was the first civic-run hospital to run a clinical trial of Itolizumab — a drug used for the treatment of psoriasis — on critically-ill coronavirus patients. Within five days of administering the drug, a patient’s oxygen intake improved and he was kept off the ventilator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kem-hospital-in-mumbai-receives-icmr-nod-for-plasma-therapy-clinical-trials/story-oOfIOmQoZhZmIcU793CCMK.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s SevenHills, Nair hospitals to get more staff members for fight against Covid||The expansion plan of the civic-run SevenHills and BYL Nair hospitals, which was delayed owing to a staff crunch, has now gathered momentum after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) hired additional medical staff.By the end of the week, the civic body will add 500 more beds at both of these facilities, taking the combined capacity in both the isolation wards of the two hospitals to 1,900. To help the two facilities in arranging private doctors for the centres, both Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) and Indian Medical Association (IMA) have come forward.“We recruited 500 nurses for Covid-19 isolation wards, of which 175 will be recruited at SevenHills Hospital. Also, we have recruited doctors from medical colleges and private practitioners to run these two facilities,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC. The civic body also plans to recruit doctors from green zones of the state to deploy them at these two facilities.MMC president Dr ShivKumar Utture said that at SevenHills Hospital, 15 of the newly-recruited medical staff are consultant doctors and around 20 are MBBS doctors.To cater to the growing number of cases, the BMC had in the second week of April converted Nair Hospital into a dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients. The civic body plans to start 800 isolation beds at the hospital, 50 of which will be in the intensive care unit (ICU) for Covid patients. However, until now, only 550 patients were being admitted at the Covid facility. After the expansion, the facility will have a maximum capacity of 900 beds.Similarly, in the last week of March, BMC decided to convert SevenHills Hospital into the biggest isolation facility in India with 1,500 beds. However, currently it has only admitted 825 patients at the hospital. After the expansion, the facility will get an additional 175 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sevenhills-nair-hospitals-to-get-more-staff-members-for-fight-against-covid/story-YEuazKYMjFwCFRPspwfSXM.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||81 more inmates test positive at Arthur Road jail||A total of 81 inmates of Arthur Road prison tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 on Sunday, bringing the Covid-19 case count on the premises to 184. While the first case – a 45-year-old inmate – was reported on May 5, 77 inmates and 26 staff members tested positive on May 7. Deepak Pandey, inspector general (prisons), south region, who opted for home quarantine after visiting Arthur Road prison, said, “At least 81 more inmates tested positive on Sunday.” After the first case was reported, a team of JJ hospital staff took swabs of 150 inmates and staff, of which 103 tested positive. On May 8, 200 more inmates and staff were tested.The plan was to shift 77 inmates to Mahul SRA building. “Due to law and order, and other civic/medical/logistical issues related to quarantine facility at Mahul, a Covid quarantine ward has been set up at circle no. 3 and circle no. 10 at Arthur Road jail. A team of seven doctors and paramedics from JJ hospital visited the ward on Sunday, and will conduct daily visits,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/81-more-inmates-test-positive-at-arthur-road-jail/story-8wBVRtntebCpafb9yRXf6I.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Spotted: Deer inside home after crashing through ceiling, rescued||Crash. Bang. Next thing you see is a deer plopped down right in the middle of your home. Residents of a house in a Powai slum woke up with a start around 1.30am on Sunday after a deer crashed through a tin ceiling into their home. The incident happened in Mahatma Pule Chawl near Hanuman Tekdi, between Powai and Bhandup, close to the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP)A seven-member rescue team, including animal welfare groups from Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), Plants and Animals Welfare Society (PAWS-Mumbai), and forest officials rescued the two-year-old male chital, or spotted deer, in a couple of hours.“We are not sure about the cause of the fall, although there are several rumours. It is an unusual rescue,” said Jitendra Ramgaokar, deputy conservator of forest (Thane). “The deer fell from a height into the settlement located at the base of a hill. The animal was in shock for a while, and could not move inside Karan Parihar’s home (resident of the slum) for some time.”Following a safe rescue, the animal, which is found in the SGNP, was taken to the rescue centre. “The deer only had minor injuries on his hind left leg. A full check-up will be done, and based on the presence of its herd in the same rescue area, the animal will be released,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer from SGNP. This is the second such incident in a month. Another spotted deer fell from a hill and died, owing to impact, at Hanuman Tekdi on April 21. “In both cases, the animals were being chased by a predator and to save themselves, jumped from the hill,” said Aaba Kubal, a resident of the slum who informed animal rescue groups.Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW, said, “The deer found itself in a tough spot after a suspected chase from a leopard at a slum adjacent to the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Powai. The joint rescue was completed amid hundreds of slum dwellers who had gathered.”“On April 21, the deer had fallen from a great height, but in the latest incident it was a much shorter jump and the tin shed broke his fall,” said Sunish Subramanian Kunju, PAWS-Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spotted-deer-inside-home-after-crashing-through-ceiling-rescued/story-WbQnedWL1FbzkjdHILQCcL.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Biggest one-day spike takes Maharashtra virus tally, toll to 22,171 and 832||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded a single-day jump of 1,943 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, including highest number of new cases —1,278 — in a day and 665 patients from the past few days as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) list, taking the state tally up to 22,171. Maharashtra also registered its highest one-day toll of 53 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, which took the toll to 832. Mumbai crossed the 500-mark for Covid-19 fatalities as it recorded 19 deaths, taking its toll to 508.Of the day’s cases, Mumbai accounted for 875, which is also the highest the city has recorded in a day. Total cases in Mumbai now stand at 13,739. Pune recorded 402 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its count to 2,377.Besides Mumbai, Pune and Jalgaon recorded five deaths each; three deaths were recorded in Dhule; and one each in Vasai-Virar, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Solapur. In addition, 14 deaths were registered in Malegaon between Apr 27 and May 10. One person from Madhya Pradesh also died in Mumbai, the state health department said.As Pune city crossed 2,000 Covid-19 cases, the city municipal commissioner issued orders to close all shops, except medical stores and hospitals, in the 69 containment zones from May 11 to May 17. The order further stated that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will deliver milk and vegetables home in case there is a shortage in containment zones.Maharashtra has recorded over 50% of its toll in the past 12 days. According to the data of the Medical Education and Drug Department (MEDD), out of the 832 Covid-19 victims in the state, 432 or 51.92% of deaths were recorded between April 29 and May 10.Even as the mortality rate has reduced drastically from 7.12% on April 12 to 3.85% on May 9, the toll continued to rise. The Union health ministry, too, has expressed concern over the deaths in Maharashtra. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that besides comorbidities, late admission in the hospitals is one of the major reasons for the rise in death count.Tope said that aggressive behavioural changes and communication exercises need to be taken for removing the stigma against reporting Covid-19, which shall contribute towards timely reporting, clinical management, and reduction in fatality rates. The minister said that around 30% of the deaths reportedly occurred between 24 to 48 hours of admission to the hospital.“Comorbidity, as we know, is the major factor, but besides that, people today are scared of social boycott if their community gets to know that they have tested positive for coronavirus. Therefore, they do not report despite showing symptoms. Addressing this stigma would lead to people reporting early for diagnosis and treatment,” he said.According to MEDD data, around 72% of the people who died had an underlying illness, while 28% of the people did not have comorbidities. The data also said that around 250 people are currently “critical” at various locations.The health minister accepted that the situation is “complicated” in Mumbai, which alone has recorded over 13,000 Covid-19 cases. He said that slum pockets in Mumbai are the problem areas where the virus is spreading fast.“The situation is complicated in the slums. If we leave Mumbai, cases are not much in other places. I accept there are issues in Mumbai. There is a shortage of beds and institutional quarantine facilities. We are trying to double the institutional quarantine facilities by adding facilities with additional 15,000 beds. The sheer volume is huge,” Tope said.Maharashtra health department will start implementing the new discharge protocol after a revised guideline was issued by state health secretary Pradeep Vyas. With the new guidelines, mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a COVID care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximeter monitoring and the patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptoms onset and no fever for three days in such cases. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge. At the time of discharge, the patient will be advised to follow the home isolation for further 7 days.According to the guidelines, the government said that the cases that are clinically classified as “moderate cases” will undergo monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation. “If the fever resolves within three days in moderate cases and the patient maintains saturation above 95% for the next four days without oxygen support, such patient will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset in case of absence of fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement,” said an official from the health department.For severe patients, clinical recovery and one coronavirus test by RT-PCR after the resolution of symptoms is required as against two RT-PCR tests mandatory earlier.Tope said that the new discharge protocol would reduce the stress on laboratories in the state. “The new protocol says patients with certain symptoms can be discharged in 10 days. I had followed up with the Centre over the number of days before asymptomatic patients can be discharged. The labs are also burdened,” he said. Maharashtra has so far tested 2,38,766 samples. A health department official added that the revised protocol will reduce the burden on institutional quarantine facilities and other healthcare infrastructure.Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital welcomed the move by the Centre. He said, “Basically the thought process behind it is that the swab can remain positive for a long time, but a positive swab does not necessarily mean that it is live virus. In cases of Tuberculosis too, PCR-based tests sometimes remain positive even two years after a person had TB. These tests are extremely sensitive. The RNA from a dead virus will be detected by the test and therefore, giving so much importance to the swab becoming negative may not be important. All of this in the context of the shortage of beds is also important. The guideline is just not for a negative swab. Once the patient is stable, just waiting for the swab to turn negative is not very scientific. It is an excellent move.” He added that if there is a necessity to remain in the hospital, nobody would remove the patient.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has convened a meeting with all chief ministers of the state via video conference on Monday afternoon to discuss the response to the relaxation in lockdown as per zones and further course of action.The state government on Sunday issued an order stating that Chief Minister Relief Fund would sponsor the train ticket fare of the migrant labourers that are stuck in Maharashtra and also for train tickets of the state’s migrants that are stuck in other states. As per the government resolution issued by the state, those migrants who are unable to bear the ticket fare for the ‘Shramik Express’ trains, the Chief Minister Relief Fund would pay for it through the district collectors. The facility will only be applicable for the special trains that depart till May 17, the order stated.According to the Pune district collector office, 1,172 labourers from Madhya Pradesh who were stuck in Daundh and Purandar talukas of the district were sent back to their state via the Shramik Express train on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/biggest-one-day-spikes-take-maha-virus-tally-toll-to-22-171-and-832/story-twjgKrsyoAWSi5jZ73NrjM.html
11-05-2020||City||Sion hospital wing in Mumbai’s Dharavi to get 100 beds to fight coronavirus||Taking the rising number of cases in Dharavi into account, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to start 100 isolation beds at the Urban Health Training Centre (UHTC), a branch of the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital or Sion hospital, to cater to Covid-19 patients in the area. Meanwhile, a section of Sion hospital will be converted into an exclusive Covid-19 treatment centre with 400 beds.Dharavi — one of the biggest slums in the city with a population of 8.5 lakh — has already recorded over 800 positive cases of the coronavirus. Being the nearest municipal hospital to Dharavi, Sion hospital receives a large number of patients from the area. Many Covid-19 patients are brought to the hospital at a later stage, when they are in critical condition. The new isolation facility in the area could help save more patients.On Saturday, newly appointed BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal paid a visit to the slum along with additional commissioner (health) Suresh Kakani and ward officer Kiran Dighavkar, after which a decision on the upgrade was taken. “UHTC doesn’t have oxygen lines and we are trying to get beds with oxygen supply facility. We have started talks with our team of technicians. If it is not possible, we will start the isolation facility without oxygen,” said Dr Pramod Ingale, former dean of the hospital.Since March 25, Sion hospital has catered to 579 Covid positive patients and 212 patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infection. At present, the hospital has 221 non-Covid patients in the general medicine ward. “The hospital will get more isolation beds, to increase its capacity from the existing 250. Most of these beds will have oxygen lines for Covid patients,” said Dr Ingale. “The hospital already has more than 250 Covid patients, but we have decided to expand its capacity further, considering the growing demands of treatment. It will be done partially as the hospital also needs to attend to non-Covid patients,” said Kakani. Recently, the hospital has come under several criticism after videos showing bodies of Covid patients in the same ward as patients under treatment went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sion-hospital-wing-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-to-get-100-beds-to-fight-coronavirus/story-qRWbYFDJA6ObUg24iFqgxL.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||184 positive in Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail; social distancing a challenge||How to ensure social distancing in an almost four-acre space, enclosed by 25-ft high walls, which is overcrowded with 2,700 inmates and 120 staff ? This is the question the authorities at the Arthur Road prison in Byculla are struggling to answer amid the Covid-19 outbreak on the premises. So far, 158 inmates and 26 jail staff have tested positive.The jail, which was upgraded in 1994 to make it a central prison, has a capacity of 800 inmates. The spread came to light only when a 45-year-old prisoner, who had complained of high fever since April 30, suffered a paralytic attack on May 2 and was taken to JJ Hospital. His report, which arrived on May 5, showed that he was infected. The JJ Hospital team then tested 150 inmates and staff, of which 103 – 77 inmates and 26 staff – tested positive. Further testing of 200 more inmates and staff showed 81 more inmates are infected.The patients were reported in three of the 16-20 barracks, each with an area of 20ftx60ft. “Circle number 3 and 10 have been made quarantine centres to keep positive patients,” said a jail official, adding that the situation looks grim. “It is not possible to maintain social distancing within a barrack which was built in 1926 to accommodate 50 inmates, and now houses 200-250 inmates. We are sanitising the areas regularly,” said a senior jail officer.The jail authorities, however, said they had envisaged the situation much in advance. Nitin Vayachal, superintendent of Arthur Road prison, who has opted for quarantine at the house provided on the jail premises after his orderly tested positive, had written to all courts in the city to grant bail to inmates as early as March. The superintendent had requested the courts to give regular bail to inmates accused of crimes which are less serious in nature, and temporary bail to inmates accused in heinous crimes. A copy of the two letters, which is available with Hindustan Times, stated the jail authorities will not be able to control an outbreak of Covid-19 on the premises as it is “impossible to maintain social distancing with 2,700 inmates”.Ahead of the outbreak, a single judge bench of the Bombay high court denied bail to a 43-year-old man, suffering from diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure, saying that a number of aged inmates are residing in the jail and they are more prone to the virus. The court noted: “The situation no doubt is precarious…If it’s true that more than 100 patients have tested positive in Arthur Road jail, it is for the authorities to arrange for their affairs and to ensure that the inmates are not infected by the virus.” Relief was also not granted to a 66-year-old inmate, who has now tested positive for Covid-19.The prisoners are panicking. The senior jail officer said the jail is now being run by the deputy superintendent with a staff of 70 jail officials who are put on day and night shift. “It was never easy to handle criminals on jail premises, and in the midst of a pandemic, it becomes tougher,” said the officer, who confirmed that there was clamour from prisoners for release on Friday night, with some threatening of hunger strike. Alarm bells had to be sounded and inmates had to be strictly instructed to get back to their barracks, said the jail officer, adding that extra manpower had to be called in.What’s the solution? The officer said: “Decongesting is the only way out. At least half the inmates need to go so that social distancing can be practised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/184-positive-in-mumbai-s-arthur-road-jail-social-distancing-a-challenge/story-k4TZr2rk0tIjpLxGm4DRVO.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Just 12 houses in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony account for three-fourths cases||The vulnerability of a congested area like city’s major Covid hotspot — Bapu Dham Colony — can be gauged from the fact that three-fourths (84) of 110 positive cases in the colony are from just 12 houses.Figures obtained from UT’s official data reveal that the remaining one-fourth cases (26) are from another 16 houses. Among these, the highest number of cases from a single house is 18. All these 28 houses are situated in four of the 20 pockets in the colony that has 2,500 multi-storey houses. These four pockets are completely sealed, and essentials are being provided to the families of those affected. Apart from those infected, 1,000 residents are under quarantine, of whom 64 have been kept in institutional quarantine outside the colony.Director health services Dr G Dewan said effective containment of the area was key to breaking the chain of infection. Yet, reports of people sneaking out of the area, despite claims of strict police enforcement and installation of CCTV cameras, continue to pose a challenge.Seven residents of the colony, working at a meat shop in Sector 28, left the containment zone and moved on rent to Sector 29. Even as police booked them and sent them to the temporary Manimajra jail, they did manage to sneak out from the “high security” area.Similarly, a man was found out and about in grain market, Sector 26, and was also arrested.RTI activist RL Garg said while residents were at fault for flouting norms, laxity in enforcement had also come to the fore. “Such carelessness may cost the entire city dear,” he said. Dr Rajesh Dhir, president of Chandigarh chapter of Indian Medical Association, said health teams had done well in screening all houses and sampling suspected cases, but residents should also cooperate and police should step up their efforts, completely seal outer boundaries of the area and guard these round-the-clock.INTERNAL MOVEMENT ON UNABATEDMovement within the colony in unsealed areas also remains unchecked.Area councillor Dalip Sharma said people were forced to head out for food or other necessities. “Even as the supply of essentials is erratic, there is a sizeable population with no resources to buy ration. Only a handful of people got free ration under the PDS scheme. Local authorities must distribute free ration among all households, so people don’t come out looking for food,” Sharma said. This was the need of the hour, he said, as daily wagers here were mostly dependent on the nearby grain market, and with restrictions in place, all their income sources had dried up. The councillor also raised concerns over the presence of a large number of labourers staying just outside the colony in the transport market. He said many of them were willing to go back to their home states, so the administration should work the logistics out.EVERY THIRD SAMPLE TURNING POSITIVEDiscovery of the Covid samples turning out positive cases is also on the higher side in Bapu Dham Colony.The UT health department has collected 300 samples since detection of the first positive case on April 24. Of these, 110 people have been found infected, which means every third sample has become positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/just-12-houses-in-chandigarh-s-bapu-dham-colony-account-for-three-fourth-cases/story-aVGgA7uNY01WLw9JHrX1lM.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to pay fee for loans taken by MSMEs to disburse wages||The Haryana government will pay the fee of credit guarantee fund trust for micro and small enterprises (CGTMSE) for the loans taken by MSMEs to disburse employees’ salaries.Central government and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) had set up the trust to strengthen credit delivery system and facilitate flow of credit to the MSME sector.Additional chief secretary (finance and planning) TVSN Prasad said that MSMEs will also not be required to give collateral or guarantee for up to ₹2 crore loan amount taken under the Haryana MSME revival interest benefit scheme.The cabinet on May 1 had approved a scheme to support the MSME sector during the lockdown-generated economic crisis and help them pay wages to their employees.As per the scheme, all MSME units functioning in Haryana as on or before March 15 will be eligible for 100% interest benefit on loans availed for payment of wages to employees. This interest benefit will also be available on other expenses up to a maximum of ₹20,000 per employee for a period of six months, an official said.The state government, as per the cabinet decision, had also decided to pay up to 8% interest for six months on the loan amount taken from banks by the MSMEs.Officials said that industrial units whose electricity tariffs for March, April and May would be half of the average of January and February would be entitled to get a 25% rebate on the fixed charge. The remaining 75% amount will have to be deposited from July to December in six equal instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-pay-fee-for-loans-taken-by-msmes-to-disburse-wages/story-MR3gB12x6YmE42XdFTqdcN.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Defying norms, Chandigarh schools prescribe textbooks of private publishers||Disobeying orders of the Chandigarh education department, Chandigarh Commission of Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), most private schools in the city are prescribing textbooks of private publishers. In the last month, more than six complaints have been filed with district education officer by parents, yet the department has failed to initiate action. Books of private publishers are available only with select bookshops in the city, which caused huge rush and long queues, as the lockdown was eased in the city last week. The UT administration had first decided to let booksellers open without the odd-even rule, and later, permitted them to start home delivery. In 2018, the education department had directed schools to prescribe only NCERT books for all subjects except language and mathematics for Classes 1 and 2 and language, EVS and mathematics for Classes 3 to 5. It was also made mandatory for schools to prescribe and use only NCERT books taking cognizance of CBSE circular dated released in 2017. Moreover, there were similar instructions from the Madras high court and ministry of human resource development.The district education officer’s order on NCERT books was challenged by an association of private schools, National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA), in the Punjab and Haryana high court, which was dismissed on February 3.However, this has not been implemented in the private schools in the city so far. Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh parents’ association said, “By ignoring complaints against private schools over prescribing non-NCERT books, the education department is supporting the nexus of private schools and publishers. The commission business is an open secret, and because of the inaction of the department, parents are now demanding for a vigilance probe.”Director of school education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We have issued requisite instructions to all recognised schools. We have no direct control over booksellers, but we do take action as per the complaint.” When asked about the status of the complaints, DEO Alka Mehta refused to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/defying-norms-chandigarh-schools-prescribe-textbooks-of-private-publishers/story-oHtzYIwahyUgv3EgfQhEqJ.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||786 cops from Maharashtra including 379 from Mumbai test positive for Covid-19||A total of 786 Maharashtra Police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 till Sunday including 76 personnel who recovered from the disease and seven others who succumbed to the pandemic. Out of the total personnel, 698 are constables and 88 officers. Out of the 786 cases, 379 cases or more than 48% cases and four deaths are from Mumbai Police. 56 FIRs on Saturday for lockdown violations The Mumbai Police on Saturday registered 56 FIRs over lockdown violations against 138 people and arrested 69 violators. A majority of the cases were reported from the central region which recorded 21 FIRs followed by the western region with 16 FIRs. In all, 20 FIRs were against illegal use of vehicles, 19 for gathering and 14 for not wearing masks. 2,004 FIRs for not wearing masks A total of 2,004 FIRs have been booked in the city for not wearing masks since the beginning of the lockdown till Sunday. Overall, 6,012 FIRs have been registered against 11,442 people and 7,007 have been arrests. A maximum of 3,908 FIRs are for gathering in public places. 28,979 auto drivers bookedThe city’s traffic police have so far booked 28,979 autorickshaw drivers and collected a fine of ₹1 crore from them since April 1. About 1,034 of these vehicles were fined because they were caught transporting vegetables or other goods. Another 27,945 autorickshaws were fined for plying passengers in suburbs. 366 Covid-related cybercrimes in stateThe Maharashtra Police registered 366 cases including 16 non-cognisable complaints against Covid-19 related hate speech, fake news and other cybercrimes in which 198 people have been arrested during the lockdown till Sunday. “A majority of 35 cases are from Beed followed by 29 cases in Pune rural, 26 in Jalgaon and 21 in Mumbai while remaining districts have registered less than 20 cases,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber. Rajput added,” We have pulled down 102 controversial posts from social media.” 2,405 migrants leave for home In a coordinated effort with other government departments, the Sakinaka police on Sunday sent back 1,196 migrant labourers to Lucknow in a special train. Ankit Goyal DCP zone 10 confirmed the development. The labourers were taken to the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) in buses. The train left around 1.45 PM. Another 1,209 stranded migrants, mostly labourers, were sent to Bihar from Jogeshwari and Meghwadi. A list was prepared by Meghwadi and Jogeshwari police and they were sent in a special train from LTT around 4.25 pm.Man booked for taking morning walk The Bandra police on Saturday booked a 23-year-old Parel resident, Siddhant Chavhan, for taking a morning walk at St Andrews Road, Bandra (West) after receiving a tip-off from an alert citizen. It was not clear how he travelled from Parel to Bandra.(Inputs from Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/786-cops-from-maharashtra-including-379-from-mumbai-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-CSUtVdsjyzBGAl9YPoXv4I.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: Wadhawans remanded to judicial custody till May 22, court refuses interim bail||The special CBI court on Sunday remanded Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan to judicial custody till May 22. The court refused to grant them interim bail sought on the ground of spread of Covid-19 in jail.The two brothers were produced before the special court on Sunday after their CBI custody ended. As the maximum period for custodial interrogation was exhausted by CBI, they were remanded to judicial custody.Meanwhile, the defence lawyers for Wadhawan had moved the court for bail for the two on Friday. The CBI submitted their reply objecting the bail. On Sunday, the defence pleaded for interim bail considering the condition and spread of Covid-19 in the jail. The court rejected the plea for interim bail. While their plea for regular bail is now scheduled on May 13.The Wadhawans have pleaded that the allegations against them are not true and their arrest was illegal. The defence has claimed that all dealings are bank transactions, which are well documented. Hence, there is no need to keep them in custody.It further submitted that the segment in which Yes Bank invested, was oversubscribed by 2.37 times. There was no need therefore for any quid pro quo to Rana Kapoor, the defence has pleaded. Further, for the loan to Radha Kapoor, the brothers have claimed that there was enough security taken and all the process was followed by them and there were no irregularities.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), which is till date not redeemed. It is further alleged that Yes bank had sanctioned loan to RKW developers, where Dheeraj is a director and the whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil. CBI has alleged that in return, Wadhawan allegedly “paid a kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-case-wadhawans-remanded-to-judicial-custody-till-may-22-court-refuses-interim-bail/story-lKwHeBrKSy8SdFxraCGlKO.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray to elect unopposed as Congress withdraws claim||With Congress deciding to withdraw one of its candidates from the upcoming legislative Council polls on Sunday evening, the elections to the nine seats will be unopposed. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will be elected to the Upper House of the state legislature without an election being held. The Congress which seemed adamant on contesting two seats took a decision to contest only on one seat in a meeting held by senior leaders of all the three parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Rajesh Rathod will be the Congress candidate from the party for the polls. On Saturday, it had declared Rathod as well as Rajkishore alias Papa Modi as its second candidate. It is learnt that Congress took a step back after Thackeray irritated with the politicking sent a message through his party leaders that he will not contest elections unless it is unopposed during a pandemic. Monday was the last day for filing nominations. Congress leaders said that they took the decision following a request made by the chief minister. “We wanted the MVA to contest on six seats but for that, all the MLAs have to be brought to Mumbai for the polls. During Covid-19 pandemic, it would have created difficulties. The chief minister is also contesting the polls and he has requested us to make the elections unopposed. Considering all the aspects, we have now decided that the MVA will contest on five seats that would help in making the elections unopposed,” said state Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat at Sahyadri guest house where the meeting was held on Sunday evening.BJP is contesting four seats while NCP and Sena are contesting two seats each leaving one seat for the Congress. It is learnt that NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut called state Congress chief to ask him to reconsider the decision. Late Saturday night, Shiv Sena leader Milind Narvekar, a close aide of the chief minister, is also learnt to have met Thorat and requested him to withdraw a candidate. But, in a meeting held by senior Congress leaders, the party decided that they don’t want to withdraw their claim. Thorat, PWD minister Ashok Chavan, energy minister Nitin Raut and minister of state Satej Patil were present in the meeting held on Sunday morning at an undisclosed location. This irked the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who expressed his unhappiness in no uncertain terms. If Thackeray would not have contested the polls, he would have to resign by May 27 followed by his entire cabinet. Sena MP Sanjay Raut also told media persons on Sunday afternoon that the Chief Minister would not contest polls unless it was unopposed. “Do we tell people that while they are locked up in their homes; when there is a question mark over their livelihoods and health, political parties in Maharashtra cannot unanimously decide on an election? This would be a blot on Maharashtra’s tradition. Uddhav Thackeray never was and will never be interested in such politics. He is upset over this development. He wanted to contest only if it was unopposed. We are not scared of contesting, but this is not the time to contest elections. It is time to tackle the situation. We have taken this election out of no choice as the state was heading towards instability,” Raut told reporters on Sunday.He added that if there is voting on May 21, all 288 MLAs would have to come to Mumbai and it would not send a “good message” to the people of Maharashtra at a time when it is battling Covid-19.BJP used the opportunity to taunt the MVA over differences after Shiv Sena suggested the saffron party to reconsider its decision of contesting on four seats.“The BJP too does not have enough numbers to get their fourth candidate elected. It is their responsibility as well that election is held unopposed. They [BJP] do not have enough votes for their candidate; they would have to engage in horse-trading. They should also think if an election should be forced upon Maharashtra at such a time,” Raut said.Former BJP minister Ashish Shelar, in his reply, asked Shiv Sena not to drag them if their own ally (Congress) is not listening to them.“Respecting the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and considering the current situation of the state, the elections should be held unopposed. This is the responsibility of the ruling parties. We have fielded candidates on the basis of our strength. Do not drag us if Congress is not listening to you,” Shelar said in his statement.Meanwhile, NCP has declared Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari both seen as close to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar as its candidates for the polls. BJP will field Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Pravin Datke, Dr Ajit Gopachade and Gopichand Padalkar for the four seats while Thackeray and senior party leader Neelam Gorhe will be Shiv Sena’s candidates. They will all now be elected unopposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-to-elect-unopposed-as-congress-withdraws-claim/story-5UiQabXZv2gvMjwVidOfxH.html
11-05-2020||Mumbai||House collapse in Kandivli: Two rescued from under the debris||Two persons trapped in the debris of a partially collapsed ground-plus- two-storey residential building in Kandivli on Sunday morning were rescued by the Mumbai Fire Brigade. Search operations went on for five hours on Sunday for any more trapped persons.At 5.13am on Sunday, the west side of the ground-plus- two-storeyed Dipjyoti building located on Link Road in Kandivali collapsed. Twelve other people trapped on the upper floors of the remaining portion of the building, that had not collapsed, were rescued by the fire brigade, which rushed to the spot by 5.37am. Two other persons were rushed to Oscar Hospital by police in a private ambulance before the fire brigade arrived on the spot.The two persons rescued from under the debris are identified as Kismat Ali Malik, 45, who sustained deep injuries to his nose, eyes, ears, and both his legs and Shaikh Ba Mulis, 48, who sustained deep cut injuries and fracture in both his legs.Eyewitnesses reported to the fire brigade that five to six persons were feared to be trapped under the debris, hence search and rescue operation continued for five hours since the disaster call. One team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also reported to the spot for search and rescue.Fire brigade first spotted seven people stranded on upper floors of the building and rescued them by breaking open a window grill with the help of a cutter-grinder. However, a total of 12 persons were rescued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/house-collapse-in-kandivli-two-rescued-from-under-the-debris/story-JiFKRK74YfTN3i5HHtwoIK.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Five migrants on their way home assaulted, robbed near Patel Nagar||Five migrants who were walking to Old Delhi railway station to try and catch a train to their hometown in Bihar were robbed of their cash and mobile phones by four drug addicts who assaulted them with iron rods and sticks and threatened to stab them if they resisted in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. Left with little hope of getting back home, the migrants decided to fight back, chased the suspects and caught one of them. “The robbers had left us with nothing. So, we thrashed the one we managed to catch hold of,” one of the victims, Vijender Kumar, said. The police later nabbed the remaining three suspects and recovered the robbed items, but they remain in their custody as case property.“We have returned to our rented homes and abandoned the plan of walking to our homes. A journey that earlier felt doable suddenly feels impossible now. We are afraid there would be many people waiting to rob us along the railway tracks,” Vijender said. The five men, who work in the furniture markets of Hari Nagar and Kirti Nagar in West Delhi, had heard about trains leaving for Bihar from Delhi stations. They said they hardly had any money left and were surviving on the food distributed at hunger centres. “We didn’t know that we had to fill forms to be eligible for the journey. No one told us that trains were departing only from New Delhi railway station. Since we always boarded our trains from Old Delhi railway station, we decided to walk till there,” Vijender said. “We had decided that if we didn’t find a train, we would walk along the railway tracks to our villages,” he said. Having packed sprouted grams and some beaten rice, the men began their walk in the early hours of Thursday.But when they neared a railway gate in Prem Nagar, close to Patel Nagar in central Delhi, they were intercepted by four men with sticks, iron pipes and knives, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central). “The robbers beat us with sticks and rods and threatened to stab us if we did not hand over our phones and cash,” Bijay Kumar, another victim, said.The migrants lost ₹2,100 in cash, three mobile phones and their Aadhar cards. “I had kept my phone in my bag, so it didn’t get robbed,” Vijender said. As the suspects began to flee with the robbed items, the migrants decided to chase them on the railway tracks. “We had nothing to lose. So, we thought we would fight them, no matter the cost. One of the robbers wasn’t able to scale the railway crossing gate. We caught hold of him,” Vijender added. Soon, the police arrived at the scene and interrogated the nabbed the suspect, 21-year-old Amar. “Amar’s interrogation, the CCTV camera footage of the routes the suspects took while fleeing, and local intelligence helped us catch the other suspects too, including a 12-year-old boy. They are all drug addicts, DCP Bhatia said. All the stolen mobile phones and cash were recovered from them. “We provided the victims with food and stay for the night,” the DCP said. But the migrants walked back to their rented homes in the morning. “We haven’t told our families about the robbery. Instead, we lied to them that the police sent us back,” Vijender said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-migrants-on-their-way-home-assaulted-robbed-near-patel-nagar/story-hcyBnsOB73NsMcWEzAWtQM.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Continuous server error disappoints Delhi migrant workers attempting to register on portal||Sia Shankar Rai (56), a migrant worker, has been trying register on the Delhi government’s website to go home to Chapra in Bihar for four days now.But he hasn’t even been able to access the portal. “It just isn’t working,” he said.Sia Shankar came to Delhi two days before the Janata Curfew on March 22 and now lives in Najafgarh’s Dhansa village. He has been coming to the Capital to work in the fields during the harvest season every year for nearly a decade now. “But I couldn’t earn much here this time and have run out of money. My family back home is also finding it difficult to make ends meet,” Sia Shankar said.He got his hopes up when the Delhi government decided to send migrant workers back to their home states last week, and more so when a train with 1,200 migrants left for Muzaffarpur in Bihar on Friday. Migrant workers are supposed to fill an online form on the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board’s (DUSIB) website. Registrations began on May 4. Bipin Rai, member DUSIB, said, “They are supposed to enter basic details such as the number of family members, name of their home town, and others, along with their identity card.” But when people try to open the link, they said they are met with a server error.Pradeep Dagar, a resident of Dhansa village has been taking care of Sia Shakar Rai and 10 other migrant workers since the lockdown began. “We have been trying register their names in the list of people who want to go back to Bihar. But the link on the DUSIB website has not working for the past few days, and we can’t get through the nodal officer,” Dagar said.He added, “We have been giving them everyday essentials because they don’t have much money left. The government should do something for people stranded in various parts of the city.”A senior DUSIB official, however, said the registration process is on. “There are a lot of people trying to register at the same time on the weblink, which has caused some problems. Ever since we started the registration process, we have got 17,000 applications from families who want to go back to Bihar, which adds up to around 45,000 people,” the official said.When contacted, Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai’s office said the priority is to send those living in government-run shelter homes back to their native states.“Migrant workers who are living in various parts of the city and want to go home will be considered in the second phase. Currently, our priority is to send back those living in our shelter homes, and want to return,” an official at Gopal Rai’s office said.“Those who are not living in shelter homes will be informed by their area’s district magistrate about travel arrangements. Currently, we are sending people who are in our shelter homes on priority basis,” Bipin Rai said.While Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged migrant workers to stay back in the city, assuring them that there will be jobs very soon, people have been getting restless.A senior official with the chief minister’s office said that lots of people are applying to go back to their homes, that’s why there’s load on the server. Bhola Rai (42), who has a family of six to feed in Bihar’s Sonepur, said, “Our family needs us. We couldn’t earn much here. We don’t know what the situation will be in the next few months. We want to be with our families right now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/continuous-server-error-disappoints-delhi-migrant-workers-attempting-to-register-on-portal/story-5eptULIU9IBZxSAHnUEYDN.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||‘Lockdown not indefinite, stay back in Delhi’: Kejriwal appeals to migrants||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged migrant workers in the city to stay back, assuring them that there would be jobs soon, as lockdown curbs are gradually eased — a process that kicked off last week.“I am concerned with reports of migrant workers headed home on foot — with minimum food and water with them — walking for days. Some of them have left with children and elderly relatives. It is absolutely unsafe. I assure migrant workers in Delhi that, so far, we have taken care of food and shelter, and we are now doing our best to arrange for transport to send them home,” Kejriwal said.“But my first appeal for them will be to stay back. This lockdown is not going to be indefinite. It will be scaled down soon and the process has already begun. There will be jobs again. But still, if someone has no other option than to return home, I urge them to show some more patience. We have come across report of accidents on roads and rail tracks. This is concerning.”Delhi on Sunday recorded 381 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the city to 6,923. The Capital also recorded five deaths, increasing the city’s toll to 73. The government had, on Saturday, revised the time cycle for which it reports cases of the coronavirus disease. Cases are now recorded between 12am and 12am, instead of 4pm to 4pm earlier.In a video briefing, Kejriwal said a majority of Covid-19 patients in the city — over 75% — were either asymptomatic, or displayed mild symptoms and were either in home isolation or lodged in Covid care centres. The rest, as many as 1,476, were being treated in the Covid-designated hospitals across the city. Kejriwal said that of the admitted patients, 91 were in intensive care units (ICU), and among the 73 dead, more than 82% were above 50 years and had other health issues.He also said the Delhi government has roped in ambulances from private hospitals to make up for a shortage of the ones run by the state government. These ambulances will now cater to calls from both government and private hospitals, he said.Kejriwal on Sunday asserted that Delhi has contained the number of Covid related deaths and criticised the opposition for “politicising” a recent order providing hotel facilities for front line workers — such as health care staff, sanitation workers, police, etc – and announcements of financial aid in the event of their deaths.The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit back, saying none of the party’s leaders had criticised any such government orders. Delhi BJP Manoj Tiwari on Sunday said, “Arvind Kejriwal should disclose the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi instead of talking about insignificant things to divert attention.” To ensure timely reporting of Covid-19 deaths in the city, the Delhi government on Sunday released standard operating procedures according to which all the designated centres for treatment of Covid-19 patients will have to send details of the deaths by 5pm each day.The SOPs released by the Delhi government on Sunday states that even if there have been no deaths, centres have to send a ‘Nil’ report by 5pm. Each hospital will have a nodal officer to ensure that the deaths are reported in a timely manner.On Saturday, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain had assured that a single case would not go unaccounted for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-not-indefinite-stay-back-in-delhi-kejriwal-appeals-to-migrants/story-bFgzCq8PgH3sffmtJ6OZFP.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown fallout: German man living at Delhi airport since March 18||A 40-year-old German man has been living in the transit area of New Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport for the past 54 days in a story not dissimilar to that of Viktor Navorski, the fictional character played by Tom Hanks in the 2004 Steven Spielberg film “The Terminal”.The German national, Edgard Ziebat, was on his way from Hanoi to Istanbul on March 18, the day India cancelled all flights to and from Turkey in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Four days later, India stopped all international flights, and then, on March 25, imposed a national lockdown that is now scheduled to continue till May 17.While there were other stranded passengers at the airport at the time, what complicated things for Ziebat is that he has a criminal record in his home country, which has refused to take custody of him because he is at a foreign location, according to two security officers from the airport who asked not to be named. India, too, did not give him a visa because of his criminal record, the officers added.Watch | Will PM-CMs decide on lockdown exit & the man living at airport for 2 months There was no immediate response from the German embassy to calls and text messages regarding the development.On March 18, Ziebat landed in New Delhi from Vietnam in a VietJet Air flight  as a transit passenger to Istanbul, only to realise that all flights to his destination were cancelled, one of the officers cited above said.“After spending around a week in the transit area, with four other stranded passengers who arrived in Delhi on different dates — two from Sri Lanka and one each from the Maldives and the Philippines — airport authorities alerted their respective embassies,” the officer said.“While others were facilitated by their embassies concerned and were taken for quarantine, officials from the German embassy informed the Indian bureau of immigration that Ziebat is a wanted criminal in their country with several cases of assault and other crimes registered against him. Since he was on a foreign land, they did not take his custody. The Delhi Police and airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Limited) were also apprised of the situation,” the officer said.He added that because India did not give Ziebat a visa due to his criminal background — criminal offences are taken into consideration when assessing individual visa cases in India — he remains unauthorised to leave the airport’s transit area. In India, an international passenger can normally stay in transit for just one day, and requires Indian visa to step out of this designated space for travellers passing through the country. The officer added that Ziebat has also not formally applied for an Indian visa.In the film, The Terminal, Navorski (played by Hanks) arrives at New York’s John F. Kennedy airport from the fictional Eastern European country Krakozhia, only to discover that the US no longer recognises Krakozhia as an independent country after the outbreak of a civil war, and Viktor is not permitted to either enter the country or return home because he is now stateless. He goes on to stay in the terminal for nine months because he can’t enter the US.Ziebat, too, has been staying in the terminal with only his luggage. The airport, in any case, has not opened to regular traffic since March 22, but is operating cargo flights and some special evacuation flights, and is currently involved in the massive repatriation exercise in which about 15,000 Indians stranded in 12 countries are being brought to different airports across India in the first week of the operation.According to the second airport official, Ziebat has mostly spent the last 54 days reading magazines and newspapers, talking to his friends and family over the phone, eating at some of the fast food outlets still in operation within the terminal, interacting with housekeeping and security staff, taking walks within the transit area, and using the airport’s washrooms and toilets. Authorities also provided him with a recliner, mosquito net, toothpaste, food and other basic essentials.“He told officials that he can manage his expenses. He sleeps on the beds, benches, on the floors, wherever he feels like. He is alone in the transit area as it is not being used because the airport is closed for passengers,” said the second officer.“We confirm that a foreign national is currently in the transit area of the international terminal of Delhi airport due to non-availability of regular flight to transit onwards. Appropriate authorities were informed about this in good time. They are in dialogue with the foreign national,” a spokesperson for Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said.HT could not immediately contact Zeibat for a comment.The second officer cited above said that around mid-April, some officials were worried about Ziebat’s health. “On this, some of the officials were sent to meet Ziebat and they found that he was fine, physically and mentally. He interacted clearly, and was in all his senses. CCTV footage was also checked, and nothing suspicious was found. Since then, some officers visit the German man regularly to interact with him just to get an idea of his well-being,” he added.During such interactions, the second officer said, Ziebat had said that he can pay for his tickets if his travel is arranged. “It was found that he has visas of multiple countries. The officials concerned have told him that it will only be possible for them to send him away once international flights resume,” the officer added.No date has been specified for when regular international transit will resume from India.The officer quoted above said Ziebat was asked to leave and go wherever he wants, but since no flights are operational, he has been stranded. “About a week ago, attempts were also made to accommodate him on a relief flight to Ankara (Turkey) but Turkish authorities turned down the proposal stating that the flight was only for Turkish nationals or for their permanent residents,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/german-man-living-at-delhi-airport-since-mar-18/story-VIJm8lsHTNxaws4mo99YDN.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt sets deadline for hospitals to report Covid-19 deaths||The Delhi government on Sunday asked all designated Covid-19 treatment centres in the city to send details of deaths caused by the pathogen by 5pm every day to facilitate the timely auditing of fatalities, and said action would be taken against centres under the Disaster Management Act if there are violations in the reporting protocol and deadline.The government also released a standard operating procedure (SOP) detailing when and how the death reports are to be submitted, and asked for a detailed written explanation in the case of delays. The SOP comes days after reports surfaced of confusion over coronavirus disease death numbers in the Capital, with doctors from at least two designated Covid-19 centres suggesting that more people had succumbed to the disease than was being reflected in the daily bulletins put out by the state government.It was not immediately clear if such a discrepancy existed, and if it did, what was behind it. The Delhi government denied any underreporting, and some state officials said that there may be a lag in the auditing and reporting process.“It has come to notice that both public and private hospitals are not reporting the deaths of positive cases of Covid-19 occurring in their hospitals in a timely and regular manner. It has further been observed that despite repeated reminders, the death summaries of the deceased patients are not being provided to death audit committee, resulting in incorrect or delayed reports being submitted,” said Sunday’s order, issued by Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev.The government stressed in the SOP that its death audit committee for Covid-19 -- it was set up last month -- needs to audit each and every Covid-19 death daily to ensure proper reporting.Speaking to HT last week, a member of the three-member committee said on condition of anonymity: “The death audit committee goes through the patient case sheets, investigations, and death summary to include the death in the Covid-19 toll. The committee can report the cases as soon as all the relevant documents are received and this may take a while. Like, for example, the one death reported yesterday was of a patient from May 1. Yes, there is a lag but it is not deliberate underreporting.”Death numbers are critical in analysing the spread of the disease and its impact. With 73 deaths out of 6,923 infections in the Capital until Sunday, the fatality rate in Delhi is 1.05%, which is among the lowest in the country. Any anomaly in the numbers, however, could severely hamper the city’s fight against Covid-19 because all projections on infrastructure required to fight the disease going forward are based on these calculations.The new SOP says that even if there have been no deaths, centres have to send a “nil” report by 5pm. It adds that each hospital will appoint a nodal officer to ensure that the deaths are reported in a timely manner. The matter will be escalated to the level of state surveillance officer and then the director general of health services if the report is not received by the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) at 5pm.The three-member death audit committee will meet at 5.30pm each day to review the deaths that day.For centres that fail to send a report by 6pm, the nodal officer will have to report the numbers to the state health secretary the next morning, along with details of the deceased, and an explanation of the delay in sharing the information.These protocols will be applicable for both government and private hospitals. There is, however, no mention of how hospitals other than the Covid-19 designated facilities have to report any deaths at their centres.Action can be initiated under the Disaster Management Act if the protocols are not followed, according to the SOP. “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, the undersigned, in his capacity as the chairperson, state executive committee, DDMA (Delhi Disaster Management Authority) hereby directs that the reporting of death cases of Covid-19 positive persons from health facilities (government and private) in Delhi, shall be strictly as per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) annexed in this order,” the order read.The Distaster Management Act, 2005, gives various emergency powers to Union and state governments in the face of natural disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-deadline-for-hospitals-to-report-covid-19-deaths/story-g6dvyrClpVSWIxLRddCF7L.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||With regular services shut, many hospitals turn away non-Covid patients||AMIT RAWAT, 30, NEEDS SPINAL SURGERYAmit Rawat, 30, cannot sit or lie down because of an excruciating back pain. He was due to undergo a spinal surgery, which was scheduled to take place right before routine services at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) were stopped due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.“I have been under the care of neurosurgeons from AIIMS since August last year. I was advised a surgery and got a date for February. However, it was later deferred to March. But the lockdown was enforced by then and I could not get the surgery done,” Rawat told HT.He received tele-consultation and was asked to continue taking the painkillers he had been prescribed.But the pain worsened, and he was rushed to the AIIMS emergency department on May 2.“The doctors there told me that I would not die if I did not get the surgery. While that may be the case, I am in so much pain. The medicines let me sleep only for half an hour before the pain gets unbearable again. And, the drug store nearby even refused to give me the medicines once saying that I had been on them for too long and it might affect my kidneys,” he said.When he asked for a date for the surgery during another tele-consultation on Friday, he was told to come back to the neurosurgery department when the services resume. “Routine services have been halted for the moment because of Covid-19. However, if someone has an acute problem, then they can always come to the hospital emergency and any required procedure will be done. However, we have to trust the opinion of the doctor, which might be different from the perception of the patient. The other option is to seek their doctor’s opinion via teleconsultation and if the doctor feels that they do need surgery urgently then they can always ask the patient to come to the hospital emergency,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.MEHFUZ ALI, 65, NEEDS DIALYSIS TWICE A WEEKMehfuz Ali, 65, is in kidney failure, and needs dialysis twice a week. The Laxmi Nagar resident went to Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital’s emergency department in desperation on May 2.He hadn’t received dialysis in nine days because private hospitals where he used to go previously refused to perform the procedure without a Covid-19 report, because another patient in the hospital had tested positive.“My brother took him to a hospital to get tested on April 24, but the sample collections for the day were over. The next day, he took him to RML hospital. You know how hard it is to travel during lockdown. We had to get an ambulance on both days, which cost us ₹4,000 in total. The sample was collected and they said the reports would be in by April 30, which means he would miss the April 28 dialysis session,” said Fouzia Raza, Ali’s daughter.But the family did not get the Covid-19 report even on April 30, so they started enquiring at other private centres for dialysis. “No centre wanted to take in a new dialysis patient. They were saying every slot is full. One of the centres asked for our names, and then refused. I think they probably declined because we are Muslims,” Raza said. With no alternative, the family decided to go to RML’s emergency department, pleading with them to either give his report or admit him for dialysis on May 2.“He was having breathing difficulties by then. Still, the hospital refused to admit him. Finally, in the evening we received his report, which showed he was Covid-negative, and took him to a private hospital in Patparganj for dialysis,” she said.“We try to take in every patient who comes to our hospital. However, there are a limited number of beds or dialysis machines that we have. So, in case we are at capacity, we even try to reach out to other hospitals that can provide the required care to the patient,” said Smriti Tiwari, spokesperson from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. SABEENA, 31, nine-months pregnantSabeena, a 31-year-old pregnant woman, travelled from Loni in Uttar Pradesh on May 3 for medical attention at a hospital near Jama Masjid. She was in pain and complained of blood spotting. “All her check-ups during the pregnancy had happened at that hospital, so we wanted to take her there despite the lockdown. However, when we reached Delhi, doctors told us that some people in the hospital had tested positive for Covid-19 and they could not admit her,” said Asim Ali, her husband.They were asked to go to a hospital in Shahdara. “We had taken an auto from home, and it dropped us to the hospital, but left soon after. However, doctors there kept asking us to go back to the first hospital. We did not know what to do,” he said. He then contacted a volunteer with a local NGO, who took them to Lady Hardinge Medical College in his car.Even there, the doctors said they could not admit her as she had not been undergoing her ante-natal check-ups with them. “It was only after the volunteer requested the doctors that they admitted her. By then, she was in a very bad condition,” Ali said. They had left home at 4pm and Sabina was admitted to a hospital only at 11.30pm. “We do not deny admission to anyone, but yes there might be some delays when it comes to deliveries. This is because we have 91 beds in the ‘orange’ section where those suspected to have Covid-19 are admitted and all precautions such as doctors wearing PPE kits are taken. However, these beds are always at 100% capacity and we cannot admit more than one patient on each bed like it used to happen before because social distancing has to be maintained,” said Dr NN Mathur, director, Lady Hardinge Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/with-regular-services-shut-many-hospitals-turn-away-non-covid-patients/story-Oc6L1WagOhSeqVcbGF7r4H.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||When work from home is a matter of life and death||Every time Abdul Mabood gets a call on his mobile, he rushes to a room upstairs at his south Delhi home and shuts the door from inside as his wife and daughter watch in consternation. And he remains in the room, sometimes for a couple of hours, calmly listening to the caller, often only speaking lines such as ‘yes, ‘you are right’, ‘I completely understand your feelings’. Mabood is founder of Snehi, a Delhi-based suicide prevention helpline, and these days with his office closed due to lockdown, he is having to take many distress calls at home.“The number of calls has gone up five times in past one-and-a-half-month, and some of them can be emotionally wrenching. Working from home is not so simple when your job is to counsel those on the brink,” says Mabood.Uncertainty, isolation, and economic despair, caused by the Coronavirus crisis, have led to a spurt in distress calls to the country’s 30-odd suicide prevention helplines and those working for them—mostly volunteers -- are faced with a new challenge: how to maintain the confidentially of the calls, give a patient and undisturbed hearing to the callers and ensure their own families are not sucked into the vortex of emotions while they work from home.The nature of the calls to the helplines has also changed—unlike in the past when most were about relationship issues, exams, chronic illness and general financial woes, now they are about loneliness, isolation, fear of losing job, inability to pay EMI / rents, and issues related to domestic violence.“One of the recent calls was from a young IT professional. While she tried to juggle demands of work and home, her in-laws continuously accused her of neglecting them. She was pained that her husband did not support her despite knowing her situation. She was sliding into depression but did not want to discuss her problem with her old parents,” says Mabood.“In our office we get time to recompose ourselves before we return home. I try hard to maintain my emotional equilibrium as I take these calls at home, but my daughter is already complaining that I am not in a good mood these days, and do not give her enough time.”The volunteers working for these helplines come from different backgrounds, a lot of them from social sciences, and are trained to ‘listen proactively, and not be carried away by the call. Home with its many distractions, they say, is not the best place to handle such calls.“Working from home requires multitasking. But we have to remain emotionally invested in the calls we take. However distressing these calls, I cannot discuss them with anyone at home, not even with mu husband, ” says Vaishali Mahindra, who volunteers for Sumaitri, one of Delhi’s oldest suicide prevention helplines. Started in 1988, it is one of the 16 helplines that are affiliated to Befrienders India, the nodal body which coordinates the activities of its 16 member helplines across the country.In normal times, at Sumaitri’s office in central Delhi, two volunteers work in shifts—one answers a landline telephone, and the other ‘befriends’ visitors. “Our job is not to counsel people, but to befriend them, which means going into callers’ core feelings and making them feel we understand, thereby making a difficult situation more bearable,” says Nalini Malhotra, director Sumaitri. “Our volunteers’ work is more crucial during the ongoing Coronavirus crisis, given the country’s inadequate mental health infrastructure,” she adds. Rajesh Pillai, president, Befrienders India, says, some of their helplines are unable to function under the lockdown because the volunteers cannot reach their centres and do not have private space at home. “We have issued clear guidelines to our volunteers to create a set-up at home which is similar to the one at our centres where they take calls at landlines. They cannot be casual while taking a call diverted to their mobile phones. Our volunteers generally take call for four hours in a day, and we have told them to remain in one room during the assigned period, waiting for a call, and they should maintain the confidentially and should not discuss the calls with any family member,” says Pillai adding the calls to his organisation’s helplines have increased by 30 per cent. “ But I think this increase does not cover all who need help during the current crisis. Many people experiencing emotional stress may be unable to call the helplines because of lack of privacy as everyone in the family is at home”. Vishal Demla, an HR professional with a multinational recruitment company, who has studied Social Work, is one of Snehi’s volunteers. Managing calls at helpline’s centre, he says, has its own benefits. “If I was unable to handle a call at the helpline’s centre, I could always seek the help of a fellow counsellor, but this is not possible at home,” says Demla, who before the lockdown, would travel from Gurgaon, where he lives, to Snehi’s office in south Delhi to take call between 8 pm and 10 pm. “ Now during this time I remain shut in a bedroom at home while my wife sits in the next room trying to convince my relatives and friends to not call me during these two hours. ” Mumbai-based Aasra is one of the country’s first 24-hour suicide prevention helplines, and because of the lockdown, the number of its volunteers has come down from 26 to 6, crippling its ability to take 200 odd calls it gets these days. Many are have to be missed. “We are left with a small number of volunteers because not everyone has a private space at homes to take calls,” says Jonhson Thomas, director, Aasra.So, these days Thomas spends hours taking calls at home—not an easy proposition, considering he lives in a joint family. “Taking distress calls at home is difficult as there are so many distractions– the noise of children playing, of dogs barking, the doorbell ringing. You cannot talk to a person who is emotionally broken with such noises in the background. So, the backyard is the palace where I end up spending a lot of time these days,” says Thomas. Talking of the nature of the calls his helpline receives, he says most are related to the ongoing Coronavirus crisis. “The other day, there was a call from a woman whose husband has bipolar disorder. She was having trouble dealing with him as he was not taking medicines and getting aggressive, having remained at home for over a month because of the lockdown. She was worried he might physically harm her and children. The call lasted more than an hour,” says Thomas. “In many cases, people just need to ventilate to feel better. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/when-work-from-home-is-a-matter-of-life-and-death/story-V8J7RJXYZrT9Ml54060NwK.html
11-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi doctors employ oxygen treatment to keep Covid patients off ventilators||Giving oxygen, after making patients afflicted with severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lie flat on their stomach, helps in improving the oxygen saturation in the blood and boost recovery without ventilation, critical care experts treating patients in the intensive care units have observed. Oxygen saturation refers to the extent to which haemoglobin is saturated with oxygen.The patients are oxygenated while lying on their stomach for around two hours, then they are given oxygen while being made to lie on both their sides for one hour each and finally on their back for another hour, before repeating the cycle.“This method — known as Awake Proning — is used on patients whose oxygen saturation level is low. When the patient is in a prone position, the fluid in their lungs shift, helping them breathe better. We have seen dramatic results – with oxygen saturation in patients increasing from 87% to 95% after a session (normal oxygen saturation is 95% to 100%). With such results, we prevent people from going on a ventilator,” said Dr Amit Kohli, intensive care specialist from Lok Nayak hospital, which is handling the highest number and most serious Covid-19 cases in the city.Providing high flow oxygen through the nose or breathing masks has also helped in keeping people off ventilators.“If you see the ratio of people on ventilators, it is not that much. This is because most Covid-19 patients in respiratory distress seem to be responding well to various other techniques of oxygenation,” said Dr Kohli.Of the 4,781 people who currently have the viral infection in Delhi, 91 are in intensive care unit with only 27 — less than 5% — are on ventilators. Across the country, around 1.8% of all Covid-19 patients are on ventilators.Most Covid-19 patients land up in the intensive care units with acute respiratory distress, with fast breathing rates of 25 times or more. A healthy adult breathes in about 12 to 20 times in a minute.“Around 3 to 5% of our patients also show gastric symptoms. Reports from other countries also suggest viral myocarditis or inflammation of the heart wall. We do not have conclusive evidence from India, but it can be happening here as there have been cases of young, generally healthy, people suddenly dying. Then, there are other unusual symptoms that have started showing up like the Covid Toe,” said Dr Abhijeet Kumar working in the Covid-19 ICU at Safdarjung hospital.Covid Toe is a bluish discolouration of the toes.“So far, we have seen Covid Toe in only one patient in the second week of illness. We still do not know the reason for the symptom, it could be lesions caused by thrombosis or blood clot. There have been reports from around the world about blood clotting faster in Covid-19 and we have started giving anti-coagulants (medicine to prevent blood clots) to many of our patients,” said Dr Anjan Trikha, professor of anesthesiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The doctors use a Modified Early Warning Score scale to determine who might get these severe symptoms. Patients are graded according to their age, oxygen saturation, heart and respiratory rate, comorbidities — such as chronic kidney disease, cancer. The most common comorbidity in these patients is chronic kidney disease, the doctors say.The doctors also look at chest X-Ray or CT scan to see whether the patient might get severe symptoms. “In fact, the radiological findings can show up much earlier in pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. A patient might be very comfortable, but their X-Rays show damage to the lungs,” said Dr Kohli.Early intervention is needed as the symptoms can progress rapidly. “Death from Covid-19 may occur in five to seven days of a patients first developing symptoms,” said Dr Kohli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-doctors-employ-oxygen-treatment-to-keep-covid-patients-off-ventilators/story-6BoGMs5TZqPW6zhNT7nMFP.html
11-05-2020||Chandigarh||Cheaper properties, costlier construction predicted for Chandigarh’s real estate sector after lockdown||As the real estate sector resumes construction activity after lockdown restrictions are eased in the tricity, it faces a sharp increase in construction costs and buyer despondency.Already struggling with sluggish prices in the pre-lockdown period, the realty sector is set to be hit by another wave of low demand and price corrections as home buyers are likely to struggle with economic uncertainty, say industry insiders.After the lockdown was announced on March 24, the real estate sector, like all other economic activities, came to a stand still. There were no property transactions, and registration of properties stopped as the government closed down public dealing except provisioning of essential and emergency services.“Even as most buyers are expected to adopt a wait and watch approach in the coming days, they can expect cheaper properties. The uncertainty in the economy, expectations of cheaper loans and price restructuring will keep most buyers on the sidelines,” said Rakesh Kerwell, ex-director (north) of DLF.At the same time, for developers, constraints on project completion will mount.“There is a severe liquidity crunch in the market. Most projects in the tricity are construction linked wherein payment to the builder is made on the level of construction completion. With construction stopping and no new projects coming their way, builders are struggling with low capital inflows. This will impact the delivery of projects,” added Kerwell.RISING CONSTRUCTION COSTSMeanwhile, developers contend with the fact that costlier construction material will restrict steep price corrections in the tricity. Prices of construction materials like cement, steel, gravel, etc have increased by 30% to 50%. Some of these will have to be passed on to the home buyer, say builders.Harish Gupta, president of Builders’ Association, Zirakpur, said, “The price of a cement bag has increased by around ₹80. Before the lockdown it was ₹300, now it is ₹380. Prices of steel have increased by around ₹2,000-2,500 per metric tonne. Similarly, there has been a 50% increase in gravel prices from ₹21 per sq ft in early March to ₹31 per sq ft.”FEAR OF LABOUR SHORTAGEMore than 25,000 migrant workers have registered with the Mohali administration for returning back to their native states. “There is growing concern about construction getting delayed as migrant workers begin to leave the tricity. But with builders restarting work, more workers are likely to continue with work. Contractors are also urging them to stay back,” said Sanyam Dudeja, director of the Jubilee Group.In Zirakpur, builders on Sunday decided to restart construction on their projects. “Having sat idle for more than 50 days, labourers had started moving back to their native places. With the beginning of construction work, hopefully they will start earning their livelihood once again,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cheaper-properties-costlier-construction-predicted-for-chandigarh-s-real-estate-sector-after-lockdown/story-kFDKoRijo1hyUEfYFoiTmI.html
11-05-2020||City||190 attend GNDEC’s online faculty devp programme on energy conservation||A seven-day faculty development programme on energy conservation and management organised by the electrical engineering department of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) concluded on Sunday.“Four sessions were conducted online daily. Over 190 participants from across the country attended the course. Around 140 faculty members completed the programme. E-certificates of participation were given,” said Arvind Dhingra, programme coordinator. GNDEC alumnus Satish Saini, who is at present, chairman of the academic committee, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Canada, spoke on smart grids and their relevance in the Indian scenario.Principal Sehijpal Singh said the college has developed an online portal–guru.gndec.ac.in–for the learning needs of the students and faculty members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/190-attend-gndec-s-online-faculty-devp-programme-on-energy-conservation/story-NyuBcKPxEypDc6zxm7bbnL.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Woman raped by two men; one arrested||A woman in her late 30s alleged that she was raped by two men and threatened with murder if she reported the incident at a village in Sector 33, the police said on Sunday. According to the police, one of the men was arrested on Saturday night and the other is still at large.The police said that the arrested man was identified by his first name as one Vikram. He is in his 30s, from Rajasthan and lives in Gurugram. According to the police, the woman is from Madhya Pradesh and works as domestic help. She has known Vikram for the past one-and-a-half-year. The incident took place around a month ago when Vikram allegedly called her to his cousin’s room at a village in Sector 33.In the police complaint, the woman alleged that when she reached the room, Vikram and his cousin raped her and then threatened to kill her if she informed anyone about the incident. She approached the police on Saturday and a case was registered against the men.A police officer privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “We arrested the prime suspect in the case on Saturday. His cousin is still at large. We are investigating the matter.”A case was registered under sections 376D (a woman raped by one or more persons constituting a group or acting in furtherance of a common intention), 376 (2) (n) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 51 police station on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-raped-by-two-men-one-arrested/story-pSlO7AZksm2upnWpg9AAHM.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurgaon-Faridabad Road lit up after 8 years||The Gurgaon-Faridabad Road is set to be illuminated by streetlights after nearly eight years of darkness as the work on connecting LED streetlights with power lines was completed in the Gurugram section of the road on Friday, officials said on Sunday.The stretch remained unlit for years after the lights were dismantled for the widening of the state highway in 2012. This had also made it an accident-prone zone.In mid-February, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had installed 734 LED streetlights on the 11.1-kilometre stretch of the road between Khusbhoo Chowk and the toll plaza at Bandhwari. However, work on connecting the streetlights with the main power lines remained.The remaining 14 kilometres of the 25-kilometre stretch falls in Faridabad, where the responsibility for installing and maintaining streetlights would fall under the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF).Raman Yadav, executive engineer, electrical division, MCG said that this work has now been completed.“We have spent around ₹1.69 crore on the project and it has taken around 18 months to complete. Although we had not set a deadline for the project, the model code of conduct for general elections and state elections, NGT order last winter to stop construction and the coronavirus epidemic had resulted in interruptions. Otherwise, work would have been completed late last year,” said Yadav.The streetlights were dismantled in July 2012, when the state highway was being widened from a two-lane road to a four-lane one.In a report in January, the Gurugram traffic police had identified Ghata crossing, on Gurgaon-Faridabad Road as one of the seven major points in the city where accidents were taking place frequently due to lack of illumination at night.“Lack of illumination is one of the major contributors to accidents. Sharp cuts and several blind spots have made driving on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road even more dangerous. The reinstallation of streetlights would, thus, make a major difference in bringing down accidents at the stretch,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, programme coordinator with Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ).Besides connecting the two cities, the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road also provides an alternative route to reach destinations in south Delhi, along the heavily congested Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road.As per a June 2016 study on traffic and transport by the Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation (HMRTC), nearly 1.3 lakh people crossed the Gurgaon Faridabad Road at Baliawas on a daily basis. It is estimated that over 1.7 lakh people use the stretch on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurgaon-faridabad-road-lit-up-after-8-years/story-AdwCCbIGCNFlYfe1HTcOiJ.html
11-05-2020||Gurugram||Third Covid-19 death in Faridabad; two new cases reported||A 72-year-old woman, who was diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on May 6, died on Saturday night in Faridabad while undergoing treatment for several other ailments, the district administration said on Sunday. This was the third death due to Covid-19 reported in Faridabad. As per officials, the district has so far recorded 96 cases of coronavirus, of which 55 people have recovered.Two new cases were reported on Saturday evening in the district, said officials.The first patient is a 32-year-old man, a resident of Sector 92, who was undergoing kidney treatment at a private hospital. He tested positive on Sunday. The second patient is the contact of a 55-year-old security guard who had died of Covid-19 on May 4, said officials.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner(DC) of Faridabad said that the deceased woman, a resident of Sector 28, had visited Metro Hospital in Faridabad two weeks ago after she developed a urinary tract infection. Although she had been treated and had partially improved, she developed fever, constipation, and a cough around five days ago, following which she was admitted to Sarvodaya Hospital on May 5. “She complained of breathlessness on the same day, and was put on the ventilator. Her samples were collected, which returned positive on May 6. Later, she was shifted to ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad. She had a “cardiorespiratory arrest” on Saturday night around 9pm and she passed away,” he said.Yadav said her condition was stable for at least two days but on May 8, her condition deteriorated, following which she had the “cardio-respiratory arrest”.“Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was given to her immediately, along with necessary life-saving drugs. Despite all the efforts, she could not be revived. She was diabetic and had been undergoing treatment for the same for the last three months. She also had a travel history to Delhi prior to the lockdown for treatment of herpes,” said Yadav, adding that she was found positive for Covid-19, but the cause of death also included multiple ailments and comorbid conditions.The first Covid-19 death in the district was reported on April 28. A 68-year-old man, who was diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) had died while undergoing treatment for hypertension, sugar, and severe respiratory issues. Officials said the second death was that of a 55-year-old security guard who hailed from Bihar and tested positive on May 3. He had succumbed to the infection on May 4.Yadav also said 4,592 people are on surveillance for Influenza-like Illness. “We had sent the samples of 5,357 people, of which 96 have tested positive, 4,723 have tested negative and the results of 538 are awaited,” he said adding that 5,990 people have been put under home isolation.The district administration is carrying out contact tracing of all those who had visited Azadpur Mandi in Delhi or had come in contact with someone from that place.The Faridabad health department has also adopted a new method of tracing people who may have visited Delhi through their call detail records.According to officials, they are screening every person entering Faridabad from May 1 and have sealed borders to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/third-covid-19-death-in-faridabad-two-new-cases-reported/story-6cZSOumcHYaJfVox8m3Y5I.html
11-05-2020||Noida||District admn issues guidelines on managing bodies, pvt labs to inform govt on tests||Family members of those who die of Covid-19 must agree to follow all safety measures before they can take a final glimpse of the departed, according to guidelines issued by the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration, on Sunday evening, regarding disposal of bodies of such patients.The district also said private laboratories authorised to test for Covid-19 will have to inform the chief medical officer of every test and those who are being tested have to be quarantined.District Magistrate (DM) Suhas L Y said it was prepared in accordance with the rules framed by the union ministry of health and family welfare. “All health employees present at isolation area, crematorium and ambulance must be properly trained in preventing infection. They must completely sanitise their hands and must wear full personal protection equipment while handling the bodies. All tubes and catheters must be removed and in case the health official suffer any injury, it be treated with 1% hypochlorite solution,” he said. The DM further said that the tubes and catheters must be disposed of properly and the nasal and oral orifices must be plugged. “If the family members of the deceased wish to see the body, they can be granted permission only if they apply giving an undertaking that they will follow all the stipulated safety norms,” the DM said. Suhas further said that the bodies will be either handed over to the relatives or taken to the mortuary soon after death. “Staff of crematoriums (or burial grounds) have been asked to be sensitive and follow all safety norms like the health officials. The body bag can be opened from the face end to provide last glimpse to the relatives. There is no additional restriction on all other people at the site such as those who will read religious hymns and spray holy water. They, however, should not touch the dead body. The bodies will not be allowed to be bathed and people will not be allowed to touch the body,” he said.The DM said that since ashes of the dead bodies were not contagious, it can be collected after the last rites. “Large assembly at the crematorium must be avoided,” he said. “The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has authorised certain private pathological laboratories to test Covid-19 samples. But they will have to inform the chief medical officer and anybody who gives these samples will be quarantined,” the said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/district-admn-issues-guidelines-on-managing-bodies-pvt-labs-to-inform-govt-on-tests/story-xuPv8oZpXlTKrQv1xSmS3L.html
11-05-2020||Noida||5-year-old killed in wall collapse in Dankaur||A 5-year-old boy was killed after an under-construction boundary wall collapsed over him during a dust storm in Dankaur on Sunday afternoon.The victim was identified as Rehan, who was playing with other children near an under-construction structure. Police said the site is an extension of a nearby mosque, and the construction work at the spot was suspended due to the lockdown.The victim’s father, Mohabbat, works in a factory, while his mother is a homemaker.Rajnish Tiwari, station house officer, Dankaur police station, said a group of children was playing near the under-construction site in Chuharpur village on Sunday afternoon. “There was a dust storm at the same time, and a portion of the under-construction wall collapsed over the child. There were some other children with them who had a narrow escape. The child was trapped under the wall, and received critical head injuries,” he said.Local residents rescued the child who was trapped under the debris. He was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.“Police investigation shows the boundary wall is an extension of a mosque which is closed since the lockdown came into force. The concrete wall was seven feet high and ten feet wide. The victim’s parents have not filed a complaint in this regard,” he said. The body was handed over to the family after an autopsy.“We will register a case of negligence if the family files a complaint,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/5-year-old-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-dankaur/story-RMeHyIhekQoDWVjA53hTmJ.html
11-05-2020||Noida||Noida: Constable suspended for assaulting two men out to fetch water in Sector 22||A police constable who works with the Lucknow commissionerate, and is currently posted in Noida, was suspended Saturday night for allegedly assaulting two men who were out to fetch water in Sector 22.The alleged incident took place on Saturday afternoon near some barricades placed in Sector 22. The alleged incident was captured on camera and has been doing the rounds on social media.The two men are reportedly from Chauda village, a containment zone in Sector 22.In the video, the two locals had purportedly crossed the police barricades and were out to fetch water from a nearby source. A man can be seen trying to stop them from going any further leading to an argument between the two parties with several people watching them.This man later called out a policeman standing nearby, who came to the spot and purportedly kicked one of the victims first, and then took his water container to hit the second person. While threatening the duo to go back home, the policeman allegedly used abusive language against the two persons. According to the police, it wasn’t clear initially whether the assailant was a policeman or a private security guard. However, a probe in the matter revealed it was a police constable who had assaulted the two men.“The constable was later identified as Manish Yadav. Yadav works with the Lucknow commissionerate, but is from Noida. When the lockdown was enforced and all public transport came to a halt, Yadav was in town and reported for duty here itself on April 16. On April 24 he was told to work with the Sector 24 police and was deployed in a hot spot area,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (zone 1), Noida, who also led the inquiry against Yadav.Verma said the men who were assaulted were identified from the video, and their statements were taken along with those of several witnesses. The police said the two men have not filed a police complaint in the matter.The police added the matter had escalated after the two people allegedly ignored the constable’s instructions after he had asked them not to step out to fetch water earlier in the day as well.Based on the inquiry by the Noida police, the constable was immediately removed from active duty and was suspended for “indiscipline” and for “misbehaving with the public”. The orders for his suspension came from the Lucknow commissionerate, based on the recommendation by the Noida police. Police officers said that Yadav has been handed over to Lucknow police and a departmental inquiry has also been ordered against him.“A probe is still underway, and if the role of any other person who could have instigated the violence in any way is established then action will be taken against him as well,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-constable-suspended-for-assaulting-two-men-out-to-fetch-water-in-sector-22/story-BQwPDsNjidnJiZhhInIPQI.html
11-05-2020||City||Hungry, anxious migrants jostle for dry ration packets in Ludhiana||Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed at Field Gunj area of Ludhiana on Sunday as hundreds of residents, predominately migrants, jostled with each other to grab a bag of raw ration being distributed by district administration authorities.The situation got so out of control that police had to use mild lathicharge to control the crowd. The migrants had assembled there to collect the ration sought through the district administration’s helpline 1905.Most of them said that they had run out of all supplies and their children had been sleeping on an empty stomach for several days. “We can endure the pain of the lathi but can’t beat to see our children crying for food. Aren’t we human? The authorities should understand our plight,” he said.Some others blamed the administration’s lack of planning which led to the large queues of people. “The department sends SMS to 1,000 people at each station 24 hours before the ration distribution starts. One has to go through various checks it takes nearly 10 minutes before all the formalities are completed. Imagine the plight of the man standing last in the queue,” said one of the persons in the queue.A police officer, who was on crowd control, while expressing his helplessness said that such scenes have become a routine. “People swam at the place where ration is being distributed. We feel bad that we have to use the stick but we have no other option,” said the cop deployed at Amarpura.SDM ASKS PEOPLE TO FOLLOW SOCIAL DISTANCING NORMSOn the other hand, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) AS Bains urged people not to panic and follow social distancing norms. “If such situation continues, then we will call lesser number of people but it will result in pendency. So people should also cooperate with the government and follow social distancing norms,” said SDM Bains.Area councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu flayed the ration distribution scheme. He said that the police was distributing ration among those people who had applied on 1905, and the area councillor has no role in it. “Instead of making people stand in a queue, authorities should deliver it at their doorsteps to avoid the chaos,” said Neetu.Meanwhile, some migrants alleged that since they were not the councillor’s vote bank, they were struggling to get essential supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hungry-anxious-migrants-jostle-for-dry-ration-packets-in-ludhiana/story-da0GL7R4XatIfXIV994s3N.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Pune records 194 recoveries against 102 fresh Covid-19 cases on May 10||Pune crossed an important milestone in its fight against Covid-19 (coronavirus) caused due to Sars-Cov-2 virus on Sunday as more number of persons recovered and were discharged in the city against the number of fresh positive cases reported in 24 hours. The city witnessed 194 recoveries in a day as compared to 102 fresh cases and five deaths.Among those who died included a 13-month-old girl, who was suffering from pre-existing ailments and a 82-year-old inmate at the Yerawada Central prison. With 102 fresh positive cases, the city’s tally of active positive cases has gone up to 2,482 while the total number of persons discharged so far stands at 1,020.Rubal Agarwal, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) additional commissioner, tweeted, “Delighted to share that today 194 Covid-19 patients cured and discharged. Crossed the important milestone of curing and discharging 1000 patients in PMC. Total 1020 cured.” (sic)She clarified that the recoveries were as per old protocol, which required patients to undergo the second test before going home after 14 days as against no testing before the discharge of patients who have a mild and moderate infection.“194 discharged as per old guidelines. New guidelines we will start from tomorrow. As we have to set all protocol as per new norms,” said Agarwal in another tweet. (sic)According to the information shared by the PMC health department, the 13-month-old baby girl is from Warje area and was admitted to Sassoon Hospital on May 4. She had pulmonary haemorrhage secondary with Covid-19 positive with severe acute malnutrition. She breathed her last on Sunday at 7:30am.The 82-year-old Yerawada jail inmate was admitted to Sassoon Hospital on May 7 and had an acute respiratory failure due to Covid-19.Other three deceased persons include a 70-year-old female patient from Tadiwala road admitted to Aund Civil Hospital on April 26, a 37-year-old male patient from Ganj peth admitted to Sassoon Hospital on May 7 and a 53-year-old male patient from Kondhwa Budruk admitted to Kashibai Navale Hospital on May 8. All of them had pneumonia and died in the last 24 hours, according to information shared by PMC’s health department.Virus tracker (figures till 7.30 pm on May 10)PMCNew case: 102, total cases 2,482New deaths: 5, total deaths: 145New discharged: 194, total discharged: 1,020Critical patients: 92Admit but stable: 1,226||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-records-194-recoveries-against-102-fresh-covid-19-cases-on-may-10/story-1kNfp1OEC3T2Lj6xyhsSbP.html
11-05-2020||City||Railway police in Ludhiana agitated as migrants continue trespassing tracks||Keeping migrants away from railway tracks is one of the most difficult tasks for the railway police personnel in Ludhiana these days. Even though regular checks are conducted on the 20km-long stretch of railway line from Phillaur to Dhandari Kalan in Ludhiana, migrant labourers are found sitting on and crossing the tracks.On Sunday afternoon at around 3pm, over a dozen labourers were found sitting along the railway lines, taking refuge from the hot sun under the railway over bridge near the Dholewal Chowk.Meanwhile, a few workers were also found running temporary stalls along the tracks under the bridge. Some of these migrants were rickshaw pullers who did not have rooms and spent their nights either sleeping on the roadside or on their vehicles. Other migrants were daily wagers residing in labour quarters located alongside the tracks.One of the migrant labourers who resided in the labour quarters, Jugal Kumar, said, “We feel very congested inside the quarters, which is why we come out and sit either along the roadside or on the tracks in the shade to get a breath of fresh air.”Kumar said that he had applied to return to his village in Lucknow and was waiting for his turn to board the train. “The factories are closed and we have been out of work for the last one month,” he said, adding, “We cannot sit idle for so long within a small room.”A daily wager Yamuna said, “Sometimes, some people come to distribute langar here at the Dholewal Chowk. We visit the area in afternoon and also in the evening in a hope of getting some food.”However, after alerting the railway police official, sub-inspector Balvir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Government Railway Police (GRP), along with his team and two railway protection force personnel, reached the spot. On seeing the police, the migrants dispersed and fled from the tracks.SHO Singh said that the police teams were making rounds of the area. “As soon as the migrants see the police, they leave only to come back later after the personnel have left,” he said.He further said that the police are trying to curb the menace, however, it is not easy. “It is not possible to deploy so many police personnel on the 20km long track. At present, a number of GRP personnel are already deployed at the railway station to maintain law and order as a huge number of migrants are availing the facility of Shramik Special trains,” he added.Meanwhile, a few police personnel, on the condition of anonymity, said that nothing will change the situation. They said, “On regular days when hundreds of trains were running every day, the migrants still trespassed the tracks,” while questioning, “How we can expect these migrants to change their habits now when only a limited number of trains are running.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-railway-police-personnel-agitated-as-migrants-continue-trespassing-railway-tracks/story-67fx3OP0hBOFvmFiCQ8bdL.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Resume courier service, provide financial assistance: officials||The officials of courier and parcel industry in the city are demanding that the state government should give them permission to resume their business operations and provide financial assistance to them as they have been hit hard by the lockdown which is in place to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.There are currently at least 800 big and small courier firms in the city which have been shut since the lockdown was announced on March 25. Most of the courier firms are situated in the central part of the city which are containment zones. Mohammad Ali Shaikh, a proprietor of Fly Wings Courier Service in Camp, said, “We have delivery boys who work on daily wages basis and with 45 days of lockdown it is becoming difficult for cash collection and picking up parcels from main offices, all of which are located in central parts of the city.”“If the lockdown continues, we will suffer losses and many people will lose jobs,” he said.Several courier firms with whom HT contacted expressed apprehensions that the industry can start only after transport and business sectors start functioning normally. Sanjay Sharma, a courier firm manager of an international courier company at NIBM road, said, “All the air services and railway services are shut down which has made transport of goods and parcels a cumbersome task.”An administrative official on condition of anonymity said, “The decision on resuming courier services can be taken only after a notification is issued by the central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/resume-courier-service-provide-financial-assistance-officials/story-NoXoqvOFAnrEGfuNUUxs8K.html
11-05-2020||City||Ludhiana ACP Kohli’s bhog ceremony live-streamed on Facebook||The Ludhiana police department on Sunday live-streamed the ‘bhog’ ceremony of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kumar Kohli on Facebook. The ACP had succumbed to coronavirus last month. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta also attended the ceremony that was organised at Nav Durga Temple, Sarabha Nagar, by the police department. Kohli’s 20 family members were also in attendance. On the occasion, the DGP handed over the appointment letter to Kohli’s son Paras to join the police force as a sub-inspector. Hailing the former ACP’s sacrifice, DGP Gupta said, “ACP Kohli was the first police officer in the entire country to sacrifice his life in the fight against the coronavirus. Making arrangements at vegetable market was a dynamic task and the ACP did it with full dedication. He will always be remembered.” “We join the police force to protect the society while fighting fight with criminals, terrorists, gangsters and other bad elements, but we had never thought that we would lose one of our officers to a pandemic,” he said.Kohli served the department for 30 years. “He was an officer of good conduct and also a good human being. I have seen a picture of him while helping a young girl wear a shoe. It touched me,” said DGP Gupta, adding that they put their best efforts to save him, but could not succeed. DGP TAKES STOCK OF LOCKDOWN ARRANGEMENTSPolice commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the DGP also chaired a meeting with officers of Ludhiana police and coronavirus commandos. The police chief reviewed the situation of the city, first information reports lodged against lockdown violators, ration and food distribution process and the movement of trains plying to shift migrant workers to their home states.Asking the officers to increase their work efficiency, he underlined the need to further intensify their efforts to ensure strict compliance of the coronavirus lockdown. Highlighting some violations of the ban on two-wheeler pillion riding, Gupta directed the police personnel to strictly enforce the ban and run special electronic and social media campaigns to educate people about social distancing guidelines.Meanwhile, he also interacted with the volunteers deployed at Bharat Nagar Chowk and lauded them for working with utmost sincerity and dedication for the past two months without any remuneration.FRONTLINE WARRIORS FELICITATEDTo boost the morale of the police force and recognise the works done by frontline men and women, Gupta presented the ‘DGP’s Honour for Exemplary Seva to Society’ certificates to 11 personnel, including ADCP (headquarters) Deepak Pareek, who is the nodal officer for the coronavirus in the police commissionerate, Ludhiana. Focal Point station house officer inspector Mohd Jameel, and constables Sanjeev Kumar and Ajaib Singh were also felicitated for their outstanding services in the battle against the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ludhiana-police-broadcast-acp-kohli-s-bhog-ceremony-on-facebook-live/story-seYVAA72G68VEqQMm5CAyH.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Shelters for homeless turn into Covid-19 quarantine facilities, swab centres in Pune||The shelter for homeless labourers and beggars near Tadiwala road under Dhole Patil road ward and Lakshminagar under Yerawada ward office jurisdiction of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas have been turned into institutional Covid-19 (coronavirus) quarantine facilities or swab centres.These shelter include Jyotiba Phule School on Dhole Patil road; Anusuya Bai Sawant School in Ganeshnagar, Yerawada; and Krantiveer Lahuji Vastad Salve E-learning School in Mother Teresanagar in Yerawada.Subhash Satav, the PMC official looking after the school-based shelter homes in Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori area, said, “The number of people at the shelter homes is the same. Maybe one or two went away, but those many got added too.”The people living in shelters in Yerawada were taken to optional facilities either in Fatimanagar or Aundh, according to Satav.Other centres being readied to serve as quarantine centres include- Colonel Young School and Dr Nanasaheb Parulekar School, both in Yerawada.In Dhole Patil road area, the local administration has asked for two facilities - Shantabai Ladkat School and a hall in Wadia College - to remain on standby as holding centres for negative cases.According to Dayanand Sonkamble, assistant municipal commissioner working in Dhole Patil Ward, “There are over 150 positive cases in Tadiwala road. The close contacts of these cases are being taken to the swab centre. The positive cases will be sent for treatment immediately and the negative ones will be kept in observation for some time in either Ladkat school or a hall in Wadia College.”Rajender Kumar, 30, a native of a town in Basarahi village in Jaunpur district of Uttar Pradesh, said, “We have filled out forms when they were made available. The company where we work is located in Tulapur. We walked from there to here because buses were shut and then we found that the trains were shut down too. If we get to Lucknow, we will make our way home. Just send us home.”He is accompanied by three others who were living in Jyotiba Phule School and are now stationed at Kasturba Gandhi School in Koregaon Park along with close to 120 others. There are labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Chhattisgarh in these shelters.While the city administration is dealing with the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the health officials require more space to quarantine suspected patients. The city administration is turning to spaces used as shelters for homeless and migrant labourers. In the form of hope for the labourers, however, the special trains for migrant labourers have begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shelters-for-homeless-turn-into-covid-19-quarantine-facilities-swab-centres/story-RkM2bpnMOf2YZXuzvmQB5M.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Food processing units in Pune start operation with minimum capacity||Food processing units in the city started operations in Katraj and Ambegaon with minimum capacity after the government eased curbs, according to officials.The food processing units include ice cream, spice, carry bag, gas chimney, soap and chikki manufacturers.Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, said, “We want all the big, medium and small scale industries to start operating. The state government will provide them with all necessary help.”Sanjay Shirsath, manager of A1 spices, said, “ We are into manufacturing coriander and turmeric powder. We have got all the requisite permissions and we operate between 9am and 5pm.”“Currently, we are working only with 20 per cent of our strength and expect our staff strength to grow in the next few months. The Covid-19 crisis has hurt us badly and the revenues have fallen flat. We expect the government to provide us with the necessary support like financial packages and other amenities, so that we don’t end up being sick units in the future,” he said.Ambalal Chaudhary of Shree Samartha Ice Cream Factory in Katraj, said, “The Covid-19 crisis and lockdown has led to the downfall of revenue earnings as we were shut during the summer season which is the peak season for business. However, there is a demand from the market now and we are catering to it.”“More than fifty per cent of the staff have stopped coming to work citing the dangers of the contagion,” he said.Paras Bhagat, detergent and soap manufacturer, said, “We have been sustaining losses from the last forty days as the entire manufacturing has been shut. Now, restoring the supply chain is a tedious task, but we are confident that business will become stable in the long term future,” he said. According to officials industries like fabrication units, refrigeration, plastic moulding, display counters, powder coating, corrugated boxes, agarbatti manufacturers and furniture are still closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/food-processing-units-in-pune-start-operation-with-minimum-capacity/story-8nErZYEJpSpXmURAlknZNM.html
11-05-2020||City||33-year-old robbed of ₹14,000, mobile phone in Ludhiana||A 33-year-old man was robbed of ₹14,000 and a mobile phone by three bike-borne miscreants near Pasi Nagar here on Sunday, police said.The Dugri police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused and initiated an investigation.Complainant Bhavdeep Singh of Shaheed Bhavdeep Singh Nagar said that he was waylaid near Pasi Nagar by the three accused, who robbed him of the valuables flashing sharp-edged weapons. Investigating officer assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balwinder Singh said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching using force) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against unidentified accused. The police were scanning closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the area to identify the accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/33-year-old-robbed-of-14-000-mobile-phone-in-ludhiana/story-6FIZOcN1ey4B9oEUS9ufwO.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Complete shutdown in 69 containment zones in Pune till May 17||With residents of containment zones under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) not following the lockdown rules strictly, the civic body has decided to shut down all services in these areas. PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad issued orders on Sunday for strict implementation of lockdown for the next seven days starting Monday in the 69 containment zones under PMC jurisdiction. Accordingly, only hospitals and medical stores will remain open in these zones starting from May 11, Monday midnight till May 17.The order issued by Gaikwad states, “Earlier orders about keeping essential shops open from 10am to 2pm in containment zones has been cancelled. It was noted by our officials that people were not maintaining proper social distancing norms and violating lockdown rules while coming out to purchase essential goods in these containment zones. So, in a bid to control the spread of Covid-19, all shops except hospitals and medical stores, in the 69 identified containment zones in Pune will remain closed till May 17.”“If required, milk and vegetables will be provided to the citizens with the help of PMC and police department. Looking at the local situation, goods will be home delivered or distributed at open ground in these areas while maintaining proper social distancing,” the order stated. Janta curfew in HadapsarLocal corporators of ward no. 23 in Hadapsar have called for a janta curfew from May 11, Monday to May 15. According to local corporators, for five days, there will be complete shut down in the ward and all shops except medical shops and hospitals will remain closed. Milk distribution is allowed from 7am to 9 am in the area. The curfew will start from Monday morning at 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/complete-shutdown-in-69-containment-zones-in-pune-till-may-17/story-fv4PPEdusEjDR0bRP5zJIO.html
11-05-2020||City||Failing to get ration, UP migrant hangs self in Ludhiana||A 38-year-old migrant from Uttar Pradesh ended his life in Ludhiana by hanging himself with a grill of a skylight at his rented accommodation on Saturday. While the victim’s kin say he ended his life as he was unable to arrange ration for his family, police said some personal problems prompted him to take the extreme step. The incident occurred late on Saturday night when the victim’s wife and two children were sleeping outside their room. His wife said they had nothing at home to eat and had been borrowing groceries and money from their neighbours to meet their daily needs. The victim’s son said the 38-year-old had registered himself on the administration’s helpline number (1905) for ration but to no avail. The victim had also queued up for ration outside Focal Point police station on Saturday, but returned empty handed, his son added. Meanwhile, around 500 labourers gathered in the colony and staged a protest against the police, district administration and Punjab government, alleging no transparency in ration distribution. They claimed that ration is not reaching the needy.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 4) Ajinder Singh said the allegations of not getting ration were baseless, but the police were investigating the case from all aspects. “Ration distribution process is totally transparent. Due to space constraint in the police station, we have chosen a ground to distribute ration among the needy,” he said.Earlier on May 3, around 250 migrant labourers living in Sherpur, Dhandhari, Focal Point and nearby areas had blocked National Highway near Dhandari, alleging that they were not getting ration. They had also pelted stones and damaged at least 10 vehicles. Former UP minister says migrants being ignoredReacting over the incident, former cabinet minister in Akhilesh Yadav government, Balwant Singh Ramoowalia, said labourers working in Ludhiana are not getting ration and he had received many complaints in this regard.He said only migrant labourers are facing problem, while the locals are being provided ration.“I don’t say the Punjab government and administration are not providing ration to labourers, but the distribution system is not correct. The government should take care of migrants for another 10 to 12 days, after which all labourers will be brought home,” said Ramoowalia.“Punjab should also speed up the process of sending migrants to their native places. I do not doubt the intention of the government, but it needs more determination. If the government is really committed to controlling the spread of Covid-19, it should make all necessary arrangements and facilitate their transportation,” he added.RK Yadav, general secretary, Punjab, Samajwadi Party, and TR Mishra, chairman of Purvanchal Party, said that they had also raised the issue of discrepancies in ration distribution multiple times, but nothing was done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-worker-from-up-hangs-self-kin-say-failing-to-arrange-ration-forced-him-to-end-life/story-2Xel3RAtfy1OEyEyiVpD8M.html
11-05-2020||City||Seven health workers test positive in Mohali, count goes up to 105||Seven health workers from the district working in Rupnagar tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday night, taking the district count to 105. The patients, who work at the Rupnagar civil hospital, include two male residents of Kurali, aged 46 and 41; two men from Kharar, aged 47 and 34; a 28-year-old woman from Sector 126, Mohali; a 32-year-old woman from Kurali and a 32-year-old woman from Amancity, KhararMohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the Rupnagar health department will quarantine them locally, but the health teams from Mohali will collect samples of their families here on Monday. Besides, their contacts in Mohali district will also be traced, he added. TWO PATIENTS DISCHARGEDTwo more patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Mohali, bringing down the number of active cases in the district to 48. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said both female patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, on Sunday. Among them are an 80-year-old woman from Sector 91 and a 56-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village, Dera Bassi.They have been advised to quarantine themselves for another 14 days as a precautionary measure. Health teams will keep a track of their health regularly. Dr Singh said all other patients at the Banur hospital were stable.So far, 54 of the total 105 patients have recovered, while three have succumbed to the disease. ‘STAY HOME’The civil surgeon appealed to residents not to leave their homes and only go out in case of urgent need. In case they require medical attention, they should visit hospitals only for serious problems, while others should contact health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice. He also asked residents to wash hands frequently and keep necessary distance from each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-year-old-woman-among-two-recover-from-coronavirus-in-mohali/story-E4jppGLxr8uwxy59odZSjL.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Students stranded in Pune get to go home via special buses||Students from Kolhapur stranded in Pune were sent home by two private buses on Sunday from the Swargate bus depot. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Chandrakant Patil and Kothrud legislator arranged for the travel of these students who were stranded in the city due to lockdown.“We received registration forms from students who were stranded in Pune and belonged to Kolhapur district. So after completing all the necessary procedure to get the legal passes and permissions, all these students have now been sent back to their homes today,” Patil said. Rishikesh Joshi, a student who travelled in the bus to Kolhapur, said, “It had become very difficult for us to survive in Pune and my parents were worried about me. I had applied to go back to Kolhapur and today we are being sent by a bus back home, it is a great relief to us.”Similarly, for long distance travel of stranded migrant labourers in the city, two shramik trains departed from Pune railway division carrying registered workers back home. The Pune district administration coordinated with the workers and sent the list to the railways after which trains have been running from different railway stations in the district. “We have started running special trains for stranded people for which we get all the necessary data of passengers and permissions from the Pune district administration. All our railway staff from different departments with utmost precautions have carried out running of these special trains, keeping in mind all the social distancing norms during the operations,” said Manoj Jhavar, spokesperson, Pune railway division.In another instance, a special state transport bus of the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) carrying 44 students who were preparing for competitive exams were sent to Jalgaon. A medical check-up was conducted for all students, they were also given a meal packet, a water bottle and a hand sanitiser before departing the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/students-stranded-in-pune-return-home-via-special-buses/story-sA3wm88b5x6lIUCR1RxbmM.html
11-05-2020||Pune||Dhabas, wedding halls in Pune district to provide food, shelter to migrant labourers||Left without jobs and desperate to return home amid the lockdown, migrant labourers have set off on foot from Pune for their native places. The Pune administration has asked the officials concerned to make necessary arrangements for such migrants at dhabas and wedding halls/mangalkaryalays available on highways in the district and set up camps for them.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram on Sunday issued an order for tehsildars and block development officers (BDOs) to immediately establish labour camps along main roads. The camps would be established at reasonable distances from each other on the three roads leading to Nashik, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The number and location of the camps would be determined by the tehsildars based on the requirement.Ram said, “Ever since we lifted travel restrictions for migrants, most of them are trying to reach home either on foot or on bicycles. This long distance travel will hamper their health, and hence, I have ordered all tehsildars to set up camps at dhabas and wedding halls along the national highways so that the workers can rest in between their journey. The will be provided with food and shelter at these camps.”According to Ram, at each camp, there would be facility of water, toilets, safe place to stay, food and basic medical care, including facility of check-up for flu-like symptoms. Adequate police security would also be deployed at the camps for the safety of migrants, women and children and an official would also be appointed as the camp manager. Migrants can also register online through the state’s ‘Aaple Sarkar portal’ to access transport facilities being provided by the government.“The camp expenses would be met through the state disaster relief fund. Each taluka has been given Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh as advance to provide relief. I am hoping that other travellers will pitch to pay for these labourers at the dhabbas or even the dhabba owners can help in providing them food during their long walk,” said Ram.Exit plan for migrantsRam is leaving no stone unturned to get transportation arranged for the migrant labourers. “We recently sent 900 tribal students to Nandurbar from Ambegaon via state transport bus and are talking to the railways to arrange five more trains to Bihar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dhabas-wedding-halls-in-pune-district-to-provide-food-shelter-to-migrants-who-set-off-on-foot-for-their-hometowns/story-CTzOrgFke8fbnVPDmsNvRI.html
