12-05-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER, Western Command laud nurses for role in Covid-19 battle||Director of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Dr Jagat Ram, lauded the contribution of nurses in the battle against Covid-19, on Tuesday. He was speaking at a function organised to observe International Nurses Day at PGIMER’s NHE Block, the institute’s dedicated Covid hospital.Meanwhile, military nursing service officers at Command Hospital, Western Command, Chandimandir, paid tributes to Florence Nightingale by lighting candles and taking the Nightingale pledge. Lt General RP Singh greeted all nursing officers on the occasion and commended the service rendered by them in the care of soldiers and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-western-command-laud-nurses-for-role-in-covid-19-battle/story-crtBXNK8332mZUzbyZt2mM.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab likely to start random sampling from tomorrow||The Punjab government is likely to start random testing of samples for the coronavirus in the all the districts from Thursday following the fresh guidelines of the Union health and family welfare ministry.“We plan to start random sampling within a day or two as per procedure notified by the central ministry. The district authorities have been asked to chalk out a plan in this regard. The aim of the testing is to check the spread of the virus at the community level,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, state health department’s spokesperson for Covid-19.As per Union health ministry’s guidelines, the district health authorities will collect 200 random samples daily as they do for RT-PCR tests from each district. These samples will be tested in a pool of 25 each.“If the pool sample is found negative, it would mean all samples are negative for Covid-19. However, if the result is positive, all 25 samples will individually be put for testing to clear the status of every individual,” a civil surgeon said.The guidelines say 200 samples will include 100 samples of healthcare workers, including those from six public and four private facilities, while 50 samples will be taken from outpatient attendants and pregnant women.The state health department is also planning to include in the testing the police personnel on frontline duties after few more days.Though the department was already collecting random samples but they were of symptomatic patients visiting the flu centres or the private healthcare facilities.“We are also using pool testing of five samples per pool to check the community spread and the majority of them have turned out to be negative. But as most of the positive persons don’t show any symptom, the new Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines would give the exact idea of the spread among the frontline warriors and low-risk persons,” a senior health official said.The new random sampling will be conducted in a focused manner and the idea is to contain the spread of the virus by testing high-risk health workers and low-risk pregnant women and their attendants.This sampling will be in addition to the testing being done already by the district authorities. Apart from taking throat and nasal swabs, blood samples will also be collected during the random sampling process.“We have been asked to take blood samples as the Union health ministry subsequently plans to further check these samples in IgG ELISA testing kits recently developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune,” an official said.The testing kit can check 90 samples together in two-and-a-half hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-likely-to-start-random-sampling-from-tomorrow/story-kZiNhjaC0O8tkAkKD9EkjL.html
12-05-2020||City||37 new cases in Punjab, tally 1,969||Twenty-one fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Punjab on Tuesday — nine from Jalandhar, eight from Fatehgarh Sahib and one each from Rupnagar, Kapurthala and Fazilka. Ludhiana recorded one fresh case on Tuesday and 16 on late Monday night. With this, Punjab tally of confirmed cases has gone up to 1,969.A 5-month-old girl was among the nine tested positive cases in Jalandhar district, taking the district’s tally to 197, including six deaths. Health officials said eight patients were close contacts of Covid-19 patients, while there is no clarity from where a patient contracted the virus as he has no travel history.One patient was reported from Kapurthala district.In Ludhiana, a ward boy of DMCH was tested positive for the virus, two days after a colleague of his was found infected. As per the hospital staff, he was among the 100 staff members who were quarantined on Sunday. The total number of positive patients in Ludhiana is now 136. Sixteen cases — 14 Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and two locals — were found positive in the district late Monday night.A 60-year-old man of Anandpur Sahib, who had returned from Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla in Delhi, also tested positive. He was among the seven people brought back from the Delhi gurdwara on May 11. Five others tested negative while the report of one is awaited.Breather for SBS Nagar’s 14 villagesFourteen villages of Banga sub-division in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district which were sealed after they were declared a containment zone, were unsealed on Tuesday. Officials said no positive case in these villagers was reported since March 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/37-new-cases-in-punjab-tally-1-969/story-8kTGVdIr8zPinWF0Zb12QM.html
12-05-2020||City||District admin orders to rollback of maintenance fee hike in Greater Noida west society||The district administration Monday issued an order to roll back the maintenance fee hike of Eros Sampoornam society in Greater Noida West after a group of residents claimed that the move is irrational during the ongoing lockdown. The residents claimed that there are around 1,500 families in the society and many are facing salary cuts due to the lockdown. A hike in maintenance fee in such a situation was ill-timed and irrational, they argued. The society has 1,768 flats and 1,500 of them are occupied. The developer had started giving possession in 2017.Shyam Thakur, a resident, said residents are already in trouble due to the lockdown. “The developer increased the maintenance fee by up to 28%, depending on the size of the area, this April. A group of residents approached Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh for his intervention in the matter on May 5,” he said.Singh said he found that the maintenance fee hike would adversely affect residents who are already troubled by the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. “The employees are already facing 30-40% cuts in their salaries. Considering these issues, we realised that the maintenance fee hike is not justified,” he said. The MLA wrote to the district magistrate and Greater Noida authority to address the issue.Diwakar Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, issued an order stating that as per the revised fee, a resident’s monthly maintenance fee has increased from ₹4,000 to ₹5,800 a month, which is not justified. “This, at a time when the country is suffering from a difficult situation. The developer is directed to roll back the hiked fee, failing which actions would be taken under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and also under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant),” the ADM’s letter said. The developer said the maintenance fee has not been increased since 2017. “In January 2020, the residents had signed an agreement that the maintenance can be revised from April. Some residents have already paid the fee while a group of others has objections. We have asked them to pay the maintenance charge as per the previous rate as of now. We will form a committee comprising representatives from residents and discuss the issue once the lockdown is lifted,” Alakshendra Singh, head corporate communications, Eros Group, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/district-admin-orders-to-rollback-of-maintenance-fee-hike-in-greater-noida-west-society/story-7LYGrnbADGj1HhEzgpaqbP.html
12-05-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka: Yediyurappa govt warned against ordinance to amend labour laws||Congress and Janata Dal(S) have warned the Karnataka government against bringing an ordinance to amend the existing labour laws or the APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) act. The warning by the opposition parties comes a day after the government constituted a 15 member special investment task force aimed at attracting companies looking to relocate from China following the pandemic. One of its tasks was to examine existing labour laws with a view to amend and modify it to make Karnataka an attractive destination for investors.Speaking at two separate press conferences, the Congress and the JDS leaders said they would protest any move to dilute or amend the existing laws without a discussion. Former CM and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy said that CM B S Yediyurappa should act in the interest of the people of the state instead of trying to please the Central government or BJP party bosses.He also accused the state government of succumbing to the pressure from big industries and the capitalists.“Our silence should not be construed as weakness. Any amendment to the APMC act will be detrimental to farmers and help only big business. Amendment to APMC act alone will cause a loss of Rs 600 crore to the exchequer,” Kumaraswamy alleged.Similarly, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar and the Leader of Opposition in the assembly, Siddaramiah, also demanded that a special session of assembly be called to discuss all measures including any proposed amendments to the labour laws and said they would take to streets even amidst a lockdown in case an ordinance was promulgated.Since the term of gram panchayats is expiring on May 24, Congress has demanded a six-month extension for existing panchayats as holding elections in the prevailing circumstances is not possible. Pointing out that several elections, including those of assembly and even Rajya Sabha, have been postponed due to current circumstances, it warned the government against dissolving the existing gram panchayats and nominating its party members in their place till elections are held.“There is a provision to extend the term of such bodies in special circumstances like the current one,” Shivakumar added.Siddaramiah said the Central government had failed in containing the spread of Covid-19 and the economic challenges it poses.“Who gave the permission to hold the Tablighi convention? Rs 35,000 crore has been collected into the PM CARES fund including Rs 3000 crore from Karnataka. But why is the government not able to offer free trains to poor migrants who want to go back to their states?” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-yediyurappa-govt-warned-against-ordinance-to-amend-labour-laws/story-aAc3ljJniqvesCZeKHFg1K.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Noida resumes construction of multiple projects amid COVID 19 pandemic||The Noida authority on Tuesday said that it has started construction of multiple projects, including laying of roads to engage daily wage labourers and revive economic activity amid lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic.Since March 25, when the government announced the nationwide lockdown, almost all construction work was halted thereby leading to a crisis of livelihood of daily wage earners, forcing many of them to head to their homes. Their movement led to a crisis as the lockdown had entailed a shutting down of the country’s transport infrastructure too.Ahead of the phase 3 of the lockdown that began on May 4, the central government announced it would allow states to relax restrictions in certain areas provided they follow social distancing and workforce norms.The UP government decided to allow construction projects with some riders and also allowed operations for industries, factories and private offices reducing staff by a third. In line with this, the Noida authority has also resumed work at its administrative building being constructed in sector 96, Chilla elevated road being built from Delhi’s Chilla to Noida’s sector 94, an underpass on Noida Expressway and also roads across the city.“We have resumed work while following social distancing at work place and construction sites. It will help in engaging the daily wage earners and also help in finishing the construction work before the onset of rainy season,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority has decided to repair drains, culverts, city roads, footpaths and central verge.“We have immediately started the work on these important projects because we want to do these works before rainy season. If these works will not be done now then residents may face issues during rainy season. Also these works are needed to do now because we can engage the daily wage labourers at different sites,” said another Noida authority official, requesting anonymity.The authority has fixed a target to finish small works immediately. And if they need to issue tenders to hire contractors then they can finish the process in May so that the work gets completed in June month before July, when rainy seasons starts. The authority was already doing working on projects such as Chilla elevated road, underpass at sector 71/51 intersection, sector 96 building, underpass at Noida Expressway and drains in sector 43. But the work was disrupted due to lockdown put into effect to contain the spread of covid 19 disease. “As we have restarted construction work at all of these projects we will be able to finish them as per the old deadline without any delay,” said official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-resumes-construction-of-multiple-projects-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-MyIjDLF2PWwNKazT1jT9tN.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Difficult to resume construction work as material is not reaching sites due to border restrictions, developers tell UP minister||Developers from Noida, Greater Noida, and Yamuna Expressway areas on Tuesday apprised the Uttar Pradesh industrial development minister Satish Mahana of the problems they are facing in resuming operations despite the relaxation in lockdown norms over a webinar.The developers said while they had received permission to start construction in their realty projects, work is yet to take off completely as construction material is not reaching the site. “The government has allowed permission to resume operations at the sites, but a lot of us are yet to restart the construction work. Construction material such as steel, cement, sand, among other equipment is not reaching the sites due to the restrictions at state or district borders Also, our staff is facing issues in reaching the sites. We can only resume work, once these things get back to normal,” said Amit Modi, vice-president of the western UP chapter CREDAI (Confederation of Real Estate Developers Asociation of India), a builders’ group.The key demands that the builders put in front of the minister include waiver of electricity bills, lease rent for their housing land, reduction in rate of interest on financial dues. Asking the government to help the realty sector which has been badly hit by the lockdown, the builders also urged the minister to get the Noida and Greater Noida authorities and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) to delay the collection of financial, and also demanded an additional one year to finish the delayed housing projects apart from financial support. “In January this year, the UP government had decided not to impose interest on projects which were delayed due to court cases over housing land. They, however, only passed on this benefit to those builders who will finish their projects by June 2021. We demanded that this deadline should be extended by a year as the Covid-19 pandemic has affected the speed of all housing projects. Without the support of the state government and the Noida authority among other government agencies builders will not be able to finish the projects as per schedule,” said Prashant Tiwari president, CREDAI (Western UP). The hour-long webinar was attended by at least 400 developers from across Uttar Pradesh who said state government should not delay taking decisions on their demands. “The need of the hour is that the government takes decisions at earliest before their issues get bigger. The government may realise if the real estate sector suffers, then many allied businesses such as those which are into producing steel, cement, apart from professional and many unskilled workers will be adversely affected,” said Abhay Kumar, chief managing director, Grihapravesh Buildteck Private Limited. The industry minister and state government officials who attended the webinar, including industrial and infrastructure development commissioner Alok Tandon, however did not specify when the UP government will take a decision on the developers’ demands. “We are looking into all issues being faced by the real estate sector. The state government wants to address these issues because it is not only builders who are suffering in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, but also homebuyers and other people dependent on the sector,” said Satish Mahana UP industry minister. The webinar was also attended by chief executive officer(CEO) of Noida authority, Ritu Maheshwari, Yeida CEO Arun Vir Singh, and Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/difficult-to-resume-construction-work-as-material-is-not-reaching-sites-due-to-border-restrictions-developers-tell-up-minister/story-oWlas28yeL69lg3GZdSKcI.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt scraps deferred allowances, and more||After initially deciding to defer payment of six categories of allowances to its employees and teachers for a year, the Uttar Pradesh government has scrapped them altogether.The government also scrapped some other allowances, including the one paid for promotion of e-governance in all the departments of the secretariat.A decision to scrap these allowances was taken by the state cabinet, by circulation, here on Monday and formal orders, dated May 12, have been sent to all the departments by additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal.“A review of the allowances stopped, or not existing, at the centre and permissible in state was carried out following decline in state government’s revenue in view of the fight against Covid-19,” said Mittal while issuing four separate orders scrapping the allowances, including one paid for maintenance of provident fund accounts.The government hopes to save an additional sum of Rs 1,500 crore per annum by scrapping these allowances. It has already decided to freeze the dearnance allowance and dearness relief paid to its employees, teachers and pensioners from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 to save about Rs 10,500 crore in 2020-2021.Quoting an order of IT and electronics department, Mittal said: “Under prevailing circumstances, there appears no justification for payment of promotional allowance to two officers of joint secretary and special secretary rank for development of e-governance in all departments of the secretariat.”Other allowances scrapped include city compensatory allowance (CCA), secretariat allowance, special allowance given to CB-CID, anti-corruption organisation, economic offences wing, vigilance establishment, security and special investigation wing, special allowance paid to junior engineers in all the departments, research allowance, orderly allowance and design allowance paid in the public works department along with investigation and planning and orderly allowance paid to officers and employees working with the irrigation department.“As the state government is committed for parity with central government in payment of salaries and allowances to its employees and teachers, there is no justification to continue with the allowances when they do not exist at the centre. The state cabinet, therefore, decided to scrap all these allowances instead of deferring them,” said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-scraps-deferred-allowances-and-more/story-JM148BU6an005gPIisKS7M.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Expect rain, strong wind today, courtesy the fourth western disturbance this May||With the mercury staying well below the season’s average on Tuesday -- the maximum temperature was 37.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average -- the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rain with strong winds on Wednesday.The IMD warned that strong winds may sweep across parts of Noida, Ghaziabad and adjoining regions of Delhi towards Wednesday afternoon or evening. The wind speed may reach 70 kilometres per hour (kmph), as it had recently on Sunday, May 10.According to the weather analysts, a new western disturbance – a phenomenon that causes rains and thunder activities in the region – will have its effects till Thursday. This is the fourth western disturbance this month, they said. According to the weather scientists, 2020 has experienced more western disturbances (WD) than “usually expected” or “normally prevalent” in other years.A Western disturbance is basically the flow of high moisture air and clouds from Mediterranean sea towards east Himalayan range via Iraq , Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan.“Strong winds and squalls are expected to affect the NCR, especially the region of eastern Delhi and western Uttar Pradesh areas of Noida and Ghaziabad. The wind speed may vary from 60kmph to 70kmph. Although the speed will not be consistent, even a minute or two of such strong wind may cause tress to fall, bring down hoardings and signboards,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD, said.“The number of western disturbances had been more this year -- in January, there were nine WDs while generally there are not more than six. In February, there were 7 WDs whereas the month usually sees five WDs, and in March, there were six WDs against the normal trend of four. In April, there were six while we don’t expect more than five. In the month of May, the normal expectation, assessed from the patterns so far, is of four WDs for the entire month, whereas this WD expected on Wednesday is already the fourth,”Srivastava explained.He added that it is difficult to explain the reason for more number of western disturbances this year, and said one most obvious explanation could be ‘climate change’.“It would take more time and occurrences of western disturbances to establish a connection to climate change. It is too early to say that for now,” he clarified.Commenting on the regular occurrence of strong winds this year, experts state that it’s because of the variation in the temperature.“High winds are normal for this time of the year -- it’s a pre-monsoon activity. However, with more WDs, there are more chances of strong winds or dust storm. It also happens due to the formation of cumulative cloud that happens due to temperature differences and instability in the atmospheric layers,” Mahesh Palawat, director private weather forecasting agency, Skymet, said.The IMD said that while Wednesday would see rain and squalls, its effects may continue till Thursday with patchy rain and cloudy sky.“The temperature will remain well under the season’s average till Thursday. From Friday onwards, however, the temperatures will start gradually rising,” Srivastava added.Tuesday’s maximum temperature was recorded at 37.2 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average against 36 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The minimum temperature was recorded at 24.3 degrees Celsius, same as a day earlier.On Wednesday, the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 34 and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively.“After rain, the temperature falls gradually. So, for it to rise gradually will take some time, because there are cumulative effects of post WD wind directions and moisture in the air,” Palawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/expect-rain-strong-wind-today-courtesy-the-fourth-western-disturbance-this-may/story-rLUGRV7nQj2DvWe0yBC1yM.html
12-05-2020||City||Siblings sell their bicycles, donate money to PM Cares fund||Thirteen-year-old Parth Adhana and his younger brother Parikshit Adhana,6, were much troubled by the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and wanted to help the people however they could. The siblings decided to sell their most favourite possession --bicycles gifted to them on their birthdays -- to raise some money. Parth posted a video on Twitter to find a suitable buyer. Soon, a Ghaziabad resident spotted the tweet and bought the two bicycles for ₹5,200.Parth is a student of class 5 and Parikshit of class 2 at St Joseph’s School, Greater Noida, and they live with their parents in Sector Alpha 2. “A few days ago, we had met Greater Noida-based golfer Arjun Bhati. He had sold his medals and donated the money to the PM Cares fund. He inspired me and my younger brother to do something good,” Parth said.Pradeep Adhana, their father, said that he had donated money to PM Cares fund in his personal capacity. “But my children also wanted to do their bit. First they planned to sell their toys, but realised that they won’t fetch much money. Then they decided to sell their bicycles,” he said.Parth and Parikshit tweeted the video on May 9. “We want to sell our bicycles and donate the money to PM Care fund. Anyone who needs the bicycles can contact us,” their boys said in the video.Adhana said the next day a Ghaziabad resident contacted him wishing to buy the cycles. “The children fixed the deal at ₹5,200 and sold the bicycles,” he said.“I wanted to do something for the country. I donated the money on Mother’s Day. My mother is also happy with our gesture,” Parth said. Parikshit said he is also happy to have done something good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/siblings-sell-their-bicycles-donate-money-to-pm-cares-fund/story-K54jeai9duUCFe4eyKFXYM.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Corpse found outside private hospital, authorities booked for negligence||A private hospital based in Sector 33 was booked by the Noida police on Tuesday for allegedly mishandling the corpse of a security guard.On Monday afternoon, the body of a man in his late thirties was found right outside the gate of the hospital creating panic among the locals. A police team reached the spot along with personal from the health department. The body was first taken to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida after which it was taken to the mortuary for an autopsy. The reason behind the death is yet to be ascertained, the police said.The deceased was later identified as Devanand Bhagat who worked as a security guard in Noida. The 35-year-old man was from Bihar and lived in Noida by himself in a rented house.According to police officers, the district health department held an inquiry in the matter and then submitted a complaint to the police.“The district magistrate had ordered an inquiry in the matter after which the chief medical officer launched a probe. Based on the findings of the health department and the complaint submitted by them, an FIR has been registered against the hospital,” Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (zone 1), said.Police officers said Bhagat’s samples have been sent to be tested against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but the tests report is awaited. The autopsy can be only conducted after the test report come. They added that the cause of death will be ascertained following the autopsy, though there were no external injury marks on the body.It appears that either the man had gone to the hospital for treatment and was denied aid after which he died outside the hospital or he died during treatment and his body was kept outside by the hospital staff to avoid any kind of responsibility, they said.“The incident is being probed for now. We have contacted his family members in Bihar who have confirmed that he was not keeping well for a few days. Anything beyond that can only be established after the investigation,” said DCP Sharma.The police also said as the incident was a matter of medical negligence, the CMO will further conduct an investigation to determine what action is to be taken against the hospital, and a committee has been formed for this purpose. They added that if the man is found to be positive for Covid-19, the hospital will be responsible for endangering the lives of others as well.“It seems that the man died outside the hospital in question and according to the initial inquiry, the hospital had mistreated his body after which we filed a complaint with the police,” said Dr Shachindri Mishra, medical officer, community health center (CHC), Bisrakh who is also the complainant in the case.Based on his complaint, a case was registered against the hospital administration at Sector 24 police station under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.Neither the administration of the hospital nor the CMO could be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/corpse-found-outside-private-hospital-authorities-booked-for-negligence/story-xuGvzc4y7GNqiLaMw3rPTP.html
12-05-2020||Noida||District sports officer among six new Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar||A 32-year-old district sports officer (DSO) is among six new cases that tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday. The DSO, who was deployed at a shelter home in Greater Noida, is the first senior officer from the district administration to contract the infection.The DSO said she had no symptoms of the infection, and had got herself checked as a precautionary measure. “I was posted at the Malakpur Sports Stadium in Greater Noida, which is running as a shelter home for homeless people, for the last one and a half months. Currently, there are around 47 homeless persons at the shelter. I had requested the health department to get me and a colleague tested for Covid-19,” said the DSO, who is currently admitted to the isolation ward at Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida.“On Monday night, I was informed that I am positive for the infection after which I was admitted at GIMS. I had no symptoms, but I gave my sample as a precautionary measure which turned out to be positive. Doctors had suggested that I don’t need to take the test as I had no symptoms, but I was suspicious as we have been attending many people at the shelter home,” she added. The contact tracing team of the health department is now trying to identify all the people who came in contact with the DSO. All the contacts will be put under quarantine.The other patients who tested positive on Tuesday include a 35-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman from the JJ Colony in Sector 5, Harola. Officials suspect that the two are part of the Ceasefire trail, Four persons from the colony, including a domestic help of a Ceasefire employee, were found Covid-19 positive earlier. A 35-year-old woman from the JJ Colony in Sector 9 was also found positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Around 53 persons have been found positive for the deadly virus from the JJ Colony of sectors 8, 9, and 10 till now.An 18-year-old man from Sector 31 and a 52-year-old man from Gaur City, Greater Noida were also found positive for the infection. The health department is yet to identify the source of infection in both cases. So far, the source of infection of around 50 percent of the total cases is unknown in the district.By Tuesday night, the health department collected a total of 4,251 samples. As many as 230 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the district so far, of which 141 persons have been discharged while three people have succumbed to the disease. Nearly 484 persons are under institutional quarantine in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/district-sports-officer-among-six-new-covid-19-cases-in-gautam-budh-nagar/story-aHZEtV2jnSqhh58CmEaGaO.html
12-05-2020||City||Cops stuffed us like cattle on trucks, brought us to shelter home, say migrants stopped from journey home||Migrant workers who were walking back to their home towns along Ghaziabad highways and the railway tracks said they were stopped by the police in Morta, Bundled on to trucks like cattle and brought to a shelter home near Raj Nagar Extension.Several of them said they were transported in such an inhumane and congested manner that trucks doors had to be left open for them to even breathe till they reached the shelter home. They also alleged that police did not even have dedicated vehicles to ferry them and simply piled them on to whichever vehicle happened to be passing by, after flagging them to stop.The Ghaziabad police however denied that they were transporting migrants in an inhumane manner and said most migrant workers are shifted to Ghaziabad from nearby areas and then dispatched to their home towns on buses.Eighteen-year-old Munna, who used to work as a daily wager at Tila Morh in Ghaziabad, said he was walking to his home town in Chapra, Bihar, when he was picked by the police. “About 50 to 100 people were picked up by the police and then they were packed into trucks, mini-trucks and even container trucks that were passing by. The drivers were told to take us to the shelter home. I was taken in one such container truck along with dozens of others. One of truck doors was left open so that we could breathe,” he said.Rajesh Kumar, 25, had started his journey by foot from Gandhi Nagar in Delhi where he worked as tailor. “I had reached Morta where people told me that we could get buses to our home towns. But then our group of 50 to 60 people was stopped by the police. They piled us on to a truck like cattle with little concern for social distancing and brought us to this farmhouse which is now a temporary shelter,” Kumar, who hails from Kaushambi district in Uttar Pradesh, said.Most migrant workers found on the road and alongside the railway tracks were transported to shelter homes in a similar manner.“About 100 of us were made to sit on a small pick-up truck. I had come from Loni to Morta in the hopes of catching bus to my home town in Saran, Bihar. They stuffed us like they are transporting cattle. We could barely breathe till we reached the farmhouse,” Rajesh Kumar Yadav, who used to work as a daily wager in Loni, said. He and 25 others with him have been shifted to the shelter home.Jageshwar, who had come from Delhi, said he was one of about 100 people bundled into the truck.“There were three trucks that the police had stopped and then we were shifted to the shelter home. On Monday night, some trucks arrived at the shelter home and workers from Uttar Pradesh were asked to board them. The trucks took them away and we don’t know where they were taken to. I tol them that I, too, belong to UP but the driver said the truck was full and I should wait for another one. But no vehicle came after that,” Jageshwar, who hails from Kaushambi district, said.Denying these allegations, Kalanidhi Nithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad, said, “We have sent about 106 buses two days ago and another 150 more will be despatched soon. When migrant workers hear about the movement of buses, they come to Ghaziabad or are sent here from nearby areas. If our personnel at checkpoints see them coming in vehicles we make them “adjust properly” so that they can easily be taken to shelter homes where they are given food and lodging facilities.” Subdivisional magistrate Prashant Tiwari said that he will look into the issue and also talk to Ghaziabad police. He said migrant workers walking will not be allowed to walk home and that the administration is arranging them buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-stuffed-us-like-cattle-on-trucks-brought-us-to-shelter-home-say-migrants-stopped-from-journey-home/story-n5WNcIQyis5LHL6VuDII2H.html
12-05-2020||City||Covid patient dies after being shifted to lower category hospital on health minister’s request||An 85-year-old Covid-19 patient admitted in Sanjay Nagar Hospital, a secondary hospital, in Ghaziabad died soon after he was shifted from a tertiary hospital in Meerut on Tuesday, which, according to Uttar Pradesh health minister, was done on the request of the man’s family.The Ghaziabad health department officials said that the patient, a native of Pilkhuwa, was admitted last week to Meerut Medical College after he tested positive for the disease. He also suffered other health complications like diabetes and high blood pressure.“It came as a surprise to us that a Covid-19 patient was shifted to the lower category L2 hospital in Ghaziabad, which is for patients having moderate complications. The L3 (tertiary) hospital is meant for critical care. After he was admitted here, he succumbed within four hours of his stay. Generally, a patient is shifted to another hospital base on a doctor’s advice,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “It is only when a patient is stable that we recommend shifting him/her to a lower level hospital. After the patient arrived to Ghaziabad we had to admit him otherwise it would have stoked criticism. But he did not survive. His last rites were performed with due precautions in Ghaziabad and the patient will not be added to the Covid-19 count in Ghaziabad.” The officials did not disclose personal details of the patient so his family could not be reached for comments.The family had also approached Uttar Pradesh health minister Atul Garg, also an MLA from Ghaziabad.“His family made repeated request to me to make him shift to Ghaziabad,” said Garg. “They believed he was not getting proper treatment at Meerut. The doctors at Meerut also did not object (to the movement). So, I helped them and it was on my request that he was discharged from Meerut.The family also sent a message of thanks to me. Patient’s condition was not such that he was required to be put on ventilator.”The Meerut hospital said it would not comment on the patient’s health.“The patient had gone to Ghaziabad on insistence of his family. Putting allegations is very easy but I will not comment anything on this. Till the time he was here we tried our best and provided him the best treatment,” said Dr TS Arya, its medical superintendent.Doctors at the Ghaziabad hospital said the patient’s lungs were affected.“He was admitted at around 4.30 pm on Monday and he succumbed around 8.45pm. Besides his health complications, his lungs were also affected. About six of our staff who attended to him will now remain in active quarantine for 15 days,” said Dr Naresh Vij, hospital’s chief medical superintendent.To deal with Covid-19 cases, the UP government has created a three-tier structure of dedicated Covid hospitals.The L1 category hospitals deal with normal Covid-19 positive patients while L2 hospitals are meant for patients having moderate complications. The L3 hospitals are meant for patients requiring critical care.The Uttar Pradesh government had approved an L# hospital in Ghaziabad, but is yet to be operational.Critical Covid patients from Ghaziabad are referred to L3 hospital at Meerut.On Tuesday, two more Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Jhandapur locality in Sahibabad and took the tally to 143 cases.“One of the two is a 20-year-old woman who was under treatment at a hospital in Mohan Nagar. The other is a 42 year old security guard who worked at a factory in Sahibabad. After the factory officials got employees randomly tested, the guard turned positive,” CMO Dr Gupta said.In another direction, the district administration on Tuesday said that required permissions for opening of industrial units, constructions sites, cab/taxi services, etc. will no longer be required.“These activities were earlier permitted and permissions had to be applied for with the respective department or administration. Now, the industrial unit owners, construction sites, standalone shops/commercial establishments and private offices will have to make self declaration on www.ghaziabad.nic.in while the cab/taxi services can operate without any permission or any self declaration. However, the operations are not allowed out of hotspot/containment zones,” said a district administration spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-patient-dies-after-being-shifted-to-lower-category-hospital-on-health-minister-s-request/story-vDPGBHKWsRCsVBsWO4W6LL.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Third COVID-19 death in GB Nagar, wife asks officials to perform the last rites||Stigma attached with the contagious coronavirus disease Covid-19 kept one family away from claiming a man who died of it in Guatam Budh Nagar on Tuesday. This forced his wife to ask the authorities to perform the last rites and cremate him in their absence.The 60-year-old man, a resident of Noida’s sector 19, was admitted to Sharda Hospital on May 8, the same day the district suffered its first two deaths due to the virus. At around 9.50pm on Monday he suffered a cardiac arrest brought about by severe respiratory syndrome. Officials are still trying to trace the source of the infection.The man’s 59-year-old wife had also tested positive the same day as him, both having shown symptoms of the viral disease, and was admitted to the same isolation ward. Their daughter was in Gujarat at the time and could not attend to her parents due to the lockdown.While the previous two bodies were accepted by families, the case was different with this one.Officials said they spoke with a few relatives of the man living nearby and offered to give them passes to perform the last rites. Eventually, the wife made her request to the district magistrate: “Please perform last rites of my husband as I am myself admitted for Covid-19”“There was nobody to claim the body after which we along with the health officials performed his last rites. People are scared to come forward to claim body of Covid-19 patient. We showed the whole last rites of the man to his wife and daughter on a video call,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar and media spokesperson, Sharda University, Greater Noida. District magistrate Suhas LY, along with authorities of the Sharda Hospital and health officials, performed the last rites of the man at the electronic crematorium in sector 94. Last week, the district had made public the protocols that were to be followed while disposing of bodies of those who tested positive for the coronavirus. This included covering the body with a bag and absolutely no physical contact with relatives. They were, however, allowed to perform the last rites and even glimpse the face, provided all social distancing norms were accepted. These are as per protocols devised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the nodal agency in India for the disease.“It is sad that people aren’t coming forward to claim the bodies of Covid-19 patients in many parts of the country. There shouldn’t be any stigma as proper protocol of sanitising the body and body bag is done before handing over the body to the relatives. Important family members should come forward to claim bodies. It is ensured that there is no chance of others getting the infection while claiming the body and performing the last rites,” said Dr Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer, GB Nagar. The 59-year-old woman, meanwhile, was shifted to another isolation ward as she had suffered a loss that would need special care. Her vitals were normal, doctors said.A 62-year-old man from sector 66 died on May 8 in Gautam Budh Nagar. He was under institutional quarantine at the Galgotias hostel which has been running as a government quarantine centre. The person was declared brought dead at the GIMS. A 60-year-old man from Sector 22 in Noida had also died after he developed pneumonia at GIMS during the early hours of the same day.The district suffered three deaths in total, while the cases rose to 230 with six fresh cases on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/third-covid-19-death-in-gb-nagar-wife-asks-officials-to-perform-the-last-rites/story-GLyn23sL35YRNZuoOtnqiI.html
12-05-2020||City||2 months on, GB Nagar admin yet to locate 18,000 registered labourers||NOIDA: Nearly two months have passed since the Uttar Pradesh government announced that construction workers in the state will get ₹1,000 each as financial aid amid the coronavirus pandemic, but the Gautam Budh Nagar administration has failed to locate almost half of such labourers registered with the labour department in the district.Out of 38,409 registered daily wage earners, the district administration has no clue about 18,000 of them. The monthly financial assistance of ₹1,000 is being paid to workers as a direct benefit transfer (DBT) in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. On March 21, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered that ₹1,000 be provided to each of the 20.37 lakh construction workers registered with the labour department and to each of the 15 lakh self-employed cart owners, small shop owners and rickshaw pullers on an immediate basis.According to GB Nagar deputy commissioner (labour) Pradeep Kumar Singh, of 38,409 bona fide workers registered with the district labour department, the bank account numbers of only 20,643 are available. “The amount of ₹1,000 has already been transferred to each of these accounts,” he said.Singh further said that locating the remaining workers has become a tough task as such workers, mostly associated with construction companies, come once or twice in a year and return to their native places after two-three months. “We are also contacting their employers. But most of the employers said they (labourers) didn’t return to their companies after a year or two. During this lockdown, our officials who are trying to locate such labourers’ details say that less than 10% of them available on the mobile phone numbers given at the time of their registration,” he said.To locate the remaining workers, the labour department last month launched a mobile application ‘UPBOCW’ (Uttar Pradesh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board). After downloading this application, the remaining workers will have to be registered on this portal by providing their Aadhaar numbers. Once being registered, they will get a one-time password (OTP) and after entering the OTP, they will be eligible for the DBT, Singh said.Meanwhile, the district administration has also initiated the DBT of same amount for the labourers from unorganized sectors, who are not registered with the district labour department.According to a press statement issued by the district magistrate Suhas LY, a total of 8,737 labourers from unorganized sectors have been identified. “While 3,452 of them have received the DBT of ₹1,000 in their accounts on Saturday, the amount of ₹52,85,000 was disbursed in the bank accounts of remaining 5,285 on Monday,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-months-on-gb-nagar-admin-yet-to-locate-18-000-registered-labourers/story-4IMToM4HYJYWH4CKmks2mM.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||9K med students, resident docs have not got stipend||Despite being Mumbai’s frontliners in the war against the Covid-19 pandemic, at least 9,000 medical students and post-graduate resident doctors across the city haven’t received their stipend for the past three months. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) said the issue will be resolved in two-three days.Resident medical officers (RMO) account for almost 80% of the staff strength in Covid treatment facilities. Around 5,500 postgraduate resident doctors, along with senior medical officers, haven’t received their stipend in the past one-and-a-half months. On an average, they get around ₹54,000 for their service, but the amount differs between BMC and government medical colleges. They received their last stipend on March 15. So far 25 RMOs have contracted the infection on duty at different civic-run hospitals, while hundreds have been quarantined. After getting their MBBS degree, medical students are given internships in different hospitals. Currently, there are 3,300 such MBBS graduates in Mumbai. These doctors at government medical colleges get ₹11,000, while students studying in medical institutes under the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) get ₹6,000 for their service. “We are directly involved in the treatment of Covid patients. Senior doctors hardly stay in isolation rooms. They just come and check the reports. We work around-the-clock for the patients,” said a doctor from King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital. The students are now demanding ₹30,000 as monthly stipend. “We have been working for eight -12 hours a day. Earlier, we were responsible for screening passengers at the airport. Now, we are assigned duties in Covid care centres under category 1 and 2. We also conduct contact tracing of patients’ kin and identify symptomatic patients,” said a student intern posted in SevenHills Hospital. “We have spoken to the students. We are working on it and the issue will be resolved within 2-3 days,” said Dr TP Lahane, director of DMER.Dr Abhijit More, co-convenor, Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, said, “At a time of pandemic, these students should be the first priority of the government. All other politicians are getting their salaries in time then why should these doctors, who are at the greatest risk of getting exposed to the virus, suffer?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/9k-med-students-resident-docs-have-not-got-stipend/story-GN92toY43RJOqMrmF3NmhL.html
12-05-2020||City||SIT formed to probe abduction case against ex-DGP Saini||The Punjab Police on Tuesday constituted a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into the case registered against former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in connection with disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) employee, in 1991.The SIT includes Mohali superintendent of police (SP-investigation) Harmandeep Singh Hans, deputy superintendent of police (DSP-investigation) Bikramjit Singh Brar and Rajiv Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Mataur, where the case was registered.“The SIT will be issuing notice to the ex-DGP to join investigations so that he can be questioned in connection with the case. As per the court orders, he should join investigations within seven days,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.The constitution of SIT comes a day after additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal on Monday granted anticipatory bail to Saini and directed him to join investigations within seven days.The police was also directed by the court to ensure social distancing norms and other precautions during his questioning.Multani was allegedly picked up by two officers after a terrorist attack on Saini, then SSP, Chandigarh, in which four policemen in his security posse were killed. The police later claimed that Multani had escaped from the custody of Qadian police.A case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on May 6 on the basis of a complaint filed by Multani’s brother Palwinder Singh Multani.Former DSP Baldev Singh Saini, inspector Satvir Singh, sub-inspectors Har Sahai Sharma, Jagir Singh and Anoop Singh and ASI Kuldip Singh were also named in the case.The cops are also preparing to record the statements of others named in the FIR. Already, an eyewitness whose husband was Multani’s class mate had recorded her statement before the magistrate saying Multani was tortured in Saini’s presence. Based on the eyewitness account that Multani had succumbed to torture meted out to him in Saini’s presence, the cops are preparing to question the ex-DGP as to how Multani’s body was disposed of. Meanwhile, police officials said the prosecution is examining the court ruling to decide whether the state should challenge the granting of anticipatory bail to Saini or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sit-formed-to-probe-abduction-case-against-ex-dgp-saini/story-mncBA09HuKcWMFcvRKCeJM.html
12-05-2020||City||84 buildings at Mumbra’s Rashid Compound sealed after Covid cases rise||After Rashid Compound in Mumbra recorded 28 Covid positive cases, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has sealed 84 buildings in the area. In a week, the number of positive cases in Rashid Compound increased from zero to 28.Residents violated social distancing norms and crowded markets and roads in the evening for iftaar. Civic officials said people started venturing out of their homes to buy fruits, dry fruits and other essentials to break Ramzan fast. Residents are now being given food packets and Ramzan essentials through volunteers and local representatives to ensure they remain indoors.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “We are installing locks on the gates of 84 buildings in Rashid Compound area. Barricades are installed at 12 places while six entry and exit points have been sealed. Only one entry is kept open for emergency vehicles.”The congested area Rashid Compound has around 50,000 people. Imran Hakim, 32, a resident of the area who works as a Covid warrior for TMC, said, “Most people in the area are scared after the number of positive cases began increasing. They have seen families being taken to quarantine centres during Ramzaan. We help them with essentials. We allow an hour in case anyone has to go for any emergency shopping.”Transport will be arranged for medical emergency. “We counsel those who are sent to quarantine centres and help them with supplies,” said Hakim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/84-buildings-at-mumbra-s-rashid-compound-sealed-after-covid-cases-rise/story-mzwObMl8eeTPJjObZlm62O.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man killed in road mishap||A security guard succumbed to his injuries after being hit by an unidentified vehicle near Chatt light point in Zirakpur, on Sunday. The victim has been identified as Rajinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 126, Mohali. An ex-serviceman, he was an employee of Group 4 Security, Panchkula. He was returning home after duty on his Activa scooter when the incident took place. Kumar was rushed to civil hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, where he died during treatment. Based on the complaint of his wife, Sneh Lata, police registered a case under Sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 (a) (Causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code against an unidentified vehicle at Zirakpur police station. The body was handed over to the family postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-man-killed-in-road-mishap/story-MRM3YNODjfPY1crPIAwmlK.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi govt pays rozgar sevaks’ dues, bares focus on MNREGS||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday transferred Rs 225.39 crore dues to 35,818 Gram Rozgar Sevaks (GRS), reflecting its renewed focus on Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MNREGS) in its fight against Covid-19.A GRS plays an important role in allocation of work, distribution of job cards, marking attendance and helping social audit of the work carried out under the rural job scheme. On March 30, Rs 611 crore was transferred to 2.57 lakh MNREGS workers by state government to clear pending wages of the workers of the rural job scheme that guarantees 100 days work to every job card holder.As providing jobs to a large number of migrant labourers reaching the state poses a great challenge, the MNREGS is proving to be a useful instrument for the state government in its fight against Covid-19.“Yes, MNREGS is the most effective instrument to provide jobs to people in rural areas. The state government has set a target to provide 100-day employment to every willing job card holder. If the government is able to do so, this will be much higher against UP’s average of providing 35-day work and national average of 52-day work under MNREGS in the past few years,” said Sanjay Dixit, former member, Central Employment Guarantee Council of the union rural development ministry.The state government claims to be providing work to 20 to 22 lakh MNREGS workers every day. It has set up control rooms in every district to connect with workers willing to work and proposes to provide work to 50 lakh workers under the scheme by the end of May.“Uttar Pradesh has 1.9 crore job card holders and about 60 per cent of them have remained inactive over the years. As people are in need to get work following lockdown enforced to fight coronavirus, the number of workers being provided job has gone up three to four times,” said Dixit, who also has been pushing the cause of Gram Rozgar Sevaks (GRS), who belong to the same village panchayat where MNREGS work is carried out.A total of 35,818 ‘Gram Rojgar Sevaks’ are working in the state and honorarium was not paid to 26,012 sevaks for 2017-2018, 2018-2019 and 2019-2020. An honorarium of Rs 3,630 per month was being paid to the sevaks earlier. This amount was revised to Rs 6,000 per month on November 1, 2016. The state government has now decided to reserve administrative charge funds for payment of honorarium to ‘Gram Rozgar Sevaks’ at the state level in an obvious bid to avoid delays.Dixit said the state government should also take care of giving the GRS social security benefits by covering them under provident fund scheme.YOGI MAKES TOKEN TRANSFER OF DUESChief minister Yogi Adityanath made the token transfer of Rs 225.39 crore dues to 35,818 ‘Gram Rozgar Sevaks’ (GRS) online at a programme at his residence.Speaking on the occasion, Yogi said the sevaks should work under guidance of senior officers to create more jobs, as a large number of migrants are coming back to the state. He said attendance of workers should be marked by using the mobile monitoring system (MMS). He also spoke to some sevaks at a video conferencing with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-govt-pays-rozgar-sevaks-dues-bares-focus-on-mnregs/story-eiacSgcLgL2saDwjbjt7LN.html
12-05-2020||City||Punjab registers record cotton production at 43 lakh quintals||Punjab has registered a record production of cotton at 43.25 lakh quintals in 2019-20 season even as the procurement of the crop is still in its last stage.According to the data procured from the Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board, the state has witnessed a jump of over 26% over the production of 34.68 lakh quintals recorded during the 2018-19 season.Officials said cotton is generally purchased till the end of June but due to lockdown, the arrival of the cash crop is expected to culminate by May 15.“While the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) continues purchase in the cotton-growing districts at the MSP (minimum support price), lockdown restrictions have kept the private players at bay from the market. But before the lockdown, private buyers were paying farmers less than the MSP,” said state cotton coordinator Rajnish Goel.He said of the total produce, the CCI purchased 16.74 lakh quintals at MSP of Rs 5,450 per quintal whereas the private buyers had bought 26.50 lakh quintals from farmers in the cotton-growing south Malwa belt.State agriculture secretary KS Pannu credits farmers for the record production, saying they followed the advisories issued by the Punjab Agricultural University and state authorities.He said 2019-20 was the best year for the traditional crop of cotton as there was no pest attack. He said the integrated pest management plan significantly reduced cost of production by replacing chemical sprays with neem-based bio-pesticides to handle whitefly pest.The average per acre yield reached close to 800 kg lint per hectare this time, said Pannu.As per the official data, the cotton yield in 2015 had dropped to a low of 197 kg lint per hectare due to the whitefly attack. The crop yield was 756 kg in 2016, 750 kg in 2017 and 778kg in 2018.“The overall production of cotton is on the expected lines and we hope that it would touch 44 lakh quintals in the next few days. The record production and organised crop management will encourage farmers to switch over to the traditional crop in the semi-arid southern part of Punjab,” he added.State agriculture director Sutantar Kumar Airi said that after a delay of about a week due to the Covid-19 outbreak, cotton sowing has gained pace and it will be completed by the end of May.“We will chalk out a cotton purchase plan for the next season with the CCI on the basis of the total area finally covered under cotton. Besides the availability of seeds and fertilisers to farmers, the agriculture department has planned to ensure required canal water amid Covid-19 crisis,” said Airi.The department is planning to bring 5.5 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation this year, an increase of 1.5 lakh hectares over the last year, said Airi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-registers-record-cotton-production-at-43-lakh-quintals/story-cu8OkS0R0vtUq8rmrECAyN.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to open offices from May 13, no public dealing||Offices of Panjab University (PU) will reopen on Wednesday, but no public dealing will be done till further notice.The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by PU’s dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla, on Tuesday.It was attended by registrar Karamjeet Singh, dean research VR Sinha and controller of examinations Parvinder Singh to discuss issues related to reopening of offices.“The decision was taken after UT administration had given its nod to the university to run its offices with 33% staff on rotational basis,” Karamjeet Singh said. Offices open from 10.30 am to 4.30 pmOffices will be open from 10.30am to 4.30 pm, as per regulations of the Chandigarh administration.Also, Class ‘A’ officers have to report for duty at their respective offices on all working days and the remaining staff will report on 33% rotational basis. Office heads have been directed to decide on the rotation of staff, seating arrangement and distribution of work so that social distancing can be maintained.Panjab University senator Rajat Sandhir said, “The university must ensure that safety guidelines and precautions are followed by staffers while attending work.”Staff members have been directed to follow all precautionary measures issued by the Union health ministry, including maintaining social distancing and proper hygiene. Wearing masks has been made mandatory for everyone.Professor Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the university’s advisory committee said, “The decision was taken as there is alot of pending work which has been piling up.”PU officials said offices of the vice-chancellor, DUI, administration block; Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall and University School of Open Learning (USOL) building have been sanitised.Thermal scanning of staffersThermal scanning will be done at the entrance of administrative block, Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall, vice-chancellor’s office and USOL building under supervision of security staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-open-offices-from-may-13-no-public-dealing/story-WknhE3tfVcMyPh67DHXqNN.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||50% of inmates lodged in jails in Maharashtra to be released||In a significant move by the state, a high-powered committee headed by justice AA Sayed, along with additional chief secretary (home) Sanjay Chahande and director general of prisons SN Pandey, on Monday decided to release 50% of the total 35,239 inmates lodged in various prisons across the state.A senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “Of the 50% of prisoners, 9,000 are convicts who will be granted parole. The remaining are undertrials. We plan to decongest the jails within eight to 10 days.” But inmates who are facing trial will have to follow the due process of law. “The prisoners will have to get bail. This means that the due process of law will have to be followed,” said Sanjay Chahande, additional chief secretary (home). Prisoners who are eligible for a temporary bail will have to move the courts concerned and obtain an order. A parole leave, however, can be secured at prison level, Chahande added. The order, which comes a week after at least 184 positive cases were reported at the Arthur Road prison, does not give a time frame on when the prisoners will be released, nor does it state the category of prisoners who would be released. However, none of the prisoners who are charged or convicted under the provisions of special statutes, such as the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA), 1999; the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act; the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) or the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) will be released on temporary bail in view of the outbreak.The committee on Monday also rejected a representation by advocate SB Talekar, contending that the decision to not release prisoners who are charged or convicted under special statutes was discriminatory. Talekar argued that the blanket exclusion of prisoners charged for offences under the special Acts was arbitrary and defeated the thrust of the Supreme Court (SC) order, dated March 23, to decongest prisons in the wake of the outbreak.“In any event, the prisoners charged under the special Acts cannot claim to be released from prison as of right.The offences under MPID Act are against victims who are mostly poor depositors, and whose interests are required to be safeguarded and recoveries made from properties. The MPID Act is enacted to protect the interest of the depositors and the prisoners charged for offences under the MPID Act cannot be treated as belonging to the same class of prisoners who are to be released on interim bail or parole,” it said.However, Talekar’s representation was rejected on the grounds that the SC in a subsequent order on April 13 left it to the discretion of the high-powered panel to determine which category of prisoners can be released, depending upon the severity and nature of offence. Justice BN Srikrishna, former SC judge, said, “If this is what the high-powered committee has stated then it’s absurd. If prisoners have to follow the due process of law, then why was the high-powered committee made? How can the committee distinguish between prisoners booked for special Acts and others. It is like distinguishing between the rich and the poor prisoners. If this is how it is, the Supreme Court has done nothing to fight the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/50-of-inmates-lodged-in-jails-in-maharashtra-to-be-released/story-cqQPzcInpB7iyAQnVdIy4I.html
12-05-2020||City||Gurdaspur Milkfed director ends life, kin blame humiliation by food dept official||Gurdaspur Milkfed director committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at Qadian Rajputan village here on Monday night.His family members have alleged that the 45-year-old was publicly humiliated and harassed by a senior official of food and supply department in a road rage incident.The deceased has been identified as Sarwan Singh.His brother Sukhbaan Singh told the police that Sarwan and his son Tarunpreet Singh were coming from Gurdaspur after attending a Milkfed meeting, but as they reached near Mulla Suniyaa village on Aliwal road, they faced road rage from a senior official of food and supply department and three of her colleagues.“The accused publicly humiliated my brother and nephew and assaulted them. My nephew’s leg also got fractured in the incident,” Sukhbaan said adding that the former even filed a fake police complaint against Sarwan and Tarunpreet.Unable to bear the public humiliation, my brother locked himself up in his room and committed suicide, Sukhbaan alleged.Sarwan was rushed to Batala civil hospital, but the doctors referred him to Amritsar and he died on the way.Ghiana Ke Banger SHO Amolakh Deep Singh said they have initiated inquest proceeding under Section 174 of CrPC. “We are yet to receive a formal complaint from the family. We will look into their allegations and later register a case accordingly,” he said.The police said though they did receive a complaint from the senior official in question, they are yet to act on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurdaspur-milkfed-director-ends-life-kin-blame-humiliation-by-food-dept-official/story-o6D0mAnPuudC4zd3gRCyhO.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC offers Worli fishermen soft start to fishing activities||With the onset of monsoon just a month away from leaving a small window for fishing activities, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may allow fishermen from Worli Koliwada to venture out to sea for fishing. According to preliminary discussions between BMC, Mumbai Police and a fishermen association’s in Worli Koliwada, a maximum of five boats from each of the three jetties will be allowed to venture out to sea one at a time. However, fishermen will not be allowed to sell their catch in the market. They will only be allowed to dry and stock the fish to be sold later. Alongside the five-boat daily limit, the BMC has put several conditions on the fishermen to maintain social distancing. The Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsya Vyavasay Sahkari Society confirmed that fishing is being allowed but the stock can only be sold during monsoon, but not before July. The Worli fishing community is yet to respond to the offer by BMC to allow five boats to conduct fishing activities daily.An officer from Dadar police station, under which Worli Koliwada falls, said, “Under no scenario, permission for selling of fish will be allowed, for now, considering there are containment zones in Worli Koliwada. BMC has agreed to allow fishing with several conditions, but the fishermen have not responded yet. Currently, no fishing activity is permitted.”However, Nitesh Patil of the fishermen’s association, said, “We have two associations in this area and there are around 200 fishermen owning boats. If BMC limits the number of boats that can ply daily, everyone will not get a chance to fish. Starting June 1, there will be restrictions on venturing into the sea due to the onset of monsoon.”Patil said that allowing only five boats per day from each jetty would cause internal fights among fishermen. “Several other conditions put by BMC, like only having two persons on fishing boats, are all impractical. One person is required to handle the engine; two are required to handle the fishing net.”Fishermen from Worli Koliwada said that in 2019, on two occasions they were restricted from venturing into the sea due to cyclone alerts. It was only in January 2020 when they started full-time fishing. However, starting March 24, all fishing activities were restricted, causing financial distress for a majority of the fishing families.“We could not do any business last year, this year, and even for the period during monsoon, we are not being allowed to venture into the sea. This will ruin out finances considering even small boat owners will require at least ₹50,000 in hand for dry docking and maintenance of the boats for when we start fishing post-monsoon. For this, we need money and BMC has to allow everyone to venture into the sea for fishing. We are ready to take all precautions of social distancing. If not fishing, the government should give us monetary compensation,” said Patil.Worli Koliwada and its surrounding areas like Janata Nagar, Worli Sea Face, and Prabhadevi fall under BMC’s G South ward – one of the areas most affected by Covid-19. Worli Koliwada alone has reported close to 95 coronavirus cases.When contacted, Sharad Ughade, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G South ward, was not available for comment. However, local Shiv Sena leader Sachin Ahir from Worli, said, “We have given them the option that on a rotational basis they should venture out to sea and do fishing, but it seems they have not agreed to it. It is always better to start with something rather than starting everything at one go and risking lives. If we allow movement as we did earlier, there are chances of fresh cases. Health safety is of top priority in the phase we are going through.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-offers-worli-fishermen-soft-start-to-fishing-activities/story-kYxbYdOSovhEMm9IgWonEJ.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||17 infected among every 1 lakh people in Chandigarh; third highest among states, UTs||Chandigarh, a state/ union territory with second highest population density in India, also ranks third — only after the national capital Delhi and worst-affected state of Maharashtra — when it comes to the number of Covid-19 confirmed cases per one lakh population.As on May 12, for every one lakh people in Chandigarh, 17 are infected, which is close to Maharashtra’s 20, while the count of Delhi is the highest at 43. These figures are based on the 2011 population statistics and data of confirmed cases released by the ministry of health and family welfare. Among the neighbouring states, Punjab has the highest six cases per lakh population, followed by Haryana and Himachal Pradesh at 2.8 and 0.8 cases respectively. “This suggests the situation in Chandigarh is grave and requires much greater attention as well as testing. The increasing number of cases also trigger the trend of increasing mortalities, which is the actual cause of concern,” a senior epidemiologist at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research said, wishing not to be named. With three deaths due to Covid-19 so far, case fatality rate in Chandigarh stands at 1.6%, more than that of Delhi (1) and almost equal to that of Punjab (1.65) and Haryana (1.5). Maharashtra has the highest, at 3.7%. According to Dr Tarundeep Singh, a community health expert at the PGIMER, denser the population, higher the chances of infection spread.“Mumbai has the highest number of cases, and the possible reason could be its high population density (20,634). Similar is the case with Chandigarh and Delhi,” said Dr Singh. According to the 2011 census, Chandigarh is the most densely populated entity (9,252 people per square kilometre) among states and union territories, only next to Delhi (11,297).UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said dense localities in the city are already under the health department’s watch, but unnecessary restrictions cannot be put in place without any evidence of spread of infection. “In Bapu Dham Colony, which is a congested locality, the infection has spread at a fast pace and around 35% samples have tested positive. In other dense localities, such as Maloya and Dhanas, we have tested the contacts and saw that the infection has not spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-infected-among-every-1-lakh-people-in-chandigarh-third-highest-among-states-uts/story-wFVF5hCg3iQRLiwkg1jXeL.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||At 426, city records May’s lowest case count on Tuesday||After a consistent spike in Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days, on Tuesday Mumbai recorded only 426 cases – the lowest daily count in May. However, on the same day, the city recorded 28 deaths – the highest number related to the coronavirus in a single day.Earlier, the lowest daily count this month was recorded on May 3, when 441 cases reported. Of the 28 deaths reported on Tuesday, 17 patients had co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes. Among those who died, 10 were above 60 years. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also discharged 203 patients across various hospitals in the city on Tuesday. To date, 3,313 patients have recovered and been discharged, according to data released by the BMC.Dharavi reported 46 new cases, with one death, on Tuesday, taking the tally in this slum cluster to 962 positive cases and 31 deaths. Of the 46, eight cases were detected from Matunga labor camp, seven cases from Dharavi crossroad, and three each from Dharavi main road, Rajiv Gandhi Road, and Kureshi Nagar. Dharavi currently has 213 containment zones. Assistant commissioner Kiran Dighavkar, G North ward, said, “BMC has decided to sealed boundaries of 13 high-risk zones in Dharavi to avoid further spread of the disease.”Along with Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim in G-North ward recorded 11 and six new Covid -19 cases respectively.The percentage of novel coronavirus cases compared to samples tested in Mumbai has increased to 33% on May 11, from 20% on April 30. The current Covid detection rate of the city is speeding ahead of the national average of 4.3% and the state average of 7%. This has raised questions about the way the Mumbai civic body is tackling the outbreak.The BMC tested 3,460 samples on April 30; 3,595 samples on May 1, and 3,107 samples on May 2, against which, Mumbai recorded 695, 797, and 592 Covid -19 positive cases the same day, with a detection rate of 20%, 22%, and 19%.However, the detection rate increased further by May 11. BMC tested 2,939 samples on May 10 and 2,359 samples on May 11, against which the city recorded 875 and 782 Covid-19 cases, with a detection rate of 29% and 33%.Civic officials said that this was due to the change in testing protocol targeted at containment zones. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “Detection rate is increasing because of the increased number of testing samples per day. Often, pending test results were added to a particular day’s count. Hence it did not give us proper clarity.”“If we calculated the detection rate against 124,000 samples tested with 14,521 positive cases, then the detection rate remains 11.71%. This figure is higher than the state and national average because of targeted testing conducted by BMC in contaminated zones,” added Kakani.However, civic health activists have alleged that the civic body is toying with the coronavirus figures.City-based health activist Rajan Dhage said, “Instead of dealing with the situation, civic officials were busy playing with Covid-19 figures. Hence, they are not releasing Covid testing data daily.”Meanwhile, BMC has started using a new drug ‘Injection Tociluzumab’ in Sion, Nair, KEM, and Seven Hills hospitals to treat Covid positive patients. It has been used in approximately 40 severe cases so far and encouraging results have been seen in more than 30 patients, 14 of whom have recovered and been discharged. According to civic officials, the drug has improved the condition of the patients and prevented the need for assisted breathing via a ventilator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-426-city-records-may-s-lowest-case-count-on-tuesday/story-inh76ZG4kLYqFjPZijGPlN.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||55-year-old Mohali Covid-19 patient recovers||A 55-year-old male Covid-19 patient from Jagatpura village was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on Tuesday after testing negative twice. The number of recoveries in the district has now risen to 55, with 105 positive cases and 47 active cases. Two days ago, two women, including an 80-year-old, were discharged from hospital. A spokesperson said the Jagatpura resident had been sent home and directed to quarantine himself for 14 days as a precautionary measure with health department teams regularly monitoring him. None of the patients currently at the hospital are seriously ill. Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali said all the patients in hospital are responding well to treatment and will be discharged soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/55-year-old-mohali-covid-19-patient-recovers/story-srd7zt1jKhcjbCqNBbpoKM.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra on the verge of 25000 case mark; death toll reached 921||While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the district officials to prepare an exit plan from the lockdown in the next three days Maharashtra reached close to 25000 Covid-19 cases mark which is expected to be breached on Wednesday. The state reported 1016 new cases in the last 24 hours taking the total to 24,427. Mumbai is nearing the 15000 case mark after its total reached 14947 on Tuesday. The state government is in favour of easing the restrictions further in lesss affected or unaffected areas while continuing the lockdown in red zones such as Mumbai, Pune and Nashik areas which have been reporting maximum cases.The state has reported 5364 cases in the last four days and saw 190 deaths during this period. 53 new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 921. Of the total deaths, 28 were in Mumbai, six each in Pune and Panvel, 5 in Jalgaon, Solapur 3, Thane 2, one each in Raigad, Aurangabad city and Jalgaon city. 21 of the patients whodied on Tuesday were above 60 years of age, while 27 were in the age group of 40-59years and remaining below the age of 40 years. 35 of them had high-risk comorbidities including diabetes, hypertension, heart ailments.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed the district officials to prepared an exit plan from the lockdown by May 15. At the same time, Thackeray emphasised strict lockdown implementation in containment zone (where cases are found in large numbers) and said that it should not spread out of these areas. The chief minister also said that those districts that have adequate health machinery should start door-to-door screening of people, which was followed in Goa, to ascertain symptoms and comorbidities.Thackeray held a video-conference with Divisional Commissioner and DistrictCollectors and asked all district authorities should submit an exit plan with their suggestions and expectations. “The plan has to come in from all the districts by May 15 based on which the state would prepare its plan and submit it to the Centre. The CMstressed that now the chain should be broken and that there should not be any transmission outside of the containment zones in the state,” a senior bureaucrat said.State saw the rise of 10514 cases in the just nine days, while the deaths reported in this period were 373. State breached its 10,000-case mark on April 30 with total of 10498 cases after having reported its first Covid-19 case on March 9. It took nearly 53 days to reach its 10,000 cases mark. It crossed 15000 cases on May 5 when the total of the cases was 15525. The state health department has added a disclaimer to the data it released stating that even Mumbai corporation has started referring to the ICMR data for the positive cases and reconciliation may lead to difference in the figures. According to the state health department, the mortality rate in the state stood at 3.71%, down from 7.21% on April 12. The country’s mortality rate hovers around 3.24%.Maharashtra has sent back over 65000 migrants in more than 50 trains departed to various states so far. “We have been feeding more than 16 lakh people including homeless, migrants, beggars for the last 50 days. It included 5.70 lakh migrants who were at the shelters in various districts. Besides those who have been sent back in trains, the same amount of the migrants have been sent back in buses or they have arranged to go back on their own. There are a whole lot of a few lakh migrant workers who have been living in their owned or rented homes in cities and go back whenever the trains start. Though we do not have the data compiled, there could be mass exodus from cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Nashik once the trains start,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.With the constant rise in the Covid-19 cases, the state government is not in the favour of the relaxation of the lockdown restrictions at least in the Red zones such as Mumbai and Pune where new cases are being reported in significant numbers. While taking review of the situation about the Covid-19 spread and the challenges that are being faced by the district administration, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also gauged the mood at the district level over the lockdown. The district authorities of the orange and green zones have been directed to push for the industrial and commercial operations in their areas. The government is expecting maximum industrial units to go operational in these areas as it would help it in revival of the economy. A statement from the CMO stated the chief minister cited the example of Goa which carried out a door-to-door survey for Covid-19. “The size of Goa is like one of our districts. They went door-to-door and screened people for symptoms. If district authorities carry out a primary check-up, not just for coronavirus, but for otherdiseases as well, people would not only get timely treatment but also get cured,” the statement said.A divisional commissioner, who was a part of the meeting said, “He (TheCM) said that some districts that have a sizeable population proportionate to health machinery should engage in door-to-door screening. It is will not only help in symptoms for Covid-19 but also help build data for other diseases such as diabetes, heart ailments, etc. Not all districts would engage in it for want of healthcare staff, a couple of districts could start.” He added that door to door screening is done in containment zones.Thackeray also discussed measures to revive the state economy. He said that though economic activities have resumed in the green zone of Maharashtra, authorities should ensure that there are no new cases. A senior bureaucrat added, “The chief minister has also asked the department concerned to prepare a plan if migrants do not come back in time. Maharashtra will also have to look at creating its new workforce.”“The authorities in the Red zones have however been asked to strictly implement the lockdown orders. State government wants the suburban railway services to be operanal in Mumbai for the essential services so that the stress on the employees in these services is relieved and a positive message is sent out. But while doing so, the stricter implementation of the restrictions in the containment zones is necessary. The district collectors and municipal commissioners have been asked to go far aggressive contact tracing and institutional quarantine of the people in containment zones,” an official from the home department said. The number of recovery of patients from the Covid-19 infections has however significantly gone up, owing to the change in the policy of discharging the patients. The number of the recovery in the state has increased significantly over the last few days taking the number to over 5000. “587 patients recovered on Monday and its a record number of recovery so far. 339 patients were discharged on Tuesday. The improvement in the recovery rate will help us in minimising the fear about the virus in the minds of the common people,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.After Gondia, Parbhani district has successfully elevated itself to Green zone from Orange zone as the district has not found any new patient in the last 14 days. Gondiya was another district to become a Green zone last week by retaining its number of cases at 1. Gadchiroli in Vidarbha is the only district which has not reported a single case of coronavirus so far. Another Vidarbha district Wardha reported its first case two days ago pushing it in the orange zone. The number of tests in the state touched 221645 on Tuesday. 195804 of them were negative. 2,81655 people are currently under home quarantine, while 15,627 are under institutional quarantine. 12,923 teams of health workers have screened 54.92 lakh people for suspected infection, after they came in contact with patients. 5125 patients have fully recovered from various hospitals, after testing positive in the past nine weeks.State has 1289 containment zones earmarked for the strict lockdown owing to the high number of positive patients. In Mumbai, municipal corporation has broken the zones into smaller ones for better monitoring.A report releaseed by Medical Education and Drugs Department has highlighted that 73% of the patients died so far had high risk comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, heart ailment among others. 52% patients found positive after their tests, were Asymptomatic, the report released on Tuesday stated. Meanwhile, state police registered 1.04 lakh cases against the citizens for the violation of the lockdown restrictions under section 188 of the criminal procedure code. 19838 citizens were arrested and the fine of Rs 3.98 crore collected from them. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said that 750 people have been arrested for 212 cases of attack on police during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-on-the-verge-of-25000-case-mark-death-toll-reached-921/story-wTIvb7BZoCDrF37OywZijI.html
12-05-2020||City||Panchayats across Bihar to buy hygiene items in bulk||PATNA: The panchayati raj department has decided to spend a sum of Rs 170 crore on purchase of masks and soaps in bulk for distributing in rural areas across the state, by utilising funds recommended by the state’s fifth finance commission. The move came following the state government’s decision to provide four masks and one soap bar to each family in all 8,386 gram panchayats.Principal secretary at panchayati raj department Amrit Lal Meena said the distribution of masks and soaps to families under gram panchayats would be rolled out in next 15 days. On Monday, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had directed to provide masks and soaps to rural families as a part of the government’s new focus on containing the spread of the virus in rural parts of Bihar amid the inflow of migrants from other states.The panchayati raj department has issued a detailed order which says that an amount of Rs 100 -- Rs 20 for a soap bar, Rs 80 for four masks -- would be spent on each family’s hygiene. “ We will spend nearly Rs 136 crore in purchasing masks for 1.70 crore families in rural Bihar and another Rs 34 crore on soaps. Each panchayat will spend Rs 3 lakh for the purchases. One family will get one big soap bar or small bars in multiple pieces costing not more Rs 20,” said Meena.He said there would be no purchases of mask from the open market as all items would be requisitioned from self help groups(SHGs) under Jeevika programme, state Khadi board or locally stitched in a bid to generate employment and also pump up rural economy. “ Our objective is pump up the rural economy by generating more employment and also bringing in a behavioural change among rural populace so that they start wearing masks as a precaution for containing the spread of the virus,” said the principal secretary, panchayati raj.Meena added that the SHGs and state Khadi board have already been making masks in bulk and the orders would increase for higher supply to the villages.Earlier, the state government had given permission to panchayat representatives to buy soaps and other hygiene items, including sanitisers.Sources said the state panchayat raj institutions have having adequate funds against the grants approved as per recommendation of the fifth finance commission. Each gram panchayat has Rs 6 to Rs 7 lakh at their disposal, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchayats-across-bihar-to-buy-hygiene-items-in-bulk/story-YUOVUsirav0k3iBuj6L11J.html
12-05-2020||City||Married woman, lover found dead in Tarn Taran village||The decomposed bodies of a 20-year-old woman and her ‘friend’ were found in a wheat field on the outskirt of Duhal Kohna village in Bhikhiwind subdivision on Tuesday.The deceased are Jyoti and Jugraj Singh alias Jugga of Duhal Kohna village. The duo was missing since past four days. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC against the Jyoti’s mother Sukhi and her cousin Gurbhej Singh at Khemkaran police station.SHO Tarsem Masih said the case was registered on complaint of Jugga’s father Kulwant Singh. Sarpanch Avtar Singh said, “The bodies were partially burnt. Jyoti was married to a man of Bharariwal village in Amritsar, but was living at her maternal home since past few months.”“On May 8, the duo had gone missing. Bhikhiwind DSP Rajbir Singh and SHO Masih reached the spot and started investigation. The DSP said, “The duo was in a relationship. We found some poisonous substance near the bodies. Probe is on to ascertain the exact cause of the deaths.”He said, “It seems they have died around two day back. However, postmortem reports are awaited.” Jugga’s family has accused the woman’s family of killing the duo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/married-woman-lover-found-dead-in-tarn-taran-village/story-Gn2kjjjH4lDIAoTzmYc0zO.html
12-05-2020||Patna||First special train leaves for Delhi; more migrants arrive in Bihar||The first special train between Rajendra Nagar terminal station and New Delhi amid lockdown departed from Patna on Tuesday evening with 1,060 passengers.The Rajendra Nagar-Delhi special will run everyday.Most of the passengers travelling by the train have either business- related work or personal engagements at the national capital and were stuck at home since they came during the holidays for Holi festival.Darbhanga resident Anand Kumar said, “I have business in Noida. I have been stranded at my home since March 18.” Kumar, who booked three tickets and came from Darbhanga after getting permission from district officials.Dhiraj Kumar Jaiswal, who works at a private company at Ghaziabad and was travelling back to Delhi with six family members, said that with offices opening he had no alternative but to return. Jaiswal was stuck at his Patna City residence since May 6.There were many passengers from different districts who arrived at the station much before the scheduled departure of the train and waited outside the station as no one was allowed inside the premises.The East Central Railway (ECR) and Danapur rail division had made elaborate arrangements as per the Centre’s orders. No visitors except those having genuine tickets were allowed to enter the platform. Passengers were asked to maintain social distancing and stand in queue at stipulated places.Besides, passengers of AC-3, 2 and 1 were allowed entry from separate points. Railway personnel scanned the passenger before allowing them to board the train. Announcements were being made on the public address system about the do’s and don’ts. All the passengers were wearing masks and following the guidelines. Spaces were marked for the passengers to stand so that there was no violation of social distancing norms.MORE MIGRANTS ARRIVENearly 26,970 migrants reached Bihar on Tuesday by 21 trains from different parts of the state. According to government sources, 24 trains would be reaching the state on May 13, including six from Maharashtra with 30,348 passengers.Chief minister Nitish Kumar had said on Monday that in the next seven days, 179 more trains will come and it is expected that close to 2.5 lakh people will reach state. He had requested the Centre to provide more trains as more and more people are requesting to come back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/first-special-train-leaves-for-delhi-more-migrants-arrive-in-bihar/story-8u2rOEgKFRX7SzXazLtYJJ.html
12-05-2020||City||Narco-gangster module busted in Tarn Taran, 3 held with 6 weapons||The police on Tuesday busted a module of narco-gangsters in Bhikhiwind with the arrest of three persons, allegedly linked to the 532-kg heroin seizure in Attari.The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh of Bhikhiwind village, Sukhdev Singh of Jeonoke village and Sarabjit Singh of Wara village.One of the three accused had been in touch with several gangsters and smugglers lodged in Amritsar central jail, police said. During the arrests, police also recovered five pistols, a .12 bore double barrel rifle and five live rounds.Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta stated in a press release that Gurpreet’s questioning had revealed he was in direct contact with Shubham, a Batala-based gangster and prime accused in the ₹7-crore armed robbery at a jewellery shop in Amritsar in 2018. Shubham was arrested in 2019 and is currently lodged in Amritsar central jail. With Shubham’s help, Gurpreet had supplied weapons to his associates in Tarn Taran and Ferozepur areas, Gupta said.The DGP added that a team led by SSP Dhruv Dhaiya had identified three other associates of the gang, all resident of Ferozepur. They were found to be actively involved in supply of weapons into Harike, Patti and Bhikhiwind areas of Tarn Taran. Gupta said one Surya of Katora village in Ferozepur was identified as another key associate of Shubham’s, who was involved in the supply of illegal weapons in coordination with Gurpreet.According to the police, Gurpreet also had direct links with Kuldip Singh, alias Babbu of Havelian village, brother of Ranjit Singh alias Cheeta — the alleged kingpin in the 532-kg Attari drug haul case.The DGP, Gurpreet’s connections had also been traced to Sarabjit Singh Patti, who is an accused in a 13kg heroin case and lodged in jail currently. Gurpreet repeatedly procured “commercial scale heroin consignments” from Kuldip and Sarabjit, said the police.A senior police official said accused Shubham, Sarabjit and Kuldip had been running their racket from inside the jail.The accused trio has been booked under sections 27 of the NDPS Act, 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act, and 188, 269, 270 and 506 of IPC at Bhikhiwind police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/narco-gangster-module-busted-in-tarn-taran-3-held-with-6-weapons/story-YaxXbVboml1DBl6gNESYRN.html
12-05-2020||City||Woman jumps from balcony on eighth floor, dies||Gurugram A 50-year-old woman died after allegedly jumping from the balcony of her residence on the eighth floor of a society in Sector 43 on Monday evening. The police are treating it as a case of suicide, according to a preliminary probe.The incident was reported to the police around 5.30pm, when the woman, an Assam resident, was alone at the house. Her husband, a senior official with a public sector undertaking, was at work at the time of the incident. The police said the couple had moved to the city last July and their children are currently studying in another state.A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “No suicide note was recovered from the spot. According to her family, she was undergoing psychiatric treatment for some time.”The police has initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A neighbour informed the woman’s husband, following which the incident was reported to the police. The woman was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. The body was handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination on Tuesday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-jumps-from-balcony-on-eighth-floor-dies/story-ERMofm1cDkJ5XPfJ6aMhvN.html
12-05-2020||City||Two health workers among 16 new Covid-19 cases||HT CorrespondentGurugram: Sixteen people, including three vegetable sellers from different areas of the city and two health workers of the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday. With the new cases, the number of persons infected with Sars-CoV-2 virus in Gurugram has reached a count of 161, highest in the state, health officials said. Of 161 Covid-19 patients, 94 are undergoing treatment at ESIC hospital, Sector 9 and Medeor Hospital, IMT Manesar, the officials said.According to the health department, three vegetable sellers from Ravi Nagar, Bajghera and Baliawas have been found positive for the deadly virus after they got themselves tested. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer (CMO), said, “These vegetable sellers approached the health team directly. The one from Bajghera is a farmer, who used to sell vegetables to vendors in Khandsa mandi.” As the health teams continue to take samples from Khandsa and nearby areas falling within the 3 kilometre radius, one person was tested positive, taking the total tally to 25 in the area. “Our teams are testing symptomatic people in the area, he is one of them,” said Punia.At least six people from Sirhaul tested Covid-19 positive. They were in contact with the people who were earlier detected with coronavirus. As many as 13 cases have been reported from the area so far, the officials said. Besides, two health workers from the Civil Hospital and a single case from Devi Lal Colony were found Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. According to Punia, the confirmed case from Devi Lal Colony is a worker at a company. Last week, the area was removed from the containment zone list.Punia said, “A woman, resident of Nathupur in DLF Phase 3 having uncontrolled diabetes, is admitted to Medeor Hospital for Covid-19.” The hospital was made functional on Monday after three private hospitals decided to pool in the resources to run the designated Covid-19 hospital. Besides, a 15-year-old girl from DLF Phase 3 also tested positive. However, the two cases from the DLF Phase 3 area are not inter-related, the officials said.Punia, however, did not confirm how the two persons contracted the virus. From DLF Phase 1, a security person also tested positive. Earlier this week, a security man from the same area had tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-health-workers-among-16-new-covid-19-cases/story-daXOLL0w3K5nw0fdhfO9DN.html
12-05-2020||City||Pro-Khalistani groups twisting kabbadi player’s killing to mislead public: Punjab Police||Pro-Khalistan groups are giving unnecessary twist to the death of a kabaddi player on social media to disturb peace in the state, Kapurthala police said on Tuesday.During a joint press conference held here, inspector general of police (Jalandhar range), along with Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh and family members of the victim said, “Some miscreants on social media are trying to politicise the matter. We convey our deep concern on the false rumours and request the public not to follow such fake news. Those spreading these rumours should refrain from the same.”The statement has come after hardliners from banned organisations, including Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), have been circulating posts against the police citing the incident as a deliberate act of terror by Punjab Police to “target Sikhs”.One of the posts by SFJ said, “A Sikh has been killed by police as he exposed the ASI for selling drugs. Punjab Police are selling drugs to the people of Punjab and according to reports, 76% of youth is addicted to drugs. Punjab police are killing the youth with drugs. This is not acceptable. We want Khalistan.”The Kapurthala SSP told HT, “Some hardliners called the victim’s family on several occasions, instigating them to level allegations against police. But they expressed satisfaction with the police action as the accused ASI had been arrested and sacked the same day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pro-khalistani-groups-twisting-kabbadi-player-s-killing-to-mislead-public-punjab-police/story-6rjcB5WvUJckUkSAbko7UL.html
12-05-2020||Gurugram||Maruti Suzuki resumes production at Manesar plant with 2,500 workers||Auto manufacturer and the country’s largest car-maker Maruti Suzuki resumed production at its Manesar plant after around 50 days due to the lockdown implemented by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. On the first day of production, 2,500 workers at the Manesar plant returned to work; their number is likely to increase in the next few days, the management said.The total number of employees allowed to work at this plant is 4,696. The company can produce 15.5 lakh cars per annum.A statement released by the district administration said that the company has also started preparations to start production at its Gurugram plant while taking all measures to ensure social distancing among employees. The resumption of production by Maruti Suzuki is likely to have a multiplier effect on over 2,000 vendors supplying parts and services to the company in the Gurugram-Manesar industrial complex.A district administration spokesperson said that the auto company had been permitted to start production at the Manesar plant on April 22. The company has developed the Maruti Suzuki Wellness Mitra mobile phone application through which it is communicating with its employees and getting feedback on their location and health condition. Employees have also been made aware of the production schedule and other safety measures to be taken because of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), he added.To ensure that social distancing norms are strictly followed, the auto company has set up a monitoring system that keeps a watch on the activities of employees as soon as they enter the factory, shop floor, canteen and other areas, read a statement issued by district administration. The company also said that only one person is allowed to work on a table on which four persons were earlier deployed. Social distancing measures are also being followed during lunch and tea breaks.The employees are subjected to temperature check, sanitisation, and are asked to use masks and gloves when they enter the plant.“Production has commenced at the Manesar plant and the first car will roll out today (Tuesday),” Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) Chairman RC Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/maruti-suzuki-resumes-production-at-manesar-plant-with-2-500-workers/story-DL8ldhqEtmYJpv5WmvtU2I.html
12-05-2020||City||Manipur woman assaulted by three who accuse her of spreading coronavirus||A 19-year-old woman from Manipur has alleged that she was assaulted after being accused of spreading coronavirus by at least three people in Fazilpur Jharsa on Sunday. The police, however, said that there was no mention of any racial slur by the woman in the complaint registered by her and she was also booked for allegedly violating lockdown orders as the area is a containment zone.According to the police, the incident took place around 6.30pm on Sunday when the woman, who hails from Imphal, and has been staying in Gurugram for over three years, was walking to her rented house in Fazilpur Jharsa after visiting her former roommate who stays in the same area.“I had visited my friend’s house to pick up some luggage. At 6.30pm, as I entered a lane while walking to my house, a woman holding a wooden stick in her hand blocked my path. She hurled abuses and said racist things. She said, ‘Why do you people come here and spread corona?’ I showed her my mask and sanitiser and told her that even I am scared of being infected. I told her to not abuse me, but she started hitting me with the stick,” the woman from Manipur said. She alleged that as she tried to defend herself, the woman’s two relatives also started hitting her. “I sustained injuries on my head, neck and left arm. One of the suspects asked me to apologise. After a few minutes, I somehow went back to my friend’s house and she reported the incident to the police,” she said, adding that she was administered first aid at a private hospital in Badshahpur.The police said that acting on her complaint, an FIR was registered on Sunday against three persons under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Badshahpur police station.The FIR states that the main woman suspect told the Manipur woman, “You people do not understand. Why do you people come here?”The woman said that she had on Monday written to the station house officer (SHO) of Badshahpur police station, requesting the police to add sections under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Act to the FIR.Mukesh Kumar, SHO, Badshahpur police station, said, “The woman from Manipur had an argument with a family after the latter asked her not to enter a barricaded lane as the area is a containment zone. The lane had been closed off with bamboos on two sides. During the argument, she was allegedly assaulted. However, in her statement and FIR, there was no mention of any racial slur or accusation of spreading coronavirus.”The SHO said that on the complaint of the opposing party, the woman from Manipur was booked under Section 188 of IPC and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act as she had violated lockdown orders.“No arrests have been made in the two cases and we are verifying the allegations,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manipur-woman-assaulted-by-three-who-accuse-her-of-spreading-coronavirus/story-nbts6qlyVyN7ci0bqHBliI.html
12-05-2020||Gurugram||Employees sweat it out in absence of central air-conditioning in offices||Private firms that are inching towards resuming operations after almost a 40-day hiatus are not only finding it difficult to contend with the new social distancing norms but also face the spectre of having to sit in swanky offices without central air-conditioning (AC). Building managers are apprehensive that the use of central AC systems could lead to the spread of Covid-19 infection among the workers.The same was stated in the standard operating procedure (SOP) released last week, with companies and industrial units told to use window/split AC units, which has compounded the matter. The result is that many office-goers in the city are confronted with the option of either returning home or sweating it out in the closed confines of their offices.In one such commercial building on Sohna Road, which has close to 2,000 small offices, the corporate executives are facing problems as the building manager has decided not to run the AC. “I don’t know what are the norms but these buildings have no ventilation and without central AC, are impossible to work in. We have been sweating continuously over the last two days,” said a corporate executive, requesting anonymity.The executive said that although the limited staff strength in around 60 offices in the building have resumed work, stale air is a major concern.Saurabh Kumar, a branch manager of GIC housing finance, whose office is located in a commercial building on MG Road that also has retail shops, said that the mall management had declined to switch on the central AC last week. However, after much deliberation, they decided to start it on Monday. “Until last week, the mall management had declined to start the central AC system. If the situation had not changed we were planning on alternative measures, such as purchasing portable coolers and table fans,” said Kumar.Some private firms said that they are working in tandem with building managers and ensuring that indoor spaces are disinfected and cleaned, and social distancing is maintained. “The AC is a cause of concern as there is a notion that it might spread the coronavirus, but we are taking all precautions. If a need arises, measures for ventilation and exhaust of stale air would be added,” said Dharmendra Jha, who runs a large office building on Sohna Road.The issue of central AC system is not limited to private offices, with even government offices, such as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), facing issues.At the MCG office in Sector 34, the central AC system has been made non-operational. However, the effect of its absence is mixed. While officials working out of the first and second floor have no access to ACs or fans, bureaucrats and officials in the planning branch, located on the third floor, have split ACs at their respective offices.On the first floor of the MCG office is the taxation and legal branches, Swachh Bharat Mission, Geographic Information System (GIS) lab, and Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC). The engineering, accounts, establishment and audit branches are based on the second floor.“We do not have a single outlet for ventilation. It is next to impossible for us to work in this heat. After every hour or so, we step outside for a few minutes to get some fresh air and respite, and then return to work,” an MCG official said on the condition of anonymity.“We have closed the central air-conditioning system in the interim, as it carries air across all corners of the office space and thus, holds a great possibility of transmitting infections. Amid the coronavirus outbreak, the safety of our officials and those visiting the MCG office is of top priority,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.To meet the challenging situation, experts suggest that building managers in the city will have to specifically address concerns related to air quality, humidity and ventilation. They suggest that apart from ensuring social distancing and disinfecting the office space, there is need to control indoor temperature, air quality and humidity.Mansoor Ali, an air quality expert, said that the building managers must ensure that temperature inside the office remains between 24 to 30 degrees. “Research across the world suggests that maintaining this temperature inhibits the conditions for the spread of Covid-19. Although there would be some discomfort to people inside, this has to be done to prevent the spread,” he said.As India’s humidity level is on the higher side, it is also important that humidity levels inside the buildings need to monitored, as there is little or no scope for natural ventilation. “It is important that same air is not recirculated inside the buildings and adequate ventilation systems are installed to ensure fresh air enters the premises,” said HP Yadav, MD, Paltecch Cooling Systems, a Gurugram-based firm.Ali said that viruses thrive at higher humidities and the ideal humidity in an office should be between 40 and 60 RH (relative humidity). “If the humidity is high, we need to introduce dehumidification so that it remains under check,” he said, adding that air-filtration systems for AC plants need to be checked and cleaned so that the spread of the virus can be checked.KV Suresh, a Delhi-based air-conditioning expert, however, said that there was a lot of ambiguity about the situation, and conclusive advice from specialists and virologists was yet to come. “At present, neither the health experts nor air-conditioning experts have got a hang of the situation,” he said.Dhruv Chaudhary, head of department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS, Rohtak, said that central ACs leads to re-circulation of air, and this increases the chance of spreading coronavirus in indoor spaces. “HEPA filters can be installed at AC vents, as these acts as anti-flu filters and prevent the spread of virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/employees-sweat-it-out-in-absence-of-central-air-conditioning-in-offices/story-nz1WaXp6VTKvV9nyxPWL1K.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College to assess outgoing students based on performances till March||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will not conduct examinations this year for students of the outgoing batch (semester eight) and instead of grading them will declare them ‘pass’ or ‘fail’ on the basis of their performance till March.“PEC has decided to complete semester eight by converting course registrations to pass/fail. Students will get credit for all registered courses, including minors, honours and specialisations. But, no SGPA will be computed. The CGPA at the end of semester seven will be final,” the institute said in a statement.According to the revised criteria, students who have done ‘well enough’ till March, will get a pass grade. Borderline performers will be asked to complete an online course, and will pass overall if they complete it.Students who have ‘failed’, will be given an ‘incomplete’ grade for now, and will have to take a test on campus, whenever it is safe to do so, PEC said.Dheeraj Sanghi, the director of the institute, said, “We expect more than 90% final semester students to get provisional degrees by mid-June. We don’t want to conduct online tests unless we are sure it is being done fairly.”The decision was taken as many students in their last semester have their joining after completion of Btech, Sanghi said.For the remaining students, tests will be conducted in July as per AICTE guidelines. A decision on this will be taken by May-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-to-assess-outgoing-students-based-on-performances-till-march/story-2EfR4PTW0Hc0rnBAJQDKxM.html
12-05-2020||City||Nine-month-old baby from Panvel tests positive||Among the nine new Covid cases reported in Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Tuesday is a nine-month-old girl from Kharghar. Her father, a CISF personnel, had earlier tested positive.Panvel has a total of 189 cases.Among the new cases are a 46-year-old autorickshaw driver from New Panvel has tested positive. He had been regularly taking a relative to a hospital in Belapur. A 30-year-old woman police personnel from Mankhurd police station has also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-month-old-baby-from-panvel-tests-positive/story-k8TXM8dFcThhbaQp43OapM.html
12-05-2020||City||Fatehabad admn sends 180 migrant labourers to Rohtak||The Fatehabad administration has sent 180 migrant labourers to Rohtak from where they will board a train to reach their homes.In a government release issued on Tuesday, the district administration said that total 180 migrant labourers from different areas of Fatehabad had enrolled themselves with the state government and after their health screening they were all allowed to board Haryana roadways buses.Various organisations distributed masks and hand sanitisers to these workers ahead of their journey.The Sirsa administration is going to send over 200 migrant labourers to different cities of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatehabad-admn-sends-180-migrant-labourers-to-rohtak/story-SeN3xhPKhjKPRxXkzlcQhM.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||After woman cop tests positive in Chandigarh, police lines to be sanitised daily||Chandigarh Police on Tuesday began disinfecting the barracks housing nearly 200 constable-rank personnel at its recruit training centre (RTC) in Sector 26, after a 25-year-old policewomen tested positive for Covid-19.Speaking on the first case among the local force, superintendent of police (SP, headquarters) Manoj Kumar Meena, said, “At least seven of her colleagues living in the same barrack have been quarantined and they will be tested by health officials.” A source privy to the matter said four women constables living in the same barracks have shown symptoms, but their test reports are awaited.A barrack can easily accommodate around 16-17 persons, but due to social distancing, only eight were asked to stay together. “From now on, sanitisation of barracks, and the police lines in general, will be done on a daily basis,” said Meena. The movement inside the police lines and the recruitment centre have also been restricted. Barring cops, no one is being allowed to leave the campus. The infected cop was working in a team at the grain market in Sector 26 and reported to the police hospital in Sector 26 after feeling sick. Last year, nearly 520 new recruits joined the Chandigarh Police force and were undergoing training at the recruitment centre. Due to the pandemic, everyone was put on field duties to enforce prohibitory orders.Apart from the new recruits, nearly 900 families of cops live on the same campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-woman-cop-tests-positive-in-chandigarh-police-lines-to-be-sanitised-daily/story-gf2ZTrGJNAF31S9QkLXa4I.html
12-05-2020||City||Karnal: ASHAs raise banner of protest, seek protective gear, pay hike||Worried about their protection from coronavirus, a group of accredited social health activists (ASHAs) from Karnal on Tuesday held a protest here, accusing the authorities of not providing them required safety gear and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. They also demanded that their salary should be doubled like other frontline workers and they should be provided Rs 50-lakh insurance cover.Wearing black badges, the protesting health workers said they had raised their demands with officials concerned on several occasions, but to no avail. “We did not get enough support from the government and have to purchase mask and sanitisers ourselves,” alleged one such worker, asking not to disclose her name.The ASHAs alleged that they have to face public rage during their duty as many people do not allow them to install posters outside their houses. They also sought random testing of all ASHAs as they carry out door-to-door screening, even in the containment zones.“The monthly remuneration given to accredited social health activists is about Rs 4,000 and many of them don’t even get it on time,” claimed Sudesh Rani, Karnal district president of Asha Workers’ Union.Karnal chief medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said, “As per the government guidelines, they have been provided all the required equipment for the protection and training.” He said PPE kits were required for doctors and officials in direct contact with coronavirus patients, adding that since ASHAs were field workers, they cannot work wearing PPE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-ashas-raise-banner-of-protest-seek-protective-gear-pay-hike/story-C8GqLgYZX8CNt55tFQkfhJ.html
12-05-2020||City||Bihar cases up at 830 after 81 test +ve||PATNA: The home-coming of migrant workers led to spiralling of cases, with 81 people testing positive for the virus Tuesday, pushing the state tally to 830, with six deaths so far.Almost one-fourth the total number of cases in Bihar was attributed to the migrant workers. “A total of 190 people who had come from outside the state during lockdown 3.0 (after May 3) have so far tested positive during their random sampling,” said health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh.However, considering the spike in the number of cases due to migrant workers, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had now instructed health officials to go in for as much as possible testing of the migrant workers.He said the random testing of samples of migrant workers would not suffice anymore and that efforts should be made to test as many people as possible who were coming from outside the state.Kumar directed officials to scale up testing facility to 10,000 samples a day against the present average daily testing capacity of 1900-2000 samples, said a spokesperson of the state government.The migrant workers had somewhat spoilt the state’s Covid-19 scoresheet, as 2.21% people had tested positive for the virus against a total 37,430 samples tested at the six government testing laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research in the state. The percentage of patients testing positive was 1.79% against the total samples tested last week (on May 3), said Singh.As on Tuesday, Bihar had tested 37,430 samples through its six testing centres. It had also approved two other laboratories in the private sector to test samples for Covid-19.Of the 190 migrant workers to have tested positive for the virus after May 3, around 55 had returned from New Delhi, 46 from Gujarat, 44 from Maharashtra, 16 from West Bengal and 11 from Uttar Pradesh, said an official. “There were some who returned from other states as well, including Rajasthan (6), Haryana, Telangana (3 each), Jharkhand, Kerala, (1 each) and the source destination of four others were still unknown,” he added.“The travel history of four people—one each from Auraangabad, Begusarai, Munger and Araria is under investigation,” said a government data, which principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar had shared through a tweet.The number of the migrant workers testing positive for the virus had doubled in less than two days. Till May 10, only around 85 migrant workers had tested positive for the virus as against 1.02 lakh people who had returned from different states this month, as per government data. The Covid-19 cases among the migrants had risen to 190 as against 1,20,131 who had returned to Bihar till Tuesday.Six more jawans of the Bihar Military Police had tested positive from Patna’s Khajpura locality, a red zone, on Tuesday. With this, the total number of infected personnel in Bihar police had gone up to 27, including 19 from the BMP alone. Eight personnel had tested positive on Monday.Of the 81 cases Tuesday, Khagaria accounted for 16, followed by West Champaran (14), Rohtas (13), Begusarai (9), Patna (7), Madhubani (4), Muzaffarpur (3), Aurangabad, Gopalganj, Darbhanga (2 each) and Supaul, Banka, Purnea, Bhagalpur, Siwan, Katihar, Bhojpur and Arwal (1 each).Around 219 people had tested positive for coronavirus in three days.Six Covid-19 patients had recovered during the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 383, with a case recovery rate of 48% in the state. Given the spike in cases, the recovery rate had now gone down from 53% on Monday to 48%.Munger 115, Patna (79), Rohtas (72), Buxar (56), Nalanda (51), Begusarai (40), Siwan (34), Kaimur (32), Madhubani (30), Khagaria (27), Bhagalpur (26), West Champaran (25), Gopalganj (22), Bhojpur (21), Aurangabad (17), Darbhanga (16), East Champaran (14), Nawada (13), Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Arwal (12 each), Saharsa (10), Madhepura, Kishanganj, Samastipur, Saran (9 each), Gaya, Sheikhpura (8 each), Sitamarhi, Banka (7 each), Jehanabad (5), Lakhisarai, Araria, Vaishali, Supaul, Purnea (4 each), Sheohar 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihar-cases-up-at-830-after-81-test-ve/story-ipIiWeIHDtdtJHSpmi42SP.html
12-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai’s 856 cases highest in Thane district||Navi Mumbai reported 77 new Covid 19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) areas to 856. This is the highest in the district with Thane having 796 cases.There are 113 containment zones in the city.Of the new cases, 29 are from Turbhe, 18 from Kopar Khairane, 14 from Nerul, five from Belapur, six from Airoli, four from Vashi and one from GhansoliNavi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “Most of the cases in the city are those working in APMC market and those who provide essential services in Mumbai and surrounding areas. We have boosted testing in the region and have made arrangements to get the test report in 24 hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-s-856-cases-highest-in-thane-district/story-oahRjPkbw2PxO6OlcPDG1I.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||PG medical students can surrender all-India quota seats till May 18||Admissions to post-graduate medical seats have already begun but ahead of the release of the first seat allocation list in the state, the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC) on Tuesday said that students now have time till May 18 to surrender their all India quota (AIQ) seats.PG medical aspirants in Maharashtra were worried about having to surrender their AIQ seats even before being assured of the release of the state seat allocation list. The AIQ seats are15% of the total seats in each state and students from outside a particular state can apply for these places.“Keeping in view that many state counsellings have been delayed due to Covid-19 outbreak, it has been decided that students who were allotted a college in round one (of AIQ) can resign from their allotted seats by 5pm on May 18,” stated a circular released by MCC. The original date for surrendering seats was May 12, 5pm.As per rules, PG medical aspirants who have already bagged a seat through the AIQ have a choice to either stick to the institute already allotted through AIQ, or release the seat in the hope of a seat in another institute under the state quota. At present, the status of the first list by the state common entrance test (CET) cell is uncertain because CET cell authorities are still reworking the seat matrix, said an official.“As per law, the AIQ seats are allocated first and if students want to be eligible for state quota seat, they have to surrender their AIQ seat. Anyone would prefer a seat in one of the top Institutes in Maharashtra but the uncertainty of the first CET list is unnerving,” said Rishabh Jain, a PG medical aspirant from Mumbai. In a circular released late in the third week of April, the state CET cell had requested state medical and dental institutes to share contact details of staff handling admissions and also make arrangements for a payment portal online so that students can pay the fees and confirm admissions once the seat allotment list is released on April 24, after 6pm. This process was held by the Bombay high court following a petition that highlighted discrepancies in quota allocation of seats.“Once the seat matrix is ready, we will release a seat allocation list and students will have the option of completing the admission process online this time, appropriate provisions have been made accordingly,” added the CET cell official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pg-medical-students-can-surrender-all-india-quota-seats-till-may-18/story-gweJ1MQ9C5gD8Fp1qRItdK.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Staff of government schools to be assigned Covid duties||In a letter issued on Monday, the Maharashtra education department has asked principals of all aided schools in the state to furnish information of teachers so that they can be asked to report for Covid-19 related duties if necessary.“With the rising number of cases in the state, many Covid centres are being set up in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) aided and private schools. For this, the services of teachers and non-teaching staff would be required. Principals are thus directed to furnish details of their staff,” reads the letter.Last week, BMC’s education department had asked its staff to report to work as most municipal schools have been converted into quarantine centres. Officials said that many teachers failed to report to work. “Many said that they had gone to their respective hometowns before the lockdown. We have asked them to report immediately,” said an official.While the letter does not specify the type of duties the school staff will be expected to do, sources in the education department said that the work could be related to the management of quarantine centres created in schools.Teachers said that they are willing to do Covid-related duties if safety gear is being provided by the government. “Teachers should be given PPE kits, pick up and drop facility and insurance cover. If this is given, they won’t have an issue in taking up these duties,” said Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/staff-of-government-schools-to-be-assigned-covid-duties/story-N6BTkhoWIlxVvu22hpdxCP.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Mumbai workers riding autos, taxis to reach home in Prayagraj||Undeterred by hefty amount and long distance, migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, living in Mumbai, are hiring auto rickshaws and even taxis to reach their native places in Prayagraj and adjoining districts.Vehicles, especially autos with registration number of Maharashtra, could be seen, carrying workers in outer areas of Prayagraj and some of them even managed to enter the city despite check points and barriers, installed at many places in the city.These migrant workers, mainly working in factories and having better economic condition, are arriving in autos. They said that they had paid hefty amounts to the auto drivers of Mumbai to persuade them to transport them to their native villages in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Some auto and taxi drivers belong to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar itself while many who are from Maharashtra are again looking for passengers to earn cash during their return journey.More surprisingly, many autos and taxis carrying migrant workers managed to cross the check points on around 1500 kilometers long route from Mumbai to Prayagraj. Majority of the workers, who have hired autos and taxis, have to spend all their savings to pay the hefty fare charged by drivers.On being questioned about their journey, many were reluctant to disclose much details but on condition of anonymity disclosed the amount they were spending to reach their village. “The auto drivers and taxi drivers are charging hefty amounts from Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 from each passenger for ferrying them to their native places according to the distance covered,” claimed a worker who used to work in a printing unit in Mumbai and was returning in an auto with three others persons.The labourers when stopped at check points give different excuses to cops and most of the time, vehicles are allowed to proceed. However, in difficult situation, alternate routes were used for continuing the journey, a taxi driver said.“It took four days to cover the distance from Mumbai to Prayagraj as we covered 300 to 400 km every day while taking rest as well. Many auto drivers have also gone towards Pratapgarh”, disclosed one of the auto driver who is waiting for passengers as he has to return to Mumbai after dropping labourers in Prayagraj. ARTO Siyaram Verma said that autos and taxis from outside the state were not allowed to move here. He said autos especially were only allowed to ply on pre-decided routes locally. A team will be deployed to check movement of vehicles from outside states, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mumbai-workers-riding-autos-taxis-to-reach-home-in-prayagraj/story-iAA8udSrMTMLqpy8X27QyI.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Work from office for a week and from home for two weeks: Scientists suggest post lockdown plan||Split the workforce into three — one group clocks in to work for a week with the remaining two remain under lockdown for two weeks. This recommendation of an asynchronous, periodic lockdown comes from a multi-institute team, which has based its post-lockdown strategies on the first pan-India INDSCI-SIM model. The model was developed by the Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19 (ISRC), a voluntary group of more than 400 scientists and researchers, to reopen the economy.Researchers said the asynchronous periodic lockdown — where each group’s turn for work comes cyclically after a specific period — is shown to be more effective than synchronous periodic lockdown. In the latter, the entire workforce heads to work for a fixed number of days and gets locked down for a fixed period of time. “The duration of the infectivity of the disease is about 14 days. Even if one person catches the infection during the work week, she/he will be home for the next two weeks as per the asynchronous lockdown schedule,” said professor Bhalchandra Pujari of Savitribai Phule Pune University. “This will effectively lead to quarantining oneself as well as reducing the chance of transmitting the virus to others.”However, the scientists said they would not recommend this schedule for states or cities such as Maharashtra or Mumbai where the number of infections are significantly rising every day. “The success of this method lies in the ability to be able to trace and test the working population easily, which is easiest when the number of infections is small and the number of those at work is also small,” said Gautam Menon, professor of biology and physics, Ashoka University, and adjunct faculty at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.In areas where the spread of Covid-19 is less extensive, asynchronous periodic lockdown combined with large-scale testing, tracing and quarantine would reduce stress on healthcare infrastructure while keeping the economy moving.“The peak of hospitalised numbers is increased for the synchronous case vis-a-vis the asynchronous case resulting in more pressure on the health care system since many more people will require hospitalisation around the days when the peak occurs,” said Menon. “The number of people requiring hospitalisations is also spread over a longer period for the synchronous case. This means, more people overall requiring hospitalisation over the course of the epidemic.”Fewer people at work also translates into better physical distancing, which will bring down the R0 (R nought), a number that denotes the number of people that can be infected by one individual who is suffering CoVid19. Obeying lockdown rules while not at work will further suppress the R0. The ISRC team suggested that the feasibility of a synchronous periodic lockdown should also be examined. “Even with a synchronous lockdown, our model does indicate an improvement over relaxing the lockdown completely,” said Menon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/work-for-a-week-stay-home-for-two-weeks-scientists-suggest-post-lockdown-plan/story-JYFdOmwDrEy0wzguFNZVRL.html
12-05-2020||Ranchi||9 more test positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, total rises to 172||Nine more people tested positive for novel coronavirus in Jharkhand, taking the total number of cases to 172, a Covid-19 bulletin said on Tuesday. Hazaribag Deputy Commissioner (DC) Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh said that the samples of six migrant workers, who had on April 30 returned from Mumbai, on Tuesday tested positive for the disease. The six hail from Bara village under Khera panchayat of Hazaribag district, the DC said, adding that the six were among 17 migrants who had returned home by a bus, but swab samples of the rest of the migrant workers were negative. In East Singhbhum district, two people who had returned from Kolkata tested positive for Covid-19. They hail from Chakulia in Ghatsila sub-division of the district, Deputy Commissioner Ravi Shankar Shukla said. The two were referred to Tata Main Hospital in Jamshedpur, he added. The two positive cases are the first in the Kolhan division comprising East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharswan districts, health officials said. One more person tested positive for Covid-19 in Giridih district, Giridih district Civil Surgeon Awadhesh Kumar Sinha said. He said that the migrant labourer had returned home recently from another state. Now the total number of active novel coronavirus cases in Giridih is four, while one has recovered and has been discharged, according to the Covid-19 bulletin. In Jharkhand, the total number of Covid-19 active cases is 90, including 39 cases in Ranchi. In all, 79 people have recovered from the infection, it said. Two people had died of the disease while one died due to comorbid conditions since the outbreak of the pandemic on March 31 in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/9-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-total-rises-to-172/story-zZHXIM0gPfm1lOERbHlecK.html
12-05-2020||City||NH-44 flyover opened for traffic, mayor inspects construction work at Sherpur Chowk in Ludhiana||In a relief to the commuters, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) opened both sides of the NH-44 flyover, situated near Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer hospital, for movement of traffic on Tuesday. The flyover is a part of Jalandhar-Panipat highway project and has been hanging fire for around nine years. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra and councillors Jai Prakash and Rakesh Prashar inspected the ongoing work of the cancer hospital flyover and Sherpur Chowk flyover on Tuesday.The Sherpur Chowk flyover is expected to be complete by May 30, said the mayor, adding that its one side -- from Delhi to Jalandhar-- has already been opened for traffic.Member of the Punjab road safety council, Rahul Verma, said, “Now, residents coming from Jalandhar side would not be able to enter the city from Sherpur Chowk and will have to exit from Tibba Road exit point. With the completion of this flyover, the traffic is expected to increase at Samrala Chowk as the truckers who used to used to exit the highway from Moti Nagar point, would now have to exit from Tibba Road point and move towards Transport Nagar through Samrala Chowk.”“After the lockdown, the traffic would increase at Samrala Chowk and residents coming from Jalandhar side would have no exit point to enter the city and will have to take a u-turn from Focal Point area. We are working to find some solution for these problems,” he added.As per information, the cancer hospital flyover project had to be completed by March 31, but it was stopped after the curfew was imposed in the state. The construction work commenced amid the lockdown on April 23 after the administration gave the approval with the condition that the contractors and NHAI would have to follow the guidelines issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nh-44-flyover-opened-for-traffic-mayor-inspects-construction-work-at-sherpur-chowk-in-ludhiana/story-EQTqQLp1bKGbpUcnQIi7iL.html
12-05-2020||Bangalore||Record single-day spike of 63 Covid-19 cases in Karnataka; tally breaches 900 mark||A day after witnessing a dip, Karnataka on Tuesday recorded a new all-time single-day high of 63 new Covid-19 cases, most of them returnees to the state from other parts of the country, as the total breached the 900 mark, the health department said. Hassan that had remained coronavirus-free district so far, reported five cases, including two children, as the state’s tally rose to 925, including 31 deaths and 433 discharges, it said. After highest single day spike of 54 cases on Sunday, the state saw a decline on Monday with 14 people testing positive but only to clock a new record high. “Today is again it not a good day in terms of numbers...most cases are those with the travel history to Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Odisha and Chennai,” Minister S Suresh Kumar, the spokesperson for Covid-19 in Karnataka, told reporters. He said most of them were those who got stranded somewhere (outside Karnataka) and came back recently. “After their return, we placed them under quarantine. On screening and testing them during quarantine, they turned out to be positive,” he said. Deputy Commissioners of all districts have information about people who will be coming from outside in the days to come and accordingly they will make quarantine arrangements, he added. According to the health department’s bulletin, out of the 460 active cases, a total of 449 Covid-19 patients were in isolation at designated hospitals and stable while 11 were undergoing treatment in intensive care units. Seven patients who have recovered, were discharged on Tuesday. Bagalkode reported the highest of 15 cases on Tuesday followed by Davangere (12), Dharwad (9) Hassan and Kolar (5 each), Bengaluru Urban (4), Gadag (3) Dakshina Kannada, Yadgir and Bidar (2 each), and one each from Ballari, Chikkaballapura, Mandya and Kalaburagi. As amany as 32 of the new cases are with travel history to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, six to Mumbai, two to Odisha and one to Chennai. Among the others, fifteen are contacts of patients already tested positive, two are from containment zone in Bidar and one with history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI).Contact tracing was in progress for four persons. Asked whether the sharp spike in cases will make the Karnataka government reconsider its decision on relaxing lockdown, Kumar said after May 18, whatever the decision may be on lockdown, measures like quarantining, hospitalisation of specific cases, will stay with us for a long time. “Because of lockdown relaxation these people (stranded outside) were able to come to the state, but on returning they were placed under quarantine, which avoided the spread, we will not relax that,” he said. Responding to a question on those stranded in foreign countries coming back to the state, the Minister said arrangement for paid quarantine would be made at the place chosen by them. Bengaluru Urban continue to top districts in most number of Covid-19 cases with 182, followed by Belagavi 113 and Mysuru 88. Out of the total 433 patients discharged so far, maximum 91 are from Bengaluru Urban, 84 from Mysuru and 44 from Kalaburagi. A total of 1,16,533 samples had been tested so far, out of which 4,938 were on Tuesday, the bulletin said. So far 1,11,264 samples have been found negative and out of them 4,797 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the government issued orders directing that all Covid-19 suspected cases whose test reports are inconclusive should not be kept in dedicated Covid hospitals till their repeat test result and put up in dedicated health centres. Also, the Project Director of Karnataka AIDS prevention Society has issued directions to all Districts AIDS officers to utilise the contact phone numbers shared by the government for reaching out and carrying out health checkup of AIDS patients during this Covid-19 period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/record-single-day-spike-of-63-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-tally-breaches-900-mark/story-jrOaHMv4Q2B1hQBnyPFD7J.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||13 more cases take Agra tally to 765||With 13 more positive cases found, the total number of COVID-19 patients rose to 765 in Agra on Tuesday.This, when the lockdown is being implemented in city areas, especially hotspots, under the watch of a team from Lucknow.With cases of COVID-19 on the rise, the state government had taken serious view of the situation in Agra. It had also removed city’s chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats and additional director (health) Dr AK Mittal from their posts on Sunday.The outgoing CMO was attached to the office of the district magistrate (Agra) and replaced with Dr RC Pandey.Dr AK Mittal was attached to the office of the Agra division commissioner while Dr Avinash Kumar Singh took over as new additional director (health), Agra.Meanwhile, a five-member team from Lucknow that reached Agra on Monday continued to review arrangements to control the spread of Covid-19.The team included Alok Kumar, principal secretary (industrial development); Rajneesh Dubey, principal secretary (medical education), Vijay Prakash, inspector-general, Dr Avinash Kumar Singh, officer on special duty and Prof Alok Nath, head of department, pulmonary department, SGPGI.On Tuesday, the team members held meeting with office-bearers of Indian Medical Association. They discussed the issue of improvement in health services for both Covid and non Covid patients. The meeting was also held with those owning private hospitals. The team members also held meeting with elected representatives and stressed on need of cooperation from social organisations also in these days of crisis.The status of health services at SN Medical College and Hospital also came under scrutiny as most of the services are centralized at the state owned medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/13-more-cases-take-agra-tally-to-765/story-OW4yNwEsQNH4Hw8r0bQsrN.html
12-05-2020||Noida||83 arrested, nearly 400 vehicle owners penalised for defying lockdown: Noida police||Eighty-three people were arrested while challans were issued to owners of 393 vehicles across Noida and Greater Noida for the violation of the coronavirus lockdown on Tuesday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. The administration has imposed Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144, which prohibits normal movement in this district declared a coronavirus red zone. “Twenty-two FIRs were registered on Tuesday for lockdown violations and 83 people arrested. A total of 991 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 393 of them, while another five were impounded,” the police said in a statement. The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and the violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said. Around 5,500 people have been arrested till Tuesday for defying the lockdown since it came into force here on March 23, according to a police data available with PTI. The district administration has already banned the movement between Noida and Delhi except for ambulances, doctors, media, and those directly involved in COVID-19 services. The Gautam Buddh Nagar police has extended the restrictions imposed under CrPC Section 144 till May 17, which bars the assembly of four or more people, covering the duration of the countrywide lockdown as announced by the central government. All public events, including religious or political congregations, cultural or sports meets, protest marches and processions remain banned till May 17 and action will be taken against violators under IPC Section 188, officials warned. As of Tuesday, 230 positive cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the district, including three deaths, while 141 patients have recovered and got discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/83-arrested-nearly-400-vehicle-owners-penalised-for-defying-lockdown-noida-police/story-9C3I7j4w7jkM4mlb4FdTNJ.html
12-05-2020||City||Uran declared red zone||Uran taluka has been declared a red zone after the total Covid case touched 61 on Tuesday. Uran was in orange zone. Raigad district collector Nidhi Chaudhary on Tuesday issued an order declaring it as red zone.The order by Chaudhary states: “Cases in the region have been rising lately and hence on the basis of the powers vested in me, I have declared the area as red zone. The restrictions of red zone will now be applicable in the taluka.”Uran tehsildar Bhausaheb Andhare, “A total of 53 people, including a one-year-old child, have been infected at Karanja village in Uran in the past few days. A Covid patient passed away recently. The area has been completed sealed as there are likely to be more cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uran-declared-red-zone/story-IK7aZzINOv6h9wS3ODGRyM.html
12-05-2020||City||Mohali farmers urged to sow paddy directly in the ongoing Kharif season||To save the depleting water table and in view of the possibilities of labour shortage due to Covid-19 epidemic, Mohali’s district administration has urged farmers to opt for direct sowing of paddy in the ongoing Kharif season.Chief agriculture officer of Mohali, Ranjit Singh Bains said that farmers should go for direct sowing in medium or heavy soil, but should avoid this technique in sandy soil. He recommends that the field should be leveled and paddy varieties PR-121, PR 122, PR-126 and PR-127 should be sown in the first fortnight of June, while Basmati varieties Pusa-1121, Pusa-1509 and Pusa-1718 should be sown in the second fortnight of June. Direct sowing of paddy offers more advantage in the current scenario with farm labour having left for their home states. It can be done by machines such as lucky seed drill and seed sowing drill with crooked plates are used, which are available with some farmers in Mohali. Additionally, direct sowing needs no water in the first 20 days as compared to traditional methods which require large quantities of water. He further said that 8 to 10kg of paddy seed is required for direct sowing. The seed should be soaked in water for 8 hours in a mixture of 20 gm Baviston and 1 gm streptocycline in 10 litres of water to treat the seed, which is then dried and sown.The officer also suggested to farmers that since direct sowing of paddy is a new technology, so initially, especially during the first month, more attention is required. He also assured that there is no difference in yield when using this technique as compared to the traditional method of paddy transplantation. Bains has urged farmers to seek detailed information from the agriculture officer in the nearest block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-farmers-urged-to-sow-paddy-directly-in-the-ongoing-kharif-season/story-tCZFSRjGRUeoZtIyksX0LK.html
12-05-2020||Patna||Tejashwi returns to Bihar after two months, gets scoffed at by ruling NDA||The ruling JD(U)-BJP alliance in Bihar on Tuesday heaped scorn on leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav, who has returned to the state after spending two months in the national capital where he was, apparently, “stuck” because of the lockdown.Leaders of both the parties advised the RJD leader to spend 21 days at a quarantine centre, spend some time with the migrant workers lodged therein whose cause he was professing to champion and “devote himself to the states fight against corona” thereafter.Yadav, the heir apparent of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and the partys Chief Ministerial candidate for assembly elections due in half a year, arrived here late Monday night by road and is putting up at the 10, Circular Road residence of his mother Rabri Devi.“Welcome, o bhrashtachar ke raajkumar (the prince of corruption)” quipped Information and Public Relations Department minister Neeraj Kumar, a leader in the JD(U) headed by Nitish Kumar, in a dig at the numerous cases of graft against family members of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad who is at Ranchi serving sentences in fodder scam cases.“Now that you have made it convenient to end your vacation, it is time to follow the norms. You have come from outside Bihar. So you must get yourself medically screened at a quarantine centre and stay there for 21 days”, said the minister with trademark pungency.“At the quarantine centre, you will get a chance to meet migrant workers in person and learn about the sufferings they have undergone which you can only talk about. After the quarantine period, you must get your hands dirty and devote yourself to the states fight against corona”, he added.BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand pointed out that the 30- year-old leader, who is an avid user of Twitter, returned just a day after a hashtag “Tejashwi bhagoda hai” (Tejashwi is a deserter) went viral on the social media.“While Bihar was busy battling the pandemic, Tejashwi was enjoying a vacation at an undisclosed place. So many times did our party plead with him to return and join the fight against corona, but he remained true to his reputation of running away whenever a crisis befell the state”, Anand said in a statement.Yadav, who is Lalu Prasads younger son, has been attracting criticism for his frequent and prolonged absences from Bihar during which he, nonetheless, makes it a point to comment on the happenings back home through various social media platforms.Last seen at the budget session of the state assembly, which was curtailed and ended in mid-March nearly a fortnight ahead of schedule the former Deputy CM had been frequently coming out with messages on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp and had also taken part in a meeting held via video conferencing in which Chief Minister Nitish Kumar interacted with legislators representing all political parties.Yadavs elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav, who lives a few hundred metres from their mothers residence, drove to call on the younger sibling and fumed when asked about the criticism about Tejashwis absence.“He had gone to Delhi. Nobody, including Tejashwi, had a premonition that there will be such a lockdown. So he got stuck. As I keep saying, the political battle in Bihar is like Mahabharata. “My brother is going to play the role of Arjuna while I shall be Krishna his charioteer cum advisor. Our opponents are in panic”, said the maverick RJD leader, whose effusive displays of affection for the younger brother keep alternating with political tugs of war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/tejashwi-returns-to-bihar-after-two-months-gets-scoffed-at-by-ruling-nda/story-TddR2m6Fd4Z49wlSUZd5jK.html
12-05-2020||City||Thane records 5 Covid deaths, 47 new cases||Thane recorded its highest one-day Covid death toll with five deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of deaths in the city to 34. The city recorded 47 new cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 796.Out of the new cases, 22 are from Mumbra, eight are from Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar area and six from Wagale Estate. Out of the five death, two are from Wagale Estate and two from Mumbra.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “A 56-year-old man from Kausa, Mumbra, was admitted to Bethany Hospital with breathlessness and tested positive on May 9. He was shifted to Horizon Prime Hospital and died on May 10. A 71- year-old man from Kausa died in Jupiter Hospital in Thane. A 57-year-old man from Wagale Estate Road, an asthama patient who was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa on May 9, died on the same day. He tested positive for Covid after death.”The fourth death is of a 45-year-old woman who livers near Dadoji Konddev Stadium. She was admitted to Thane civil hospital on May 8 and died on May 12. A 57-year-old man from Wagale Estate, who had hypertension, died in Kalwa hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-5-covid-deaths-47-new-cases/story-80dT56j9zj7HOvWWDRGrLJ.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab education secy asks DCs to allow distribution of textbooks||Punjab school education secretary Krishan Kumar on Tuesday asked all the deputy commissioners to allow officials to distribute textbooks to students of government schools in the state.In a letter to DCs, Kumar said that district education officers (DEOs), secondary education elementary education, and district manager of Punjab School Education Board should be given permission for delivery of books and engage labour for this purpose. “Due to lockdown in the districts, the schools are not allowed to open and distribution of the books and other material to the students is yet to be done,” he wrote.The school education secretary said that as schools had declared results, the parents were asking for books. PSEB had arranged to get the books printed which would be delivered to the districts and the block headquarters, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-education-secy-asks-dcs-to-allow-distribution-of-textbooks/story-yZckXkVJHDr30TB6c721AL.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Work at Kashi Vishwanath Corridor catches pace||As many as six buildings of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor have started taking shape ever since the construction work on the project also known as Kashi Vishwanath Dham project restarted amid lockdown on April 17. At present, some 155 workers and five engineers are engaged in the Centre’s flagship project for Varanasi—also the parliamentary constituency of PM Narendra Modi. An official of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development (KVSAD) Board said the construction work continued till March 21. The work was stopped following ‘Janata Curfew’ and subsequent lockdown to check spread of Covid-19 pandemic.These days, construction agency PSP Projects is working on construction of temple platform, passenger safety centres 1 and 2, spiritual book store and refreshment centre. The officer further said four engineers of state public works department had also been deployed to ensure the quality of the construction as per the set standards. Lockdown norms are also being followed by the workers. Vishal Singh, CEO, KVSAD Board, said, the workers wore masks, gloves and also washed their hands every now and then during their work. Their thermal screening was also done at the site every morning, he added. They also maintained social distancing. When they reached the site after the lunch break, their thermal screening was repeated, Singh said. Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is the dream project of PM Narendra Modi who laid the foundation of the project in March last year. The project is likely to be completed by June 2021. It aims at ensuring a direct view of Kashi Vishwanath Temple from ghats of Varanasi and adding a number of facilities for the devotees by expansion and beautification of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/work-at-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-catches-pace/story-eA5YA6QXclewL6FiFW4A3J.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Make policy on early release of life convicts in 3 months: HC to Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government to formulate a policy on premature release of convicts serving life sentences within three months.The HC bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill said till the time such a policy is finalised, the governor can consider release of convicts under Article 161 of Constitution of India (under which governor deals with cases of premature release) taking facts of each case into account. The state government too can consider cases of premature release under 2008 policy under sections 432 and 433 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which empower it to deal with such cases.The court found that the 2008 notification was issued in the name of governor, but the guidelines were framed with provisions under which the state is empowered to order premature release of life convicts. Due to this, there were guidelines for examining such cases by the state, not the governor. “Policies can be a fine tool for reducing perceptions of arbitrary treatment among identically situated persons so as to help keep the system fair and unbiased,” the bench observed ordering the formulation of fresh guidelines.The order came on the plea of one Raj Kumar convicted in a murder case by a Gurugram court in 2010. He had argued that the authorities were not processing his case for premature release on the premise that the 2008 policy made him ineligible, while his case is to be considered as per the 2002 policy. The 2002 policy makes a convict eligible for premature release after 10 years, and 2008 policy after 14 years.The court observed that the anomaly is going to show its effect all the more now (2020) as the cases of the persons convicted in 2008 and onwards would come in the consideration zone as they would have completed about 10 years of actual confinement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/make-policy-on-early-release-of-life-convicts-in-3-months-hc-to-haryana/story-64qgpSnwzZdBnR7qYFfqGM.html
12-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurgaon village panchayat donates Rs 21 cr donation for Haryana Corona relief fund||The village panchayat of Palra in Gurgaon district has donated Rs 21 crore for the Haryana Corona Relief Fund. A cheque for the amount was presented by Palra village sarpanch Munesh Devi to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Tuesday. Gram Panchayat Palra has collected the money from the people of the village to fight against Covid-19, a state government statement said. This is the highest donation made by any village panchayat in the state for the Covid Relief Fund. Earlier, Bal Jattan village panchayat in Panipat district had donated Rs 10.5 crore to the Haryana Corona Relief Fund.       The chief minister praised the people of Gram Panchayat Palra for their contribution. Palra village falls in Sohna block of Gurgaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurgaon-village-panchayat-donates-rs-21-cr-donation-for-haryana-corona-relief-fund/story-3RMqpV4psNvFLy8R11W1UL.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Two Sharmik trains with 1,296 passengers leave for UP, Bihar from Chandigarh||Two Shramik trains left for Bhagalpur district in Bihar and Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday from Chandigarh railway station, at full capacity with 1,296 passengers.The first train left for Bhagalpur in Bihar at 3 pm and the train for Hardoi departed at 9 pm in the evening.All passengers were first screened at Interstate Bus Terminal in Sector 43 before they were allowed to board the train. The UT administration also gave them food packets, water bottles and tickets, so prevent any trouble they may face during the journey.Most passengers who were migrants said they were returning home as after a complete shutdown of businesses, they were having trouble arranging for their meals.2 trains on Wednesday, tooTwo trains will leave for Purnia in Bihar at 2 pm on Wednesday, while the other train for Pratapgarh in UP will depart at 7 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-sharmik-trains-with-1-296-passengers-leave-for-up-bihar-from-chandigarh/story-p2wt9uGdWRaqzj3FT6jRcP.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||NSA against Dr Kafeel extended by 3 months||The Aligarh district administration on Tuesday extended for three more months the National Security Act (NSA) against Dr Kafeel Khan, who is lodged at Mathura jail in connection of alleged hate speech made on AMU campus on December 10 last.Kafeel made the alleged speech while staging a protest against newly-introduced Citizenship Amendment Law.The extension of NSA has come as a shocker for the doctor’s family who were waiting for him to be released on May 13 after spending three months in jail. NSA was invoked against him on February 13.“The NSA slapped on Dr Kafeel has been extended for six month from earlier three months as there are apprehensions that his release may lead to law and order problem,” said judicial assistant, Aligarh, Shirish Kumar.“I wonder how the release of Dr Kafeel could lead to unrest amid this lockdown,” said Dr Kafeel’s brother Adeel Ahmed.He also expressed concern over the health of Dr Kafeel as unconfirmed reports said overcrowded Mathura jail also faces danger of Covid-19 infection.Dr Kafeel shot to limelight after 2017 oxygen tragedy at BRD Medical College in which several kids had died for lack of oxygen cylinders. While initially he was hailed as savior of children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders, he later faced action, along with nine other doctors and staffs, all of whom were released on bail later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/nsa-against-dr-kafeel-extended-by-3-months/story-F40IECiOZSqbRmU0cNAekL.html
12-05-2020||City||Kalyan records 22 new cases||Twenty-two new cases for Covid-19 were reported from Kalyan-Dombivi Municipal Corporation (KDMC). Among them, eight work in Mumbai and the rest are those who have come in close contact with positive patients who travel to Mumbai for essential services. The total tally of positive cases is 366 --- 145 are those who travel to Mumbai for work every day are 73 are their close contacts. “We request all those who work for essential services to maintain social distancing in public places and self-isolate themselves. This is to ensure the safety of family members of those who are courageously stepping out to serve us,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-22-new-cases/story-QyVW72qezacKQqBazGTy9M.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sewerman dies, another critical in Kaithal||A sanitation worker died while another sustained injuries on Tuesday after one of them fell into a manhole near the civil hospital in Sector 18 of Kaithal and the other jumped in to rescue him.The deceased has been identified as Satish Kumar of Kakout village of the district and the injured as Monu of Guhna village.As per information, Monu fell into the manhole and Satish jumped in to rescue him but also got stuck inside.Locals and other sanitation workers spotted them and rushed to rescue them.Later, police officials also reached the spot. Both the injured and the deceased were rushed to hospital. Prahlad Rai, in-charge, Kaithal Civil Lines police station, said that one of the victims died at the hospital in Kaithal while the other was rushed to Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sewerman-dies-another-critical-in-kaithal/story-iuDQ7USw7LyFphBfQiKL2O.html
12-05-2020||City||10 flights to bring NRIs back to Punjab, Chandigarh||Non-resident Indians (NRIs) stuck in various countries will be brought back to their native districts in Punjab and Chandigarh via 10 flights, arriving from May 13 to May 22. Of these, eight flights will land at Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport in Amritsar, and two at Chandigarh International Airport.Punjab NRI affairs secretary Rahul Bhandari said, as per Ministry of External Affairs, around 20,000 NRIs have requested to come back to Punjab from various countries, he said.As per the weblink, http://www.covidhelp.punjab.gov.in, requests have been received from all 22 districts of Punjab and a total of around 1,700 NRIs have applied for it. Hoshiarpur tops the districts in the state with 621 requests, followed by 540 requests from Ludhiana and 535 from Amritsar. Most of the NRIs are from USA, Canada and UAE.Meanwhile, Chandigarh International Airport chief executive officer Ajay Bhardwaj said of the two flights to land at the airport, one will be from Ukraine and the other from USA.QUARANTINE FOR RETURNEESMeanwhile, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district administration was fully prepared to receive NRIs who will land at the Chandigarh airport. “We have been told that the list of NRIs will be released 24 hours before the flight is scheduled to depart from the said country. We are expecting NRIs from Canada, USA, UK, Singapore and Australia either directly or via Delhi,” Dayalan said.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon of Mohali said arrangements for paid institutional quarantine for the returnees in hotels and other places have been made as per Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines and each passenger, before boarding, has filled up an undertaking to abide by the same.In Mohali, the residents coming from other states, Dayalan said, will be de-boarded from their buses at a common central location, which, as of now, has been identified as Palm Banquets in Zirakpur. Thereafter, they will be sent back to their respective homes, where they will stay strictly home quarantined, under surveillance. However, high-risk travellers, if any, will be put in government quarantine facilities, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-flights-to-bring-nris-back-to-punjab-chandigarh/story-YrcuYgcrMSJcefEEzyfDfJ.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER wants referral system in place before starting OPD services||Even though the lockdown in the city has been relaxed to an extent, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is focusing on strengthening the referral system before it throws open the out-patient department (OPD) for patients, for which no date has been fixed yet.Director PGIMER Dr Jagat Ram said it is impossible to re-start OPDs until adequate measures are not in place for social distancing.“We are working on several things. One is that patients from the city who require our services should be referred from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32) and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16) and patients from the neighbouring state must be referred from district hospitals,” Dr Jagat Ram said. Around 10,000 patients visit the PGI in a day, most of whom travel long distances from neighbouring states for better medical services which are shut since March 20.Dr GD Puri, dean (academics) and chairman of the panel constituted for re-opening of OPDs, said they were pushing for popularising tele-medicine and tele-consultation services through which need-based appointments can be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgimer-wants-referral-system-in-place-before-starting-opd-services/story-VckhgOk2R2Ak6Tn7AS8aNN.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana following Centre’s new Covid-19 guidelines, but with riders||The Haryana government is following Centre’s new guidelines on the treatment of Covid-19 patients, but with some conditions of its own.Senior doctors said the Centre has asked state governments to allow asymptomatic patients or those with mild infection to stay in isolation at their respective homes, provided they have a separate room and wash room, exclusively for them.Likewise, the new guidelines also allow the state governments to discharge a patient from the hospital after completion of his/her 14-day treatment even without conducting confirmatory tests.While these directions aim at enabling the healthcare workforce to focus on the patients requiring intensive care, the state’s senior doctors say the state health department does not want to take any chances, so it has decided to conduct at least one confirmatory test after an asymptomatic or mild patient is cured and two tests for serious patients despite the revised discharge policy. As per the earlier guidelines, a patient was required to be examined after 14-day treatment and tested. Also, another confirmatory test was required to be done 24 hours prior to discharge.Apart from testing cured patients, another addition that the state has made is geo-fencing.The doctors also said it has also been decided to make geo-fencing mandatory for the patients in home isolation. This means that aside from pasting positive case notices outside the houses of Covid-19 patients and stamping their hands, they would be required to download the Aarogya Setu mobile app. This is to ensure that such patients remain isolated in their homes and do not go out to mingle with others, the doctors said.Claiming that not all states were following the Centre’s guidelines with such riders, top doctors said Jhajjar and Faridabad are among the few districts which have allowed home isolation with the geo-fencing conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-following-centre-s-new-covid-19-guidelines-but-with-riders/story-w9RL2K2EeM0NamHcbExr9I.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Kheri reports first case in 10 days, city doc tests positive||Ten days after Kheri district was declared free from corona positive cases, a doctor engaged in treating Covid-19 patients tested positive on Monday. Chief medical officer (CMO), Kheri Dr Manoj Agrawal confirmed this. “One among nine samples received from Kheri tested positive while others were found negative,” a report from district control room read on Monday. The doctor was serving at the district hospital on contractual basis. He is being treated at Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU). The doctor was also associated with a private nursing home in the city, said sources. The private nursing home where the doctor attended patients was evacuated and sanitized on Monday. The nursing home staff and some patients were sent to district hospital for proper screening and related checkups.Contact tracing of the doctor was being carried out, officials added.Kheri had reported first corona positive case on Mar 19, when a local trader tested positive after his return from a business tour of Istambul in Turkey. Later, on April 4, three jamaatis from Dhaurahra tested positive. All these four cases, including Kheri trader who was treated at the KGMU, Lucknow and the three jamaatis quarantined in Behjam- have recovered and been discharged. Since then, Kheri hadn’t reported any fresh case due to which it was categorized as ‘green zone’. DEO KANT PANDEY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kheri-reports-first-case-in-10-days-city-doc-tests-positive/story-3t4JpLtD5BxFrCafU0tChN.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Nearly 41.2 % Delhi University students’ have not attended online classes at all, finds survey by student’s group||As many as 41.2 % of Delhi University (DU) students have not been able to attend online classes at all amid the nationwide lockdown, found a survey by a students’ group.The survey conducted by the DU unit of All India Students’ Association (AISA) also found that the major reason behind students not being able to attend classes online regularly was “poor internet connectivity”. The survey recovered was conducted over the last two weeks and covered more than 1,500 students. The University had started online classes in the last week of March, soon after the lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. “Only 22.4 % of students are attending online classes regularly. While 41.2% of students said they are not being able to attend classes at all, the remaining 42.4 % said that they have managed to attend a few classes,” stated the survey report released on Tuesday.“As many as 72.2 % of students said poor internet connectivity is the main reason behind them not being able to attend classes online classes regularly,11.6% of students cited financial incapability as the reason, and 7.6% said that household chores are not letting them attend online classes. The remaining 8.3% cited other reasons,” the report stated.While the DU administration is thinking about conducting online exams for its final year students, around 74 percent of the surveyed students responded against the idea. “Around 32.4% of students said that they don’t even have devices such as smartphones or laptops to appear in the online exams,” said the survey report.Abhigyan (single name), member AISA (DU unit) and a student at Ramjas College, said the student’s organisation was approached by many DU students who were finding it difficult to attend online classes. “The students were also worried about the University administration’s idea of conducting online exams. So we thought we should conduct a survey to get a clear picture of students’ opinions on online exams and classes and send it to the university administration,” he said.Several students across the University are finding it difficult to attend online classes. Sandeep Kumar, a third-year student at Hindu College, said he had left for his village in Uttarakhand before the lockdown was announced and now faces connectivity issues while attending online classes. “Some of my friends who are in northeastern states have not been able to attend any classes at all until now because of poor internet connectivity. In such a situation, one cannot even think about taking online exams,” Kunar said.The University administration had recently invited suggestions from various stakeholders on how exams should be conducted in the prevailing situation. Rajesh Jha, member of University’s executive council, said the council has written to the DU administration several times against conducting online exams. “When we take an online class, usually 20 out of 45 students attend at a time. Many students call and text us explaining difficulties in attending online classes because of various reasons,” he said.A member of University’s special task force constituted to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, requesting anonymity, said, “We are closely monitoring the situation and also accessing the number of students who are equipped with technology. Any decision on exams will be taken keeping in mind the interest of students.”The University is also considering launching voice conferencing to help the students who do not have smartphones or other devices. “We are planning to start classes via audio conferencing which needs no internet or smart devices” the member added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/nearly-41-2-delhi-university-students-have-not-attended-online-classes-at-all-finds-survey-by-student-s-group/story-xi6KOOiU2O5qBKNzt9YXlO.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 50 new cases, Covid count jumps to 780 in Haryana||With a spike of 50 new cases, Haryana’s Covid-19 count jumped to 780 on Tuesday.Of the total new cases, 16 are from Gurugram, followed by Faridabad (15) and Sonepat (13). One new case each was reported from Ambala, Panchkula, Jind, Karnal, Rewari and Kurukshetra.Senior doctors said three out of the 16 new cases reported from Gurugram were of employees of district civil hospital while four were contacts of vegetable sellers.In Faridabad, most of the infected persons had earlier either come in contact with vegetable sellers or infected persons from Delhi, doctors said.Sonepat civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura said eight out of the 13 cases reported on Tuesday were from two families residing in different areas of the district. “Most of the cases are linked to Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi. We have sent them to the isolation ward at BPS medical college,” he added.Meanwhile, an 18-year-old youth, who had recently returned from Mumbai, tested positive for Covid in Jind.Another 22-year-old youth from Ambala tested positive at a hospital in Panchkula. CMO Dr Kuldeep Singh said the youth had flu-like symptoms since last one week. On Sunday, he went to a private hospital in Panchkula where he tested positive, he added. The area, including about 250 houses around his residence, has been declared a containment zone. In Karnal, a 22-year-old youth tested positive for coronavirus in Banso Gate locality. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said the youth had returned from Delhi last week. He has been shifted to the Covid-19 hospital in Shahbad, Kurukshetra, he added. In Hisar, a 38-year-old woman and her 16-year-old son, who had also returned from Mumbai, were found infected, chief medical officer of local civil hospital, Dr Yogesh Sharma, said. These cases have not been included in the health bulletin. Total five persons — three from Gurugram and two from Faridabad — were discharged after their treatment, taking the number of total cured patients in the state to 342.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-50-new-cases-covid-count-jumps-to-780-in-haryana/story-YHiOC0SBDq913s2kiyCYVI.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Summer begins on cooler note in Chandigarh this year, courtesy cleaner air||Even as peak summer season is round the corner, the temperature in the city is still on the lower side as compared to previous years, according to the officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), who attribute the trend to higher than average rainfall and improved air quality due to restricted vehicular movement and industrial activity amid the lockdown.As per Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) report on air pollution in city, vehicular emissions are the leading cause of pollutants entering the air. Ever since the lockdown began from March 24, the air quality has remained in the good bracket (0-50) while in previous years, it would stay in the moderate bracket (100-200). Due to this, averages of both maximum and minimum temperatures in April this year remained lower than previous (see graphic). This far in May as well, the values continue to be lower than previous years.IMD regional director Surender Paul said, “Pollutants in the air absorb heat causing temperatures to go up. Even if pollution levels start to rise as and when the lockdown is opened, some gradual rise in temperature can be expected but it is likely to stay on the lower side throughout May due to cleaner air and rain.”Paul added, “Air pollutants are known to decrease the amount of rain in the city. This year, we have received more than average rain in both April and May so far. However, it needs to be studied how much air pollution has had a bearing on this as there were other factors at play too.”Member secretary of CPCC, TC Nautiyal, said pollutant levels were less than half of what they used to be in previous years. “We have seen various benefits with better air quality. However, this is a short-term relief as pollution will go up again after industries reopen and vehicles start to ply. We need to push for concepts like carpooling and cycling to improve air quality.”Chairperson of department of environment studies in Panjab University, Suman Mor, said, “Thanks to the lockdown, greenhouse gas emissions - known to make the weather warmer - have also reduced. People need to change their habits to bring down pollution permanently.”Paul said temperature is likely to stay on the lower side throughout this week and added, “Light rain is likely this week. Light to moderate rain is also likely on Thursday and Friday as a system of western disturbances is likely to affect the region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/summer-begins-on-cooler-note-in-chandigarh-this-year-courtesy-cleaner-air/story-Ar8pb0zlAe8vtBQzKCB8TJ.html
12-05-2020||City||22-yr-old tests positive, takes Ambala’s Covid count to 42||A day after 23 patients were cured and discharged discharged, a 22-year-old Ambala youth tested positive on Tuesday, which takes the district’s total Covid count to 42..Sharing details, CMO Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The youth, who is the only active case in the district as of today, is from the city’s model town area. He had flu-like symptoms from the last one week and had reported to civil hospital but tested negative. On Sunday, he went to a private hospital in Panchkula where he tested positive, and we were informed on Tuesday morning. However, we have asked authorities there to have his samples re-tested at a government lab.”Meanwhile, the area where the youth lives, which has around 250 houses, has been sealed and declared a containment zone. “The family claims he has not met anyone or travelled anywhere, but we are trying to trace his contacts, as per protocol,” Dr Kuldeep added. Blood samples of 28 of his contacts were taken for testing on Tuesday, he added.While two patients have died of the epidemic in the city, 27 patients were cured and discharged in last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-yr-old-tests-positive-takes-ambala-s-covid-count-to-42/story-FYChpwVuACToxgP6GX9OzI.html
12-05-2020||City||Retired army man tests positive, takes Panchkula Covid count to 23||A 59-yr-old retired army personnel from Raipur Rani tested positive on Tuesday taking the number of Covid positive cases in Panchkula to 23 and active cases to five. The man from Baghwali village had been admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula’s Sector 21 for a kidney-related issue, and his blood samples were taken before his surgery. He was brought back to the hospital after the report arrived as he had been discharged after sampling.Panchkula DC Mukesh Ahuja has declared Baghwali village as a containment zone, putting requisite restrictions in place. District civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said 21 of his contacts have been isolated in the Sector 6 general hospital for sampling. The source of his infection is still not known as he was admitted in the private hospital about two weeks ago.Meanwhile, a total of 2,810 samples have been taken in the district, of which 2,640 tested negative. Report of 132 are pending, while samples of 13 persons have been sent again for re-testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/retired-army-man-tests-positive-takes-panchkula-covid-count-to-23/story-pwTuqPZAmvLRWnNcy82fYL.html
12-05-2020||City||19 positive cases in north Delhi civic body||New Delhi The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday reported a jump of 19 fresh Covid positive cases, taking the tally of its total employees who have contracted the infection from 18, as reported last on Sunday, to 37.The list of 37 includes a 45-year-old female teacher who was on ration distribution duty in her school and died on May 4. Among hospital staff, the fresh cases include three more doctors, who have tested positive in the corporation’s Kasturba Hospital in Daryaganj. Already, five gynaecologists were reported to have tested Covid positive on March 5.Besides, 10 health care workers -- including seven doctors, two nurses and one lab technician -- are already Covid positive in the north body’s Hindu Rao Hospital, and one female ward staff in Rajan Babu TB Hospital in Kingsway Camp.Among non-hospital staff, one malaria inspector engaged with the north corporation was already reported to be Covid positive on Sunday. One lady teacher expired died the disease on May 4.On Tuesday, the corporation said two public health inspectors, who check various food outlets for hygiene standards, also tested positive. Besides, one assistant public health inspector (APHI) and three field workers, who spray disinfectant liquid sodium hypochlorite and anti-Malaria medicine in drains, have also tested positive.Others who were reported Covid positive by the north body on Tuesday include: one domestic breeding checker (DBC), who go door-to-door checking coolers and overhead tanks for mosquito larva; one assistant sanitary inspector (ASI), who are responsible for cleaning roads and dhalaos (colony garbage dumps); two safai karmcharis (lower level sanitation workers) and one primary teacher.North body commissioner Varsha Joshi said, “Three of our auxiliary nurse midwives are also Covid positive. They were the first to be infected while assisting Delhi government teams in sampling in Jahangirpuri.”The corporation officials said that they can only give out statistics and not the details regarding the gender, age or work profile of any of the Covid positive cases to hide their identity. In the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, so far, one sanitation worker has been reported dead from Covid, while one in East Delhi Municipal Corporation is positive and in hospital in a serious condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-positive-cases-in-north-delhi-civic-body/story-fhAPaZ4Ra9T5iRU5b6T8EN.html
12-05-2020||City||2 days on, no arrest made in PGI nurse suicide case in Chandigarh||Two days on, after a senior nursing officer posted at Chandigarh PGIMER, committed suicide, following alleged harassment by senior colleagues, police are yet to arrest anyone. The deceased Davinder Kaur, 44, a resident of Kamao Colony in Nayagaon, had allegedly injected herself with poison. She had been working in PGI since 1998. Davinder was earlier posted in the new OPD at PGI from where she was transferred to the female ward.Her husband Amit Kumar had said that Davinder was suffering mental distress for the past few months as four senior nurses were allegedly harassing her after a dispute over her transfer within the department.Police had recovered a suicide note from her possession in which she had mentioned the names of four nurses—Sunita, Jaspal Kaur, Navneet Dhaliwal and Neelam Chand, who were allegedly harassing her.Nayagaon police have registered a case against the four under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-days-on-no-arrests-made-in-pgi-nurse-suicide-case-in-chandigarh/story-V0wbBwOPxo54khPHw7zjLI.html
12-05-2020||City||Congress youth leader files defamation case against Sambit Patra||A non-cognisable case has been filed against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national spokesperson Sambit Patra in Kalyan over a tweet.General secretary of Maharashtra Youth Congress, Brijkishore Dutta, lodged a complaint at Mahatma Phule Police station in Kalyan on Tuesday.Patra has tweeted that had the coronavirus outbreak happened during the Congress rule, there would have been many scams. The complaint said that Patra’s tweet has defamed the Congress. Dutt said, “I filed a complaint against the BJP spokesperson for using derogatory and defamatory language against our former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi. His tweet said that if coronavirus outbreak would have taken place during Congress’s rule, there would have been a lot of scams.”Senior police inspector of Mahatma Phule N Bankar said, “We have registered a non-cognisable offence.”Shashikant Kamble, BJP Kalyan district president, said, “One of the ruling parties in Maharashtra is the Congress. Their leaders are not leaving any chance to harass us by filing police complaint against BJP leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-youth-leader-files-defamation-case-against-sambit-patra/story-vBEZzq8gT5tFzpuRZD7A2O.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to allow entry of medics from Delhi, but with e-passes||Stating that about 56% of the coronavirus cases in the national capital region (NCR) districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat — had Delhi connections, the Haryana government on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court (HC) that it will allow back and forth movement of medical professionals from Delhi on production of movement passes.Hearing a public interest litigation, the HC had on May 8 said that orders of the Sonepat district magistrate (DM) restraining the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat constituted an infringement of the constitutional provisions. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) had on May 11 asked the states to ensure that interstate movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedics was facilitated. The directions came after the issue of restrictions being imposed by some states, including Haryana, was flagged during a meeting between the cabinet secretary and state governments on Sunday. “Ensuring unhindered movement of medical professionals is essential for meeting public health requirements and saving precious human lives,” Union Home Secretary, Ajay Bhalla said in his communication to the state governments.Haryana’s additional advocate general Anil Grover told the court that in furtherance of May 11 directions of the MHA, the state government has evolved a procedure of movement passes (e-passes) which will be given to medical professionals without any hassle. “Today, we have provided about 55 passes to medical professionals living in Haryana’s NCR districts and working in AIIMS, New Delhi, to facilitate their movement,” he said.In response to a query as to why e-passes were being sought by Haryana instead of identity cards issued by central or Delhi governments or hospitals, Grover told the HC that while identity cards can be forged, e-passes issued by state government cannot be forged as they bear a bar code. He emphasised that e-passes were being issued within minutes of letters or phone calls being received from officials of the central government or hospitals. The HC, however, asked the Centre to convince the state government not to press for movement passes and resolve the issue. The matter was listed for May 14. Grover said, “Our argument is centred on the fact that majority of Covid-19 cases in four districts are an outcome of daily to and fro commute of passengers from Haryana’s NCR districts to the national capital.”The movement restriction orders are not Delhi centric, he said, adding that they applied to inter-district travel within Haryana as well as to and fro movement of commuters to Uttar Pradesh. Grover said similar notifications restricting the movement (as the one issued on April 30 by the Sonepat DM) have been issued by the district magistrates of Faridabad, Gurugram and Jhajjar. “The entire endeavour is to ensure that pandemic does not enter the rural areas of Haryana because havoc will get created if it does,” Grover told the HC.In an affidavit filed before the court, the state government said that the April 30 orders of Sonepat DM had exempted the movement of ambulances, ATM vans, LPG cylinders, oil containers and tankers from Delhi. Moreover, movement of grains, milk, poultry, cereals, lentils and other eatable items, excluding fruits and vegetables, besides green and dry fodder, medicines, medical equipment and transit logistics movement of essential and non-essential goods from Delhi was allowed by the Sonepat administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-allow-entry-of-medics-from-delhi-but-with-e-passes/story-MdI4tMxBCrJLrU2JGgORLI.html
12-05-2020||City||Migrants left in lurch as bus from Ludhiana to UP takes u-turn midway||The happiness of around 30 migrants hailing from Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh knew no bounds when they boarded a bus of a private operator, Jujhar Travels, to take them home from Ludhiana on Monday evening. But the joy was short-lived as the driver took a u-turn near Ambala, saying that his permit had expired. It was later found out that the administration had not provided any permit to the operator.Mahesh Kumar, one of the migrants, said, “We had departed from the city around 5.30pm on Monday and stopped at an eatery near Ambala around 2.30am. After a nearly hour-long halt, the driver told us that his permit had expired and that he was driving us back to the city.” All the migrants are now waiting in the bus, hoping that it will depart for the destination soon.“We have paid around Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,300 each for a seat on the bus and now we are not sure if we will even reach home,” he told Hindustan Times on Tuesday evening, adding that none of them have had anything to eat since Monday night.Ganesh Kumar, another migrant, said, “The driver stopped the bus a few kilometres away from Ambala and refused to take us further. He then brought us back to the city. Where will we go now? We have already left our quarters and cannot return.”“We reached here at 7am today and it is 6pm now but we are still waiting for the bus to move,” said Ganesh.AGENTS ROAMING AROUND INDUSTRIAL AREAS TO BOOK TICKETSThe migrants, meanwhile, said that some agents were approaching them in their localities in Focal Point, Giaspura and others with bus tickets to their native places. The migrants said they are being charged around Rs 3,300, which they are told includes medical screening expenses. Jujhar Travels manager Saroop Sharma, however, said the company is charging Rs 3000 from the migrants for Gonda. He also denied the claims that agents were approaching migrants on their behalf. About the bus that returned, he said there was some issue regarding permit due to which the bus was called back. MIGRANTS BEING CHARGED FIVE TIMES THE NORMAL RATE: BAINSMember of the Legislative Assembly Simarjeet Singh Bains also reached site in the evening and interacted with the migrants. Bains said that before lockdown, the fare for Gonda was around Rs 650 and now the company is charging five times the normal price from migrants who are already going through a tough time.Bains also contacted the deputy commissioner and said that no permission was given to the company by the administration. He added that the company was fleecing migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-left-in-lurch-as-bus-from-ludhiana-to-up-takes-u-turn-midway/story-nr7rWnatWDm8b1ogQEvA3I.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab returns 46MT ‘poor quality’ pulses received under Centre’s scheme||Chandigarh As the Union and state ministers spar over the distribution of foodgrains to poor families affected by the coronavirus lockdown, the Punjab government has sent back 46 metric tonnes (MTs) of pulses received from the central government under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).The consignment of pulses was received from National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited (NAFED), the nodal agency for supplying pulses under the scheme, about a fortnight ago for free distribution but has been sent back by the state food and civil supplies department as its quality was not found to be fit for consumption.“There were more than 900 bags of dal (pulses) which were wet due to rainwater and emanating foul smell. The consignment was rejected and returned,” said an official of the state food and civil supplies department. Punjab has received 7,000MT of pulses so far, out of 11,800 MTs allocated by the Union ministry of food, consumer affairs and public distribution, for 1.41 crore beneficiaries in the state.When contacted, director, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, Anindita Mitra said the department returned 46 MTs of sabut urad dal (black gram whole) to NAFED about 10 days ago because of poor quality. “There were also pigeon droppings in some of these bags received for distribution in the state,” she said. The pulses are in addition to 2.12 lakh MTs of wheat allocated under PMGKAY to give five kilograms (kgs) of wheat per person per month and one kg of dal per family for three months (April to June) to 36 lakh beneficiary families, including 1.92 lakh ‘poor of the poorest’ households, identified under the National Food Security Act (NFSA).NAFED branch manager, Chandigarh, RK Pahwa said there was some complaint regarding the quality of one consignment of pulses, and it was replaced immediately. “There has been no complaint since, but we have been having coordination issues with Punjab officials as they keep changing the delivery spots. The remaining allocated quantity will also be delivered within a week,” he said.The distribution of PMGKAY foodgrains, which was aimed at helping poor households deal with the economic impact of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, has become a bone of contention between the Centre and the state governments. Union ministers Ram Vilas Paswan and Harsimrat Kaur Badal accused the Punjab authorities of not distributing wheat and pulses allocated to them with the former even stating last week that only 1 per cent of foodgrains had been distributed. Punjab’s food minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu hit back by blaming the delay in the delivery of pulses. A state official said the food and civil supplies department had raised a demand for the supply of pulses on April 1 so that it could distribute both wheat and rice for three months in one go but received the first consignment of 42MTs on April 13 and then small quantities in subsequent consignments. On April 30, the department, which had received 2,646MTs of pulses till then, also requested the central ministry to ask NAFED to expedite supply of pulses because it (state government) was unable to start its distribution in all the districts due to the nodal agency’s slow pace of delivery. As per the latest information, the state has delivered free ration to 20 per cent beneficiaries with Rupnagar district taking the lead with 56 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-returns-46mt-poor-quality-pulses-received-under-centre-s-scheme/story-GBjE9Ej5lTUOVuEUtbokBO.html
12-05-2020||City||PSPCL demands fixed charges, industry contemplates to move court||Accusing the state government of befooling the industry on waiver of fixed charges in electricity bills, industrialists rued that Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is demanding them in instalments. In April, the government had announced that no fixed charges would be levied on large and medium units for two months starting from March 23. However, in a webinar conducted by Furnace Alliance, Ludhiana, on Sunday, PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Baldev Singh Sran had said that fixed charges have not been waived, but deferred.“The industry feels cheated as chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced a relief in terms of fixed charges, but now the PSPCL is demanding them in instalments. The industry is on the brink of closure and the state government is pushing it deeper into crises”, said Tarun Jain Bawa, head of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association.Slamming the state government for not providing any kind of relief, the furnace owners said that they would move the Punjab and Haryana high court. “We are left with no other option than to move court or we will have to hand over the keys of our factories to the government. The Punjab government has failed to provide any relief, rather hefty bills are being sent to the industry at this time of crises. The government purchases power at ₹3 per unit and provides the same at ₹ 7.5 to us. The PSPCL is claiming that the bills can be paid in instalments, but 18% interest would be imposed on the payment. We demand that the fixed charges should be waived off and some relief should be provided to the industry, which is reeling under losses”, said Mahesh Gupta, president of Furnace Alliance.National president of All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF), Badish Jindal, said, “It seems like the state government is not bothered about the industry as nothing is being done for it. Instead, more pressure is being put on the shoulders of the industries, which are facing an uncertain future.”Meanwhile, DPS Grewal, engineer-in-chief, PSPCL, said, “As no such instruction in this regard has been issued by the headquarters till now, I cannot comment on the same before that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-demands-fixed-charges-industry-contemplates-to-move-court/story-MUdTEU1BTPIwcB10Tvv2lK.html
12-05-2020||City||Three arrested for forging travel passes||Three men were arrested on Monday night for forging travel passes to go to Beed and Jalna.The accused had procured fake passes from a mediator, who printed their names on an approved pass. They were caught when the police scanned the QR code.Maruti Rathod, 21, and Javed Shaikh, 28, were going from Karanjade in Panvel to their hometown. Rathod, a cab driver is from Jalna. Shaikh, who owns a chicken shop in Karanjade, is from Beed.The duo had approached a Kharghar resident Salim Shaikh, 42, who promised passes for a price. The police refused to divulge how much the two paid Shaikh.“During our checking at the border in Panvel, we found discrepancies with the pass after scanning the QR code and questioned them,” said an officer from the Panvel city police.While Rathod and Shaikh were detained at the checkpost, Salim was arrested from his Kharghar house. The trio has been remanded in police custody till May 15.“No private persons are given the task of issuing e-passes and passes are issued at the state provided link of covid19.mhpolice.in,” said Ajaykumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-for-forging-travel-passes/story-gKNMQ1WUT3k3kfl5elYQvL.html
12-05-2020||City||Man, mother booked for roughing up cops in Kalyan||A 33-year-old man and his mother were booked for travelling on a bike from Kalyan to Ulhasnagar without a pass and without wearing masks on Monday.When the police stopped them near Waldhuni bridge, they started arguing.Vindo Soni and his 56-year-old mother Jyoti told the police they were going to the hospital.A police officer from Mahatma Phule police station said, “When we asked them to show any hospital-related documents, they didn’t have any. When we asked them to return home, they refused. The woman started abusing us. She caught hold of our police officer’s uniform and tried to snatch his firearm.”The police took both of them to police station and booked them under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from doing his duty) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-mother-booked-for-roughing-up-cops-in-kalyan/story-aD1ZKKIgAM6WpFoW9snXuN.html
12-05-2020||City||Laptops that can be linked to braille terminals to be distributed to visually-impaired children in J&K||The school education department in Jammu and Kashmir is going to distribute 42 laptops among children who are visually impaired to provide inclusive educational support through technological interventions.The laptops will be connected to braille tactile terminals lying in the resource rooms, school education principal secretary Asgar Samoon said.Pertinently, resource rooms have been established in all the districts of J&K under Samagra Shiksha to cater to the educational, mental and health needs of specially-abled children.The laptops have been provided by EdCil, an educational support group, New Delhi under CSR Fund.Braille terminals, which were previously procured under the Samagra Shiksha scheme, have limitations of storing data, but can scale up its functions once attached with the laptops, Samoon said.Samoon revealed that inclusion is the need of the hour and under the right to education. The department is making all efforts to include every child into the mainstream education system irrespective of any social or economical barrier, he said.He added that in order to promote and strengthen inclusive education, ICT intervention is much required, and following it, Samagra Shiksha is going to distribute laptops which shall be connected to Braille Tactile Readers lying in the resource rooms.Samoon added that the department is planning to set open these resource rooms for the public so that any visually-impaired person can visit and utilise this facility for upgrading their knowledge and skills.Later, Arun Manhas, Project Director Samagra Shiksha said that several initiatives have been taken to encourage specially-abled children for pursuing their education in the mainstream system like disbursement of stipends and allowances, distribution of free aids and appliances as well as learning materials, etc. “Every possible effort is being made to identify such children across the UT, especially those who are not enrolled, to provide them all kind of educational, therapeutic, and counseling support through special educators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/laptops-that-can-be-linked-to-braille-terminals-to-be-distributed-to-visually-impaired-children-in-j-k/story-ssDmPVr3IpuoJIEQ1Z40dP.html
12-05-2020||City||5-month-old boy from Kalyan tests positive for Covid-19||A five-month-old boy from Kalyan tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation said the baby’s father, who works in Mumbai for essential services, had tested positive a few days ago. “His four family members, including the baby’s mother, tested positive on Tuesday,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. A nine-year-old girl and 12-year-old boy from Kalyan also tested positive on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-month-old-boy-from-kalyan-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-pE3TY6OlCYGKiG6DwoeUAM.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh nurses call for fair wages, insurance on International Nurses Day||On International Nurses Day, on Tuesday, nurses employed with National Health Mission (NHM) in Chandigarh, poured out their woes and hardships they are facing. On the frontline in the war against Covid-19, NHM employees are seeking fair wages and insurance covers.After 10 years of service as an ANM (auxiliary nursing & midwifery) nurse with the UT health department, Rishu gets ₹11,000 in hand. She has two daughters and the salary falls hopelessly inadequate. Yet, she has no choice but to carry on. A Kalka resident, Rishu is among the hundreds on the frontline placing their lives at risk in the epidemic. “I was part of the team that surveyed Bapu Dham Colony for three days. Then I was posted in the survey team of Sector 30 (containment zone), Hallomajra and Mauli Jagran,” she said.“We are deputed for night duty without any relaxation from the next day’s shift. There were days when after a 9am to 3pm shift, I work another shift from 5pm to 7am. Then without a break, I have to report for duty at 9am,” she said.Rishu, who comes from Kalka, is also finding it arduous and demanding to commute. She must hitch a ride to her work station as no public transport is available. “We give our 100% to our work, but we get no additional support from the health department. No transportation, no encouragement. Our salaries are dreadfully meagre. I joined at ₹5,500 in 2009 and today I get only ₹11,000 in hand.”Slamming the UT admin, staff nurse Babita Rawat, who is posted at the civil hospital in Sector 22, said, “They call us corona warriors, but what have they done for its warriors? Nothing. I am working as a staff nurse with the UT health department since 2010. I am paid only ₹16,000 while those employed on contract are getting around ₹28,000.”She said, “Give us suitable salaries, so we can look after our families and at least provide us insurance cover to secure our families financially in case something happens to us on duty during the epidemic.”Highlighting the issue, Amit Kumar, general secretary of CNEU (Chandigarh NHM Employees Union), said the staff will wearing black ribbons during duty hours to observe a black day on May 13. The main issue is the inadequate salaries he said, adding that a NHM nurse draws ₹9,000 to ₹11,000, while the outsourced cadre and regular employees draw ₹28,000 to ₹75,000 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-nurses-call-for-fair-wages-insurance-on-international-nurses-day/story-hqGKlyOYTWh0lDSizF2EmK.html
12-05-2020||City||4,802 industrial units operational in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday said that as many as 4,802 industrial units are operational during the lockdown in the Union territory.As the administration is fighting to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, it has implemented several precautionary and preventive measures, a spokesperson said. The lockdown that was imposed from March 25 has left a deep impact on the social and economic sectors.Director of industries and commerce department Anoo Malhotra said that the department is ensuring hassle-free operation of food processing industries, flour mills, milk product industries etc. She said that the agro-industries have been allowed to function during these times, considering the seasonal nature of the agricultural sector.“In addition to these the pharma units have also been allowed to run to ensure there is no shortage of life-saving medicines in the market. Packaging units that cater to essential commodity units are also kept functional,” she said in an official statement issued here.“As of today 4,802 units, (2,727 in Jammu division and 2,075 in Kashmir division) are functional including large scale, MSMEs and micro enterprises,” she added.The government has allowed the industries to work at 30% of their staff strength, except the pharma sector which has been allowed to function at 60% of its staff strength, she said.However, Jammu Federation of Industries on Tuesday appealed to lieutenant governor GC Murmu to save the industrial sector of J&K with a request to provide immediate financial support to the ailing sector, which is suffering due to the lockdown.Chairman of federation Lalit Mahajan said that due to the lockdown, there was a sharp decline in the sales turnover for the last 50 days due to which the unitholders were not in a position to pay salaries for April, bank interest, power dues, and other dues.Mahajan reminded L-G of a task force that has been constituted by the government to provide immediate relief to the industrial sector, tourism, hotel industry, hospitality sectors, etc with the timeline for the submission of recommendations by May 15.“But to date, no relief is provided to the industrial sector resulting in the uncertainty that prevails in the minds of unitholders. We fear that we may have to close down our units which in turn will cause mass-scale retrenchment of the workforce,” he said.He requested the L-G to announce a relief package for industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-802-industrial-units-operational-in-j-k/story-sMxzOzEr2heVEBiLp7bShL.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||State to reply on using vacant Mahul buildings as quarantine facility on Friday||Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will inform the Bombay high court on Friday about their decision on using the vacant buildings in PAP (project affected persons) colony at Mahul as treatment and quarantine centres for Covid-19 patients. The centre was to be set-up especially for the inmates of the Arthur Road prison.Both, the state government and the civic body on Tuesday sought time to take instructions and respond to public interest litigation challenging the decision of the state government to set up treatment and quarantine centre at the PAP Colony.The PIL filed is by Sharda Tevar, mother of an undertrial prisoner lodged at Arthur Road jail, and a non-governmental organisation, Ghar Bachao Ghar Banao Andolan, which is working along with the homeless, slum dwellers and marginalised communities on housing, food and water rights issues.The petitioners contended that Chembur is the most unsuitable area in the city to quarantine and treat Covid-19 patients and suspects. Mahul area is not suitable for those with severe respiratory problems, it will be counter-productive to quarantine Covid-19 patients in the area.Their PIL stated that the persons having Covid-19 already have severely compromised immunities that manifest in severe respiratory illnesses like pneumonia. In this context, sending suspected Covid-19 patients to Mahul would defeat the very purpose of quarantining them, and instead would accelerate their respiratory ailments. It could even prove to be fatal to such patients. “Indeed, others who have been rehabilitated to Mahul in the past have reported a series of severe respiratory ailments like asthma and tuberculosis within a short period of moving to Mahul,” it added.Petitioner’s counsel, advocate Ronita Bector, pointed out to the bench that three judicial forums have declared the PAP Colony to be uninhabitable because of high-level of industrial pollution and the toxic air quality. The high court had in September 2019 restrained the state government from shifting any slum dwellers or project-affected person to the PAP Colony, also known as Eversmile Complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-to-reply-on-using-vacant-mahul-buildings-as-quarantine-facility-on-friday/story-FsIrh5LD8V163M3lYFo3jP.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Bizman tries to buy N95 masks, loses ₹12.29 lakh to phishing||A 35-year-old businessman from Borivli lost ₹12.29 lakh to a phishing fraud. The man contacted a fake company selling Covid-19 related materials through a popular search engine and ended up paying an advance of ₹12.29 lakh. An FIR has been registered on Sunday.According to Borivli police, the complainant wanted to buy N95 surgical and respiratory face masks, thermometers and safety goggles as they are in high demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On April 3, he searched for companies selling these materials on the internet and found a company which turned out to be fake.He communicated with them on the mobile number given on the website.Between April 16 to April 20 he transferred the money. Days later his bank informed him that the company he sent the money to was fake, as they had received complaints from other clients.“My bank told me that they have frozen the account of where the money was sent, but to return my money they need an FIR in English. I also checked the fraudulent website again and found it on the sixth search page with several people complaining against it,” said the complainant.Laxman Dumbre, senior police inspector of Borivli police station did not respond to our calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bizman-tries-to-buy-n95-masks-loses-12-29-lakh-to-phishing/story-Pdk6ZKw1Pun8LoDHiTrlnJ.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||HC dismisses plea seeking door-to-door screening for Covid-19||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by right to information (RTI) activist Anil Galgali seeking directions to the authorities to conduct door-to-door screening of citizens to curb the spread of Covid-19. Though the activist cited the successful implementation of the same in Bhilwara district, Rajasthan, and Worli Koliwada in Mumbai, the bench held that it was practically impossible to screen all citizens in the city, and hence, could not allow the petition. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayed, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Galgali through advocates Arvind Tiwari, Devendra Shah, and Atal Bihari Dubey, was informed that the spread of Covid-19 in the city has continued unabated despite efforts by the authorities to restrict it. In light of this, it was necessary to conduct door-to-door screenings of citizens of Mumbai.The state opposed the same, stating that it was not possible to replicate the Bhilwara model due to the magnitude of the population in the city. After hearing the submissions, while appreciating the petitioner’s approach, the court said it was not inclined to give directions for door-to-door screening in Mumbai as the population of Mumbai could not be compared to Bhilwara and it was practically impossible to carry out the suggested screening.“The PIL petition lacks particulars of the population in Bhilwara. It does not even refer to any feature in Bhilwara that is identical or has close resemblance with Mumbai. Having regard to the testing times arising out of the pandemic, resources may be scarce for such door to door testing,” said chief justice Datta. “Even otherwise, no guidelines and/or advisory of the World Health Organization or the Indian Council of Medical Research have been brought to our notice, which requires the official respondents to carry out door-to-door testing of the residents,” he added.The court rejected the plea, stating that the PIL petition is “misconceived and is liable to be dismissed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-door-to-door-screening-for-covid-19/story-yVUVLvgRoZVV1MK4BaWYzL.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government allows porting of ration cards: State to HC||The state government informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that it has entered into a deal with 11 states, allowing migrants to port their ration cards issued by their respective states rather than getting a new ration card in Maharashtra. The government, however, said that it could not give rations to wandering tribals as they do not have ration cards.The affidavit filed by the state was in response to a petition filed by social activist Vanita Chavan from Pune to provide rations to wandering tribals during the lockdown period. The state said the petition could not be fulfilled as there was a system in place for the distribution of food grain and oil under the ration system. To avail of the same, an individual has to have a ration card issued by the local ration office or any other ration office.“As the wandering tribals do not have ration cards, during the lockdown the state is providing cooked meals for migrants, homeless and needy at specified food camps in each district, which the tribals can benefit from,” said assistant government pleader Bhupesh Samant. Samant further informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice AA Sayed that the state of Maharashtra was implementing the National Food Security Act diligently. The Act stipulates that anyone holding a valid ration card is eligible to get rations. Samant said that the state had entered into an agreement with 11 states which allowed people from these states living in Maharashtra to get rations based on ration cards issued to them by their respective states.After hearing the submissions, the bench directed the petitioner to file her rejoinder to the affidavit of the state and posted the matter for hearing on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-allows-porting-of-ration-cards-state-to-hc/story-AkeyKsuyB1pj1hgd8n9rLN.html
12-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: 3 inmates’ jailbreak bid goes awry as 1 suffers injury||A jailbreak attempt by three inmates at the Ludhiana central jail went awry when one of them suffered injuries while scaling the wall on late Monday night. Some tobacco packets, believed to have been thrown by their aides, were recovered from the spot. The inmates have been identified as Harpreet Singh, who was injured, Ramandeep Singh and Charanjit Singh, all facing trial in drug peddling cases. Ludhiana central jail superintendent Rajiv Arora, however, maintained that the three inmates were not trying to escape and instead were going to pick the tobacco packets thrown inside the compound wall by their aides.However, sources said that some jail guards had clearly seen them trying to scale the wall. The jail authorities have now written to the police to lodge an FIR against the three inmates. They have also recovered a phone from Ramandeep’s possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-3-inmates-jailbreak-bid-goes-awry-as-1-suffers-injury/story-BEHesGaKUX7gUJht7LS8bN.html
12-05-2020||City||1,250 J&K residents evacuated from Uttarakhand; 37,147 enter UT through Lakhanpur to date||As a result of concerted efforts of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, 1250 residents, stuck in remote areas of Uttarakhand due to Covid-19 lockdown, have been evacuated in the last four days, even as a total 37,147 people entered the Union territory through Lakhanpur, till date.The first train with 992 stranded persons arrived at Udhampur from Bengaluru on Tuesday morning, which will be followed by another train from Goa.As per data received from the administration nodal office for migrant workers, students and other persons, there are around 2,000 workers stranded in Uttarakhand and over 50% of them were evacuated in the last four days.It includes evacuation from remote areas of Uttarakhand viz Dhanaulti, Nainital, Pithoragarh, Chamoli, Uttarkashi, Pauri, Champawat, Rudrayaprag Bhageshwar, Tehri, Garwal, Partapgarh, Bardkot, Dharchula, Almora and Munshiyari etc.Giving details, the UT control room officer said that as per their records, about 251 workers were stranded in Almora and a total of 258 workers were evacuated.“On Monday, 12 vehicles carrying 226 persons moved out of Uttarakhand for Jammu and Kashmir. A total of 1,250 persons have been evacuated in the last four days from different remote districts of the Uttarakhand state,” he added.The returnees mainly belong to Poonch, Reasi, Doda, Anantnag and Baramulla of Jammu and Kashmir, the official said.Meanwhile, of 37,147 returnees till Tuesday morning coming via Lakhanpur include 10,301 from Punjab; 18,095 from Himachal Pradesh, 6,515 from other states and UTs including Delhi, Gujrat, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Odhisa, Assam, Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-250-j-k-residents-evacuated-from-uttarakhand-37-147-enter-ut-through-lakhanpur-to-date/story-8ic7nIhJFfCPyvzQDWl4MK.html
12-05-2020||City||J&K crosses 900 mark with 55 fresh Covid-19 infections||Jammu and Kashmir witnessed the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases on Tuesday as fifty-five more people tested positive, taking the tally to 934, officials said.Of the fresh infections, 42 were reported from Kashmir division—Kulgam, Kupwara, Anantnag, Shopian and Baramulla districts—where the tally has risen to 844 and 13 people have tested positive in Kathua, Samba and Reasi districts. Kulgam in south Kashmir recorded a jump of 27 cases while 10 more people got infected in Kupwara.Officials said 28 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in Kashmir division. So far, 400 in Kashmir and 55 in Jammu division have recovered from the disease.At SKIMS Medical College Bemina in Srinagar, an 83-year-old woman was among the 124 recovered patients so far. “Total recoveries from infection so far are 124, including an 83-year-old female patient,” said Javaid Malik, head of chest medicine SKIMS Medical College.Now, active cases in the Valley stand at 435 and 34 are in Jammu. Till date, 98,083 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance— 24,285 in home quarantine, 153 in hospital quarantine and 10,830 under home surveillance. Besides, 62,336 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.A government advisory has also cautioned the public that drinking methanol, ethanol or bleach does not prevent or cure COVID-19 and can be extremely dangerous. “Methanol, ethanol, and bleach are poisons and drinking them can lead to disability and death. They are sometimes used in cleaning products to kill the virus on surfaces. However, one should never drink them. They will not kill the virus in your body but will harm your internal organs,” the advisory stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-crosses-900-mark-with-55-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-2fue82bqU7YHNW2NAXSEPJ.html
12-05-2020||City||Labourer dies in Ambala hit-and-run, companion injured||A migrant labourer from Bihar’s Purnia was killed and his companion Pinku injured on Tuesday when a Toyota Innova hit them on the Ambala-Saha National Highway 444A that connects the district with Yamunanagar and sped away. Both were daily wagers living in Ambala, police said.The incident occurred when four labourers were walking towards a village looking for work. In an FIR lodged with the Mahesh Nagar police station, one of the labourers, Vinod Mandal, said they were from one village in Bihar and living in Ambala. All of them were walking towards Khuda Khurd village for work at around 7 am when a speeding car coming from the direction of the Cantonment hit Ashok and Pinku, killing the former on the spot.Pinku, who received severe injuries, was taken to the civil hospital by a passer-by, from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. The driver of the Toyota Innova drove away after the accident, Mandal said.Gurdev Singh, the police officer investigating the case, said Ashok was in his early 40s and had a son back home. Pinku was in his late thirties.“We have lodged an FIR under sections 279, 337 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Mahesh Nagar police station and are investigating the case with car details provided by the complainant,” he said. Superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal confirmed that the men were daily wagers in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bihari-labourer-living-in-ambala-dies-in-hit-and-run-companion-injured/story-am3fXjhiZpZQvBKzKWagDM.html
12-05-2020||Football||Mohun Bagan players want dues to be cleared at earliest, club says wait till restrictions are lifted||Star-studded Mohun Bagan’s I-League-winning players have threatened to approach the All India Football Federation if their dues, withheld owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, are not cleared at the earliest.Unable to pay salaries to their players, including foreign recruits, Indian club football heavyweights Mohun Bagan have asked them to wait till the restrictions imposed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic are lifted.The club has not been able to pay its domestic players last three months’ salaries while the foreigners have gone unpaid for two months.The I-League championship incentive, too, is yet to be given.“We will pay their entire salary, we have asked them to wait as the payments are affected by the lockdown,” Mohun Bagan general secretary Srinjoy Bose told PTI.The club’s top official responded after the players wrote to the management, requesting them to clear the dues or pay at least a month’s salary by May 15.The players had sought a deadline by which time the officials will clear their dues in full, including performance bonuses, or they will seek the AIFF’s intervention.“We have written to them saying there is cost-cutting across the world. But we are not saying that we would cut their salary too.“Some of our sponsors based in Mumbai and Delhi have not been able to operate so the salary is affected.“We just managed to pay one month’s salary to the foreigners by borrowing money from another source. All the payments would be cleared once the lockdown is eased.”The pandemic has impacted every sphere of life across the world, including bringing all sporting activities to a grinding halt.“As for the incentive, we will pay it from the prize money and it will come later only,” Bose said.The nationwide lockdown has also affected Mohun Bagan’s merger with ATK, who have acquired a majority stake of 80 per cent in the 131-year-old club.The new merged outfit was slated for a June 1 launch.“We will have to wait. There has been no development so far and everything is delayed now,” he concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/football/mohun-bagan-players-want-dues-to-be-cleared-at-earliest-club-says-wait-till-restrictions-are-lifted/story-jz8tmSqYNrt9erTSoHsiHJ.html
12-05-2020||City||Bus ferrying migrants to UP overturns near Khanna, 10 hurt||It was a double whammy for around 50 migrants, eager to get back home, as the passenger bus ferrying them from Jammu to Uttar Pradesh overturned after hitting a divider near Libra village in Khanna in the wee hours of Tuesday. Ten labourers received minor injuries in the incident and were rushed to the Khanna civil hospital for treatment. The bus driver fled the spot after the incident but the police managed to arrest him later in the afternoon. The accused was identified as Rajinder Yadav of Rudarpur, Uttrakhand. He told the police that he fell asleep and rammed the vehicle into the divider.Sadar station house officer inspector Jaspal Singh said the bus did not have a permit and at least 50 passengers were on the 52-seater bus, which means social distancing norms were not being followed. The driver told the police that he had ferried some passengers from Uttrakhand to Jammu and on his way back, he picked up these migrants.The labourers told the police that they were charged Rs 1000 each for the journey till Uttar Pradesh. The labourers, who belong to Bihar, were to take another transport from Uttar Pradesh to reach their native villages.Alok Yadav, a native of Uttar Pradesh, said that they had boarded the bus on Monday night. In early hours of Tuesday when they were all asleep, they felt sudden jolts and fell on each other. Realising that the bus had overturned, they started screaming for help. Some of them managed to jump out through the windows and get help. They were then taken to the hospital by the police. Two of them suffered fractures and were referred to the Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. The others have been sent to shelter homes for the time being. A case has been registered against the driver under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (endangering life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) , 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of Disaster Management act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bus-ferrying-migrants-to-up-overturn-near-khanna-10-hurt/story-R24MQaP759TC1156CJ599L.html
12-05-2020||City||Shramik special train brings back 992 J&K residents from Bengaluru||A special train from Bengaluru carrying 992 passengers reached Udhampur on Tuesday.The train reached Udhampur at 11 am after a delay of several hours and the passengers, including students and labourers, deboarded it as per the guidelines and moved to an identified holding area before being sent to their home districts in buses.The special train, which had left Chikkabanavara station in Bengaluru on Sunday afternoon, was the first passenger rail service in Jammu and Kashmir during the lockdown in effect since March 25.Shramik special trains were operationalised after a directive by the ministry of home affairs allowing the movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded in different places.Udhamur district commissioner Piyush Singla said, “The first train from Bengaluru carrying 992 passengers, including students and labourers reached Udhampur on Tuesday.”To make the entire process hassle-free various arrangements were put in place. There were 44 data entry operators, two each at a single bogie. The train had 22 bogies and each bogie carried around 40 passengers.Singla said that as soon as the train reached Udhampur, the details of passengers were entered by the data operators into an app transit management information system.The registration process took around 40 minutes.“All the returnees have to be tested for Covid-19 and undergo administrative quarantine without exception. Only if the tests come negative, can they be sent for home quarantine for 14 days,” said Singla.The Udhampur administration has created a fresh sample collection capacity of 1,000 per day for the train returnees.“In the entire process the norms of social distancing and other guidelines of the Centre and UT were strictly followed,” he added.Singla said another train with 728 passengers is to reach here from Goa on Tuesday.It may be stated here that inflow through trains was preceded by the regulated road transportation of the stranded persons via Lakhanpur and the airlifting of Kashmiri students from Bangladesh.As per a rough estimate, over one lakh J&K residents are stranded in different parts of the country.Special train from Delhi to Jammu on May 13, 14Jammu: The first run of the special train will start on 13 May from New Delhi and 14 May from Jammu Tawi. The special train will leave New Delhi at 9.10 pm and will reach Jammu Tawi the next day at 5.45 am. It will leave Jammu Tawi at 8.10 pm and reach New Delhi the next day at 5 am.Chetan Taneja, station director and senior divisional traffic manager of the railways, said, “A special train will run from New Delhi on May 13 and it will reach Jammu Tawi the next morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shramik-special-train-brings-back-992-j-k-residents-from-bengaluru/story-w2724gXhcSiBF0MLyqIaFP.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||PRTC incurs Rs 36 crore loss during lockdown, stares at financial crisis||The state-run Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has managed to survive a decade-long financial crisis but the ongoing lockdown has once again taken a toll on PRTC’s exchequer.The PRTC has faced revenue loss of around Rs 36 crore in the 42-day long lockdown so far. The average per day loss is pegged at around Rs 85 lakh. The PRTC only came back on track last year, both financially and institutionally, after it started recording operational profit for the first time in a decade.Just before the state government disbanded the public transport service in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic on March 20, the corporation recorded a daily income of Rs 1.40 crore. Its monthly income has been estimated to be around 42 crore.PRTC’s deputy controller (finance) Prem Chand said since the lockdown, the corporation had incurred an estimated loss of Rs 80 lakh per day.“The figure is calculated after deducting the operational cost (including maintenance and expenses on diesel) from the last generated per day income of Rs 1.40 crore,” he said.The deputy controller said since they had not generated any income for the last 40 days, they had struggled to meet committed expenses, amounting Rs 46 crore per month, during the lockdown. One of the officials, seeking anonymity, said the corporation had exhausted its savings and funds in paying salaries and pensions to its employees for the months of March and April. “The financial situation is so grim that the PRTC wil not be able to meet its committed liabilities in the coming months,” the official said. Meanwhile, PRTC chairperson KK Sharma said the current period could be termed as ‘golden era’ of the PRTC, but there were some tough days ahead for the corporation due to the coronavirus pandemic. “We will chalk out a strategy once the situation has normalised. It will be a huge challenge to bring PRTC’s finances back to where they were before the lockdown,” he said. Sharma said, at present, they were helping the government with logistics. In the past two years, besides tapping an increase in daily receipt and monopoly routes, image-building had helped the corporation generate a sizeable profit.For the first time, in past one decade, the PRTC was running its full fleet of 1,073 buses under its nine depots –Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Chandigarh, Patiala, Bathinda, Budhlada, Barnala, Faridkot and Sangrur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prtc-incurs-rs-36-crore-loss-during-lockdown-stares-at-financial-crisis/story-Ejfr6uKjeGQWOMixYZ7T8O.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Lockdown notwithstanding, Over 2,000 attend last rites of BJP leader||Defying lockdown, a crowd of over 2,000 people, including ministers, MPs and MLAs, attended the last rites of BJP leader Upendra Datt Shukla at Badhalganj’s Mukti Path in Gorakhpur on Monday evening.An active BJP worker since early 80’s and party’s current state vice president, Shukla, 62, had died of cardiac arrest on Sunday noon at a private hospital.He had unsuccessfully contested 2018 Gorakhpur Lok Sabha by-poll.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had offered his condolence to Shukla on twitter.The crowd at the funeral of the BJP leader, however, was in sharp contrast to social distancing message given by the CM, who had chosen not to attend the last rite of his father Anand Singh Bisht last month.He had instead watched the live coverage of the cremation on TV.BJP MLA Radha Mohan Das Aggarwal, who was among the attendees, took to social media to slam violators “Minister Brijesh Pathak made repeated requests to people to maintain social distancing but nobody listened to him. There was no police force to control the situation. When the crowd turns frenzy it becomes tough to control it,” he said while revealing that he faced similar situation at the recent ‘Brahm bhoj’ of BJP leader when a local corporator misbehaved with him on the request of maintaining social distancing.“Huge crowd had turned up at the crematorium to pay last respect to Shukla whose body was draped in BJP flag. MPs, MLAs and ministers arrived in cars from as far as Azamgarh, Mau and Varanasi. Some were not even wearing masks,” said an attendee, not willing to be named.Barhalganj SHO, Ram Agya Singh, said “It is not so that the police did not try to enforce social distancing. On our request, many went back from the site while other stayed.”As per lockdown guidelines, a limited gathering of 20-25 people is allowed at the funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lockdown-notwithstanding-over-2-000-attend-last-rites-of-bjp-leader/story-clSJPqLUcWTEs0LbUSuxgM.html
12-05-2020||City||Chamba Covid patient, who infected four others, booked for attempt to murder||Police on Tuesday booked a Covid patient in Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh for infecting four others, including his two-year-old daughter, with the virus because of his negligence.He has been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, director-general of police SR Mardi said.The man works as a driver and had returned home from Baddi town after which he tested positive for Covid-19 on May 6.Mardi said he disregarded social distancing norms resulting in his two-year-old daughter, who also suffers from a heart ailment, getting infected. He also jumped home quarantine and met three of his friends over drinks. His friends were also tested positive for the virus on May 10.“They not only drank together but also shared cigarettes,” he added. Mardi also warned those who were jumping quarantine stating that they will be booked under stringent laws. He said a Covid patient from Hamirpur had called a barber at home to get a haircut. Later, the barbers also gave a haircut to others in the village and he has also been booked.Another incident was reported from Hamirpur wherein a Ahmedabad returnee jumped quarantine to fetch liquor. “The man’s wife lodged a complaint against him after which he was sent to institutional quarantine,” Mardi said.The DGP said people must realise that a day will come when the disease will be contained but will have to return time and again for court hearings of cases registered against them for jumping quarantine.He expressed gratitude to those who were religiously following the quarantine and social distancing norms. Citing an example, Mardi said a man from Jogindernagar of Mandi district who returned from Jaisalmer was living in quarantine by pitching a tent in the fields away from his home. He exhorted people to share photos and details of those jumping quarantine on police’s WhatsApp number 94591-00100.The DGP said a head constable posted at Panchrukhi police station in Kangra district was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. “It is first of its kind case in Himachal. The Covid cases have increased after people started returning home from outside the state.” He said as per government order, those coming to Himachal from red zones will have to remain under mandatory institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chamba-covid-patient-who-infected-four-others-booked-for-attempt-to-murder/story-SfZnMo3sOsZC88RFzWeukI.html
12-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 68 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 4,000-mark||With 68 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, Rajasthan’s tally climbed to 4,056. The state also recorded two deaths from the coronavirus disease, taking the total number of fatalities to 115.Udaipur continued to be a hotspot with 32 more cases reported. The total cases in Udaipur now stand at 214.There were 22 cases in Jaipur, two were reported from Jhunjhunu and five from Kota.SIkar reported two cases while Churu, Ajmer, Pali, Hanumangarh and Chittorgarh reported one case eachRohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department, said the two deaths were reported from Bikaner and Jalore.He said a 45-year-old male from Bhadwal village of Jalore district was brought dead to the Jodhpur’s MDM hospital on May 11. This was the first Covid-related death in Jalore district.In Bikaner, a 37-year-old woman who was found positive on May 10, was admitted to PBM hospital and died on May 11. She was suffering from chronic kidney disease, said Singh.The total number of recovered persons in the state stands at 2,378 while the total active cases in the state are 1,563. The total samples taken in the state are 1,84,853.Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma said that the state government has appointed 9,000 nursing staff and is trying to assess and address problems being faced by nursing staff.Sharma extended wishes and greetings to all nursing staff on the occasion of International Nurses Day. He said nursing staff around the world are acting as a bridge between doctors and patients during the corona pandemic and working with commitment to serve patients.He said over 50,000 nursing staff are employed in the state but still there is a shortage of staff. He said the state government has tried to fill vacant posts of nursing staff. “We have removed the obstacles in the appointment of nursing staff and appointed 9000 staff. This was a long-pending demand that we have fulfilled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-68-new-covid-19-cases-tally-goes-past-4-000-mark/story-8MfEmLX6QH2GBeLdO9ji1H.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||1.4 lakh candidates clear UP asst teachers’ recruitment exam||The results of 69,000 assistant teachers’ recruitment test held in January last year was announced by Exam Regulatory Authority, UP on Tuesday. The results will be uploaded on http://atrexam.upsdc.gov.in/ on Wednesday, an official said.The result was declared after a formal meeting of the examination committee held at the office of Exam Regulatory Authority earlier in the day.Secretary, Exam Regulatory Authority, UP, Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi said, “A total of 1.46 lakh candidates, amounting to 3.66 per cent, have been declared as qualified. Around 4.31 lakh candidates had registered for the recruitment exam and out of which nearly 4.09 lakh candidates had appeared in the test held on January 6, 2019.”The qualified candidates included 36,614 of general category, 84,868 of other backward class category, 24,308 belonging to Scheduled Caste and 270 candidates from Scheduled Tribe category, he added.If the training course background of the qualified candidates is taken into account, 38,618 of the qualified candidates have diploma in elementary education (DElEd), 97,368 are BEd qualified while 8018 are shikshamitras. A total of 2064 candidates have done other qualifying courses as approved by National Council for Teacher Education.The secretary, Exam Regulatory Authority, UP, said that the CD containing the result had been sent to Lucknow from where it will be uploaded online by NIC and made available for candidates on Wednesday.Last week, Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court had upheld revised cut-off of 60% for reserved category and 65% for general category candidates.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath later directed basic education department officials to complete the process of declaring the results. The government order for the said vacant posts was issued on December 1, 2018 while the post was advertised on December 6, 2018.A day after the examination on January 7, 2019 the passing criteria was revised making 65% (97 out of 150 marks) for general candidates and 60% (90 out of 150 marks) for reserved category candidates. Shikshamitras’ (para teachers) had then filed a petition in high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/1-4-lakh-candidates-clear-up-asst-teachers-recruitment-exam/story-WYXcIZNpuRvvm1dq9GFpeK.html
12-05-2020||City||Panchayati Raj representatives playing key role in fight against Covid-19: Jai Ram||Panchayati Raj representatives are playing a key role in the state’s fight against Covid-19, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Tuesday.He was addressing the members of Zila Parishad, Block Development Council (BDC) and panchayat pradhans of Hamirpur and Una districts through video conferencing.The CM said these representatives are sensitising people about isolation and social distancing and monitoring those home quarantined. “In last few days, more than one lakh Himachalis stranded in various parts of the country have returned to the state and 55,000 were to come soon. Since many of them were coming from red or orange zones it is essential to ensure their proper medical checkups and that they follow the home quarantine norms,” Thakur said.He said a ‘Nigah’ programme has been launched to keep watch on people coming from other states. “Panchayat pradhans must ensure that they keep vigil on people arriving in their areas. They along with ASHA workers and health staff should visit the houses of such persons before their arrival to educate the families about social distancing,” he said.The CM also appreciated efforts of panchayat functionaries in motivating people to download ‘Aarogya Setu App’ and distribution of masks and ration to poor. He also urged them to ensure proper sanitisation of their panchayats to check outbreak of diseases.Thakur said they should also educate people not to stigmatise the Covid-19 patients. “Our fight is against the virus and not the infected person,” he said.“All panchayat pradhans must help families who have limited accommodation to ensure proper social distancing by providing them isolated accommodation in community centres, panchayat ghar and mahila mandal bhawans,” the CM said.He said proper vigil should be kept on these persons to ensure that they do not jump from home quarantine. “If a person is found not following the home quarantine norms, the matter should be brought before the district administration so that he can be kept under institutional quarantine,” he added.The CM said elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institutions must also come forward to start various developmental activities in their respective panchayats. He said work under MNREGA should be expedited but at the same time it must be ensured that proper social distancing norms were followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchayati-raj-representatives-playing-key-role-in-fight-against-covid-19-jai-ram/story-EEjhIUZLJEcWEMEyKbNuJO.html
12-05-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand invites suggestions for reviving tourism sector post Covid-19 lockdown||The Uttarakhand government is working on a strategy to revive tourism, which is one of the major revenue-earning sectors of the Himalayan state, post lockdown. The state annually attracts over 3.5 crore tourists and pilgrims.The state tourism department has invited suggestions from hoteliers and resort owners on measures that could be taken to revive the industry, officials said on Tuesday. On Monday during the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had spoken about the effect of the coronavirus pandemic on the tourism industry in the state. He had requested the PM to allow gradual restart of tourism by allowing it in certain areas of the green zones.Elaborating on this, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “The government is definitely working on how to revive tourism as it is time the bread and butter sector for us. We are working on certain plans on how to do it in phases, especially in the green zone areas after the lockdown is lifted.”Maharaj said, “We have involved the people directly associated in the industry, like hotel and resort owners, by inviting suggestions from them. We have already received some suggestions which we are contemplating while chalking out our strategy.”The government has already said that it is planning to issue sanitisation certificates to hotels on the lines of Singapore to assure the guests that the hotel is sanitised and poses no health safety risk for them. “I have requested the chief minister to open the temples in green zones areas which will help in bringing daily life back on track,” said Maharaj. Earlier on Monday evening, state tourism department secretary Dilip Jawalkar , during a meeting with district tourism development officers to discuss the issue, said, “Department is planning to give some relaxations to hoteliers and resort owners considering the losses due to the pandemic.”“We may give concessions in the payment of bills for power and water to them for the lockdown period as the businesses have been totally shut down. We are also focussing on effective implementation of the state’s Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali Self-employment scheme to revive the tourism sector,” said Jawalkar. Though the Uttarakhand government is working on plans to revive tourism in state but people involved in the industry believe there will be “no business for at least next six months.”Surendra Pal, general secretary, Corbett hotel and resort association said, “Despite all the revival efforts, we can see no business for next few months, till at least September.”Pal said, “The hotel and resort industry which has been majorly affected by the pandemic will have to go under an overhaul for new infrastructure and training of staff to adhere with sanitisation measures as an effect of this pandemic. It will take time and resources and won’t be an easy task.”Pal, who is also a member of Uttaranchal hotel association, however, said, “We will not bow down and prepare accordingly to revive the industry as this is our livelihood and of all other people related to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-invites-suggestions-for-reviving-tourism-sector-post-covid-19-lockdown/story-Ici1lKotHHsWaLGnKeo4BK.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Growing Covid-19 cases among supply chain people a big worry in Meerut||District health officials are worried over the growing corona cases among those associated with supply chain of essential items in Meerut.The health officials claim that at least 64 of the total 260 Covid-19 cases in the district are of those associated with supply chain and their numbers are still rising. The infected people are mainly fruit and vegetable vendors, grocery shop owners and those working in dairies and medicine shops. The first corona case among supply chain people was of a fruit vendor in Naveen Mandi of T P Nagar area in first week of May. He later died during treatment in a Delhi hospital.District surveillance officer Dr Vishwas Choudhary admitted that infection in people associated with supply chain is a matter of great concern. Citing example of positive cases in Ravindrapuri of Sadar area here, he said “Twenty-two members of a family got infected after coming in contact with the fruit seller who later died during treatment.” Moe than two dozen Covid-19 cases have been detected in Ravindrapuri alone so far. Dr Chowdhary said pool tests were conducted in Mandi and many vendors, shopkeepers and those who came in their contacts had tested positive and their numbers were still growing. A vegetable vendor in Hastinapur and an employee in a medical shop in Daurala area were also found positive along with a constable of Lisari gate police station on Monday. “We are keeping a close watch on testing of samples those associated with supply chain and making them aware of following social distancing and also asking them to use masks at their workplace,” Dr Choudhary said. Taking note of the situation, the district administration has shifted retail vegetable market to two locations on the outskirts of the city where shopkeepers are observing social distancing. Shopkeepers and vendors have also been asked to frequently use sanitiser, wear masks and follow other lockdown norms to protect themselves from the deadly virus. So far, 14 people have died of corona in the district. Dr Tanuraj Sirohi, former president, Indian Medical Association’s Meerut unit, said tracing contacts of people in supply chain was a tedious task because they dealt with a number of people everyday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/growing-covid-19-cases-among-supply-chain-people-a-big-worry-in-meerut/story-I1jVsCbJFyPORaiHtM8GXL.html
12-05-2020||City||CPI (M) demands probe into MP man’s death at Bilaspur quarantine centre||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) here on Tuesday demanded inquiry into the death of a 26-year-old Madhya Pradesh resident who was quarantined at Swarghat in Bilaspur district.The party alleged that he was not given timely treatment after his health deteriorated at the quarantine centre, and his body was not kept at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH), Shimla, as per the rules. They have asked for stern action against those responsible for the alleged negligence.CPI (M) leader Sanjay Chauhan said that as per information, the victim had sustained injuries after he fell in the quarantine centre. “His life could have been saved had he been rushed to the hospital on time,” Chauhan said.“This incident shows that the quarantine facilities set up by the state government are not up to the mark and hospitals and health institutions are not ready to deal with Covid-19 and other diseases,” the CPI (M) leader said.Stating that Bilaspur didn’t have ample facilities for the MP man’s treatment, Chauhan asked, “Why was he referred to IGMCH only after his condition deteriorated and not before. He was treated inhumanely at IGMCH.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cpi-m-demands-probe-into-mp-man-s-death-at-bilaspur-quarantine-centre/story-iPlzqRCtBz6X3bcbmu2muI.html
12-05-2020||City||Himachal governor honours nurses for their role in fight against Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatraya honoured the nurses at Raj Bhavan on International Nurses Day celebrated each year on May 12.He said that the efforts and dedication put forward by nurses during the Covid-19 pandemic is impeccable. He said that it is important to salute the contribution of nurses on the International Nurses Day as this year is also being celebrated as the ‘International Nurses Year’On the occasion, he said that nurses are making a huge contribution to society during the Corona pandemic. He thanked nurses for putting patients first, no matter how gruelling the day may be. “Remembering the sacrifice and dedication of Florence Nightingale, we thank all corona warriors in their fight against Covid-19,” the governor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-governor-honours-nurses-for-their-role-in-fight-against-covid-19/story-uhjd9Xw3VBBnTExs71YCjO.html
12-05-2020||Latest||Stumper Wriddhiman Saha shares wicket-keeping drills on social media||He is one of the best wicket-keepers in the business. His glovework behind the stumps has often drawn praise from skipper Virat Kohli and although Wriddhiman Saha was not part of India’s playing XI in two Tests in New Zealand, the 35-year old is still very much in India’s plans in the Test set-up. With the country under lockdown for nearly 50 days now to curb the threat of COVID-19 pandemic, cricketers are at home doing their workout and keeping themselves ready for the sport to resume. Saha is also sharpening his wicketkeeping skills and the Bengal stumper shared a video of his drills on his Twitter handle.Saha thanked India fielding coach R. Sridhar for his nomination and shared a 45-second video where he is seen throwing two balls against a wall and taking low catches.Also read: Mumbai Indians beat Chennai Super Kings in thriller to become most successful IPL team“Thank You @coach_rsridhar for the nomination. Here are some of my wicketkeeping drills which I am practicing from home,” Saha said in his tweet. Saha was back in the mix after nursing a finger injury which he picked up during the pink-ball Test against Bangladesh last November. Young stumper Rishabh Pant replaced him in New Zealand for the two Tests. Saha recently told IANS he does tell his younger colleague on how to get better behind the stumps. In fact, Saha had made it clear that there is no rivalry and the pair get along very well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cricket/stumper-wriddhiman-saha-shares-wicket-keeping-drills-on-social-media/story-q2t0fesEyJwuIQOgksKSGN.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Fire in Ulhasnagar building lying empty since lockdown doused in 2 hrs||Two floors of a commercial building in Maharashtra’s Ulhasnagar caught fire on Tuesday morning. However, no casualties were reported as the building was empty due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19. The blaze occurred at around 9:45 am in the two top floors of the six-storey building that belongs to Kumar Infra India Limited, located near Chopda Court in the city. The fire brigade reached the spot around 10 am with four water tankers. One water tanker each was later sent by Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation and Century Rayon.“The fire was caught around 9:45 am, we reached the spot around 10am and took almost two hours to douse the fire. The fifth and sixth floor of the building had to be cooled down completely for half an hour after the fire was doused. The reason for the fire is not clear. However, the building has remained shut for a long time now,” said Sandip Asekar, Sub Officer, Fire Department, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation. Although some parts of the structure had a glass façade, fire officials said they did not find it very difficult to douse the fire nor did they experience suffocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-in-ulhasnagar-building-lying-empty-since-lockdown-doused-in-2-hrs/story-CxIQ2JO6UqAEoyv1FJMG6K.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||39-year old HIV-positive male with TB dies in Amritsar after contracting Covid-19||A 39-year-old male patient with Covid-19, who had also been diagnosed with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis, died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, on Tuesday.“The man, a resident of Ramanand Bagh in the city, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was extremely sick when he was admitted to the GMCH isolation ward on Saturday”, said Dr Raman Sharma, medical superintendent (MS) of the hospital.The patient was put on ventilator but “due to low immunity and co-morbidities, he succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday at around 7.30 am. His body has been packed in personal protection equipment (PPE) kit and will be cremated as per government’s guidelines,” Dr Sharma said.This is the fourth Covid-19 death in Amritsar district, which has so far reported 296 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/39-year-old-hiv-positive-male-with-tb-dies-in-amritsar-after-contracting-covid-19/story-QDgR2tAkbu082rOIL2DL4K.html
12-05-2020||Education||PG medical admissions: Students in Maharashtra have time till May 18 to surrender AIQ seat||Admissions to post- graduate medical seats has already begun but ahead of the release of the first seat allocation list in the state, the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) on Tuesday shared a welcome news with students. While PG medical aspirants in Maharashtra were worried about having to surrender their all India quota (AIQ) seat even before being assured of the release of the state seat allocation list, the MCC on Tuesday afternoon clarified that students now have time till May 18 to surrender their seats. The AIQ seats is 15% of the total seats in each state and students from outside a particular state can apply for these places.“Keeping in view that many state counselling have been delayed/not completed in schedule time due to Covid-19 outbreak, it has been decided that students who were allotted a college in round one (of AIQ) to resign from their allotted seats by 5pm on May 18,” stated a circular released by MCC. The original date for surrendering seats was May 12, 5pm.As per rules, PG medical aspirants who have already bagged a seat through the AIQ) have a choice to either stick to the institute already allotted through AIQ, or release the seat in the hope of a seat in another institute under the state quota closer home. At present, the status of the first list by the state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell is uncertain because CET cell authorities are still reworking the seat matrix, said an official.“As per law, the AIQ seats are allocated first and if students want to be eligible for state quota seat, they have to surrender their AIQ seat. Anyone would prefer a seat in one of the top Institutes in Maharashtra but the uncertainty of the first CET list is unnerving,” said Rishabh Jain, a PG medical aspirant from Mumbai. In a circular released late in the third week of April, the state CET cell had requested state medical and dental institutes to share contact details of staff handling admissions and also make arrangements for a payment portal online so that students can pay the fees and confirm admissions once the seat allotment list is released on April 24, after 6pm. This process was held by the Bombay high court following a petition that highlighted discrepancies in quota allocation of seats.“Once the seat matrix is ready, we will release a seat allocation list and students will have the option of competing the admission process online this time, appropriate provisions have been made accordingly,” added the CET cell official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/pg-medical-admissions-students-in-maharashtra-have-time-till-may-18-to-surrender-aiq-seat/story-0PjmfxA9N7uTezNVXDxrzO.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown came as a blessing in disguise for Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in 29-year-old abduction and torture case||Former Punjab Police chief DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was on Monday granted anticipatory bail in a 29-year-old case related to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer at the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (Citco), but not before the court questioned the timing of the first information report (FIR) against him and six other cops.All seven were booked after 29 years of the incident at Mataur police station in Mohali district.“The timing chosen by the complainant to appear at this time of high distress raises a serious doubt in the mind of this court,” additional district and sessions judge Monika Goyal said in the order.“The whole police force is involved in managing the Covid-19 outbreak. There are so many things to handle such as the patients, persons stranded in other states and migrant labourers leaving Punjab, but despite being busy, Punjab has hastily registered an FIR in a 29-year-old case when the matter has even once attained finality by orders of the Supreme Court,” reads the order.“Covid-19 has brought the strongest nations to their knees, but present complainant Palwinder Singh Multani, who has fear of life and safety of his family since 1991, has chosen this time to come out and lodge the FIR, when prior to this, he had not taken any step in regard with disappearance of his brother,” read the 33-page order of the court.The court said, “The Supreme Court and high court are trying their best to de-congest the jails due to Covid-19. The purpose of investigation will suffice if Saini is directed to join investigation and to cooperate properly. Thus, the present is a fit case where he is entitled to anticipatory bail.”RESTRAINED FROM LEAVING HOUSEReferring to the argument that former DGP Saini tried to flee from Chandigarh to evade his arrest during the curfew, the court said, “It is not believable that Saini had travelled from Chandigarh up to the Himachal border without being intercepted anywhere by Punjab Police.”The court said that the allegations made are only based on news reports but “still in order to restrain the applicant from leaving his place of residence, adequate conditions need to be imposed.”SAINI GOT PROTECTION FROM HC Fearing his false implication in criminal cases, Saini had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court for protection. “In October 2018, the high court had given him protection from any arrest in cases pertaining to incidents of the period when he held the posts of state vigilance head, inspector general of police, intelligence, Punjab, and director general of police, Punjab, by giving him prior notice of one week,” said Saini’s counsel.“The prosecution is trying to take the benefit of this fact as this case pertains to the tenure of Saini as SSP, Chandigarh, 29 years ago,” the court observed.WHY CASE AT MOHALI?“It is alleged that his escape has been shown only to cover up the custodial death, but still the offence alleged is committed either at Chandigarh or at Qadian. Thus, it is not understandable as to how the present case has been lodged at Mataur police station (in Mohali),” the court questioned.The case registered in Mataur was based on the disclosures made by Gurmeet Singh alias Pinki in Outlook magazine in 2015, through which complainant Palwinder Singh Multani said that he came to know about the details of torture meted out to his brother and his subsequent elimination.“The complainant had not taken any action till May 6, 2020, specially when Saini had already retired in June 2018. Thus, no explanation is coming as to why the present complainant had kept mum for such a long time,” the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-came-as-a-blessing-in-disguise-for-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-in-29-year-old-abduction-and-torture-case/story-N6viuyfxaPNxl5E5x5SLFM.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||A thrifty idea: Will flea market shopping change post lockdown?||Flea markets like Kamla Nagar and Sarojini Nagar, are always buzzing with people looking for best steals at throwaway prices, even on week days. Shopping at markets, where social distancing seems to be impossible, will never be the same again for any of us. From cheap clothing to affordable accessories, the trend of street style shopping in these markets, will be changed drastically post lockdown.Badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, market associations have been chalking out strategies to reopen after the lockdown while maintaining safety.Naresh Chawla, a member of Kamla Nagar Market association, says, “As retailers, we have to make sure that our market and the shops are well sanitized. Sanitization is the top priority for us, especially in a market like Kamla Nagar. We are planning on appointing guards as well to avoid the rush in the market and maintain some discipline. Businesses will not start before July, because it will take time for customers to get to the streets for shopping. Even after that, we do not know if there will be a demand or not. We have plans on strictly maintaining social distancing in Kamla Nagar market, but the picture will be clear once we reopen and people start coming to the markets.”Echoing similar sentiments, Rajesh Chopra, member of the Sarojini Nagar market association, has planned on keeping masks at every shop and to give to those customers, who won’t be wearing a mask.“As of now, we have planned to make different entry and exits to the market. No shopkeeper will be allowed to sell products without a mask and gloves. We are working out on maintaining a distance between customers inside the shops. Hopefully, it will all be sorted once we reopen,” says Chopra.Emphasising on the need to bring back normalcy in the market, Chawla, says, “The biggest challenge any market will face will be the fear in the minds of people. The fear factor will hold back people from visiting markets. It will take at least 1-2 months to even bring back 50 percent normalcy. But then we have to open markets at some point in time.”Another hub for shoppers, Lajpat Nagar is also all set to reopen after the lockdown while taking all the precautions to maintain social distancing.Atul Batla, member of Lajpar Nagar Market association, says, “We will be following the government’s order to maintain social distancing once the lockdown is lifted. The markets will reopen keeping in mind all the guidelines. All precautions will be taken from the part of the shopkeepers. We will inform the customers also about the directives that we will be following and ask them to follow the same in order to maintain social distancing.Wherein, shoppers on the other hand feel that they are not ready to step into crowded lanes even after the lockdown is lifted.Sonakshi Madan, a DU student, says,“Mostly after college, I used to hang out at Kamla Nagar with my friends for some street shopping as everything is pretty cheap there. Visiting street markets again will take a long time now. I don’t even know if I am ready at all to step out of the house.”Another shopper and a resident of Karol Bagh, Harjeet Kaur feels that shifting to online options as will be safer.She says, “I am scared to even step out on the road. I don’t know, how long it will take for me to get back to street shopping. There are hundreds of people that visit one single shop, touch the products and there is always going to be a fear of getting the virus. Online shopping is the best bet. Though, it cannot be compared to the fun at street markets but then we cannot risk our lives by visiting crowded spaces.”Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-thrifty-idea-will-flea-market-shopping-change-post-lockdown/story-LfeYaQ19TXJRSypQ8MB3UO.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects pre-arrest bail pleas of DHFL’s Wadhawan brothers||Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected two separate anticipatory bail pleas each filed by Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL Group in the proceedings initiated against them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the Yes Bank scam and the purported diversion of funds from Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL).The Wadhawan brothers are accused of diverting about Rs 4122 crore from the General Provident Fund (GPF) and Central Provident Fund (CPF) deposits of UPPCL to their company. They are also accused of fraudulently diverting funds to the tune of Rs 12,700 crore from DHFL’s accounts to the firms or companies beneficially owned by them and further diverting the funds to other companies.The brothers are also named as accused in Yes Bank bribery case. It is alleged that former CEO of the bank, Rana Kapoor, had entered into a criminal conspiracy with the Wadhawans for extending financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for “substantial undue benefits” to himself and his family members through companies held by them.The Wadhawans moved the high court seeking anticipatory bail in both the cases after the special courts in Mumbai rejected their pre-arrest bail pleas on April 28. Their lawyers argued that all the documents concerned are seized and there was no need for their custodial interrogation.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for ED, had opposed their pleas contending that the amount of EPF cannot be invested in any other institution except scheduled commercial banks and despite this, more than 50% of the amount was invested in DHFL. Singh strenuously opposed the pre-arrest bail pleas saying their custodial interrogation was necessary to ascertain the money trail and the properties acquired by them from proceeds of the crime. He also pointed out that there are about 79 companies formed by Wadhawans and they have misappropriated thousands of crores.As regards the Yes Bank scam, the additional solicitor had argued that the bank had invested about Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL and the Wadhawans had in return paid about a sum of Rs 750 crore to the Rana family.“Thus, there was layering from both sides,” Singh said opposing their pleas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-pleas-of-dhfl-s-wadhawan-brothers/story-gri4lNMzJyEJTCmjiPijbP.html
12-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: 42 new cases in Karnataka, total infections crosses 900 mark||Total number of COVID-19 infections in Karnataka has breached 900 mark, with the state reporting 42 new corona positive cases, the health department said on Tuesday.Interestingly, Hassan that had not reported a single case so far, has confirmed five new infections.“42 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon.... Till date 904 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 31 deaths and 426 discharges,” the department said in its bulletin.Forty two new cases include- fifteen from Bagalkote, nine from Dharwad, five from Hassan, three from Bengaluru urban, two each from Dakshina Kannada, Yadgir and Bidar, and one each from Ballari, Chikkaballapura, Mandya and Kalaburagi.Among the cases, 25 are with travel history to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, six are with travel history to Mumbai in Maharashtra, seven are contacts of patients already tested positive, two are from containment zone in Bidar, one with history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and the others contact is under tracing.At least four out of these 42 cases are children. PTI KSU ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-42-new-cases-in-karnataka-total-infections-crosses-900-mark/story-aLX6dvaZkvcHziBPHlnmPM.html
12-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s recovery rate of Covid-19 patients above 58%: Health minister||Rajasthan’s recovery rate from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has gone up to over 58% and is almost double the national average, the state’s health minister Raghu Sharma said on Tuesday.The state’s tally of Covid-19 as of Tuesday stood at 4,035 and 2,362 people or 58.53% have recovered from the deadly disease, according to its health department. The number of deaths related to the coronavirus disease in the state is 115.The national recovery rate is 31.15%, that for Delhi is 32%, for Tamil Nadu is 28%, Gujarat is 33% and Maharashtra is 19%.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“Our rate of recovery is over 58%…Our growth in the number of positive cases is 2.35% while the national average is 3.92%,” Sharma said.The health minister said the doubling rate, or the estimated number of days it takes for cases to double, too is better in Rajasthan at 18 days while the national average is 12 days.Regarding the number of deaths, he said it is also below the national average. “Our mortality rate is 2.83% as against 3.3% national average,” he added.Sharma said plasma therapy has been started in Jaipur and Jodhpur and it will help bring down the mortality rate.Going by the data from the health department, the recovery rate has seen a jump in the last 15 days. On April 28, there were 2,364 Covid-19 cases and the number of recovered patients was 770 with a recovery rate of 32.5%.The number of active cases has also seen a fall. The health department data shows the number of active cases on April 21 was 1435. In the three weeks till May 12, these cases have increased to 1558 which is a slower rate of growth as compared to earlier.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed the bleak 70,000-mark on Tuesday morning as more than 3,600 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed.There were 46,008 active cases and 22,455 recoveries or migration along with 2293 fatalities across the country, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard at 8am, which took the number of cases to 70,756 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-s-recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-above-58-health-minister/story-E5yJ9RMRZ7yvOeNONA1EvK.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Should lockdown norms be eased?: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal seeks suggestions||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought suggestions from residents of the national capital about relaxing norms after May 17, when the nation-wide lockdown clamped to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is scheduled to end.The Aam Aadmi Party leader referred to Monday’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he has asked what states want to do. PM Modi, he said, has asked states to send them by May 15 and the Centre will take a decision on what to do after May 17 based on those ideas.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “I want to seek suggestions from the citizens of Delhi on what you think should be done after May 17. Should there be laxity in restrictions? If yes, how much should the norms be ease and in which sectors should be brought under this? “Should buses, Metro, auto-rickshaws and taxi be allowed to ply again? Should schools and markets be allowed to reopen? Should industrial areas restart? What should open and what should not?”People can phone in on 1031, send a WhatsApp message on 8800007722 or email at delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com to give ideas about what should be done, he said.Kejriwal said it goes beyond saying that social distancing norms will be implemented strictly and it will be mandatory for everyone to wear a mask. “We have to protect ourselves from corona and safeguard the economy’s health as well,” he said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Is if you could send your suggestions by 5pm tomorrow. I am seeking your suggestions and am talking to experts as well. This is not a voting but we need ideas about what you think about laxities,” he said.“We will make a proposal on behalf of the people of Delhi by day after tomorrow and send them to the Centre,” he added.The Centre will then decide on the steps to be taken after May 17, he said.Delhi has reported 13 deaths and 406 new Covid-19 cases in the 24 hours till midnight on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 7,639 and deaths to 86. There are 383 people who have recovered taking the number to 2512.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/should-lockdown-norms-be-eased-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-seeks-suggestions/story-a2tsUC2BRmrx8LgfWeNf1I.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Seven more test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, state tally reaches 66||Seven more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 66. Five cases have been reported from Kangra and two from Hamirpur. One of the three patients from Kangra is a 50-year-old honourary Himachal Police head constable. He was posted at Panchrukhi police station and has no travel history, deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said. The Panchrukhi Police station has been temporarily sealed. The second patient is a 40-year-old man from Kulthi village near Kangra town who returned from Jalandhar on May 10. The third patient, a 62-year-old from Paprola near Baijnath, who runs a tea shop near Palampur, tested positive at a flu clinic, Prajapati said. He, too, has no travel history.The fourth patient to test positive is a 33-year-old from Jamanabad village near Kangra town. He returned from Panchkula on April 30 on a scooter.Besides, a doctor posted at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda has also tested positive for the virus.Apart from it, two cases have been reported from Bajrol panchayat in Sujanpur sub-division of Hamirpur district. Two patients, 30-year-old and 50-year-old, had returned home from Delhi on April 30.Authorities in Kangra and Hamirpur have started mapping the patient’s contacts.With seven fresh cases, the number of active cases in the state has gone up to 25.Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a jump in Covid-19 cases with 26 cases being reported in nine days, including one fatality. The number of active cases has jumped from one to 25, in the corresponding period.The Covid-19 count in Kangra, the most populous district in the state, has gone up to 15, including one fatality. Currently, 10 cases are active in the district.So far, the state has recorded 66 cases, including two casualties.The first case was reported on March 20 in Kangra. Thirty-five people have recovered, so far.Una is the worst-hit district with a total of 17 cases followed by Kangra with 15 cases and Chamba 12 cases.Nine cases have been reported in Solan, six in Hamirpur, three in Mandi, and two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur. COVID POSITIVE PATIENT ROAMS FREE IN HOSPITALAuthorities were on the tenterhooks and patients panicked as a Covid-19 positive man was found roaming in Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda, on Tuesday.The man from Kulthi village near Kangra town returned home on May 10 and was asymptomatic. His sample was sent for testing on Monday and he was told to remain under home quarantine.However, on Tuesday the 40-year-old man jumped home quarantine and reached RPGMC to know the status of his Covid-19 test and was there for around two hours.He was confined after authorities came to know about him and the OPD was immediately suspended. OPD was resumed after the hospital campus was sanitized. Patients and their attendants present in the OPD were also sanitised.The patient is likely to be booked for jumping quarantine and putting others’ lives at risk.EARLY MORNING GOOF UP CAUSES PANICAn early morning goof up by the health authorities caused panic in Hamirpur district. District health officials declared three people from Galod area of the district positive. The news soon spread on online portals.However, the authorities later retracted the statement stating that the three samples were negative and were erroneously declared positive due to a mix up in communication. LAHAUL –SPITI BORDER SEALED The Lahaul-Spiti border was sealed after an increase in Covid-19 cases in Ladakh. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissionerKamal Kant Sadoch said with the exception of the army, no one will be allowed to enter the district from Leh-Ladakh.He said the district administration has written a letter to DC Kargil and Ladakh regarding this matter. Ladakh has been kept in red zone, therefore, people will not be allowed to enter the district after clearence of the strategic Leh-Manali Highway.Police will be deployed in Sarchu and Shinkula borders to make sure no one enters the district. So far, there have been no coronavirus positive cases. Around 60 persons have tested positive in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-i-n-himachal-state-tally-reaches-62/story-o7MYuiEWSrcEGh1lyWH7BO.html
12-05-2020||Ranchi||Two returnees from Kolkata test positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand||Two students from Jamshedpur, who had returned from Kolkata, have tested positive for Covid-19, Jharkhand Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageKulkarni said that the total number of positive cases in the state is now at 164.This comes as migrants are being brought back to their native places by special trains from across the country amid the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 70,756 people have tested positive for coronavirus across the country, of which 22,454 people have been cured/discharged while 2,293 have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/two-returnees-from-kolkata-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand/story-AsYHRXlsBvuJCh9SlzF21O.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||2,000 migrant workers gather in Boisar; police say they were misinformed about special train||Around 2,000 migrants - men, women and children - gathered at a school in Boisar, in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, on Tuesday hoping to board a ‘Shramik’ special train to their native place in Bihar.These people started gathering since 6 am after hearing that a special train will run from Palghar to Patna on Tuesday afternoon. The administration, however, denied that it plans to run any such train.“The migrants assembled at the TVM (Tarapur Vidya Mandir) ground in the hope that a medical test will be conducted and buses will transport them from Boisar to Palghar station as was done on Monday morning,” said senior PI Pradip Kasbe of Boisar MIDC police station.So far, the government has no plans to start train to Patna from Palghar, he added.On Monday afternoon, a train with 1,700 migrants had left for Jaunpur from Palghar station.“Some of the migrants had e-passes issued by the district collector while some did not so the gram sevaks of Boisar gram panchayat got down to work and issued the e-forms to them and also filled the details as they were illiterate,” said Kasbe.The policeman said that these labourers did not follow social distancing norms. “It was difficult to convince the huge crowd but we managed to cool down their fiery tempers and suggested to sit apart and not over crowd,” said Kasbe.He also said that no case was filed against these labourers “as they did not commit any crime but were just anxious to return home”.“We are probing the source of the wrong information which made the crowd gather at the school premises,” said Kasbe.Around 1,700 migrant workers were were medically tested and taken to Palghar station from the same school ground to board a ‘Shramik Express’ to Jaunpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-000-migrant-workers-gather-in-boisar-police-say-they-were-misinformed-about-special-train/story-8yiitPAb9ULhpYCmbpZR1K.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||ITBP retrieves body of missing villager in HP||Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel have retrieved the body of a villager who went missing from Bargul Village (11,000 feet) who had gone missing last month. “After a month-long search operation, ITBP jawans have retrieved the body of a villager who went missing from Bargul Village (11,000 feet),” ITBP said in a release. “He had come under a suddenly triggered wet avalanche on April 13, 2020,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/itbp-retrieves-body-of-missing-villager-in-hp/story-YHS2Ax5WDXPmdmEQwftqCI.html
12-05-2020||Kolkata||Indian-American doctor urges Bengal govt to step up battle against Covid-19||Describing the coronavirus as exceptionally infective and highly lethal, an eminent Indian-American cardiologist has urged West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee not to take anything for granted and take all necessary steps to prevent large-scale illness and fatalities in the state.Tennessee-based Dr Indranill Basu Ray, in a letter to Banerjee, said that India, including West Bengal, may be lucky because of a different viral strain not having such a severe infection.“I am compelled to point out the fact that as West Bengal is exceptionally crowded, the virus, if it infects a particular locality, will spread like wildfire, affecting thousands and killing quite a few,” he said.It is essential to maintain strict social distancing and ensure that this dangerous virus could be prevented from spreading and killing as it has been doing in certain western countries, the cardiologist said in his letter.“We cannot take anything for granted as you will regret if thousands are infected, and hundreds start dying because of a lack of strictness in preventing the spread and appropriate detection of COVID-19.@MamataOfficial @PMOIndia @rashtrapatibhvn pic.twitter.com/cF29L1dNkt“I would therefore kindly request you to take urgent steps to realise the deadliness of this virus and the fact that it is a killing machine. Appropriate measures, including augmented testing, isolation of all contacts, and forceful enforcement of the lockdown, are mandatory to prevent the exact scenario as seen in the west,” he said, adding that the coronavirus is exceptionally infective and highly lethal.Dr Ray, a cardiologist and cardiac electrophysiologist who has also been a Professor of medicine and public health at multiple universities in the US and India, expressed shock that instead of doctors, a committee has been asked to provide COVID-19 death certificates.“Hushing up such infection and not taking appropriate precautions like isolation would lead to death and destruction, which I certainly know that you would not like as the Chief Minister of my state,” he added.In India, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases has increased to 67,152, after a record number of 4,213 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours till Monday 8 AM, while the death toll rose by 97 to 2,206, the Union Health Ministry said in its daily update.In West Bengal, there were at least 1,939 confirmed COVID-19 cases as on Monday. A total of 118 people have lost their lives due to the coronavirus in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/indian-american-doctor-urges-bengal-govt-to-step-up-battle-against-covid-19/story-q7H85O7SHYQZQZWUxHAplJ.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Yogi briefs PM about migrant challenge, UP to give lockdown suggestions by May 15||The Uttar Pradesh government would send its suggestions on the lockdown in writing to the Centre by May 15, senior officials said on Monday.The government took this stance amid reports indicating that many chief ministers, including UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath favoured extension of the lockdown with certain relaxations, at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with them on Monday. However, senior officials here refused to comment on what the chief minister said on the lockdown issue during the video conference.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked states to send their suggestions in writing by May 15, and the state government will do so,” said a senior officer.During the video conference, Yogi Adityanath also informed the prime minister about the challenges the state government has been facing on the issue of migrant labourers.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath informed the Prime Minister about the state government’s initiatives to bring the UP’s migrant labourers back. We will hold discussions with the central government about what should be the extent or shape of the lockdown and then an appropriate decision will be taken. We will follow the central government guidelines on the issue,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari later.For his part, the chief minister also spoke about action being taken to bring the migrant labourers back and send back those belonging to other states. Over three lakh migrant labourers have reached the state in the past four days by Shramik special trains, he said. In all, nine lakh migrants have reached the state, including those transported by bus. Out of them, seven lakh have completed their quarantine. He said the state government was making efforts to provide jobs to 20 lakh migrant labourers who returned to Uttar Pradesh.The chief minister also briefed the PM about the situation in cities like Kanpur, Agra and Meerut and the state government’s decision to send senior IAS, IPS and health department officers there to check spread of coronavirus.He said the state government was working effectively to check Covid-19 and the medical and health system had been strengthened across the state. Ventilators had been made available in all the 75 level-2 Covid hospitals, he said.The Aarogya Setu App was downloaded by 1.60 crore people in UP, he said.The chief minister also said PPE kits and N-95 masks were made available in all the Covid-19 hospitals. He said the state government had developed Ayush Kavach Covid app to check the spread of Covid-19 by helping people boost their immunity with Ayurveda tips.The chief minister also briefed the PM about steps taken for welfare of weaker sections of society and distribution of food grains. Sustenance allowance of Rs 1,000 each had been given to 31.42 lakh labourers/homeless people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-briefs-pm-about-migrant-challenge-up-to-give-lockdown-suggestions-by-may-15/story-TFFpd2uYaNK9kUJiwYzHfK.html
12-05-2020||Education||Promote all class 11 students of West Bengal boards, schools asked||The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has asked its affiliated schools to promote all class 11 students as their annual exams could not be completed due to the coronavirus-forced lockdown.In a letter dated May 11, council president Mahua Das said as decided by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee all class 11 students should be declared promoted to the next class.The council provides the question papers for the class 11 annual examinations, while the exams are conducted by the schools and papers are checked by internal examiners.Some of the papers of the class 12 board examinations and class 11 annual examinations, being conducted simultaneously, could not be held on the scheduled dates of March 23, March 25 and March 27 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.The government earlier said the higher secondary examinations will be held any day after June 10, while there will be no further annual exams for class 11 in this academic year.Around 11,10,000 students will be promoted from class 11 to class 12 this year with the government’s decision, a council source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/promote-all-class-11-students-of-west-bengal-boards-schools-asked/story-YBfOG0vhmwz0ICAZBQ4Z3J.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM favours lockdown extension; says will undertake talent mapping of returnees to utilise their expertise||Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur favoured extension of the lockdown during the Prime Minister’s interaction with CMs on Monday. Thakur said the state government will undertake talent mapping of people returning to the state so that their services can be utilised in case the lockdown is prolonged.Thakur said as many as 55,000 people from the state were stranded in different parts of the country and around 68,000 people of other states stuck in the hill-state.“One lakh people have already arrived in the state from various parts of the country resulting in a spurt in Covid-19 cases,” Thakur said, adding that there were 40 cases a week ago and within eight days the number had gone up to 59.“It is a matter of concern for us, but at the same time it is the responsibility of the state government to provide all possible help to the people stranded in different parts of the country,” the CM said.He said the state government had developed a geo-fencing app to ensure that people coming from other states do not jump quarantine.ALTERNATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR APPLE TRADE SOUGHTThe CM said the economy of Himachal had been severely affected due to the lockdown and government was taking steps to gradually resume economic activities.Maintaining that the apple season was about to start, Thakur urged PM Narendra Modi to make alternative arrangements for trading operations as Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi has been affected by Covid-19.The CM said the state government will ensure that it does not cut down capital expenditure, but at the same time it will adopt austerity measures by curbing unproductive and wasteful expenditure.He said the state government had started the Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajivika Guarantee Yojana in the state to provide 120 days of assured unskilled employment to every household in urban areas.He said the tourism industry was worst affected due to the pandemic. Therefore, the government has decided to waive off electricity demand charges for a six-month period. “Similarly, excise and taxation license fee will be waived off and lifting quota of bars will be on a pro-rata basis,” he said.He said the government will also provide support to HP Tourism Development Corporation by paying salaries of its employees. “In addition to this, token tax and special road tax will be waived off for four months and no penalty will be imposed on the owners of private vehicles on account of delay in renewal of registration and permits. Besides, ₹55 crore will be provided to the State Road Transport Corporation,” he said.He said the payment of demand charges with respect to industrial, commercial and agriculture consumers for electricity consumption April and May had been deferred till June 30 and will be recovered in three equal instalments.The PM appreciated the state’s efforts in combating Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-favours-lockdown-extension-says-will-undertake-talent-mapping-of-returnees-to-utilise-their-expertise/story-IM6tvpytVm6MyIOwO1huGL.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Migrant worker from Bihar dies, companion injured as speeding SUV runs them over on Ambala highway||Ambala: A migrant labourer from Bihar’s Purnia district was killed and his companion was injured when they were run over by a Toyota Innova on a highway in Ambala district on Tuesday morning.Police said the incident occurred when four migrant labourers were walking on the Ambala-Saha National Highway 444A that connects Ambala with Yamunanagar and further with Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district.Superintendent of police Abhishek Jorwal said that the labourers were working as daily-wage workers in Ambala itself and were not going to Bihar. Complainant Vinod Mandal said, “Four of us are from the same village in Bihar. We were walking to Khuda Khurd village in search of work around 7am when a speeding vehicle coming from Ambala cantonment side hit Ashok Kumar and Pinku from behind, killing Ashok on the spot. A passer-by took Pinku to the civil hospital from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. The driver of the Toyota Innova sped away after the accident.”Investigating officer Gurdev Singh said, “Ashok Kumar was in his early forties, while the injured labourer Pinku is in his late thirties. We have registered a case underSections 279, 337 and 304A of the IPC at Mahesh Nagar police station and are investigating the case with the vehicle details provided by the complainant.” Click here for full Covid-19 coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-worker-walking-back-to-bihar-killed-as-suv-runs-him-over-on-ambala-highway/story-VIKz7NSxDYdCWk7kZuENrN.html
12-05-2020||Patna||15 fresh cases of Covid-19 in Bihar take state total to 761||Bihar reported 15 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the state’s virus tally to 761, a top health department official said on Tuesday.While nine of the patients hail from Begusarai, two are from Darbhanga, one each from Nalanda, Samastipur, Sheikhpura and Supaul districts.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We are ascertaining the infection trail,” Health Department’s Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar said.Most of the patients are in the 20-40 age group, he said.Coronavirus has spread to 37 of the state’s 38 districts, leaving Jamui unaffected.Six fatalities have so far been reported -- one each from Patna, Rohtas, Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran and Sitamarhi. Covid-19 patients, who died during the course of treatment, were also suffering from other serious illnesses.While 377 people have recovered, there are 378 active cases in the state at present.Munger has reported the maximum number of cases at 115, followed by Patna at 70, Rohtas (59), Buxar (56), Nalanda (50), Siwan (33), Kaimur (32), Begusarai (31). These are among the worst affected districts.A total of 36,053 samples have been tested so far at the seven facilities in Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/15-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-bihar-take-state-total-to-761/story-gYK534wpVFTpiJpRPzpJRL.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Prisoner being treated for Covid-19 escapes from Amritsar hospital||AMRITSAR: An inmate of the Amritsar Central Jail who was admitted in the isolation ward after he tested positive for Covid-19 escaped from the local Government Medical College and Hospital on Monday night, hospital authorities said on Tuesday.“At 11pm on Monday, the Covid-19 positive patient, who was an undertrial, told the two policemen on duty that he wanted to go to the toilet. The policemen opened his handcuffs. The patient, however, escaped by breaking a window in the toilet. When he didn’t came out for long, the policemen and hospital staff got suspicious and broke open the door to find that he had escaped,” said Dr Shiv Charan, the head of the medicine department at the hospital.Police said the patient, Partap Singh, was jailed for carrying out a robbery in Tarn Taran district and was brought on production warrant by the Chatiwind police in connection with another murder case. He, however, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday and was admitted to the hospital.Jaspal Singh, the station house officer of Majitha Road police station, said, “Police teams have been deployed and efforts are being made to catch the absconding patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prisoner-being-treated-for-covid-19-escapes-from-amritsar-hospital/story-x6yGDN1UIwtT6dJ1zqocvM.html
12-05-2020||Noida||One killed, two injured as car rams stationary truck on Yamuna Expressway||One person was killed and two others injured when a speeding Hyundai Xcent car hit a stationary truck on the Yamuna Expressway, near Rojina village underpass in Rabupura on Monday. The victims -- Rupendra, Shafeek, and Soshan --were on their way to Narela in Delhi from the Agra side when the accident took place. Soshan was killed while the other two are undergoing treatment at Kailash Hospital.Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said a wheat-loaded truck was coming from Agra to Ghaziabad which broke down near Ronija underpass around 6am. “The truck driver had parked the vehicle on the left and he was trying to fix it. Around that time, the three persons in the speeding car reached the spot and the car driver could not spot the stationary truck. The car rammed the stationary truck,” he said.Police said it seems that the car driver may have fallen asleep at the wheel, resulting in the accident. A police team reached the spot after getting information from passerby. “The victims were rushed to Kailash Hospital where doctors declared Soshan dead on arrival. Shafeek and Rupendra are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Their condition is not yet stable and they were not able to make a statement to the police,” he said. Police said the body of was sent for a post-mortem examination and the reports are awaited.Police said they are trying to contact the victims’ family members. Police have not received any complaint in this regard as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-killed-two-injured-as-car-rams-stationary-truck-on-yamuna-expressway/story-GN1yPL7Le7SeS0QMrX5FiM.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown: Over 1.5K industrial units, 230 construction projects to resume work in Noida||Over 1,500 industrial units and 230 construction projects across Noida and Greater Noida have been granted permission to resume work while adhering to guidelines of coronavirus-induced lockdown so far, officials said on Monday. The resumption of work in these industrial units and construction sites will collectively generate work for over 1.10 lakh workers, the officials said. The development is in compliance with an Uttar Pradesh government order that allowed reopening of industries and resumption of construction work which were closed due to the pandemic which has so far claimed 80 lives in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Around 1,150 eligible industrial units have been allowed to operate with around 65,000 workers. Approval has also been granted to 24 group housing projects, 64 industrial/commercial construction works with 7,000 workers and another 40 construction projects of the Authority which will have work for 1,000 labourers,” Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari said. The Greater Noida Authority said it received 1,296 applications from industrial units till 5 pm on Monday and 387 of them got the nod to reopen. “While 387 have been allowed permission to resume work, 909 others did not meet the requirements vis a vis the guidelines issued by the state government and so were rejected permission,” it said in a statement. These industrial units will have work for 24,647 workers, the authority said. “Also, 105 real estate projects had applied for permission to resume construction work and all of them have been given the nod to restart work at their sites. This would have work for another 14,032 workers and labourers,” it added. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western UP has recorded 224 positive cases of coronavirus including two deaths till Monday evening, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-lockdown-over-1-5k-industrial-units-230-construction-projects-to-resume-work-in-noida/story-SFaM11VcDjqwtVniqseR3N.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bureaucrats appointed to monitor crop procurement in Haryana: Dushyant Chautala||Senior bureaucrats have been appointed as nodal officers for monitoring procurement process for mustard and wheat, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Monday. To ensure that the procurement goes on smoothly, officers of Additional Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary level have been appointed as nodal officers for on-the-spot grievance redressal, a statement quoted him as saying. Besides, all Deputy Commissioners have deputed a procurement officer and an accounting clerk at every mandi and procurement centre for the convenience of the farmers, he added. Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, said a cash credit of Rs 22,000 crore has already been arranged to ensure timely release of payment to farmers for wheat crop. On opposition Congress alleging mismanagement in procurement process, he said that some leaders of the opposition parties are unable to digest the fact that the procurement process is going smoothly despite lockdown and are making statements in the media to mislead the farmers. Chautala said that as per the information given on ‘Meri Fasal – Mera Byora’ portal, a farmer can bring as much yield as he wants to sell in the mandis as there is no restriction. The entire 1,600 quintals of wheat produce of a farmer was purchased in Panipat mandi recently, he said, citing an example, while hitting out at the opposition which has alleged that crop lifting is slow and not entire produce of farmers is being procured. He said as soon as the wheat procured from the mandis is lifted and sent to the godowns, the payment of both the farmers and the ‘Arthiyas’ or commision agents is made on the third day of lifting. Chautala, whose party JJP is a coalition partner of the BJP in the state, said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, arrangements have been made for sanitizers, masks, and soaps, among others, in the mandis and social distancing norms are being followed by all. He said GPS has been installed in all the vehicles engaged in the lifting process of foodgrains. The vehicles which enter the mandi and procurement centres are sanitized first. He informed that the number of mandis for wheat, which was initially at 389, have been increased to 1,895 after addition of 1,507 new centres, while 112 new procurement centres have been added for mustard. Similarly, 30 mandis or procurement centres have been established for gram. He said that wheat is being procured at a minimum support price of Rs 1,925 per quintal, mustard at Rs 4,425 per quintal and gram at Rs 4,875 per quintal. Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal said that 62.44 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat has been procured from 3,99,432 farmers in the state in the last 19 days. As much as 5.69 lakh MT of mustard has been procured from 2,10,319 farmers. Mustard and wheat procurement in the state began from April 15 and April 20, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senior-bureaucrats-appointed-for-monitoring-crop-procurement-process-in-haryana-dushyant-chautala/story-mthSCng6aqY3srm7WS72YI.html
12-05-2020||Gurugram||Labourers breach social distancing norms at Gurugram hospital||Desperate to return home as soon as possible amid the lockdown, over 400 migrant labourers from different states queued up at the Gurugram Civil Hospital to obtain mandatory health certificates while throwing social distancing norm to the wind.Health certificates are required for booking train tickets for the return journeys. As labourers queued up outside the hospital in Sector 10 with little space to separate them from others, police and health officials faced a tough situation. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Civil Hospital is one of main isolation centre for Covid-19 in the city and considered highly sensitive area on the health front. At least five medical staff have since tested coronavirus positive after treating corona patients. Besides, Gurugram tops corona-infected districts in Haryana, with 142 positive cases so far. This includes over 20 labourers of Khandsa vegetable and fruits wholesale market. Asked about violation of social distancing, a labourer of Kadipur said that people like him were facing a precarious situation while stranded in Gurugram since the lockdown with no food and total dependence on others.“In such a situation, who cares about social distancing. We are dying every day without any fault. Foreign returnees brought corona to our country and not poor labourers, but the latter are getting penalised. Hence, we want to go home at any cost,” said Rahul Yadav, a resident of Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh.Another labourer Shri Ram Kumar said: “Our savings have completely dried up and we are dependent on others. We start the day by queuing up to get food donated by people. It is humiliation we face every day, which has crushed our self-respect. I ask you to stand in a queue for food and experience our plight. It would be wise to stand in a queue to undergo thermal scanning and obtain medical certificates from authorities to return to our native villages. At least, we would stay there with some respect.”The situation in various cybercafes, tour operators’ offices on the Khandsa Road is similar. A large number of people were found standing in queues to book tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/labourers-breach-social-distancing-norms-at-gurugram-hospital/story-aB0hQ3y9zFlWyYkjnmDWKJ.html
12-05-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM urges PM Modi to increase man-days, wages under MGNREGA by 50 per cent||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to increase wages and man-days under MGNREGA scheme by 50 per cent as it is the main thrust of the rural economy with stranded migrant workers returning to the state.During a video conference chaired by the prime minister with chief ministers of different states, Soren sought relaxation in the guidelines of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) as per the state’s need.He also urged Modi to speed up ferrying of migrant workers to their homes.“In the previous video conference too I had said that existing guidelines of MGNREGA be relaxed, its wages and man days be raised by 50 per cent as the programme is the most important (aspect) of the rural economy,” Soren told the prime minister.The chief minister also requested the Centre for early clearance of the state’s share of GST and permit collection of revenue from some resources at the state level.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThanking PM Modi for allowing plying of Shramik Special trains to bring back migrants, Soren said, “But only 21-22 trains have so far come with only 50,000 to 55,000 people returning. Nearly seven lakh people from the state are residing in different parts of the country.” He added that life and livelihood should be given priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-urges-pm-modi-to-increase-man-days-wages-under-mgnrega-by-50-per-cent/story-WvOIhkh6KMqYrzkL3ERjeO.html
12-05-2020||Ranchi||Man lynched, another seriously injured in Jharkhand for allegedly stealing goats||A man was lynched and another was seriously injured on Monday after villagers thrashed them for allegedly stealing goats in Dumka district, a police officer said here.Two persons have been arrested in connection with the incident which took place at Jhilimili village, Superintendent of Police Ambar Lakra said.Initial investigations revealed that the villagers thrashed the two persons with sticks after they were informed by neighbours that the men were stealing goats, the SP said.Of the two, one person died on way to hospital while another was admitted to a facility in Dumka in a serious condition, DSP Pujya Prakash said.”The process of identifying the accused and the victims is on,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/man-lynched-another-seriously-injured-in-jharkhand-for-allegedly-stealing-goats/story-yfPYLzN1N8paMxCxFkGP8J.html
12-05-2020||City||2 Delhi returnees among 16 fresh cases detected in Ludhiana||Two pilgrims who had returned from Majnu-Ka-Tilla in Delhi were among the 16 fresh cases detected in Ludhiana on Monday. The rest are railway protection force (RPF) personnel who had been sent to the district for crowd management at railway station as migrants return to their home states on special trains. The district’s tally has now gone up to 135. “As the RPF personnel do not belong to Ludhiana, they won’t be counted in our tally,” civil surgeon Rajesh Bagga said.He added that reports of 109 samples were received on Monday evening, out of which 16 were found positive.As per railway officials, a special team of 40 RPF personnel had come to the city this month. Out of these, two RPF were showing symptoms of Covid-19 and subsequently tested positive. Following this, the 38 other personnel were sent into quarantine and their samples taken for testing. The samples of 14 men came back positive. The 14 personnel were also deputed at the Ludhiana railway station for managing the rush of migrant labourers, who was returning to their home states through special trains.DMO, HER DAUGHTER AND SON-IN-LAW RECOVERDistrict mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur, her daughter Navdeep Kaur, who is a block development and panchayat officer, and Navdeep’s husband Prabhjot Singh, a food supply official, have been cured of the virus. The DMO had tested positive on April 16, following which her daughter and son-in-law had also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-delhi-returnees-among-16-fresh-cases-detected-in-ludhiana/story-ymRPLNl4r91w2wUSBx21NN.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Marathi to become compulsory subject for primary students in Maharashtra||Marathi language will become a compulsory subject from the academic year 2020-21 for classes 1 to 6 in schools of different mediums and education boards in Maharashtra, the state government said on Monday.State Marathi Language Minister Subhash Desai and Education Minister Varshan Gaikwad on Monday reviewed in a meeting the progress about making Marathi language a compulsory subject, a release said.Desai and Gaikwad reviewed the progress of the decision though video conferencing which was joined by senior officials of the School Education department, Marathi Language department,and Balbharti, along with the chairman of the Minorities Commission.Desai instructed that before commencement of the next academic session, class-wise syllabus of the Marathi language, textbooks and training materials for class I and VI should be prepared.He also asked the School Education department to issue a notification about the compliance of the new law about compulsory teaching of the Marathi subject in all schools in the state.The law making the Marathi language as a mandatory subject was unanimously passed by both the Houses of legislature in the last Budget session.At that time, Desai ans Gaikwad had assured that the implementation of this law will start from the next academic year (2020-21), the release said. Gaikwad said a meeting of field officers was conducted to enforce the law and a task force was set up to prepare the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/marathi-to-become-compulsory-subject-for-primary-students-in-maharashtra/story-EgdlFb3jWkdP6tmUGWVBQK.html
12-05-2020||City||Inmates at Machhiwara quarantine home allege inhuman living conditions||Alleging inhuman conditions at the quarantine centre at Machhiwara School, the inmates there uploaded a video on social media, stating that the cops on duty had bolted the doors from outside and were not letting them out even to use the washroom. They said that as the cops did not pay heed to their repeated pleas to open the door, they were forced to urinate in the buckets placed inside the rooms. It was only after the video started widely circulating on the social media that heads started rolling. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Samrala) HS Mann, tehsildar Navdeep Singh Bhogal and Naib Tehsildar Surinder Kumar reached at quarantine centre and transferred the cops deployed there with immediate effect.They also assured the inmates that they won’t face such a problem again. “People under quarantine are under the care of the police and the administration. Cops were deployed here so that no one leaves the place. But they should be allowed to come out to use the washrooms,” the DSP said, adding that an inquiry had been marked against one the cops at the centre. As many as 29 people came from other states and those who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive people have been placed under quarantine at Shri Shankar Das Senior Secondary School in Machhiwara since May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inmates-at-machhiwara-quarantine-home-allege-inhuman-living-conditions/story-c1Sr4Tm2MuDelPUdgwA8OP.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||No separate quarantine facility for Arthur Road inmates, as Mumbai Police says Mahul structure can’t be used||Are the authorities of the already overcrowded Arthur Road prison, which has 184 cases of Covid-19, working according to the guidelines laid down by the World Health Organization (WHO) for prisons?The WHO guidelines state, “People in prisons and other places of detention should enjoy the same standards of health care that are available in the outside community, without discrimination on the grounds of their legal status.”The guidelines direct prison and other detention authorities to ensure that the human rights of those in their custody are respected, that inmates are not cut off from the outside world, and most importantly that they have access to information and adequate healthcare provision.The patients who had contracted the virus were reported in three of the 16-20 barracks, each expanding in an area of 20ftx60ft. “Circle numbers 3 and 10 have been made quarantine centres to house positive patients,” said a jail official, adding that the situation looks grim. “It is not possible to maintain social distancing inside a barrack which was built to accommodate 50 inmates but now houses 200-250 inmates,” the official added.The Arthur Road prison authorities, however, said that they have been taking measures to contain the spread of the virus within the prison premises. Sanjay Chahande, principle secretary for water supply and sanitation, who is also holding the additional charge of home department (prisons and appeals), said, “We have kept the infected inmates in separate isolation circles and have been sending the symptomatic Covid-positive inmates to hospital for treatment, as per the instructions from a team of doctors from JJ Hospital, who are looking after the cases inside the jail.”However, when the city began seeing the first set of cases in March, the jail authorities had written to the courts, asking them to release the inmates involved in minor and moderate offences or grant temporary bail to those accused of heinous crimes. After the coronavirus outbreak, the authorities released 435 prisoners from 43 prisons across the state on emergency parole.The Arthur Road prison authorities had stated that the prison did not have the wherewithal to handle a situation in case of an outbreak, and that social distancing would be impossible among the inmates, as the prison was built to house only 800 people. Later, after some inmates were tested positive for coronavirus, the local arms department of Mumbai Police was asked to conduct a survey and help transfer the coronavirus-positive inmates to a vacant building build by the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) at Mahul near Chembur.The local arms department however, refused to comply with the jail authorities, and wrote a letter (a copy of which is with HT), citing lack of proper healthcare infrastructure, electricity, food and beds, and stated that the locals in Mahul had opposed the use of the building as a treatment centre.“Inspection conducted of the empty Mhada [Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority] buildings at Mahul village, as suggested by you for treatment of the 77 corona-positive prisoners, reveals that provision for electricity and fans has been made only on the fourth and fifth floors of these buildings. But, no provision has been made for food, beds, grills on doors and windows for security purpose and doctors and other staff for treatment has not been made. Also, no appointment of the head of the centre, in whose custody these 77 inmates will be placed for treatment, has not been made,” stated the letter written by deputy commissioner of police (local arms), Nandkumar Thakur.The letter also goes on to state that there is no provision for potable water, and that doctors, paramedics and other staff have not been appointed to treat the prisoners at Mahul, nor is there any provision for medication and medical equipment.“It is extremely necessary that treatment is provided to these 77 prisoners, since they are corona-positive, immediately after they are shifted at the said place, reads the letter. But, as no basic facilities, as mentioned above, have been provided at the said place, it will result in disturbing the mental condition of the corona positive prisoners and eventually may lead to a law and order situation,” read the letter from Thakur.The letter also points out at the lack of security if the prisoners were to be lodged at Mahul. “Since the complete responsibility of providing security cover for the treatment centre is of Mumbai Police and the force is facing severe shortage of police officers and staff, with many of them being affected by the virus, there will be limited manpower available for security of the treatment centre, and is therefore necessary to have iron grills fixed on windows and the door on the fourth floor and flood lights around the entire building,” the letter stated.Sanjay Kumar, who holds the additional charge of additional chief secretary (home), said that the more cases are detected owing to mass testing. “We moved a file for mass testing, and the chief secretary too responded [in favour] for the testing. The cases are coming in large numbers because we insisted on mass testing. We have decided to shift the new Covid-19 patients cases to make-shift jails and safer places [quarantine centres].”However, until the time of going to press, the prison authorities were unaware of any such development.The first case of Covid-19 was reported on May 5 after a 45-year-old patient, who suffered a paralytic attack, was admitted to JJ Hospital for treatment. Subsequently, 350 prisoners were also tested for Covid-19 but no new swabs have been taken for testing after that, the authorities said.HT asked Chahande if contact tracing is being conducted within jail premises, to which he replied, “That’s not our priority today. The government’s priority is to provide medication to the infected inmates in the jail and also we are also taking more efforts to release maximum possible inmates on parole to de-congest the prison.”Director general (prisons) SN Pandey did not respond to repeated phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-separate-quarantine-facility-for-arthur-road-inmates-as-mumbai-police-says-mahul-structure-can-t-be-used/story-SAKNDUYwee6TNjWGPuneaJ.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Sealing areas with higher Covid-19 cases or 2-day work week with lockdown can contain virus, shorten epidemic duration: Analysis||As the Centre and states discuss strategies to reopen the economy as the deadline of May 17 nears for lockdown 3.0, a two-member team of professors at the Chennai Mathematical Institute and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, have drawn up a mathematical analysis that suggests sealing areas with high number of infected individuals or introducing a two-day work week with a lockdown can suppress the transmission of the virus that causes Covid-10 and shorten the duration of the epidemic. Both these measures combined with “tracing contacts and their contacts and sealing” (TC2S) reduces the virus’ attack rate by more than 30% compared to the current contact tracing approach.With Bengaluru as the study area, V Vinay, co-author and co-founder of tech start-up Ati Motors, with Chiranjib Bhattacharyya, a professor at the department of computer science and automaton, IISc, performed simulations of different post-lockdown strategies on the multi-lattice small world mathematical model.“Lockdowns, though an effective policy for containment, imposes a heavy cost on the economy as it enforces extreme social distancing measures on the whole population. Unemployment is an inevitable outcome of economic downturn and lockdowns have resulted in significant job losses,” said Vinay. “There is now a growing view among scientists and many world leaders that rapid suppression of Covid-19 transmission must be the way forward. Our study provides alternatives to lockdown which are either more targeted or allows partial opening of the economy,” he said.Their analysis shows that sealing only the infected wards along with TC2S reduces the duration of the epidemic when compared without advanced contact tracing. For mild lockdown, the length of epidemic stands at 274 days with TC2S as against 480 days without TC2S. Additionally, the epidemic’s time frame with and without TC2S in wards where more than three persons have been infected is 65 and 124 days.TC2S is a two-tier strategy that not only involves identifying and testing all individuals who came in contact with a patient — as is the current method — but also tracing their contacts, which would subsequently result in targeting asymptomatic individuals.Similarly, a two-day work week (with stringent lockdown for remaining five days) is likely to result in 1,345 deaths per million with the epidemic lasting for 675 days. But this measure when coupled with TC2S leads to a drastic decrease of 34 deaths per million and the epidemic ending in 107 days.The most preferred strategy, according to the paper, is hotspot surveillance, which not only lowers attack rates, but is also much faster in destroying the virus. If ward level sealing and opening (WSO) is introduced early enough, it is possible that the pandemic can be suppressed in the early stages in less time than currently-practiced lockdowns.For instance, the model’s estimate on the duration of the epidemic is 115 days with 51 deaths per million during a lockdown. However, WSO along with TC2S results in a decline both in the length of the epidemic to 65 days with a death toll of 18 individuals per million.The researchers said while WSO opens the economy much more than the two-day week policy, investment in testing could prove to be a challenge, especially in densely-populated urban wards in metropolitan cities. “The success of WSO policy crucially depends on the ability to test all residents in the hotspots... If there is substantial shortage of testing kits making WSO unviable then one can consider the alternative policy of opening the economy for two days a week. For both the interventions require contact tracing,” the paper reads.Pointing out the lack of resources needed to implement TC2S that makes WSO more effective, Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist at PD Hinduja Hospital said WSO appears more feasible as compared to the two-day week alternative. Dr Pinto was not involved in the study.“The success of WSO also depends on limiting movements across wards, and this might be labour intensive and difficult to implement (as opposed to movement between cities/districts). Reports from the zoning exercises so far suggest that the red zones are also the ones contributing disproportionately more to economic activity, and I’m not sure the model accounts for this,” said Dr Pinto.On the alternative of the two-day work week, Dr Pinto said, “Our limited experience (with alcohol shops, for example) suggests that limiting access to a few hours a day (or a few days a week) is likely to lead to overcrowding during the periods in which economic activities are opened up, and will therefore be counterproductive. The model will have to take this into account.”“Suppress, and not just flatten: Strategies for Rapid Suppression of COVID19 transmission in Small World Communities” was uploaded last week on medRxiv, a preprint server for health sciences operated by US-based Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. The paper has also been sent to office of the principal scientific advisor to the government of India, K VijayRaghavan.The authors have stated their conclusions are about the relative effectiveness of various strategies and not about absolute predictability. The study has also not considered issues related to civil liberties, and economic hardships of the proposed interventions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sealing-areas-with-higher-covid-19-cases-or-2-day-work-week-with-lockdown-can-contain-virus-shorten-epidemic-duration-analysis/story-4XQBmv4KaJ4yBoZmgEI51I.html
12-05-2020||City||Homeopathy pills for patients from two Mumbai wards with most cases||After hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to adopt homeopathy to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19 among the residents of two worst-affected wards in the city. The civic body said all asymptomatic patients in the red zones of G North and K West wards will be provided with Arsenicum Album 30 – homeopathy pills – free of cost. This decision comes after the Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), under the ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy), recommended the use of Arsenicum Album 30 as a prophylaxis (preventive medicine) against coronavirus. Earlier, HT had reported that BMC was consulting homeopathic doctors over the proposed medicine.On Monday, Dr Padmaja Keskar, executive health officer, BMC, issued a circular regarding the implementation of the plan. She directed the ward officers of G North and K West to give the medicine to asymptomatic patients. “States like Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have already started giving the medicines to their patients and haven’t observed any side effects. So, we too decided to administer the medicines in wards with high number of Covid cases,” she said. Arsenicum Album 30 is a known immune-modulator, widely prescribed for influenza-like-illnesses. Dr Ajit Funde, associated with Maharashtra Homoeopathic Council, said the pill was showing promising results in other states. “Just like anti-malaria drugs—hydroxychloroquine, Arsenicum Album 30 has proven to be effective,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/homeopathy-pills-for-patients-from-two-mumbai-wards-with-most-cases/story-4L0m00P3RGuADPOSNf1IzI.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Respite for farmers: A brick-and-mortar storage for vegetables designed by IIT-B alumnus||It’s a humble, brick-and-mortar storage facility, with a covering on top, but this simple device, designed by a graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT-B), is helping farmers beat the effects of the nationwide lockdown. The cooling unit, which only needs water and does not run on electricity, keeps vegetables fresh for longer, which means farmers don’t have to sell their produce at throwaway prices. Named the Subjee Cooler, the cooling unit has been designed by RuKart Technologies, founded by Vikas Jha. “Subjee Cooler works on the principle of evaporative cooling and does not require any utilities. However, it requires watering, once daily. The cooling chamber temperature is lower than the ambient temperature by a margin of 5-15°C (depending on ambient relative humidity) and maintains a high relative humidity of above 85-90% inside the cooling chamber. The low temperature and high humidity inside the chamber preserve the (non-tuber) vegetable crop for five to eight days,” said Jha, a 2016 graduate of IIT-B.RuKart Technologies — with the help of the trade union Self-Employed Women’s Association — has set up 66 such cooling units for farmers in Bihar, Odisha, and Maharashtra. It’s working on an order for 200 more instalments, said Jha.During the lockdown, the agricultural sector has been among the worst hit. Farmers with no storage facilities have been compelled to undersell crops at throwaway prices. However, Praphula Kido, a tomato and cabbage cultivator from Sundargarh in northwest Odisha, is among those who got good prices for his tomatoes, thanks to the Subjee Cooler at his one-acre farm. He now earns Rs 25-30 per kilogram (kg) of tomatoes as opposed to the Rs 7-8/kg that many other farmers have to settle for since their produce is not as fresh.Jha said farmers with Subjee Coolers are able to charge prices that are 20–30% higher than others. “Earlier a farmer would harvest vegetables only once in a week, the day before the weekly market. Now an adopter [farmer with Subjee Cooler] harvests the vegetable thrice a week and stores their produce. While our adopters are selling their produce to middlemen as well as consumers at the weekly market directly, non-adopters are selling their produce only to middlemen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/respite-for-farmers-a-brick-and-mortar-storage-for-vegetables-designed-by-iit-b-alumnus/story-DpfxitzP4pUNSvf6cS26ZI.html
12-05-2020||City||Why do civic-run hospitals in Mumbai keep bodies of Covid-19 patients longer than the 2-hour limit||While the state health department has ordered disposal of bodies of Covid-19 patients within two hours, a ground reality check by HT shows that the four major Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run hospitals are forced to hold the bodies longer in their morgues, mostly on humanitarian grounds.DIFFICULTIES, PROBEAccording to the department’s rules based on the guidelines of the Union health ministry, dead bodies need to be removed from the ward within 30 minutes and disposed of within two hours. Forensic experts claim the time limit is not feasible. Firstly, a large city like Mumbai gets patients from far-off areas in Thane and Navi Mumbai. In some cases, the families refuse to take the bodies, fearing infection. Also, the lockdown makes it difficult for relatives to find vehicles to reach hospitals in time. In some cases, relatives can’t reach hospitals as they either are in isolation centres or home quarantine. A case in point could be a 73-year-old woman, resident of Kalapani, who succumbed to her infection at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital on April 18. Around 2am, the family received a call from the hospital to take away the body, but her two sons, their wives and children were quarantined. One of their relatives agreed to claim the body, but couldn’t find a vehicle to reach the hospital.“We tried private vehicles and ambulances, but no one agreed to take my uncle to the hospital. We requested a neighbour who has an auto to ferry him, but he refused. We had to request the hospital to keep the body till morning,” said Rohit Kumar, 21, the grandson of the deceased patient.Currently, as of Monday, there are 14 unclaimed bodies of both Covid and non-Covid patients lying in the morgues of KEM, BYL Nair, Topiwala General Municipal Hospital also known as Sion hospital and Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital. Of these, six are in Cooper Hospital and Nair Hospitals each, one each in KEM and Sion hospital. “Most of them are from other districts and states. Due to the lockdown, the families asked us to hold the bodies. So, on humanitarian grounds, we held it for four-five days now,” said a forensic expert from Cooper Hospital.The hospitals have now initiated talks with the police to dispose of the bodies. “The relatives plead and cry on phones. They request us to allow them to see their beloved ones one last time,” said the officer.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) clearly states that hospitals can hand over bodies of suspected patients without waiting for swab reports. In some cases, forensic experts have to hold the bodies when they think further investigation is needed into the death.At Sion hospital, forensic resident doctors have been stationed at the casualty ward to screen bodies. On Tuesday, the body of a 32-year-old woman was taken to the hospital with bruise marks. When questioned, the family said, she had symptoms like coronavirus. “The on-duty doctor was suspicious of the marks so we held the body and we are waiting for her swab report. If the result is negative, we will have to conduct a post-mortem to confirm the cause of death,” said a senior doctor from the forensic department of the hospital.VIDEOS ON SOCIAL MEDIARecently, the BMC was criticised when videos on social media went viral showing Covid patients lying beside corpses in civic hospitals. In response to the videos, forensic experts said those are meant to defame the hospitals and extremely discouraging for staffers who work around-the-clock. “On a daily basis, we receive around five-eight Covid bodies. We try to quickly dispose of them, but it takes time to inform family and provide them the time. We have to take help from police to contact families as often, due to stigma, they give wrong addresses and phone numbers,” said a forensic expert from Nair Hospital.When the videos from Sion and KEM hospitals were circulated, Opposition leaders claimed the hospital morgues don’t have space to keep the bodies. A check done by HT shows that such claims are incorrect. In the past one month, the four civic-run hospitals have disposed of around 125 non-Covid unclaimed bodies to make space for Covid bodies. Of these, KEM hospital handed over 36 unclaimed bodies to police and 17 were shifted to the anatomy lab. Police disposed of another 30 unclaimed bodies from Sion hospital and 39 from Cooper hospital. Police have disposed of three bodies from Nair hospital. “We have also divided our cold storage into two— the hospital morgue has been turned into Covid and the morgue under the post-mortem centre has been kept as non-Covid. This has been done to curb any possible transmission,” said a forensic expert from the hospital. Similarly, Sion hospital has also divided their morgue into Covid and non-Covid.The Sion hospital which currently has over 250 Covid patients has preserved 16 cabins for Covid patients and 38 for non-Covid patients. Cooper Hospital has 36 cabinets for Covid and 70 for non-Covid. Nair Hospital has 32 boxes for Covid patients. But KEM hospital, which receives the most critically ill patients, has 27 cabinets in the morgue. On a daily basis, the hospital receives around eight bodies. “As of now, we have enough space, but we are trying to extend the facility,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.At Kasturba Hospital, the newly constructed morgue started functioning from Friday. Now, the hospital has a capacity to keep around 17 bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-do-civic-run-hospitals-in-mumbai-keep-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-longer-than-the-2-hour-limit/story-qwmosxR5vzFys2anNCndsO.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to constitute special cell to address grievances of students||Panjab University has proposed constituting special a cell for handling grievances of students related to examinations and other academic activities. Helpline numbers and e-mail addresses where students can send in their queries were issued on Monday.The proposed cell will include controller of examinations Parvinder Singh, dean students’ welfare (DSW) Emanual Nahar, dean college development council (DCDC) Sanjay Kaushik and Harish Kumar of UIET.The initiative comes a day after University Grants Commission (UGC) requested varsities to constitute such cells amid the Covid-19 pandemic. UGC also requested varsities to notify the establishment to students.PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said, “All necessary arrangements are already in place at the university. The cell will ensure speedy redressal of students’ issues.”The helpline numbers issued by the varsity for examinations and admission related issues will be functional from Monday to Saturday from 10am to 6pm.“The dedicated helpline numbers and email address, covid19help@pu.ac.in, for queries related to examinations and admissions have already been put up on the university’s website,” an official statement from the university stated.“Apart from this, all information is being regularly posted through PU’s social media handles on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. Also, helpline numbers for psychological counselling of students, teachers and other employees has been started by the dean alumni relations and psychology department,” the statement further added.HELPLINE FOR EXAMINATION(Monday to Saturday from 10am to 6pm)KG Grover 9464511696Deepak Kaushik 8146700440HELPLINE FOR ADMISSION(Monday to Saturday from 10am to 6pm)Deepak Singh Rana (DUI Office) 9803069111Devinder Singh Rawat (DUI Office) 9780413094||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-constitute-special-cell-to-address-grievances-of-students/story-IbS1ts2R68NKzHhWzeRkgK.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||International Nurses Day 2020: Delhi-NCR nurses go beyond call of duty to serve patients||“Log kaafi bura bhala kehte hain, par main koshish karti hoon ki bura na manoon (People say a lot of inappropriate things to me, but I try not to let those affect me),” says Noorie Masih, a nurse at a private hospital in Gurugram. While the country practices social distancing, nurses are bound, by the need of their profession, to put their duty ahead of their safety and work amid the present coronavirus pandemic. They might or might not have PPE kits or masks, but nothing has been able to deter their determination to serve. On International Nurses Day, May 12, we speak to some of the nurses, in Delhi-NCR, who have been involved in the fight against Covid-19, and what’s the cost of sacrifices they are making. “I stay alone in a PG accommodation, not far away from the hospital where I work,’’ adds Masih, who got married recently and her husband is in Dehradun, her hometown, miles away from her. What worries her, however, are the cases of assault on medical professionals, and she has herself been on the receiving end of remarks, from patients who she tries to tend to. “‘Stay away from us’, ‘Stand a little far’, ‘Don’t come to our shop’ are some of the things that I have heard multiple times over the last few weeks,” she says with a heavy heart. What keeps her morale up are her telephonic conversations with her husband, at the end of a long day at work. “He worries about my health and safety, but I have a job to do here, and I can’t leave,” says the determined nurse.   . . Game ChangerA post shared by  Banksy (@banksy) on May 6, 2020 at 9:50am PDT“This is a war zone; there are multiple issues for nurses and other healthcare professionals, but that won’t stop us from serving our nation,’’ says Vipin Krishnan, a nurse at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. Krishnan, along with some fellow nurses, has been feeding the poor and the migrants in Delhi’s temporary shelters since the lockdown began. He informs, “We are providing them with dry rations, masks, sanitary napkins. Initially, in the 10 days of the lockdown being announced, we had sent over 5,000 packets of food to those in need.”Krishnan has previously held the post of general secretary of the AIIMS Nurses Union, and adds that “Many nurses working for some private hospitals are being sent home instead of a different accommodation, for quarantine. Many are being asked to foot their own bills in case they show symptoms of Covid-19. Discrimination on ground is rampant, but we are endeavouring to still do our duty in the best possible way.” Quite a few frontline workers are going beyond their line of duty to help those in need, during such times. A Delhi-based home nurse shares on condition of anonymity that she has been staying in Noida with an elderly patient, who is recuperating from paralysis. She shares that the patient’s family asked her to stay put since they didn’t want to risk having an outsider come home everyday, and adds, “It was a tough call since I have to stay away from my family and kids. But, I need the extra money since my husband won’t be paid in full in this period. I know many others who have continued to see patients. We chose this profession because it is honourable and helps us serve those in need; so the question of cribbing does not arise. But, there is one thing I have continued to do as a human being, ever since the lockdown began, I have been feeding stray dogs in the locality. They need me just as much as my patient does (smiles).’’ Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/international-nurses-day-2020-delhi-ncr-nurses-go-beyond-call-of-duty-to-serve-patients/story-YZOR8Niubys2gcrM7RYrwM.html
12-05-2020||City||One-month-old girl from Dombivli tests positive||A one-month-old girl from Dombivli tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) health department said the baby and the mother are at KEM Hospital in Mumbai since the delivery. As the baby had fever for the past few days, the hospital conducted a Covid test. The report came positive. “The baby’s mother is not infected. The woman delivered the baby at KEM Hospital and they had not been discharged. The baby has been kept in isolation and is stable,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. “The mother is allowed to feed the baby by taking all safety precautions,” she added.Last month, a 20-day-old boy got infected and is still in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-month-old-girl-from-dombivli-tests-positive/story-20nPHDia8uIGRDuQGxNv0O.html
12-05-2020||City||Diva man gets help after tweet||A 35-year-old man from Diva wanted to leave for his hometown at Varandali village in Yavatmal as his brother lost his wife on May 4, leaving behind a six-month-old baby. The infant’s health started deteriorating after the mother’s death as he couldn’t have any other milk. Shyam Rathod, an electrician, who lives in Diva with his wife and one-year-old boy, decided to go to the village so that his wife can breastfeed the infant.Shyam’s brother Mangal, 31, said, “My wife died of a heart ailment. The baby could not drink any other milk. Doctors told me they would have to hospitalise the baby if this continues.”Shyam and his wife decided to leave for the village so that the infant could be breastfed.On May 5, Shyam tried to fill the online form but could not because of an error. Desperate to get a pass, he tweeted to Thane police and Maharashtra government, seeking help for a pass to travel to Yavatmal.“I immediately got a call from the office of Shiv Sena minister Eknath Shinde asking me for details. On May 6, I got pass to travel and travelled with my family to Varandali. My wife is breastfeeding the baby who is fine now,” said Shyam.Member of Parliament Shrikant Shinde said, “Through our social media team, we came to know about Rathod’s ordeal and we immediately contacted him. We called up the Thane police and asked them to issue a pass immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/diva-man-gets-help-after-tweet/story-igixmQFQTfxTN6BEe1OiHN.html
12-05-2020||City||Lawyer, activist use social media to help migrants leave for MP||Sudhir Gupta, a lawyer from Palghar, and Dhawal Patel, a social worker, came to the rescue of 1,200 migrants who wanted to leave for their hometowns in Madhya Pradesh after the government’s online booking system for transit pass went down due to overload. This was the first MP-bound train to leave from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which left Palghar on Sunday night and reached Meghnagar in Madhya Pradesh on Monday. As the online booking system couldn’t be accessed for two consecutive days, Gupta and Patel appealed to people on social media to contact them to manually make a list of migrants and then passed it over to the government authorities. The state government then got in touch with the MP government. “We got information that the online system of the government was not working, so we decided to help. We appealed to the people on social media to contact us and got a huge response,” said Gupta. “Though only 1,200 passengers could board the train, we are preparing a second list for Madhya Pradesh,” said Patel.The Madhya Pradesh government bore the fare expenses and did not charge the migrants, said Gupta. After the train reached Meghnagar on Monday, the MP government arranged buses to take the passengers to various districts, said Gupta.An officer from Palghar collector’s office confirmed that the online system was overloaded with around 1.90 lakh applications from migrants from various states and hence needed to be shut for two days. Meanwhile, on Monday afternoon, another train left for Jaunpur from Palghar carrying 1,200 migrants. However, the passengers had to pay ₹740 as fare, said Milind Kirtikar, station superintendent, Western Railway, Palghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lawyer-activist-use-social-media-to-help-migrants-leave-for-mp/story-OEDe4PPm5eOxGtW86PmuXN.html
12-05-2020||City||Covid-19 patient survives suicide attempt||A 45-year-old Covid-19 positive man jumped from the third floor room of a hospital, where he was undergoing treatment, in Nalla Sopara on Saturday in a bid to attempt suicide. However, he landed on a heap of sand and sustained fracture on his leg. The patient was admitted to the hospital on April 30, and was later moved to the isolation after his condition improved. A hospital source said the man broke the glass window and jumped out even as a ward boy tried to get hold of him.A hospital spokesperson said the patient was recovering well and that his second swab test report is awaited, which the doctors are hoping would come negative. “We are unable to understand why the patient attempted the act as he was responding well to treatment he said and always had a positive attitude towards life,” he said.The spokesman further added doctors will have to carry out an operation for his fracture, but that will oly be done after his test report comes negative. Meanwhile, a case has been registered with the Nalla Sopara police about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-survives-suicide-attempt/story-2In0q0jdiiCKHrsx5RFLyK.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||54% parents won’t send kids to school for a month after lockdown is lifted: Survey||Nearly 54% parents from the city, who participated in the nationwide survey, said that they would not send their children to schools at least for a month after it re-opens and would first monitor the situation in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Nearly 24% parents said that they would not prefer sending their children to school at least for the next six months.The results are part of a nationwide survey conducted by ParentCircle, an online parenting platform with over 12,000 responses from parents across the country. The results revealed that parents are extremely anxious about sending their children to school even as governments across the country are hoping to resume schools from June-July. “Parents would not want to take any risk by sending their children to school even if there are a handful of active cases. Governments need to come up with an annual strategy to cope with this,” said Sandhya Rasal, a parent from Kandivli.Parents were also asked as to when they would be comfortable in sending their children for outdoor sports, birthday parties and other gatherings. Over 43% parents from the city said that they would not send their children for any sports activities at least for the next six months. The same number of parents said that they won’t make any visit to malls or movies for the entire remaining year.“An overwhelming majority of parents are worried and unsure. They are anxious and not ready to take any chances. Parents need assurance that their children will be safe in school, group activities and other public places. The onus is on schools and other public places to ensure that safety measures and physical distancing policies are in place before they open up for activities,” said Nalina Ramalakshmi, founder and managing director, ParentCircle.In Maharashtra, the state education department conducted a series of meetings last week to decide on a possible reopening strategy. “It is evident that one uniform policy for reopening won’t work and we would have to decide depending on the local situation. We are also working on possible solutions in case of late re-opening like reduction in the syllabus, online learning in the interim, etc,” said an official from the state education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/54-parents-won-t-send-kids-to-school-for-a-month-after-lockdown-is-lifted-survey/story-eFZXCVhhSs0W2bXb0mmKBI.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Drone mapping of forest violations during lockdown begins at SGNP||With increasing cases of encroachments, tree felling and illegal alcohol production inside forest areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) during lockdown, the Maharashtra forest department on Monday began to monitor forest areas using drones.Using one unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), the department monitored 65 hectares of the Yeoor forest range of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Monday, and will be monitoring the boundary of the 86 square kilometre (sqkm) of Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWLS) till May 26. Thereafter the efforts will be replicated across 103 sqkm of SGNP periphery and 16 sqkm of Aarey Colony, said senior forest officials.A tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed on Monday between the forest department, NGO Yeoor Environmental Society and private company DroneAge Technologies for the provision of using three UAVs – two for TWLS and one for Yeoor – free of cost till May 26.So far, 1,500 litres of illegally produced alcohol in barrels and tin containers have been destroyed along 25 encroachments at Yeoor during lockdown. However, due to lack of evidence no arrests have been made.“Using these drones, real time photographic and video evidence of violators carrying out illegal activities in forest areas, including inaccessible zones, will be available. We will follow their movement in and out of protected areas to make arrests and increase deterrence,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest, wildlife (west region). “There was a need for such a strategy as forest violations have increased during lockdown while assistance from police is less since they are busy with Covid-19 operations.”Apart from addressing tree felling, encroachment removal and illegal country liquor production, drones will be also used to check forest fires, poaching, illegal entry into forest, illegal mining or excavation, keeping watch on water bodies, and movement of wild animals.Limaye said efforts will also be taken in Aarey Milk Colony, Goregaon, even though it is not a protected area. “Photographs of people responsible for illegal tree felling, forest fires, and encroachments have already been collated. As soon as the lockdown is over, using this evidence we will track down violators with the help of the police, Aarey and Film City administration,” said Limaye. “Based on the success in Mumbai, the strategy will be implemented across all protected areas along western Maharashtra.”A control room to monitor drone movement has been setup at Yeoor forest office near Madhuban Gate on Monday. The timing for drone operation is being withheld by the department to ensure violators are not aware of the movement of UAVs. “Apart from reducing the time spent in field surveillance by 80%, it will also ensure safety of forest personnel while catching violators on the act,” said Rohit Joshi, founder, Yeoor Environmental Society who had proposed the strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drone-mapping-of-forest-violations-during-lockdown-begins-at-sgnp/story-ikKgMUN8LZEbh5hfPzi9hP.html
12-05-2020||City||Shops selling ACs, electric fans to open in Ludhiana from today||In view of the rising temperature, the district administration has allowed the shops selling electric fans, air conditioners (ACs) and repairing ACs to open from Tuesday.The administration also allowed services of electricians, supply of books, stationery shops, vehicle repair and supply of spare parts, supply of electrical and sanitary goods, supply of construction material such as cement, bricks, sand, plywood, glass etc, supply of inverters, plumber and carpenter services and supply of hardware and paints. These services are covered under the essential services category. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “The shops can be opened from 7am to 3pm for counter sale and from 3pm to 7pm for home delivery. The shopkeepers can also commute by carrying a valid identity card from 7am to 7pm.”However, these relaxations will not be valid in hotspots and containment zones, the DC added.Agrawal said the three-member committee, which has already been set up, would conduct inspections at all the establishments to check whether the guidelines and protocols, including social distancing norms, are being followed or not.The committee comprises additional deputy commissioner (Khanna), deputy commissioner of police (law & order) and SDM Ludhiana (West). This committee would further constitute sub-committees at the police station and zone level to conduct regular checks of shops.He said if any shop owner is found not following the protocol, his shop would not be allowed to open and an FIR under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code would be registered.In other parts of the district, subdivision-level committees would be formed by SDMs in consultation with the DSPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-selling-acs-electric-fans-to-open-in-ludhiana-from-today/story-uwJOI8uP7f5VvxzrgD88ZK.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to get 5-10 more SRPF platoons soon||In a relief to the Mumbai Police, which has been over-stretched due to continuous bandobast and rising cases in the city as well as the police force, another five to 10 platoons with 120 personnel each of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) will be added to its manpower. Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had stated that the Mumbai Police is exhausted and needs some relaxation. He had also cleared rumours that the Indian Army will be called in. Vinoy Choubey, additional director general, Mumbai Police, confirmed the development to Hindustan Times. Earlier in April, five platoons of SRPF were added to the Mumbai Police’s manpower when there were 380 containment zones in Mumbai. As on Monday, the number of containment zones shot up to 2,600 in Mumbai. Over 3L migrant workers applied for passApplications from more than 3 lakh migrant labourers in the city have been processed by the Mumbai Police so far. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson, confirmed the development. While around one lakh migrants have left, the rest are on ‘waiting list’. They will continue to stay in Mumbai till their home states give permission for them to return. These migrants are mostly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Karnataka among others. In total, 2,21,150 people from other states, including migrant workers, tourists, students, pilgrims and visitors who were stranded in the city due to the lockdown, have returned to their hometowns.Man held for using fake pass to carry 36 migrants A 25-year-old tempo driver has been arrested by Vakola police on Saturday for using fake police permission to travel from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh. The accused, Ajay Gupta, is a resident of Vakola. When MIDC police stopped his tempo for checking, they found 36 migrants, 10 women, 12 men and 14 kids, hiding. The case was transferred to Vakola police station. Kailash Avhad, senior inspector, confirmed the development and added that Gupta has been remanded in police custody till May 14 while the labourers were sent back to their shelters.Covid cases in state police cross 1,000-mark The total cases of Covid-19 reported from Maharashtra Police crossed the 1,000 mark on Monday with 1,007 reported cases, including a majority of 420 (till Monday evening) from Mumbai Police. Of the 1,007 patients, 901 are constables while the remaining are officers. Of them, 887 are being treated, 113 have recovered and seven policemen have succumbed to the disease.Over 100 booked for attending funeral Dongri police took suo motu cognisance and filed an FIR against more than 100 people for attending the funeral of a person while violating lockdown orders. The deceased, Babu Batatawala, 72, a member of Raza Academy, a religious group promoting Islam, had died of natural causes on May 7. Around 10pm on that day, about 100 people gathered for his funeral and offered Namaz. They have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and National Disaster Management Act.61 taxis, 339 autos seized after Mumbai termed red zone Since Mumbai was declared as red zone on May 4, the traffic police issued challan against 3,368 taxi drivers and collected a fine collectively worth ₹12.36 lakh, till May 11. In addition, 61 taxis and 339 autorickshaws have been seized for repeated offences. Pravin Padval, additional commissioner of police (Traffic), said, “A motorist is liable for suspension of driving license if he/she has committed a lockdown violation plus has another previous violation against him/her.”BEST officer found dead in sealed building A 50-year-old officer with the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) was found dead in a building in Ghatkopar (east) which was sealed after Covid positive patient was found. According to Pant Nagar police, they received a call from local residents about a foul stench from the officer’s flat. The officer, a bachelor, lived alone in the flat and was not responding to calls. The police contacted the fire-brigade after which a civic team was called as a precautionary measure. The fire brigade broke open the flat and found the decomposed body in the kitchen. An accidental death has been registered in this regard. “The body was disposed taking due care as a positive patient was found in the building,” said a police officer.Police commissioner visits north region Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh visited north region of Mumbai Police, comprising areas between Goregaon to Dahisar. Hanif Mujawar, senior inspector of Dahisar police station said, “We were happy to see the commissioner on the ground asking about the problems we faced. He inquired about everything, such as flow of vehicles going in and out of the city. He also asked women police personnel about the problems they faced. He asked us all to take all safety precautions.” Two accused in lock up test positive for Covid-19 Two accused kept in the Andheri lockup tested positive for Covid-19. They were arrested by MIDC police for burgling valuables worth ₹7 crore from a jewellery unit. Police are now tracing their contacts.(With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Suraj Ojha, Faisal Tandel and Pratik Salunke).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-get-5-10-more-srpf-platoons-soon/story-qivKpJpiCDSSdh8tvVohCO.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Karan Avtar Singh: Low key bureaucrat in high-voltage row||The news of his face-off with some senior members of the council of ministers in Punjab over the state excise policy at a meeting two days ago was greeted with disbelief by many peers and seniors of chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh.For most of them, Karan Avtar, a 1984-batch IAS officer, is a low-profile bureaucrat with flawless conversational etiquette and stolidly calm disposition. But there are also some IAS officers and journalists who were not surprised at all. They see him as a person with a mercurial temperament who is abrasive with juniors at times and recount instances where he told a senior officer to put in his papers or asked another one to leave his office in the middle of a meeting.Though opinion on his persona is divided, a few doubt the intellectual rigour of the low-profile bureaucrat who has 36 years of service under his belt and the reputation of being a stickler to the rule book. Yet, he finds himself in the crosshairs of an unsavoury and unprecedented controversy with nearly three-and-a-half months left for superannuation where senior ministers have given an ultimatum to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to sack him or they would not attend meetings as long as he is there.Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi railed in front of the chief minister against the Karan Avtar’s attitude and body language with the ministers. Before the cabinet meeting, Congress MLA Raja Amrinder Singh Warring also tried to tarnish the officer’s reputation by raking up his son’s alleged business interests in the liquor trade. Karan Avtar also holds the charge of the financial commissioner, taxation, and had the run-in with the ministers over changes proposed in the excise policy to compensate the liquor contractors for the lockdown period.A postgraduate in economics from a top US university, Karan Avtar was handpicked by Amarinder, superseding three of his seniors, and appointed to the top bureaucratic position the day he took the reins of the state in March 2017. The present row is being seen as an embarrassment for the chief minister as he is also the minister in charge of the taxation department.This is not the first time the IAS officer is in the line of fire of the ruling Congress leaders. Three months ago, several party MLAs, who were upset over denial of rooms to them at Punjab Bhawan in New Delhi, spoke out against him in the state assembly during the budget session and pressed for action against the officials for “disrespect” shown to elected representatives.On February 18 also, some ministers had targeted the chief secretary for disallowing the five-day visit of an official delegation led by cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to Dubai despite approval from the chief minister.There has been a tug of war between the CS and the chief minister’s office (CMO) for some time which has come out in the open in the video conferences held during the curfew period. “There are disagreements over the strategy to be adopted during the lockdown. In one instance, orders had to be modified,” said an officer who did not want to be named.Though he appears to enjoy the confidence of the chief minister despite these recent controversies, the turn of events in the past three days, in particular the decision to make Karan Avtar skip Monday’s cabinet meeting, have done irretrievable damage to the institution of chief secretary. “This can never be undone. I never imagined that such a day would come,” said a retired bureaucrat who has held the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/karan-avtar-singh-low-key-bureaucrat-in-high-voltage-row/story-Hr7DyM59Y9WatJVdlfq9YO.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records 782 new cases, 20 deaths||The city recorded 782 Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 14,521. Around 35% of the total cases in the city have been recorded between May 4 and May 11 with 5,083 cases recorded in the period. The city’s death toll due to the pandemic has reached 528.Of the total 14,521 cases across the city, 3,110 patients have recovered from the disease and have been discharged from hospitals, including 106 patients discharged on Monday. According to data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), of the 20 deaths reported on Monday, 14 patients had comorbidities. Ten of the victims were aged above 60 years, eight aged between 40 to 60 years, and two were aged below 40 years.The city’s worst-affected area, Dharavi, is inching towards the 1,000 mark with the total number of cases reaching 916 with 57 new cases recorded on Monday. For Dharavi, the death toll is at 29 as on Monday. The G north ward, which covers Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar, has one of the highest numbers of cases among all wards as 1,167 cases have been reported in the ward so far.In the case of Mahim, 18 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 137, whereas the total cases in Dadar was 114 with five more people testing positive on Monday. So far, seven deaths have been reported in Mahim and six in Dadar.Meanwhile, three of staff members of the Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), who had tested positive for Covid-19, have recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Monday. Till date, 22 BEST employees have been treated and discharged while five employees have died due to the disease.As the total number of cases crossed 14,000 in Mumbai, the BMC has increased the number of containment zones to 2,643. The zones are demarcated wherever a positive case or suspected cases are found and the area is sealed with the help of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-782-new-cases-20-deaths/story-k9Yj3f997wfZX8VscnCZRO.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Business on mind, delegation from Thailand to visit UP in Oct||A delegation of entrepreneurs from Thailand will visit Uttar Pradesh in October to explore the possibilities of investment and sign memorandum of understandings (MoUs) in various fields with the state government.The confirmation in this regard came from former deputy prime minister of Thailand Mark Dabbarasi during a webinar (online conference) with Siddharth Nath Singh, UP minister of MSME, investment and export promotion on Monday.Navneet Sehgal, principal secretary, MSME, was also present.“A delegation of entrepreneurs from Thailand will visit Uttar Pradesh in October,” Dabbarasi told Singh while showing interest in exploring the investment opportunities in Uttar Pradesh.The former deputy PM of Thailand showed special interest in new industrial and investment policy of Uttar Pradesh.“The OTOP program of Thailand is same as the ODOP project of Uttar Pradesh,” Dabbarasi said.The OTOP means ‘One tambon (block) one product’ in Thailand.Dabbarasi suggested that entrepreneurs from his country would like to set up food processing clusters in Uttar Pradesh.Singh apprised Dabbarasi about merits of Uttar Pradesh and ongoing construction of Asia’s largest Jewar airport and other 11 small airports across the state to improve air connectivity.Singh also informed Dabbarasi about the ongoing expressway projects and relaxation in labour laws to help various businesses and industries set up their units in the state.Sehgal informed Dabbarasi about 90 lakh MSMEs in Uttar Pradesh and availability of land in the state for new enterprises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/business-on-mind-delegation-from-thailand-to-visit-up-in-oct/story-6ACCZEBGGva1o9MQWEF6eO.html
12-05-2020||City||Delhi-Jalandhar side of NH-44 opened for traffic||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has opened the Delhi-Jalandhar side, near Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital, of NH-44 flyover (part of Jalandhar-Panipat project) for traffic. Member of the Punjab road safety council, Rahul Verma, said, “One side of the highway was opened for traffic on Sunday evening and it is expected that the other side would be opened on Tuesday. Now, the residents coming from Jalandhar side would not be able to move into the city from Sherpur Chowk and will have to exit from Tibba road exit point. With the completion of this flyover, the traffic is expected to increase at Samrala Chowk, but we are also working to find a solution for the same.”As per information, the flyover project had to be completed by March 31, but it was stopped after the curfew was imposed in the state. The construction work commenced amid the lockdown on April 23 after the administration gave the approval with the condition that the contractors and NHAI would have to follow the guidelines issued by the government. The project has been hanging fire for around nine years.JAGRAON BRIDGE PROJECT MOVES AT SLOW PACEThe officials of the Jagraon bridge project said that the non-availability and irregular supply of construction material has brought down the pace of the project. One of the contractor’s staff members, requesting anonymity, said, “We are not getting proper supply of raw materials and we cannot deploy more labour at the site due to the conditions imposed by the administration regarding social distancing.”Earlier, the authorities had set April 14 as the deadline for the project, but the construction work was stopped after the curfew was imposed in the state. The work restarted on April 29 and it is said that the project would be complete by June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-jalandhar-side-of-nh-44-opened-for-traffic/story-Oi6Af1K9o48k3jQVukCZZJ.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Vande Bharat flights bring over 3,900 stranded Indians back home||Over 3,900 Indian nationals stranded abroad have been flown back to the country in the past two days. As part of the government’s Vande Bharat mission, national carrier Air India (AI) has operated as many as 23 inbound and 25 outbound repatriation flights between May 8 and 10. These flights have flown more than 4,700 stranded passengers to and from the country.On May 9, AI operated six inbound flights, carrying 1,165 passengers, and its subsidiary Air India Express operated 10 flights with 1,626 passengers.On May 10, five AI flights landed with 757 passengers and two Air India Express flights brought back 350 passengers. The outbound flights on these two days carried 833 passengers from India to various destinations. Nine Air India flights carried 435 passengers on May 9, and four flights carried 385 passengers on May 10. Ten outbound Air India Express flights were operated on May 9, however, they carried a total of only 13 passengers out of the country. Two of these flights flew empty on May 10, to fly stranded Indians back.The Airports Authority of India (AAI) appreciated the efforts of the airport management, doctors and paramedics of Airport Health Organisation (APHO) and local civic and transport department of the states. “In Mumbai, the passenger process was completed within three hours, which was possible with coordination between senior-level officials from various ministries of the government and the Maharashtra state government,” said the AAI spokesperson. Since Sunday, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has seen five aircraft landing with 934 Indians. Starting on May 10, the airport will cater to a total of 2,350 passengers rescued from foreign countries and will handle 10 arrivals and six transit flights.IMA: compulsory swab tests for passengers The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking compulsory swab tests of all passengers returning to India. “All passengers arriving in the state should undergo a swab test- RT-PCR on arrival and [be] sent to quarantine. This will take care of the untraced persons with or without symptoms,” reads the letter by Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vande-bharat-flights-bring-over-3-900-stranded-indians-back-home/story-0BYq0436uzgpqfmQbeagYL.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||29.56% of Covid-19 deaths in India from Mumbai, Pune||As India’s battle with Covid-19 continues, Mumbai and Pune have emerged as hotspots, accounting for 29.56% of the total deaths in the country.As per Union Health Ministry data, India’s total coronavirus-related deaths reached 2,212 on Sunday (May 10), of which, Mumbai accounts for almost 22.96% (508) and Pune for 6.60% (146). To reduce the number of deaths related to coronavirus in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to use a three-fold strategy. “The civic body has decided to screen patients by using X-ray and CT scans for early detection of the disease. Secondly, we have decided to use the Itolizumab drug which showed good results. For the third part of the strategy, we are preparing beds ready with oxygen supply,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.BMC has now also concentrated its efforts on house-to-house surveillance to detect cases as early as possible. Considering the vulnerability of senior citizens, the civic body has deployed special teams of doctors for the surveillance of senior citizens. To date, the civic body has screened more than 70,000 senior citizens.In Pune, 2,377 Covid-19 positive cases and 146 deaths have been recorded. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed 350 teams to measure the blood oxygen level of senior citizens and people with comorbidities, as these two groups are more vulnerable to the virus.Speaking to HT, PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “In most of the Covid-19 deaths, it was found that the oxygen level in the blood was very low. Mainly senior citizens and people will comorbidities.” The 350 teams formed by PMC are equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers which will help with early detection and reduce mortality, Gaikwad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/29-56-of-covid-19-deaths-in-india-from-mumbai-pune/story-2gjAcEx5Wzj89sBQQZgZbJ.html
12-05-2020||City||J&K reports one death, 18 fresh cases||A 60-year-old man died of Covid- 19, while18 fresh cases were detected in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, taking the death toll to 10 and tally of positive cases to 879 in the Union Territory. The man who died had already lost his 34-year-old son to the respiratory disease four days ago. This is the first case of two Covid-19 deaths from a family in the UT. An Old City resident in Srinagar, the 60-year-old was a cancer patient and was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 8, a day after his son had died on May 7, during his stay at the oncology department of a super specialty hospital in Srinagar. He was currently being treated for the virus at Chest Diseases Hospital here. The man’s 34-year-old son had died after contracting the disease while attending his father at the super speciality hospital.“The elderly man died because of Covid-19, but he was a stage-four pancreatic cancer,” said Saleem Tak, CD Hospital medical superintendent. This was ninth death in Kashmir where four people had died in Srinagar alone, while one person has lost life to the virus in Jammu. Meanwhile, of the 18 fresh infections, 12 were reported from Kashmir division—Kulgam and Baramulla districts—where the tally has risen to 802 and six people have tested positive in Jammu and Kathua districts.Officials said 44 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in Kashmir. So far, 372 in Kashmir and 55 in Jammu division have recovered.At present, active cases in Kashmir stand at 421 and 21 in Jammu.Till date, 95,419 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance— 22,708 in home quarantine, 190 in hospital quarantine and 10,188 under home surveillance. Besides, 61,881 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.On Sunday, 25 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the UT. A 34-year-old man from Old City had died due to the disease on May 7, while an elderly woman from Srinagar’s Batpora in Dal Lake area had succumbed earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-reports-one-death-18-fresh-cases/story-YMyfzW2f06dsTohlvvT2LM.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||934 Indians land at Mumbai airport, quarantined in hotels||Around 934 Indians who were stranded in various countries including the USA, UK, Singapore, Philippines, and Bangladesh, have landed at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in the past two days, as part of the Central government’s Vande Bharat mission.These passengers were stranded due to travel restrictions imposed following the Covid-19 pandemic. Additionally, 319 more passengers are expected to land in Mumbai on Tuesday at 12.15am from Newark in the US via an Air India flight.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, none of the screened passengers have been admitted to hospitals, but are being quarantined in 88 hotels across the city, as per the passenger’s budget. Passengers from other cities or districts are being transported to their hometowns via ST buses.A BMC official said, “Considering all passengers are screened at their respective international destinations before boarding the flights, we have not found any passenger with symptoms.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are sending all those from Mumbai to hotels for institutional quarantine, and those who will report symptoms at the airport will be sent to isolation wards in hospitals. Those who belong to other cities or districts are sent to their respective districts via ST buses by the collector’s office, after arranging travel permissions.”On Monday, three Air India flights landed in the city from Manila (150 passengers); San Francisco (105 passengers); Dhaka (107 passengers). Around 120 other passengers on the flight from San Francisco were flown to Hyderabad. On Sunday, two Air India flights landed from London (329 passengers), and Singapore (243 passengers).Of the total passengers who landed in Mumbai, 65 have been sent to Pune; 16 to Amravati, Beed, Akola, Aurangabad, Gondia, Goa, and Ahmednagar, on Sunday. On Monday, around 107 passengers were sent via ST buses to Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Solapur, Sangli, Washim, Kolhapur, Satara, Parbhani, Jalna, Raigad, Latur, Akola, and Palghar.All passengers were also asked to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application once they landed at Mumbai airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/934-indians-land-at-mumbai-airport-quarantined-in-hotels/story-IlhCtUzorOHNRSWf2Q0DaP.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 1,000 coronavirus cases for 6th day in a row||Maharashtra recorded 1,230 Covid-19 cases on Monday, the sixth day in a row a four-digit increase in infections has been reported, taking the tally to 23,401. The state has crossed the 23,000 mark 11 days after it went past the 10,000 mark on April 30.The death toll in the state reached 868 with 36 fatalities recorded on Monday. Of them, 20 are in Mumbai, five in Solapur, three in Pune, two in Thane and one each in Ratnagiri, Amravati, Nanded, Aurangabad and Wardha. One patient from Uttar Pradesh died in the city on Monday.In Mumbai, the worst-hit city in the country, the case count crossed 14,000 as 782 cases were registered in a day, the second-highest single-day figure so far. The city’s case count is now 14,521. On Sunday, 875 cases were recorded. The death toll of Mumbai is 528. Between April 19 and 30, the state was getting around 500 new cases daily, but from May 1, the figures started showing a significant rise. In the past 11 days, the state has reported as many as 12,903 cases, whereas the total number of cases registered in April was 10,201.The state reported 1,233 infections on May 6, 1,216 on May 7, 1,089 on May 8, 1,165 on May 9 and 1,278 on May 10. Besides, on May 10, the state also declared an additional 665 cases, saying that they were registered in the past few days and are being declared as per the Central government’s directive to bring the data at par with the national figures on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website. The officials indicated a further rise in cases and said that curve will flatten only after May 17, when the state will complete its fourth incubation period. They are expecting a decline in cases from this month-end.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said, “The containment areas have a huge population and are likely to affect a large number of people for various reasons. So the number of new cases is likely to increase for a few more days till May 17. After this, the curve will flatten as by then we will be completing the fourth incubation period and the number of fresh cases will start coming down by this month-end.”“By next month, we are expecting that things will be completely under control,” he added.The first case in the state was detected on March 9 and it took 30 days for the state to cross the 1,000 mark.So far, 15,192 people have been kept in institutional quarantine in the state and over 2,48,301 people have been put under home quarantine. On Monday, the state also completed 49 days of lockdown that was imposed from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in areas where there are no cases or are minimal in number.On Monday, the health department said it has conducted 2,18,914 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 1,93,457 people tested negative. This is 19,852 less than what was declared on Sunday when the state declared to have tested 2,38,766 samples. It has clarified that they have declared figures, following the ICMR website.“Today, the state government has quoted sample-testing figures posted on ICMR’s portal, which is the reason there is disparity in figures compared to Sunday. It may have happened that many laboratories have not updated their figures on the ICMR website. We will ask them to do so that the difference in the number of sample testings will be removed,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, directorate of state health services.State currently has 1,256 active containment zones. Around 12,027 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 53.71 lakh people.Meanwhile, 4,786 patients have recovered across the state, with 587 recovering on Monday.The doubling rate in the state now stands at 10 days. The state government has decided to take the rate to 20 days in the days to come, said the health minister Rajesh Tope. The state government had also resolved to bring the entire state into the green zone by this month-end.The state government has recently changed the top brass of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as the situation in Mumbai has gone bad. It transferred Praveen Pardeshi and appointed IS Chahal as new BMC commissioner. The government has also appointed Sanjeev Jaiswal and Ashwini Bhide as additional municipal commissioners, replacing AB Jarhad and Jayshree Bhoj.As of now, Gadchiroli is the only district out of Maharashtra’s 36 that does not have a single case, after a case and a death was recorded in Wardha district on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-1-000-cases-for-6th-day-in-a-row/story-EFc352hzCAfo2tv1BL9WjM.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||27% increase in city’s containment zones; T and F/N wards witness over 100% hike||In one week, the number of containment zones in the city has increased by 27% on average, with more than a 100% increase in F/N (Wadala-Matunga) and T (Mulund) wards where there has been a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases.An analysis of the data released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that F/N ward had 48 containment zones till May 5, which have now increased to 116. Similarly, T ward had 14 containment zones, which has increased to 29. There are currently 2,643 containment zones in the city as compared to 2,083 on May 5.In 17 of the total 24 wards in the city, more than 50% of the areas have been identified as congested by the civic body, making it difficult to follow social distancing norms. The BMC defines containment zones as “places where positive (cases) have been detected and that surrounding area have been sealed to protect everyone inside and outside from further spread (of Covid-19)”.The highest number of containment zones continues to be in L ward (Kurla), where there are 278 containment zones, of which, 81% are in congested areas. G/N ward (Dadar) has 273 containment zones, of which 155 or 57% are in congested spaces.The number of containment zones has gone down by 20% and 24% in the M/E and M/W wards respectively, which consist of areas like Chembur, Govandi, Mankhurd, Shivaji Nagar, and Deonar.A recent individual analysis by a Mumbai-based urban designer notes that 25% of Mumbai’s population is now living in containment zones. Abhijit Ekbote mapped the containment zones on Google Maps based on BMC data. He noted that 1,244 hectare of slum area is under containment by overlaying the spots on the slum rehabilitation authority’s (SRA) map.“SRA identifies slums as 500 tenements per hectare. So, with an average of five people per tenement, we can say that 31 lakh people are now living in containment zones, which as per the 2011 census, makes it 25% of the city’s population,” Ekbote said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/27-increase-in-city-s-containment-zones-t-and-f-n-wards-witness-over-100-hike/story-Qf8Kr9xkPOvde9ulFEocfK.html
12-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: Doctors among 100 DMCH staffers quarantined||Day after a ward boy of the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) tested Covid-19 positive, as many as 100 staff members, including doctors, nurses and para-medical staff, have been quarantined.The hospital authorities said their testing would be carried out as per the protocol.The ward boy, 31, a resident of Haibowal, was tested positive on Sunday. Soon after the news broke, panic gripped patients and staffers.Medical superintendent Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, however, said, “The patients need not fear as 100 staffers of the hospital have been quarantined for testing.” Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “The reports of all the 128 samples sent for testing on Sunday have come out negative, so the total number of positive patients of the district now stands at 135. As many as 109 samples were sent for testing on Monday.” Eighty rapid response teams conducted screening of 351 residents on Monday, out of which 305 were quarantined, said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doctors-among-100-dmch-staffers-quarantined/story-qi7krV5iS9Kk2YtSX388lL.html
12-05-2020||Lucknow||Agra: School students hail corona warriors||Over six lakh students of the secondary education department (UP Board), Agra division, hailed corona warriors for their relentless works during the lockdown by posting paintings, voice messages and photographs on social media groups, on Monday. Joint director of secondary education department, Agra, Mukesh Agrawal said, “About six lakh students thanked the corona warriors, working day and night to protect us. Many corona warriors are parents of these school children as well, so this initiative will boost morale of their parents.”Students sent messages at sharp 12pm on WhatsApp groups of teachers which they created to teach students online. “In Agra division, online classes are going on since the first phase of lockdown. Around 30,000 WhatsApp groups were created to teach students online during the lockdown in Agra division,” he shared. Students of NCC, NSS and scouts and guides also took part in the initiative and shared their messages in praise of doctors, nursing staff, police personnel and others. “The aim of the initiative was to boost morale of those who are relentlessly working to save people from the Covid-19 infection,” said Agrawal.YOGESH DUBEY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/agra-school-students-hail-corona-warriors/story-gHSTwIeX2bXobnEV5KLFVN.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC says new testing protocol will free up more beds when cases peak||With the Centre’s new guidelines for testing and discharge of Covid-19 positive patients being implemented, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) expects to free up more Covid-19 care beds at quarantine centres and hospitals. This will also help ration available testing kits and reduce the amount of time needed for test results after a swab is collected.The Centre on Friday revised pre-discharge testing rules for Covid-19 patients, eliminating the need for a double negative test result (two consecutive test results show negative for a patient). According to these guidelines, patients showing mild to moderate symptoms no longer need to be tested before they are discharged from the hospital, and patients showing severe symptoms need to record only one negative test result.Patients are discharged provided they show no fever for three consecutive days and oxygen saturation above 94% for four days. In the case of patients with severe symptoms, and those with co-morbidities, they will not be discharged until complete resolution of symptoms and clinical recovery.Daksha Shah, Deputy Health officer with BMC said, “These guidelines have been communicated with all hospitals and covid-care centres, and implementation is starting soon.” As per guidelines, once released, patients are required to go through mandatory isolation at home, and follow up tele-conference health check-up.“We may be able to free up beds three to four days earlier. It is reducing the stress on testing capacity. With reduced testing burden, results of those who need it are coming sooner,” said a senior civic official. Presently, it takes anywhere between 12 to 24 hours for a test result to arrive after a swab is given. Two to three weeks ago, BMC had already started testing asymptomatic patients and patients showing mild and moderate symptoms, only once before discharge.“A per the task force recommendations, BMC on May 1 had already begun discharging asymptomatic patients and those showing mild symptoms on the results of one test being negative before discharge. This has helped considerably in patient-bed management,” said Shah. Even as experts have given mixed reactions to the new development, BMC believes it will reduce the burden on Covid care centres and hospitals and will be most useful when cases peak in Mumbai and demand for beds increases.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the health department, said, “There is a scientific rationale to this decision. It is not meant for reducing the load. That is only a collateral benefit. Whatever symptoms are to be developed, in more than 70% of the patients, symptoms develop on the sixth or seventh day. As per those guidelines, if on the seventh, eighth, or ninth day no symptoms are developed, then on the 10th day, the patient can be discharged without testing.”However, Rajendra Dhage, a city-based health activist, said, “There is no proof that asymptomatic persons do not spread the virus. Without testing, if you let people go out, there is going to be a problem.”Sanjay Pattiwar, another public health expert, said, “There is a boon in this and a small catch. The government was not able to cope with the high number of tests, viz-a-viz availability of kits. There is a small issue as some patients may be positive even after 14 days, but the government is not testing them before discharge. However, the government is asking them to quarantine at home, so the responsibility of their health will be taken by the patient. In turn, the load on public beds is reduced and tests are rationed.” Experts have also pointed to the need of local governments to tweak the policy for slums and high population density areas, where patients remain in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-says-new-testing-protocol-will-free-up-more-beds-when-cases-peak/story-EtqIDM2aiKR6zUw2pPkk5L.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Train bookings for special train between Mumbai Central and New Delhi full||The special train between Mumbai Central and New Delhi railway stations was completely booked within two hours of the railways opening the booking on Monday. The special train has been booked completely up to Sunday.The bookings for the train tickets started on Monday at 6pm and the tickets were available only on the Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website. No waitlisting tickets are being allowed by the railways. Tickets for May 18 were also booked completely by late Monday evening.“The air-conditioned first, second and third-class tickets have been booked. There was a huge demand on the website,” said a Western Railway official.The special train between Mumbai and New Delhi will start on Tuesday. The train will depart from Mumbai Central railway station at 5.30pm and will be operated every day. The train will have 20 coaches and will halt at Surat, Vadodara, Ratlam and Kota railway stations between Mumbai Central and New Delhi railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/train-bookings-for-special-train-between-mumbai-central-and-new-delhi-full/story-q3JUgYZon27BBDbVochoEO.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||All states told to allow opening of clinics and labs: Centre to Punjab and Haryana HC||All states have been asked to allow opening of health clinics and labs and unhindered movement of health professionals, the Centre on Monday told Punjab and Haryana high court. The information in this regard was submitted by additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain during the resumed hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL). Jain referred to a letter written by home secretary Ajay Bhalla on May 11, in which states were told that field officials should allow movement of health professionals, nurses, paramedical staff and sanitation workers, and ensure that all private clinics, nursing homes and labs resume their work. Health workers’ intersate movement too should be facilitated, the Centre’s letter says.The PIL was filed by a lawyer, Ferry Sofat, who had contended that although the government and some private hospitals are equipped to treat the Covid-19 patients, those suffering from other serious ailments/diseases are not being extended the necessary medical assistance. The state government too had denied the claims in the petition.The Centre’s communication underlines that the services of health staff is very crucial for immunisation programme and handling of vector-borne disease, other seasonal diseases and meeting other non-covid emergencies. Any restriction could lead to severe constraints in rendering Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 duties, it adds. The PIL was disposed of in view of statements from Centre and Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-states-told-to-allow-opening-of-clinics-and-labs-centre-to-punjab-and-haryana-hc/story-vjHmj3Xs9xp2t4c7A4Z7DK.html
12-05-2020||City||Costing Rs 26,000 per day to admn, tent at Ludhiana railway station in disuse for past five days||The district administration has suffered a loss of Rs 1.3 lakh in five days due to the carelessness of some of its officers. They had installed a big tent at the railway station here to protect the migrant labourers, being sent to their native places in special trains, from the scorching heat at an exorbitant rent rate of Rs 26,000 per day, but the tent has not been in use during the past five days.Shramik trains to send the labourers to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, were started on May 5 from the railway station here.The railway station made entry arrangements for labourers from the main gate side for two days (on May 5 and 6). So the tent was also installed on this side.But sensing the large number of labourers, the station authorities chose the rear side of the station, the Guru Nanak Stadium side, for entry of labourers from May 7. So, the administration also shifted the arrangements from the Guru Nanak Stadium side, but no one bothered to remove the tent, which has been not in use since then. Hence, the mere wastage of rent money.Railway officials said they had informed the administration of change in the entry point, but they have no idea why the administration has not removed the tent from the stadium side.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, headquarters) Deepak Pareek, when reminded of the futility of the tent, said he would ask the officials to remove the tent and return it to the tent house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/costing-rs-26-000-per-day-to-admn-tent-at-ludhiana-railway-station-in-disuse-for-past-five-days/story-qkuptjFNwqFyqwIQBUTuyK.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-Haryana CM Hooda questions liquor trade during lockdown||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said that irregularities pertaining to liquor sale in Haryana were not limited to just one warehouse, but had larger ramifications. “The SIT formed to probe the scam should also examine how the sale of liquor was going on in Haryana even though the liquor vends were closed. Who was leading this illegal sale and whose patronage did the perpetrators enjoy?” he asked during an interaction with mediapersons. The leader of the opposition also asked the state government to withdraw restrictions on paddy cultivation. Hooda said this was a time to fight coronavirus and not raise disputes. Hooda said he strongly opposed the government’s decision to restrict paddy sowing in 19 blocks. “It is important to worry about groundwater level, but for this, the government should also take effective steps that will help solve the problem. It should restart the Dadupur Nalvi water recharge project and efforts should be made to bring SYL water. A plan should be made to bring water to Hansi-Butana canal and switch to drip irrigation systems,” he added. HARYANA FORMS PROBE TEAMMeanwhile, Haryana government on Monday constituted a special inquiry team (SET) headed by ACS, power, TC Gupta to probe the theft of liquor stored in a warehouse at Sonepat’s Kharkhauda. The probe team will submit its report by May 31. ADGP, vigilance bureau, Subhash Yadav and additional excise and taxation commissioner Vijai Singh will be the team members as per the home department orders. The SET will check the actual availability of liquor stocks in all warehouses sealed by the excise department during the last two years for any violation. It will also examine the cases of seizure of illicit/ non-excise duty paid liquor in Haryana between April 2019 and March 2020, both by the police and excise departments separately, with special reference to action and fines imposed by the excise department following recovery of liquor. The probe team will also collect and collate the results of investigation of the FIRs registered from March 15, 2020 till April 10 for pilferage of liquor from L-1 and L-13 godowns and also from the police ‘malkhanas’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-haryana-cm-questions-liquor-trade-during-lockdown/story-HJUMooAID7WgKBTbjNah2M.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM urges Centre to allow states to decide resumption of activities in red, orange zones||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday urged the central government to allow the states to resume the activities in red, orange and green zones as per their own volition. He said an exception should be made in the containment zones, where no activity can be allowed.The chief minister raised these issues during a video meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers of all states. Khattar said in this hour of crisis, the amendments in labour laws should not become a matter of competition among the states. He assured the PM that efforts will be made to bring the gross domestic product (GDP) rate of Haryana in the second quarter of 2020-21 fiscal to the level of the second quarter of the last financial year.The CM informed that about 14 lakh industrial workers out of about 24 lakh labourers working in 35,000 factories have returned to work. He also urged the Centre to consider opening schools, colleges and educational institutions running professional courses with 50% limit to maintain social-distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cm-urges-centre-to-allow-states-to-decide-resumption-of-activities-in-red-orange-zones/story-T1lPGYHtTYoQ39gswc1d7L.html
12-05-2020||Pune||340 migrant workers, cleared to travel back home, refuse to leave Pune||With Maharashtra industries minister Subhash Desai, stating that at least 25,000 small and medium industries have resumed operations in Maharashtra, at least 300 migrant workers cleared for travel back to their home towns, refused to board trains taking them out of Pune.On Sunday, 300 migrant workers with permission to board the Shramik Special train from Daund in Pune to Madhya Pradesh, did not report at departure, the civic administration and police staff at the station confirmed.In a separate instance, 40 workers did not board a train to Uttarakhand from Pune on Monday; a sign, district collector Naval Kishore Ram, said is “positive and encouraging”.“Many of these migrant workers told us that the industries they work have resumed operations and therefore, they are unwilling to go back. It’s a good sign things are moving back to normal,” said Ram. According to Ram, as many as 12,421 migrant workers have returned to their native places from Pune in the last few days through the Shramik Special trains.The workers, who were to board train at Daund, were among a group of of 1,172 migrants cleared to head home from the Kurkumbh industrial area.“With the MIDC area here reopening, many of these workers, originally from Madhya Pradesh, have chosen not to move,” said Sanjay Patil, tehsildar, Daund.In Pune city also, partial resumption of economic activity has slowed down requests from workers wanting to return home, said a contractor, requesting anonymity.“Many of my relatives and friends are willing to go back to their villages, but I do not want to go back. We have faced a lot of trouble in the last two months, but now slowly, work is starting. If we stay back here, we will get money and can help our family financially from here,” said Sonu Shukla, a worker from Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh.Shukla, along with others from Uttar Pradesh, is employed at a construction site in Katraj.“We do the plaster of paris (POP) work at construction sites and all of us have decided not to go back. Our family members are regularly in touch with us over the phone and they also told me not to come back,” said Raghavram Prajapati, another worker from the Gonda district in UP.Similarly, a small cement factory on the Kondhwa road has nine workers staying back here in Pune.Umar Khan, one of the workers at this factory said, “We were lucky enough that our factory owner took care of us during the lockdown. He gave us money and food to survive. In fact, in the last couple of days we have started getting orders from our clients. So the work has begun.”For Narendra Mishra, a security guard working at one of the banks on Satara road, who hails from Muzaffarpur, Bihar, it’s difficult to return back home.“I want to go back home, but as I need the money, I will not go back. I am the only bread earner in my family and if I go back, there will no financial support to us, so I have decided to stay back here in Pune and work for my children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/at-least-340-workers-cleared-for-travel-back-to-home-towns-refuse-to-leave/story-muy8hAz5oYnBsvCc34ioLI.html
12-05-2020||Pune||Mayor installs washing machine at Pune’s Naidu hospital after laundry men use bare hands to wash clothes||For two Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) laundry workers, washing clothes belonging to Covid-19 positive patients with their bare hands had become a part of the routine at the Naidu hospital.When the city’s mayor Murlidhar Mohol found out about the absence of a washing machine, he had it installed immediately. “We are taking so much care about ourselves but these laundry men are washing positive patients’ clothes manually. I immediately asked the store department head Srinivas Kandul to purchase an industrial washing machine for Naidu hospital. Despite lockdown, the administration managed to procure it from the mayor’s fund,” Mohol said. Brothers Sanjay and Sham Pardeshi landed the laundry jobs at Naidu hospital after their mother who was working with PMC passed away in 2003. “Now, I have an industrial washing machine where 50 bed sheets or blankets can be washed at a time. But I still need to physically go to each ward and collect the soiled clothes,” Sanjay Pardeshi said. The brothers are expected to clean hospital bed sheets, pillow covers and other clothes. “Since Naidu Hospital began serving people, our family is doing laundry work at the hospital. Though the hospital is run by a civic body, the business of washing clothes is with our family only. My father and mother both were serving here,” Sanjay Pardeshi said. The civic body has also added a drying machine to their inventory recently but it hasn’t been installed yet. “Every day I am going to Covid-19 wards and collecting clothes. Earlier, there was a slight fear but now I have become used to it and take necessary care to clean the clothes,” Sanjay said. According to him, as a government employee he doesn’t have an option to deny doing work during a pandemic. “I worked here during swine flu, Sars and now Covid-19, I use to even clean tuberculosis patients’ clothes regularly so there is no fear,” he added. The Pardeshi brothers wash clothes, dry it and send them to the Covid-19 wards the following day, these include clothes of resident doctors at the hospital as well. “We are 17 members in our family who are living together at the Naidu hospital quarters. We are a joint family. We were four brothers but two passed away but their family is also with us,” Sanjay Pardeshi said. When asked whether he fears for his life, Pardeshi said his family has been serving at the Naidu hospital for the last 100 years since the hospital’s foundation. “The hospital is meant to look after the sick and we are used to it. After any new disease, first patient arrives at this hospital and we are mentally prepared to carry out this work by taking necessary precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayor-installs-washing-machine-at-hospital-after-laundry-men-use-bare-hands-to-wash-clothes/story-ozc0f8HQr2nsQQlLipt7jL.html
12-05-2020||Pune||Newspaper vendors resume distribution in Pune||Printing and distribution of newspapers in Pune began on Monday, after a break of two weeks. The circulation was disrupted following the myth that Covid-19 spreads via newspapers.The Pune Newspaper Vendor Association said that scientific research has proven that the virus does not survive on porous surfaces. It appealed to residential co-operative housing societies that they must open their doors for newspaper delivery executives and vendors. Vijay Parge, president, Pune Newspaper Vendor Association, said that the distribution will continue unless an order to the effect is issued by the state government. The newspaper distribution was disrupted for at least four weeks in April and May. “On Monday, 12,500 delivery persons and 2,500 vendors were involved in the circulation. We do not know till when the lockdown will continue, hence, we resumed the distribution. We received a mixed response as some residential societies did not allow the vendors to enter,” said Parge.The vendor association distributes at least 15 lakh newspapers belonging to 70 different publications in the city, according to PargeNitin Parmar, secretary, Blue Turquoise Society in Undri, said “We support newspaper distribution. The residents need to know what is happening around them and print media is still considered to be the most authentic source of information for a number of residents.”Earlier, distribution was stopped by vendors in the last week of March because of the fear of spread of Covid-19. Many housing societies also did not allow vendors on their premises. In the absence of a distribution network, newspaper owners also stopped publication. After a coordination meeting between owners and distributors, safety measures for newspaper delivery were decided and distribution had resumed from April 1. However, it was stopped again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/newspaper-vendors-resume-distribution-in-city/story-6ehe726iwOhSTUhBQyhCGJ.html
12-05-2020||Pune||Konkan farmers use direct sale to ensure mango supply is sweet during lockdown||Maharashtra’s mango crop is not going to waste. Despite lockdown restrictions across the state, farmers from the Konkan area, the heartland of mango cultivation, are now selling directly to consumers to ensure consumers do not miss out on the summer fruit.“Farming of mangoes is our traditional business and there was a system in place to send mangoes to various parts of the country. This year, due to lockdown, transport of mangoes is difficult. So we decided to take to social media and appeal to residential housing societies to order in bulk. Accordingly, mangoes will be sent directly to that particular society from us, and this model is working well now,” said Vilas Gaikwad, a farmer from Ratnagiri district.“We are getting a good response from Pune, Mumbai, Nashik and other parts of the state. It also becomes easy for us to do business during this crisis situation,” Gaikwad adds.Another mango farmer from Devgadh in Konkan, Mangesh Parchure, said, “As we are under lockdown for more than two months now, sending mangoes to our regular traders in Pune and Mumbai is not possible. At most places, the local Agricultural produce market committees (APMC) are closed. We approached our friends and relatives in these cities and started sending mangoes on individual orders to their homes in housing societies. The orders increased and now we are sending two trucks of mangoes every week to Pune and Mumbai.”Citizens from the city have also appreciated this method of selling mangoes directly to customers.Namrata Kashid, a resident of Sahakarnagar in Pune said, “There are 48 flats in our society and almost everyone wanted to buy mangoes. We contacted one of the mango farmers from Ratnagiri and gave a bulk order. Within a week he sent the mangoes directly to the society gate and gave a good rate to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/konkan-farmers-take-the-direct-to-consumer-route-to-ensure-mango-supply-is-sweet-during-lockdown/story-2FFyhgRwnx4vYA7Bsu9c9H.html
12-05-2020||Pune||Five deaths, 91 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Pune on May 11||PUNE The city on Monday reported 91 fresh cases and five deaths caused due to Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.The positive progressive count now stands at 2,573 and death count is 149, according to officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department.As many as 1,089 people have been discharged till date after being declared as cured, including the 69 discharged on Monday. Currently, there are 98 critical patients among the 1,335 active cases admitted at the city hospitals.The first death was reported of a 40-year-old male from Bhavani peth. He was admitted at KEM hospital won May 9 and declared dead on the same day. The swab report confirmed the infection on May 10. The patients also suffered from severe acute respiratory distress syndrome.The second includes a 63-year-old male from Padmavati reported from Bharati hospital. He was admitted on Saturday and declared dead on the same day. The patient was reported to also have bilateral pneumonia.The third report was of a 57-year-old male from Bhavani peth reported from YCM hospital. He was admitted on May 8 and declared dead on Monday. The patient also reported having diabetes with hypertension and acute kidney failure IHD with post coronary bypass graft.The fourth deceased was of a 66-year-old female, a resident of Yerawada. She was admitted at Bharti hospital on May 1 and declared dead on Monday. She also suffered from septic shock with MODS, bilateral pneumonia and diabetes and hypertension.The fifth includes that of a 42-year-old male who was brought dead to Sassoon hospital on May 9. He was a resident of Siddharthnagar, Ramwadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-deaths-91-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-on-may-11/story-qXxE8zqo1HAz9IVzKaf4mK.html
12-05-2020||Pune||Sassoon’s BCG clinical trials to treat Covid-19 await patient consent||PUNE Sassoon General Hospital will soon start clinical trials of Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) to treat Covid-19 (coronavirus), patients. The trial is likely to start in a day or two, as the administration is yet to take consent from patients, said officials. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin is used to prevent meningitis.Dr Murlidhar Tambe dean, Sassoon, said, “We have not yet taken consent from the patients who will undergo this treatment. Since it is a clinical trial we will need the consent of the patient who will be given the dose of BCG.”“The hospital is listing and enrolling people who could be given the dose and then study its effects in case it would help in fighting the virus,” he added.A study by researchers in Mumbai’s Haffkine Institute received permission to conduct human trials which will conduct its study in city’s Sassoon hospital. The hospital will the first in the state to carry out trials for the treatment of Covid-19. Although the World Health Organisation (WHO) stated that there is no proof that it would work to control BCG, the study at Haffkine has shown promising results.A similar study in the application of BCG in the treatment and prevention of Covid-19 is underway at Bharati hospital. Dr Sanjay Lalawani, medical director, Bharati Hospital, said, “This is a six-month trial wherein patients who have been exposed to the virus infection, health workers and close contacts of the patient would be given a dose of BCG.”“There will be two groups, one which will receive the dose while the second which will not be given the dose. We will study the effects on both the groups and see if the vaccine works in increasing immunity or not,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sassoon-s-bcg-clinical-trials-to-treat-covid-19-await-patient-consent/story-QgmHpanOxfha5cDeqQ36xK.html
12-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: Kin of deceased daily wager demands financial aid from govt||High drama was witnessed in Rajiv Gandhi Colony on Monday as the family of a daily wager, who had committed suicide, refused to cremate his body demanding financial assistance.On Saturday night, the 38-year-old ended his life by hanging himself after he was unable to procure ration for his family. The family had raised a demand for ₹40 lakh as compensation, which was denied by the authorities.“We will not cremate him till our demand is not met,” they said.However, in a meeting held at Bachat Bhawan on Monday evening, the leaders of migrant labourers agreed to cremate the body after the additional deputy commissioner (ADC) and senior police officials assured them that the administration will write to the state government for the financial aid. RK Yadav, general secretary, Punjab, Samajwadi Party, said, “They have demanded ₹40 lakh for victim’s family, ₹10 lakh each for the wife, mother and two minor sons. They agreed to cremate the body after the ADC assured them that the administration will help them.”He said, “The victim was unemployed since the lockdown was imposed and was making rounds of Focal Point police station since days to get ration. Returning empty-handed, he used to worry about his family. They were running their kitchen by borrowing ration from neighbours.”Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Balwinder Singh Bains from south constituency visited the family and demanded a compensation of ₹50 lakh from the government. He said, “The process of ration distribution is not transparent as people in need are deprived of it.”He demanded a case against the police personnel who denied ration to the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-kin-of-deceased-daily-wager-demands-financial-aid-from-govt/story-y4oGVgosbBu6qy0Q6PeunO.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Why German stuck at Delhi’s IGI airport turned down offer to go home||A 40-year-old German who has been living in the transit area of the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport for the last 55 days turned down an offer go to his home country, and was recently served a “Leave India Notice” by authorities, according to officials familiar with the matter.The officials said that the man, Edgard Ziebat, has said he will leave India as soon as international flights resume after the national lockdown, and wants to stay at the airport until then.HT reported on Monday that Ziebat has been living in the airport since March 18, after he arrived in New Delhi from Hanoi as a transit passenger on his way to Istanbul. March 18 was the day India banned all flights to Turkey to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Four days later, India banned all international flights. Stranded, Ziebat could neither exit India, nor the airport’s transit area, because he does not have an Indian visa. Also Watch | Will PM-CMs decide on lockdown exit & the man living at airport for 2 months An airport official indicated that Ziebat, who has not applied for an Indian visa, was unlikely to get one even if he did because of a prior criminal record in Germany.A spokesman for the German embassy in New Delhi told HT on Monday that Ziebat was offered a passage back to Germany, but he declined the offer.A spokesperson for the embassy said it was “aware of the situation and in contact with relevant authorities and the person in question”. “We have repeatedly offered him a passage back to Germany but he turned down our offers,” the spokesperson added.A second official from the Delhi airport who asked not to be named said Ziebat was issued a Leave India Notice. “He was asked to make arrangements for his departure from the country,” said the officer, adding that the notice was served because an international passenger can normally stay in transit for just one day according to Indian laws.The officer said that Ziebat assured them he will leave as soon as possible, but is waiting for the flight operation to resume. They have found that he has visas of multiple countries, the officer added.Last week, Indian authorities had tried to accommodate Ziebat on a relief flight to Ankara, but Turkish authorities refused to accept him onboard since the flight was only for their citizens or permanent card holders. For the last 55 days, Ziebat has mostly spent his days reading magazines and newspapers, talking to his friends and family ones over phone, eating at some of the fast food outlets when they operational within the terminal, interacting with housekeeping and security staff, taking walks within the transit area, and using the airport’s washrooms.He has been provided with a recliner, mosquito net, toothpaste, food and other basic essentials by the authorities, a third airport official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/german-stuck-at-delhi-s-igi-airport-refused-to-go-home/story-YGHdm1PoqhYT8TVmo0DIMO.html
12-05-2020||Chandigarh||12,000 migrants travel home in 10 Shramik trains from Punjab’s Ferozepur division||Around 12,000 migrants left for their native places on 10 Shramik Special Trains from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar stations of Ferozepur Division on Monday. Since May 5, around 60,000 migrants have been sent to their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh on 50 trains.The 50th train departed from Jalandhar, carrying around 1,200 migrants to Faizabad. The Jaladhar City-Faizabad Shramik Special Express (04680 ) left at 11pm and was the last train of the day.Rajesh Agarwal, divisional railway manager, Ferozepur division, said that till date, 25 trains carrying around 30,000 passengers have departed from Ludhiana while 25,000 migrants have been sent home on 21 trains from Jalandhar and around 5,000 persons left from Amritsar on four trains.NEW DELHI-JAMMU TAWI TRAIN AMONG 30 TRAINS TO RESUME SERVICESThe New Delhi-Jammu Tawi-New Delhi train is one of the 30 trains that will be running as part of the Indian Railways’ decision to gradually resume its services. Running between New Delhi and Jammu Tawi, the train 02425/ 02426 will have only one halt-- at Ludhiana for ten minutes. The first train will depart on Wednesday.Passengers who have to board the train will have to report to the station an hour before departure time.While running towards Jammu Tawi, the train will depart from New Delhi at 9.10pm and will reach Ludhiana at 1.06 am. The train will depart after 10 minutes halt to reach Jammu Tawi at 5.45 am. While returning to New Delhi, the train will leave from Jammu Tawi at 8.10pm to reach Ludhiana at 12.05am and will arrive at New Delhi at 5am.Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar said that passengers will have to undergo screening before boarding the train and only those passengers who have tickets will be allowed to enter.As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Railways, the tickets can be booked only online on IRCTC website or through mobile application.The guidelines read that the booking of tickets through agents (both IRCTC agents and railway agents) is not permitted. “Booking of RAC/waiting list ticket and on board booking by ticket checking staff shall not be permitted,” read guidelines.Further, no catering charges are included in the fare as well as the provision of pre-paid meal booking and e-catering is disabled. Passengers will not be provided any blanket or linen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-000-migrants-travel-home-in-10-shramik-trains-from-punjab-s-ferozepur-division/story-t0KpY0Cd5tak8N7sAo0LuN.html
12-05-2020||Gurugram||Three men held for abusing, assaulting and threatening to kill police personnel in Gurugram||Three men were arrested for allegedly abusing, assaulting and threatening to kill police personnel, including the station house officer (SHO) of the sector 17/18 police station after an argument at a containment zone in Sarhaul village, the police said on Monday. According to the police, the men allegedly broke the barricades placed near the containment zone and were loading furniture in their pickup truck when the incident took place.The police said that the arrested men were identified as Suraj, Ravi Kumar and Feroj Alam. All of them are residents of Sarhaul Village. According to the police, they were arrested at the spot.A case was registered against the men under sections 186 (voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 506 (criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 17/18 police station on Sunday. The incident took place on Sunday around 8.50am when a police officer stationed at the containment zone allegedly saw the men breaking the barricades and loading furniture in their pickup truck. According to the police, Krishan Kant, the SHO of the Sector 17/18 police station, reached the spot and tried to stop the men.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “When the police officers tried to stop the men, they began arguing and abusing them. The men then assaulted the officers. They were arrested at the spot.” He added that the police personnel sustained minor injuries and their condition is stable.A police officer privy to the investigation said that the men had also torn the SHO’s uniform and injured a head constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/three-men-held-for-abusing-assaulting-and-threatening-to-kill-police-personnel/story-MPLRZ5zg6rMQuDIcoypy2J.html
12-05-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 lockdown: 1,330 industrial units, businesses given permission to resume activity in Gurugram||The district administration is trying to restart economic activities in the region in a phased manner. From April 20, when the relaxations were introduced, until now, the district administration has granted permission to 1,330 industrial and business units to start operations in Gurugram and Manesar in which 1.06 lakh workers are presently employed, revealed the data shared by the district administration.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageShops and market complexes in urban and rural areas in the city have also been allowed to open in a limited manner with the condition that they meet all the required social distancing norms, said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. “While granting permission to online applications, it has been ensured that all norms for social distancing and sanitisation of work areas are met. To ensure that business activity is resumed and jobs remain safe, we are giving automatic approvals,” said Khatri.Apart from the organised sector, the district administration has also given permission to 96 construction sites where work has started and over 20,000 workers are currently engaged. However, Khatri said that the developers will have to ensure that these workers stay at the site and are provided with food and other facilities. To ensure that construction material, such as bricks are made available locally, the authorities have given permission to seven brick kilns to operate,in which nearly 600 workers are employed.As per the district administration, permission has also been granted to 581 shops in rural areas and 1,243 shops in urban areas to operate partially during the week. However, shops selling non-essential items can remain open for two days in a week, while only shops selling essential commodities are allowed to function throughout the week.The district administration has also started to work on 40 NREGA projects in which 715 workers have been employed till date.A district administration spokesperson said economic activity has started to take off and a message has gone to workers in other states to return to the city as industry is ready to resume operations like before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/1-330-industrial-units-businesses-given-permission-to-resume-activity-so-far/story-5u0zbnZG5WwCgPythjhwAO.html
12-05-2020||City||Four ‘drug peddler’ aides open fire on colony residents in Ludhiana, 55-year-old injured||After residents of Gurbachan Nagar of Daba Colony staged a protest against a woman, infamous as ‘Chitte wali Bhabhi’, accusing her of selling drugs among locals, her four aides opened fire on residents of the locality on late Sunday evening. The accused had allegedly fired three bullets, one of which hit the back of a local.When the residents retaliated, the accused fled leaving behind their motorcycle, which was reportedly torched by the locals later. The locals alleged that the police were hand-in-glove with the accused, as when the miscreants opened fire, some PCR motorcycle squad personnel were present near the spot, but they did not respond.The victim, Nirvair Singh, 55, of Gurbachan Nagar, was rushed to the ESIC hospital, from where he was referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.The Daba police have booked Parminder Kaur, her husband Sunil of Gurcharan Nagar and their unidentified accomplices for attempt to murder, following a complaint by Nirvair Singh.Local Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) worker Sandeep Shukla alleged, “The woman has been selling drugs in the area for long. On Saturday, the locals staged a protest against the woman and the alleged inaction of the police, following which the police conducted a raid at the house of the woman, but she had escaped before the police reached there.”He added, “On Sunday night, four accomplices of the woman struck in the area and opened fire and a bullet hit Nirvair Singh. When people gathered there, the accused fled leaving their motorcycle on the spot, which the agitated locals torched.”Daba station house officer inspector Pavittar Singh said a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-drug-peddler-aides-open-fire-on-colony-residents-in-ludhiana-55-year-old-injured/story-KMyJj5eRYWpQebsHauhtgN.html
12-05-2020||Mumbai||Excavator crashes on under-repair Dombivli rail overbridge||An excavator at work on the under-construction Dombivli rail overbridge (ROB) lost control and fell from a height of 10 feet on Monday.The driver sustained minor injuries. As the excavator fell on Rajaji lane below, it pulled along a slab of the bridge.The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and the Central Railway started the repair work of the Dombivli ROB this month after the bridge was dismantled in 15 days last month. The KDMC said incident won’t affect the repair work of the bridge. “It was a minor accident as the excavator lost balance and crashed on the road below. The driver sustained bruises,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.The bridge was shut in September 2019 after it was declared unsafe by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay in May 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jcb-crashes-on-under-repair-dombivli-rail-overbridge/story-V67ReyAn0rVPnfBsMr2BYP.html
12-05-2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown: Bus union demands permission to ferry stranded migrants in Noida||All India Luxury Bus Union has demanded the government to permit them to ferry stranded people from one place to another. The union has 15,000 buses in different cities and employs over 50,000 people. The union said that, while, on the one hand, people are stranded at different places, scores of bus drivers, helpers and mechanics involved in transport business are jobless.Shyamlal Gola, president All India Luxury Bus Union, said that the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has badly affected the people and the economy. “We have seen that a number of migrant workers, students and others are stranded in different cities. In the absence of public transport vehicles, some of them are walking on foot with their family members. We have asked the government to allow the private buses to ferry these stranded people. We will sanitize the buses and adhere to the social distancing norms,” he said.Gola said that over 50,000 drivers, helpers, mechanics, etc. are associated with the transport business and they are jobless due to the lockdown. “We have supported our employees financially during the lockdown. But the financial burden on transporters is increasing. The government should relax the norms and allow us to function,” he said.Gola said the government is yet to relax norms for transporters, in terms of extending the insurance validity, fitness validity, commercial taxes, even though these vehicles are not plying. “The buses would rust and get technical problems by being grounded for months at one place,” he said. Some transporters have also financed their vehicles and are unable to pay EMIs. The Union has written a letter to the state and central government over the matter.Noida transport department said they have not received any order from government on allowing private buses as of now. Himesh Tiwari, Assistant Regional Transport Officer (enforcement) said the district administration has arranged some roadways buses and sent some stranded people to their home towns from Noida. “There are some more people in these shelter homes. The government is engaging roadways buses to ferry them. We have not received any order to allow these private buses to ply,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bus-union-demands-permission-to-ferry-stranded-migrants/story-arV13HCe564aGEdlKaAjKL.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Mosquito-borne diseases in Capital on the rise||Mosquito-borne diseases in the national Capital are rising at an alarming rate adding to the worries of civic agencies that are struggling to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Until May 9 this year, areas under all five municipal bodies in Delhi—north, south and east corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council, and Delhi Cantonment Board—recorded a significant jump in the number of dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases as compared to the same period last year. All three diseases are transmitted by the Anopheles and Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes.Malaria cases in Delhi have more than quadrupled from four cases, reported between January 1, 2019 and May 9, 2019, to 18 cases reported between the same period this year. The number of chikungunya cases has doubled from five cases last year (till May 9) to 10 cases this year. The number of Dengue cases for the same period has also increased from nine last year to 14 cases this year.Public health experts say the hike in the number of cases can be attributed to “intermittent rain and lower temperatures this year.” “If you look at the weather records, in January and February, Delhi received more than the normal amount of rainfall this year, and in March, it received the highest amount of rainfall in the last ten years (compared to the same corresponding periods),” said Dr RN Singh, senior municipal health officer, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC). “Dust storms, hails and intermittent rains in April have also kept the temperature in the city under control. This resulted in creating conducive habitats for mosquitoes, providing them not only with freshwater puddles but also giving them moisture in the air to survive,” he added.Another municipal doctor, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “Cyclical trends are also a factor to be considered here. Dengue and chikungunya return aggressively after every three or four years because of the change in the prevalent virulent strain. The last time these two diseases were a major concern in Delhi was in 2017.”The Covid-19 pandemic is also posing a challenge to the efforts of the civic bodies to contain mosquito-borne diseases. The domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) can no longer go door-to-door to check coolers and overhead tanks as many residents are not letting them in. Also, a chunk of the DBCs are engaged in disinfection drives by civic bodies wherein sodium hypochlorite is sprayed over residential and public areas to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “We are now majorly dependent on technology—we are sending over 50,000 messages over the phone every week to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), market associations, hotels, etc., and are also circulating self-help videos on preventing breeding of mosquitoes on one’s own premises,” said a New Delhi Municipal Council official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mosquito-borne-diseases-in-capital-on-the-rise/story-dOJwY4WHj2DJBdC26ddYDN.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Rape accused triggers Covid scare in Tihar jail||A man lodged in Tihar jail since Friday for allegedly raping a woman -- investigations are ongoing -- was tested for the coronavirus disease on Sunday after she tested positive during the routine medical examination. Two other inmates of the prison who came in touch with him were also tested. All three tested negative. Officials at the Tihar Prison Complex went into a tizzy Sunday when they were informed by Delhi Police about the woman testing positive. The man was isolated; and two others who had come in touch with him were quarantined. An alert was sounded in the complex. The three prisoners were tested on Sunday and were found negative, officials said , adding the alert in still in effect. The officials said all jail superintendents have been asked to watch for symptoms in prisoners or jail staff. So far, Tihar has not reported any Covid positive case.Tihar houses at least 18,000 prisoners and it is the most crowded prison complex in the country. In Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail where 4,000 prisoners are lodged, within a week of one prisoner contracting the virus, the infection has spread to 184 prisoners and prison staff. Tihar’s additional inspector general Raj Kumar said: “The police sent the rape survivor for the mandatory medical examination. When she tested positive for Covid-19, they alerted us. The rape accused was already in a separate ward for new prisoners. Ever since the breakout of the pandemic, all new inmates are kept in a separate, isolated section for 14 days before being shifted to barracks. The other two prisoners who had come into contact with the accused have also been tested. There is no cause for panic because they were in isolation.” With a spurt in crime cases since last week after the government relaxed norms of the lockdown, the number of new prisoners has also increased. This has prompted jail authorities to use sub-jail 2 as an isolation ward for new inmates. There are 14 jails inside Tihar. According to prison records, last Monday(May 3), 32 new inmates were brought to Tihar; 35 were brought to the prison on Tuesday; and 64 on Wednesday. Between March 25 and May 2, when the complete lockdown was in effect, only 13 new prisoners were being brought in every day on average, said senior jail officials. On some days in April, the prison received only five prisoners.To ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of infection inside the prison, family visits were suspended a week before the nationwide lockdown started on March 25.The prison department also released 2,177 inmates awaiting trial on interim bail on the orders of a court for 90 days; and 1,056 convicts have been released on emergency parole for eight weeks. Sunil Gupta who worked in Tihar jail as a law officer for around three decades, said it is important to keep the jail Covid free, given the large population of inmates in an enclosed space, which makes containment could be a nightmare. “ The prison officers have to be on alert. We have enough cells inside the prison. They must use the cells as isolation wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-accused-triggers-covid-scare-in-tihar/story-5qssZfPRKgm2OH0pK2Gn8O.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Rs 5,000 more for construction workers; Delhi govt to launch fresh registration drive||The Delhi government on Monday said it will disburse Rs 5,000 to all registered construction workers in the city -- just as it did last month -- and launch a fresh 10-day online registration drive from Friday to help more workers benefit from its schemes. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by Delhi labour minister Gopal Rai on Monday. At least 39,600 construction are registered with the Delhi building and other construction workers (BoCW) board.“Workers engaged in construction work in Delhi will once again get Rs 5,000 this month for their sustenance from the Delhi government,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi. The Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union welcomed the move.“Last month, the Delhi government had announced and disbursed a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 to every worker registered with the BoCW board. Today, I took a meeting of the labour department and it has been decided that the same compensation shall be repeated this month as well. So, we will start disbursing the second round of Rs 5,000 to the account of every registered worker from Tuesday,” Rai said.While the Delhi government has allowed construction activity in the city, it has permitted operations only at in-situ projects where workers are available on site, in line with the Union government’s guidelinesThe state labour minister said the government has also decided to start a new registration drive for construction workers, and that this time it will be done online. “We had received a lot of complaints from other workers that they were not able to renew their enrolment and the new ones were finding it difficult to get registered with the Board. Hence, we are changing the registration process which was going on to date,” Rai said. “From May 15, the Delhi government will start an online registration drive for construction workers. A dedicated website for this will also be launched on the same day. With this, any one from anywhere can get register with the Board. This drive will go on till May 25,” he said. The minister explained the process will require an applicant to upload copies of all the required documents. After May 25, the labour department will begin the verification process. Those who submit their applications online will be given an appointment for physical verification of their documents by the department. The person will have to go to a labour department office nearest to him.“The department has been directed to ensure strict social distancing norms during the time when the applicants start visiting the office. A system has been devised in which only 50 applicants will be called every day for verification. At the office, a token system will be enforced to prevent overcrowding or fights,” Rai said.The Delhi Asangathit Nirman Mazdoor Union pointed to the need to expanding the number of registered workers. “Around four years ago, Delhi had over three lakh (300,000) registered workers but now the number has dropped to only about 40,000 because most of them do not renew their enrolment. Construction workers need to renew their enrolment with the BoCW board annually by depositing Rs 20,” said Thaneshwar Adigaur, secretary of the union. Adigaur also said that the government will have to ensure there is no pendency in the number of applications. “There are nine labour offices where applicants will be called. If each office handles even 100 cases every day, there would still be a high possibility that applications would keep pilling up. So, the verification process should be done in a timebound manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rs-5-000-more-for-construction-workers-delhi-govt-to-launch-fresh-registration-drive/story-LbidxRiU0f1kIOjR09ME6N.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Street food vendors to be trained in hygiene, social distancing||Eating street food will not be the same when the lockdown is lifted. To prepare Delhi’s street food vendors for the new normal, the National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) has decided to train them in the measures they need to take while selling food.The training will focus on keeping a separate table next to the cart from where customers can collect food, keeping a water dispenser, wearing protective gear, using disinfectants to keep the cart clean, opting for online payment, home deliveries in nearby areas among other things.The training will be based on guidelines prepared by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for food businesses during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Sangeeta Singh, head of the street food programme at NASVI, said street vendors will have to get used to the “new normal to earn their livelihood”. While there were close to 1.45 lakh authorised street vendors as per government records based on surveys done in 2007 and 2011, their exact number now is not known as no survey has taken place in the recent past. According to NASVI, there are over three lakh vendors (approximately) in Delhi.The training guidelines for vendors state that high-touch points (surfaces that are touched the most number of times) have to be cleaned twice daily using disinfectants such as sodium hypochlorite. “Vendors will now have to use these disinfectants to keep their carts clean. They will also have to wear proper protective gear, provide customers with water dispensers and make arrangement to regularly sanitise their hands. We will teach them about hand hygiene, social distancing, etc., which are essential today,” Singh said.Shyam Sunder (65), a street food vendor at Harkesh Nagar in Okhla, is unsure whether he can immediately go back to selling fritters near the Metro station after May 17. “I will have to buy a lot of things, such as disinfectants, to keep the cart clean. But I don’t know if people would prefer to eat on the roadside. The government should help us restart our businesses,” Sunder said.Subhash (who goes by his first name), another street food vendor near Pragati Maidan, is also uncertain about his livelihood. “We don’t know when the lockdown will be lifted and we will be allowed to put up our stalls. There is a lot of uncertainty. My brother had started selling vegetable during the lockdown to feed the family, but we discontinued it later due the rise in Covid cases in the Azadpur Mandi,” Subhash said.The training is likely to start from next week and over 500 street food vendors will be trained in the first phase, Sangeeta Singh said.She said vendors, especially those selling street food, will be the worst affected, as people will be reluctant to eat on the road fearing Covid-19. “Earlier, we would try to teach them about the importance of hygiene while cooking. But now the vendors are eager to know what they can do to revive their business. They have suffered a lot in the last one-and-a-half months,” she said.Arbind Singh, executive director of NASVI, said that the Delhi government and municipal agencies should now create dedicated vending zones as mandated in the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, and also prepare a plan for street vendors once the lockdown is lifted. “The creation of dedicated vending zones will help ensure social distancing. We will request the government to prepare a plan for street vendors, including food vendors. As and when the lockdown is lifted, street vending will need the government’s support in reviving their businesses,” he said.A senior Delhi government official looking after the issues of street vendors in the Capital said, “There can’t be a common rule for all the areas in Delhi now due to Covid-19. The plans will be area-specific. We will ask the district magistrates to ensure that social distancing is maintained whenever vendors are allowed to operate. We will prepare a detailed plan once we get some guidelines from the Centre in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/street-food-vendors-to-be-trained-in-hygiene-social-distancing/story-v1W5XZfuzFLSHKXAFxJyCP.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Teachers manhandled while distributing ration at south Delhi school, no case lodged||Six teachers handing out dry ration at a South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) school in Tigri were allegedly manhandled by a crowd on Monday morning.The incident triggered outrage with the civic body later declaring that it will not depute any of its teachers at the Tigri school till the Food Supply Office of Delhi government ensures their security.“I have spoken to the deputy commissioner and asked him to talk to the FSO wing. The way our teachers were misbehaved with today, it will be suicide if they go back tomorrow,” said Nandini Sharma, standing committee chairperson of the education committee, SDMC.No police complaint had been lodged in this regard till evening. A female teacher, who was allegedly manhandled, told HT that the incident took place when a crowd of around 1,200 people turned restless “My five female colleagues and I reached the school premises at 7:45am for ration distribution and found that a crowd of around 1,200 people had already queued up.”“They were complaining that we are late and all of them will not get ration. Soon, they started abusing us and this led to a scuffle. There were no security guards or policemen to help us. Thankfully, our area school inspector, Ramdayal Meena, arrived on receiving our SOS messages and evacuated us to an adjacent school building,” the teacher said.Meena said, “I had to lock up the ladies to prevent them from being harmed by the crowd. A PCR van came 30 minutes later and brought the crowd under control. We realised most of the people didn’t even have the e-coupons for ration issued by the Delhi Government.”The secretary of the municipal teachers’ union, Ramniwas Solanki, said, he has written to the chief minister, municipal commissioners and even to the Prime Minister’s Office asking to either ensure security for teachers or withdraw them from the ration and food distribution duty.“One of our teachers deputed in Jahangirpuri area has already died from Covid and her husband too has the virus. It is suspected that she got the virus during ration distribution duty,” he said.“Further, there are no safeguards for us. For every packet of ration given out, we have to take signatures or thumb impressions. There is only a single register, a single pen and one inkpad at each school for this purpose. We cannot keep risking our families’ lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teachers-manhandled-while-distributing-ration-at-south-delhi-school-no-case-lodged/story-x2AuFOZY6wuuSi6nyAqzmI.html
12-05-2020||Delhi||Metro stations temporarily housing CISF men to decongest barracks||Delhi’s 254 Metro stations are temporarily housing at least 2,500 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who have been shifted out of their barracks to decongest them and ensure social distancing in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A few CISF personnel have also been asked to shift from their family accommodations. These men, posted with Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) Metro unit, now perform their duties, sleep, eat, spend their leisure time and bathe at these Metro stations. Senior officers say the move prevents them from the risk of exposure, from extra travel and minimises their chance of spreading the viral infection to each other or to their family members.So far, 22 CISF personnel posted at the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) have been found coronavirus positive while more than 250 have been tested for the infection so far. Of them, around 120 have been kept in isolation, senior officials said. The CISF provides security to Metro stations across Delhi.The decision to move the staff from the barracks was taken on Friday following a meeting of senior CISF officials. A senior CISF officer, who wished not to be named, said there are 12,500 personnel in the DMRC unit. Roughly, around 50% of them live with their families in their own accommodations, about 10% live with family in accommodation provided by the force and the remaining 40% occupy the barracks, he said.“The decision to move these men out of their barracks was not only important to ensure social distancing in their barracks, but also to prevent them from daily travel, which increases the risk of exposure to the virus. Because these men are reporting on duty despite the lockdown, they travel together in groups and we needed to sanitise their vehicles multiple times a day. Those living with families also get back home everyday after their duty hours, putting their loved ones at risk,” the officer said.Senior commandant, CISF, Jitender Rana said that as these men are stationed at the Metro stations, it will minimise the risk of spreading the infection within the force. “These men have been provided all basic essentials in the barracks. They will perform their duties and live within their respective Metro stations until Metro services resume. We get their food delivered. Their necessities are being taken care of,” Rana said.Another officer, who requested anonymity, said every Metro station has 8-10 CISF personnel living there. A Metro station is a huge area and these people can easily maintain a safe distance among themselves. As they’re now stationed there, their duty will also not be hampered. Their distribution varies depending on the location and the size of the station. “In areas that are highly secure, such as Rajiv Chowk, Race Course and Central Secretariat, we did not need much staff as Metro trains are currently not in operation. In the outskirts, we have deployed adequate staff,” the officer said.Officers said that all those who have moved out so far are men below 55 years of age. “We have only shifted those who are young and healthy. Others—roughly around 1,500 to 2,000—are still living in the barracks. No woman personnel has so far been detected with the virus, neither has any of them been moved into isolation. All necessary measures to disinfect the barracks and other safety guidelines are being diligently followed,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/metro-stations-temporarily-housing-cisf-men-to-decongest-barracks/story-hieiu2vqeUqJ8crRZ0ziuK.html
12-05-2020||Patna||Covid cases rising in Bihar, extend lockdown till May 31: Nitish Kumar to PM Modi||With Covid positive cases increasing at a rapid rate in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown further till May 31.Thanking Centre for providing trains for all those who wanted to come back, Kumar said till May 10, 1.14 lakh people had come to Bihar through 96 trains. “In next seven days, 179 more trains will come and it is expected that close to 2.5 lakh people will reach the state. More and more people are requesting to come back. So, we request to further increase the number of trains and also suggest to deploy buses for people wanting to come back from nearby places. We request that arrangements should be made in next 7-8 days for all those who want to come back,” said Kumar.He said that state government is putting all the migrants in block quarantine centres which are equipped with all facilities including bed rolls, mosquito nets, etc.Kumar said that between May 4 and May 10, more than a lakh people had come to Bihar. “Out of the random sampling done on 1,900 people, 148 were found Covid positive,” the chief minister said. Appreciating the steps being taken by both the central government and state, Kumar said that due to constant flow of people from abroad and from other parts of the country, the Covid positive cases in state has surged past 700.“In the light of heavy flow of people the state in coming days, we request to extend the lockdown till May 31 as it will help taking care of people more effectively,” he said.The state has so far recorded 746 positive cases and six deaths have been reported.He demanded from the centre that the state be provided with more ventilators and PPE kits||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/extend-lockdown-till-may-31-nitish-to-pm-modi/story-EzR69JSTdaWK63eW8WueNK.html
12-05-2020||City||Labourer booked for molesting minor daughters of neighbour in Ludhiana||A 22-year-old labourer has been booked for molesting the two minor daughters, aged seven and five, of his neighbour in the labour quarters of Jeevan Nagar, police said on Monday. The victims’ mother told police that she had gone to a nearby shop to buy groceries on Sunday evening while her daughters were studying in the house. When she came back, she saw the accused fleeing from her room and her daughters crying, the complainant said, adding that on being coaxed, her elder daughter told her that the accused touched her and her sister inappropriately. She also told her mother that the accused had been doing the same for the past many days.Focal Point station house officer inspector Mohammad Jamil said a case has been registered under Sections 354-A (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and efforts are on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-booked-for-molesting-minor-daughters-of-neighbour-in-ludhiana/story-g9rM1UeS9x8H9Ny1OpWecJ.html
12-05-2020||City||2,890 traffic marshals assisting Ludhiana police in enforcing lockdown||As many as 2,890 traffic marshals are assisting Ludhiana police commissionerate in enforcing the coronavirus lockdown across the city. Of these marshals, around 240 have been deployed, along with district administration, police and municipal corporation (MC) officials, to manage the movement of migrants from pick-up points to Guru Nanak Stadium and the railway station as part of the ‘Shramik Special’ drive. As part of the drive, migrants are first brought to Guru Nanak Stadium from pick-up points set up near their houses via buses. After conducting their medical screening at the stadium, they are given rail tickets, water and food before they proceed towards the railway station for boarding trains to their respective home states.Besides, almost all the senior officials are working 24X7 to ensure that the process goes on smoothly. Police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said the traffic marshals are playing a vital role in facilitating the migrants’ journey to their home states. “When the migrants reach Guru Nanak Stadium in buses, these marshals ensure that they form proper queues for their medical screening, tickets and food/water. These volunteers are also assisting the district administration and the police in the checking of tickets, medical screening, distribution of food and water, and scanning of barcodes on the tickets,” he said.RESIDENTS INTERESTED TO VOLUNTEER CAN REGISTER ON APPAgrawal said if any person wants to assist the Ludhiana police as a traffic marshal, he/she can register on traffic marshal mobile app after which the department would themselves contact them. “The entire Ludhiana police salute these traffic marshals for serving the society in today’s testing times,” he said.The marshals’ in-charge, Mandeep Keshav Guddu, said that around 80 volunteers are deployed for ‘Shramik Special’ drive in three shifts that go on round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-890-traffic-marshals-assisting-ludhiana-police-in-enforcing-coronavirus-lockdown/story-09ELx4HkrYGotopuYsobRO.html
12-05-2020||City||Boost your immunity with a healthy diet, say experts||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has given people ample time to follow their creative pursuits. However, it has also given rise to this new wave of ‘quarantine cooking’. From trying out the now viral Dalgona (whipped) coffee to making rasgullas and baking cakes, people are constantly sharing pictures of recipes on different social media platforms, demonstrating how they are utilising their time. This quarantine cooking is not just for sustenance, but also for entertainment and stress busting.With the trend gaining followers every minute, experts have a word of caution for people. They say that as physical activity has reduced now that everyone is indoors, it is better to limit the frequency of high-calorie food items and stick to healthy options.Dr Vinu Kumar, a Ludhiana-based clean eating and lifestyle mentor, said, “In this time of global health emergency, one should try to increase their immunity by opting for healthy alternatives.”“Along with staying inside, people should keep a tab on their health. Indulging in a high-calorie diet on a daily basis with no physical activity will only lower the immunity, making one vulnerable to infections. Rather than following the trend, one should set an example by including seasonal fruits and vegetables in the diet,” she said.“Eating seasonal fruits and vegetable prepare the body to handle the extreme temperatures. Fruits such as papayas and watermelons have high water-content, causing a cooling effect on the body. Moreover, the fibre is great for the digestive system. Similarly, chutneys made from mixed seasonal fruits and herbs are also beneficial. Indian homemade drinks such as thandai and aam panna should also be included in summer diet,” she added.Dr Ritu Sudhakar, chief dietician at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said that anything in excess can be harmful.“One of my acquaintances told me that she has been baking cakes on a daily basis since the lockdown, which is obviously harmful for health. While preparing pizza or desserts at home is a better option than ordering from outside, it should not be frequent. For healthier options, one can use jaggery or honey in place of sugar, add less cheese and more vegetables to a pizza and try different fruit smoothies. Nuts, sprouts, dry fruits and eggs should be added to one’s diet to boost the immunity,” she said.“To benefit from this trend, one can try new dishes at home rather than eating outside after the lockdown is over,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/boost-your-immunity-with-a-high-calorie-diet-say-experts/story-Su1L9q9SOu3jZxGf1dPNPN.html
12-05-2020||Pune||All shops in non-containment zones open till 7pm, says Pune police chief||After complaints from residents of police officials not letting shops remain open until 7pm in non-containment zones, Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham has said that asking shops to down their shutters is wrong and all police stations are being instructed of the order. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on May 6 ordered that essential and non-essential shops from non-containment zones will be allowed to operate for 12 hours between 7am and 7pmHowever, there were numerous complaints from various shop owners and local residents from Katraj, Hadapsar, Warje and Karvenagar areas that local police officials were not letting shops function till evening. “Orders are very clear in this regard. The orders will be enforced accordingly. If anyone is closing the shop, then it is wrong. All things are being stated to the senior inspectors of police stations,” Venkatesham said. The issue was also raised during a press conference addressed by Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram, who said, “If there is any coordination issue, I will speak to the police chief. The order clearly states that shops can remain open till 7pm.”A similar complaint was also raised by the owner of a dairy shop in Shaniwar peth area of Pune. The shop falls in Vishrambaug police station jurisdiction of Pune police which does not have containment zones.Meanwhile, in ward 23 of Hadapsar, a janta curfew was declared by local corporators representing the area. All shops will be closed for five days, as per a letter addressed to PMC commissioner by a politician from Hadapsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/all-shops-in-non-containment-zones-open-till-7pm-says-pune-police-chief/story-gJ9yNw27HXl5GAlwM5BwiI.html
12-05-2020||Pune||PMC implements new discharge protocol; 500 beds freed up for Covid cases||With the new discharge protocol coming into effect in Pune on Monday, after the Centre issued guidelines for the same on May 9, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) believes it will have 500 beds freed on an immediate basis for Covid-19 patients.According to civic commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, there are currently 1,350 Covid-19 positive patients in various Pune hospitals.“Of these 1,350 patients, 500 have completed 10 days in isolation while undergoing treatment. These patients can be released immediately if they do not have strong symptoms and can undergo isolation at home. This means PMC can have up to 500 beds freed on an immediate basis, even as we have decided to follow the protocol on a case-to-case basis,” Gaikwad said. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “The new protocol has been implemented in the division and all the guidelines of the Centre are being followed while discharging patients with no, or mild symptoms after 10 days.”The earlier protocol demanded a Covid positive patient, irrespective of symptoms, to be isolated in hospital for 14 days and discharged after two consecutive tests, within a gap of 24 hours, returned negative.The new protocol states that those with mild symptoms can be discharged in 10 days based on a single negative test, if, there is no fever for three days. There is no repeat test.For those with moderate symptoms, if the fever is resolved within three days and the oxygen saturation is maintained without support, then, the patient can be discharged in 10 days.Those with moderate symptoms who need oxygen therapy, can be discharged only after the resolution of clinical symptoms, and the ability to maintain oxygen saturation for three days.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) changed the discharge protocol of Covid-19 patients stating that those with mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic positive patients can be discharged after 10 days since the onset of symptoms, and with no fever for three days, without a repeat test.City doctors have responded to the changed protocol by saying that while it might reduce the load on hospitals and staff, who can now focus more on severe patients, the risk of community transmission cannot be ignored. Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Symbiosis University Hospital, said, “ICMR and NIV, based on their studies, state that the virus stays in the body for only 10 days. We, in our experience, have found that even on the 14th day, almost 15%-20% of patients test positive. This means we are letting 15%-20% of the carriers to go out in the community which risks community transmission. Although the viral load may be less on the 10th day leading to no symptoms, no study states that less viral load prevents transmission.” Dr Natarajan added, “Home quarantine will be extremely difficult in slums. A healthier infected person may infect someone with a comorbidity, who otherwise could have been safe.”However, Indian medical association (IMA) president for Maharashtra, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, says, “With limited testing kits and a staff crunch, the changed discharge protocol will be of great help. Also, it is not usually seen that the symptoms reoccur and if home quarantine and social distancing is strictly followed then it might help.”IMA has also written to the state government that all passengers arriving in the state should undergo a swab test RT-PCR, on arrival, and be sent into quarantine. The association has also demanded that people from the other states should be transported in a non-air conditioned vehicles, because the central AC may spread the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-implements-new-new-discharge-protocol-500-beds-freed-up-for-covid-cases/story-V8c1G3V12P2GOo0L9KSEJJ.html
12-05-2020||City||Taking cue from UP, Ludhiana industry seeks exemption from labour laws for workers||Following Uttar Pradesh (UP) government’s decision to exempt factories and businesses from the purview of a few labour laws for three years, the Ludhiana chapter of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) on Monday demanded similar steps by the Punjab government. The city-based industry body has also demanded that the factory owners be exempted from contributing to social security schemes for labour, including employees’ provident fund and employees’ state insurance, which come to around 28.5% of salaries.A delegation of CICU members met cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and demanded that an ordinance be approved by the state government exempting the industry from certain labour laws for at least three years. With the passage of ‘Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance’ passed by the UP government last week, industries in the state are now exempted from laws related to the settling of industrial disputes, occupational safety, health and working conditions of workers, and those related to contract workers. Building and Other Construction Workers Act, Workmen Compensation Act, Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act and Section 5 of the Payment of Wages Act, however, still remain in force across the state. ‘TWO MILLION LABOURERS WORKING IN CITY INDUSTRIES’In Ludhiana, over 95,000 factories are registered with the district industries centre and have obtained Udyog Aadhaar in the past. As per the industrialists, out of two million labourers working in the city, around 13 lakh are migratory.CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and general secretary Pankaj Sharma said the Punjab government should “provide immediate relief to the industry that is facing a huge crisis.” “Exemption from the labour laws will help the industry revive in the minimal time possible,” said Ahuja, adding that they have also asked the government to waive off fixed charges in power bills. Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar reiterated similar thoughts.‘LABOUR WILL NOT BE EXPLOITED’National president of All Industries and Trade Forum (AITF), Badish Jindal, said, “Even the employers are not socially secure at this time. How can they bear the liability of 28.5% social security schemes for labour? Rules are imposed at a time when the industry works comfortably, but now, the government should take steps to provide relief to the industrialists so the industry sails through the ongoing crisis.” He also said that the exemption from labour laws would not result in labour exploitation. “As there is a shortage of labour in the industry, the labourers will have a choice to move from one unit to another,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-ludhiana-industry-seeks-exemption-from-labour-laws-social-security-schemes-for-workers/story-CkIpv4OBpw49l0SETNJ7oN.html
12-05-2020||Pune||5,774 companies begin operations in western Maha: Industries minister Desai||Maharashtra industries minister Subhash Desai on Monday announced that the state government has issued permissions to 9,147 companies to resume operations in western Maharashtra and 5,774 have already begun their operations. The announcement came when the minister was interacting with industry representatives through a webinar organised by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce , Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA). Desai further said that the state government was taking strong and effective steps to bring the industrial activity back on track with the easing of restrictions and the lockdown. He said that 25,000 companies have started their operations in Maharashtra wherein six lakh employees have returned to work. Apart from the red zones, 57,745 industries have been permitted to resume business and out them 25,000 have started their operations, he said.However, Desai specified that the industries in Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Thane have not been given permission as they were located in the red zones with high number of Covid-19 (coronavirus) cases. The minister sought co-operation from all stakeholders and said that there should be no hurry to start industries located in red zones as the fight was against the spread of the disease. “We are thankful to the industries minister, industries secretary and CEO MIDC for connecting with hundreds of industry members from the Pune region. They updated us about progressive steps being taken by the government and we shared the areas of improvement and our set of recommendations, including the need to start industries in PMC and PCMC (outside containment zone) with all the safety guidelines. Thankful to CEO, MIDC for agreeing to do periodic calls to further improve coordination,” said MCCIA director general Prashant Girbane.“Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is determined to make the entire state a green zone,” he said, and added that sops in power tariffs and loan repayment would be given to ease the burden of industries. Desai said that the industries will have to pay electricity bills for the only the units will are utilised and concessions will be granted to those industries which had borrowed loans from banks. “A special economic package for the small-scale industries will also be announced soon as the work for the same in its final stages,” he said.Desai also added that a number of foreign companies from the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan have expressed keen interest in setting up in Maharashtra and talks are underway with officials from the respective countries. The small-scale industries must gear up for the big industries which will set up their operations in Maharashtra, he said. Also present during the interaction were industries secretary Venugopal Reddy and MIDC CEO P Anbalagan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5-774-companies-begin-operations-in-western-maha-industries-minister-desai/story-8Up93w2LlKu90h0IaPN46L.html
