13-05-2020||Mumbai||Cops keep eye on travellers, those flouting rules||With over two lakh people, mostly migrant labourers, waiting for their turn to return home in trains and buses, the Mumbai Police in western suburbs have resorted to counselling in a bid to keep them calm and ensure they do not leave the city on their own violating lockdown rules. Till Wednesday evening, a total of 50,000 stranded people, mostly migrant labourers have been sent back from the city while the police received three lakh applications. “Most of them are labourers,” said Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson.Manoj Kumar Sharma, additional commissioner of police (west region), said, “There have been several instances of migrants leaving the city or gathering at police station asking for travel updates. Hence, I have asked all senior inspectors of the 21 police stations in my region to counsel the migrants and to keep them updated with travel updates so that they do not panic and leave on their own. Our patrolling teams have been asked to use mega phones to make announcements to keep them updated about train travel details in advance so that they are aware when their turn will come.” So far, 16 trains with 22,400 people stranded in west region (Bandra to Jogeshwari) have commenced while around 44,800 people are on waiting list. On the other hand, over the past 10 days, police officers from Sakinaka, which has a significant number of containment zones, caught more than 300 migrants trying to leave the city by hiding inside vehicles. Kishor Sawant, senior inspector of Sakinaka police station, said, “In the past two days, we have sent over 5,000 migrants back home from Sakinaka, and around 6,000 people are on the waiting list. We know they have no money or jobs, and hence we are counselling them and ensuring that we send them home safely as soon as possible. I have personally told my staff not to shout, misbehave, or manhandle any migrants.” “We recently caught a truck with 90 migrants. We counselled them and brought them back to their factory. We provided them food with the help of an NGO, and recently we sent them to their states by train,” Sawant said. Sakinaka police has also constructed a temporary tent at Sangharsh Nagar where migrants come to collect their food. “On Tuesday night around 5,000 people from Sakinaka, Meghwadi, Powai, and Jogeshwari were sent to their home states in four trains which left from LTT and CSMT stations,” said Ankit Goyal DCP, zone 10.484 cases of Covid-19 in city police, 68 recovered, 5 dead The Mumbai Police till Wednesday reported 484 cases of Covid-19, most of the patients are asymptomatic. Of the affected people, 68 have recovered and while five Mumbai Police officials died. Police officers said the last person to die, a 55-year-old police officer with Sewree police station, had contracted the virus and was admitted in a civic hospital at Navi Mumbai where he died on Tuesday night. A senior inspector of Sahar police station tested positive on Tuesday. He said, “I was not feeling well and I had slight fever. I went for a Covid test, and my result came positive on Tuesday. While I am admitted at SevenHills Hospital, senior inspector from Vile Parle has additional charge.” A total of 24 staff from Sahar police station have tested positive so far.The state police on Wednesday corrected their daily press notes stating that the number of total police personnel infected by Covid-19 in their force is 925 and not 1,007. So far 124 have recovered, 793 are under treatment and eight have succumbed to the disease. 40 FIRs against 211 people on Tuesday The Mumbai Police on Tuesday registered 40 FIRs on Tuesday against 211 people and arrested 28 of them. A maximum of 13 FIRs were from west region and 12 from central region, the worst-affected areas in the city. Of the total cases, 15 FIRs were for unnecessary use of vehicles, 12 for not wearing masks, eight for gathering in public and the remaining five were against shops or establishments for operating despite being non-essential service. 20,072 arrested across state for lockdown violations More than a lakh of people have been booked in 1,05,532 FIRs for lockdown violations and 22,072 people have been arrested in Maharashtra from the day lockdown was imposed till Wednesday morning. About 57,430 vehicles have been seized for unnecessary use and ₹4.05 crore has been collected as fines. The state police have also booked 668 people for violating home quarantine orders. As many as 90,556 people from across the state called the police helpline 100 inquiring about Covid-related issues.₹8.80-L gutkha carried as ‘essential services’, seized The Mumbai Police’s crime branch unit 10 in Chandivali intercepted a tempo carrying gutkha and tobacco products worth ₹8.80 lakh and arrested one person on Tuesday evening. The arrested accused, 28-year-old Akash Gupta, had pasted a sticker of essential goods on the truck to mislead the police. 117 Covid warriors injured in attackAbout 83 policemen, 33 health professionals and one home guard in Maharashtra have been injured in attacks while discharging duties. The police have registered 214 FIRs for assault on Covid warriors and arrested 764 people. (Inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Manish K Pathak, Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-keep-eye-on-travellers-those-flouting-rules/story-2x1PhGieLrHSCqtfp8hkqN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Police machinery under great stress: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday said that the “police machinery is under great stress and strain” and directed the Maharashtra government to relieve police personnel of Covid-19 duties wherever possible by engaging other public servants for the duties.“For example, if migrant workers, displaced persons or students desire to return to their native places and need to register themselves, the government and the local administration can utilise ‘of-duty’ employees of the revenue department, to ease the burden on the police department,” said justice Ravindra Ghuge.The judge noted that in its endeavour to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the state government has deployed police almost everywhere. “Police personnel are deployed on streets, at railway stations, in various localities, and are even asked to handle applications for seeking travel passes and permissions to migrate,” said the judge.He added that several revenue employees are not on duty and the government should consider deploying these employees, especially those below 50 years of age, to deal with such activities and issues for which police presence is not a must.Justice Ghuge was hearing a suo-motu petition concerning several issues relating to the Covid-19 pandemic.The court also directed the authorities to provide appropriate protection to corona warriors – doctors and paramedics working round the clock for treatment of Covid-19 patients. It took note of the threats by residents to a staff nurse working with the district general hospital at Aurangabad and directed the authorities to register offences against such individuals who threaten, abuse, or assault medical or paramedical staff. “I am of the view that the time has come to direct the authorities concerned to register offences against such residents,” said the bench.Locals in Aurangabad had threatened to assault the husband and son of the staff nurse if the family failed to leave the locality and damaged their car. The court was informed that the residents of the locality in a City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (Cidco) area were apprehensive that the staff nurse would introduce the coronavirus in the locality. The threats stopped only after local police stepped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-machinery-under-great-stress-bombay-hc/story-yyB8R6pEBTecvdkFbFyA1K.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||A day before train leaves, labourers crowd Bathinda railway ground||A day before the Shramik Express carrying 1,188 migrant workers is scheduled to leave for Motihari in Bihar at 11am on Thursday, around 1,500 migrant labourers crowded the railway ground near the station on Wednesday. On Sunday, a train had left for Muzaffarpur in Bihar and another for Daltonganj in Jharkhand from the city, carrying around 2,600 passengers in total. Thursday’s train will be the third ‘Shramik Express’ from Bathinda. Usually, only passengers who get an SMS from the administration are allowed to board the train. “With the crowd a potential health hazard, the administration managed to shift them to other places,” said Bathinda SDM Amarinder Singh Tiwana, adding that many of those who came on Wednesday were from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand.“The Shramik Express stops only at the destination assigned to it. Over 1,500 had arrived on Wednesday itself and more are coming; around half of them were employed with the Guru Gobind Singh Refinery. We are mulling making other arrangements.”Ajay Yadav of Bhojpur in Bihar said he had walked 30km to reach the station in the hope of going back. The SDM added, “Despite our best efforts to allow only those who get the message to board the train, sometimes we have to get them to stand in a queue and take the required number to the station.”1,200 leave from AmritsarIn Amritsar, around 1,200 migrants left for their native places on the 7th Shramik Express to Ambedkar Nagar in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. SDM Vikas Hira said, “All migrants were screened and given food packets. Around 8,000 have left since the trains started.” Of the labourers, 54 had come from Gurdaspur. A Shramik Express will leave for Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh) from Ferozepur, the first from the district, on Thursday at 7pm.Mohali sends 1,304 homeThe seventh special train on Wednesday left the Mohali railway station carrying 1,304 migrant workers back to Bettiah in Bihar. Of the labourers, 764 were from Mohali, with 540 from Dera Bassi. 12 from Hoshiarpur start  walk to UP; interceptedTwelve migrant workers, out-of-work for two months, set out on foot for native Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, only to be intercepted 25km away in Hoshiarpur city and sent back to their temporary abode.Ram Din, Raj Kumar, Nakul, Bharat and Avdhesh said they worked as daily wagers with the forest department and had registered with the administration for transport, but frustrated at not getting a call, decided to walk to their native place in Mahrajganj district of UP. —With inputs from Amritsar, Mohali, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-day-before-train-leaves-labourers-crowd-bathinda-railway-ground/story-i80z85Ygf9hk8sbWxEKfRL.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Withdraw green nods given during lockdown: Conservationists to minister||Conservationists have expressed their concerns about issuance of environmental clearances for large projects in forests and ecologically fragile regions, during the Covid-19 pandemic. Citing that the environment ministry is responsible for upholding forest, wildlife and environment protection, 291 conservation scientists, academics from premier wildlife research institutes, wildlife biologists, 12 former members of the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), former affiliates of the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC), and academics from universities such as Columbia, Yale, Michigan, and Cambridge, and non-profit bodies among others, wrote a letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday.The letter criticised the approvals for infrastructure, industrial and mining projects in critical wildlife habitats during lockdown. The writers opposed the idea of consultations and meetings through video-conferencing to evaluate the environmental impact of projects rather than waiting for the lockdown to end when projects could be appraised through site inspections and public hearings. The conservationists called for the withdrawal of clearances issued by expert panels under the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) during the lockdown as well as temporary suspension of all decisions taken via video-conferencing until pandemic-related travel restrictions are lifted.“The environment ministry has bulldozed major forest clearances during lockdown even as the pandemic is a glaring reminder of the consequences of toying with nature,” said Asad Rahmani, former director, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), one of the signatories. Former NBWL member Kishore Rithe said, “As our protected areas (only 4% of country’s total geographic area) are the country’s last remaining wildlife habitats, granting clearance to any project proposed inside them should be the last resort. NBWL needs to check the authenticity of information provided by project proponents which includes status of the forest land, notifications, maps, and orders passed by the courts. The lockdown does not allow fair screening of 40% of major proposals that need site inspection.”On April 7 during the 57th meeting of NBWL’s Standing Committee, 31 proposals affecting 15 tiger reserves, sanctuaries, buffer zones and wildlife corridors were considered. Of these proposals, 16 linear infrastructure projects, which pass through protected areas, were issued clearances. Javadekar, who had chaired the meeting, had issued approvals for projects from 11 different states.Expert Appraisal Committees (EAC), bodies under the ministry, on April 22-24 approved a slew of infrastructure project proposals as part of considering 145 projects between April and June. Ten EACs have conducted 15 meetings in this regard so far, according to the Union environment ministry’s Parivesh portal.The letter suggested that under normal circumstances, EAC meetings would last an entire day. In comparison, meetings during the lockdown had lasted only two hours, with only 10 minutes to appraise each project. “We urge that all meetings of the NBWL, FAC and all 10 EACs be postponed as long as travel restrictions are in place,” the letter read. While two projects were recently deferred during an FAC meet on April 23, the FAC subcommittee on April 21 recommended the Etalin Hydropower Project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley which collectively harbours one of the richest biodiversity on earth, as well as exploration for Uranium in Telangana’s Amrabad Tiger Reserve. Both projects led to massive social media campaigns against the proposals. “It is inexcusable that our government continues to pursue a development model which depends on destroying nature, especially when there is sufficient evidence of more sustainable options,” said Dr Ravi Chellam, wildlife biologist.The letter also quoted a Supreme Court judgment from 2011 which allowed French cement company Lafarge to mine limestone in a forest in Meghalaya after issuing guidelines to be followed in such cases. As part of the guidelines, MoEFCC was asked to frame a comprehensive policy for inspection, verification and monitoring procedure by forest officials along with regional MoEFCC officials to ascertain the status of forests before granting clearances, and appoint a ‘national regulator’ for appraising projects. “The compliance of these guidelines may not be possible during the lockdown period which may amount to a serious deviation in the clearance process,” the letter read, adding that the MoEFCC was relying only on digital documents uploaded by project developers on the ministry’s portal.“Shockingly, key guidelines are being ignored, including the failure to appoint a National Regulator for appraising projects. MoEFCC appears to be abdicating its constitutional obligation of ensuring environmental protection. Granting fast-track clearances has now become the rule,” said Praveen Bhargav, former NBWL member.Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo declined to comment on the letter. However, a senior MoEFCC official said, “Every project undergoes careful scrutiny before issuance of clearances. We must also consider the importance of economic growth and sustainable development, especially during the current Covid-19 crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/withdraw-green-nods-given-during-lockdown-conservationists-to-minister/story-mz0KMoglaHT6uSzuhvMAWL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Drizzle, gusty winds on the cards for Chandigarh||Light rain is likely on Thursday with possibility of gusty winds, thunder and lightning, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The officials said, “Light to moderate rain is expected on Thursday and at many places. This is due to the western disturbance in the region. Weather is likely to remain dry in Haryana after Thursday and after Friday in Punjab.”Moreover, gusty winds up to 40km per hour with thunder and lightning can also be expected, they said.The day temperature was on lower side on Wednesday, but an increase of 2 to 3 degrees is expected during the weekend. However, night temperature will stay on the higher side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/drizzle-gusty-winds-on-the-cards-for-chandigarh/story-8YzZVjNCLiuKwJorZjXWVM.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Students, teachers clueless, as govt dilly dallies on opening Chandigarh schools||Even as summer holidays in Chandigarh government schools officially come to an end on Thursday, in the absence of intimation from the government, school authorities and students are clueless about whether schools are to re-open on May 15 or remain shut.The UT education department had declared summer holidays in all schools from April 15 to May 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and private schools were advised to syncronise. Sources said the education department plans to keep schools shut, but is awaiting further instructions from the Government of India. Director of school education (DSE) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said there no decision has been taken yet. “Whatever is decided, you will be informed,” he said.“Senior officials will take a call in a day or so,” informed sources. UT education secretary also deliberated on the issue with district education officer (DEO), Alka Mehta and Rubinderjit Singh Brar.Teachers, however, expressed anxiety over the delay. A teacher requesting anonymity said, “We are flooded with calls from parents and students, but we too have no idea. As per orders, schools were to begin May 15, and teachers and students have been asked to report to school.”If students aren’t informed on time, one can expect chaos in government schools, the teacher said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/students-teachers-clueless-as-govt-dilly-dallies-on-opening-chandigarh-schools/story-QPqphvlQ71DWX4nf6McfNO.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||BMC starts training teachers for CBSE, ICSE schools||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) education department has started conducting online training sessions for teachers of the newly opened civic-run CBSE and ICSE schools, starting Monday. The teachers are being trained over a period of six days before they start teaching in the new schools. The civic body recently conducted a lottery for admissions to the Poonam Nagar School in Andheri, which is affiliated to the CBSE board, and Woolen Mills School in Mahim, affiliated to the ICSE board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-training-teachers-for-cbse-icse-schools/story-Y69B3aksShgBbMtHxeSPmI.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University’s bio-incubator startup produces gluten-free flour at Mohali||An entrepreneurial startup of Panjab University (PU), Microfoods Private Limited, has started the production of gluten-free floor at a unit in Mohali. Led by Prabjot Singh Khanna, the startup was incubated at Bio-NEST (Bio-Incubator Nurturing Entrepreneurship for Scaling Technologies) at the varsity. The bio-incubator was granted a seed fund for their product GlutenGo by BIRAC (Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council) through IIT-Delhi’s Foundation for Innovation and Technology Transfer (FITT) in September 2019 for setting up a production unit with multigrain flour manufacturing facility of up to 300-tonne per month.Project leader of the BioNEST-PU, Rohit Sharma, said, “The social enterprise has initiated the production keeping in view the need of gluten-free products in the market and to satisfy the consequent high demand of retailers.” He further said that a successful trial run of the plant was completed on March 10 this year.According to experts, gluten-free diet is the only option for people with celiac disease, the most severe form gluten intolerance.Within the next 3 months, the startup is planning to come up with gluten-free poori flour and gluten-free dalia for healthier breakfast options and raw material for bakeries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-s-bio-incubator-startup-produces-gluten-free-flour-at-mohali/story-UERsf1u38zcsJwDorgHviK.html
13-05-2020||City||864 test sample results from Ghaziabad pending||Officials from Ghaziabad’s health department on Wednesday said that the number of pending Covid-19 reports for the district had gone up to 864. The testing machine at National Institute of Biologicals (NIB), Noida, had malfunctioned on Saturday evening, after which more than 100 samples were immediately moved to Government Institute of Medical Sciences. Ever since then, all samples being collected in the district are being sent to the testing lab in Meerut.“At present, we are collecting about 150 to 200 samples per day. These were earlier being sent to NIB lab at Noida. Since their machine developed a snag, we have been forced to send these samples to Meerut for testing. As a result, the number of our pending reports have shot up and stood at 864 till Wednesday evening,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO) for the district.“We have about 12 Covid-19 positive patients, whose follow-up test reports are also held up. Apart from this, other reports related to samples taken from contacts who came in touch with Covid-19 patients have also been held up. About 250 test reports from Ghaziabad are also awaited from NIB, Noida. These samples were taken from hotspot areas in Khoda, Vijay Nagar and also Jhandapur which have seen spike in recent days,” CMO added.Even those lodged in quarantine centres are awaiting their reports, even as they grow restless.“Seven members of my family, including my three-month-old daughter, are in quarantine but their test reports are still awaited. We all are waiting for the reports eagerly as we want to move out and attend the last rites and rituals of my mother,” said a resident of Pratap Vihar, who is presently housed in one of the quarantine centres.His mother had tested positive for Covid, according to test reports from a private lab, and died at a private hospital on April 30.“The test reports of the family is stuck and we expect that pending reports of patients or people in hospitals and quarantine centres are released soon, so that they can get discharged at the earliest.The source of infection of the 60 year-old-woman from Pratap Vihar will be known once all the test reports of her family are received,” the CMO added.Meanwhile, an official from NIB, Noida, said that the technical snag of their testing machine had been rectified on Wednesday and they had started testing samples again. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad stood at 145 on Wednesday, after two more tested positive for the virus. The district so far has witnessed two deaths related to the virus.“The two cases, which tested positive on Wednesday, are related to two women. One is related to the mother of a Delhi police woman constable who had earlier tested positive in Delhi. Her 52 year old mother, who stays at Dasna Gate, tested positive today (Wednesday). The second case is from Loni, where a 45-year-old woman who was getting cancer treatment in Delhi, and tested positive. Hers is a case of medically acquired infection,” the CMO added.The officials of the Uttar Pradesh government said that the number of patients who got discharged have surpassed the number of active cases in the state.“We have about 1,744 active cases in the state while 1,759 patients have been discharged till Wednesday evening. We have a total of 3,729 cases in 74 districts of the state,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).The officials added that there are 496 hotspot areas across the state housing a population of 47.93 lakh in 85,28,86 houses. They added that the hotspot areas account for about 1,916 Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/864-test-sample-results-from-ghaziabad-pending/story-tAmIsbZpNcLWY2nd0ZdtrM.html
13-05-2020||City||Caught in protocols and indecision, body of Covid patient takes 7 hours to reach Ghaziabad from Meerut||Indecision and procedural holdups led to an inordinate delay in the burial of a 60-year-old from Ghaziabad, who had succumbed to co-morbid conditions triggered by Covid-19 at the L3 hospital in Meerut on Tuesday evening. Officials said that the burial finally could take place around 2am on Wednesday in Ghaziabad, after an almost seven hour delay. According to norms laid down by the Central government, bodies of Covid-19 patients are to be cremated/buried at the earliest, while ensuring all safety norms. According to victim’s family, the man developed mild fever and was referred from MMG Hospital in Ghaziabad to Meerut Medical College on April 9. Test results later confirmed him positive for Covid-19 and the man died around 5.30pm on Tuesday.However, it took officials more than seven hours to ferry the body from Meerut to Ghaziabad, a distance of merely 55km.“Initially, there was a demand from officials of Meerut that Ghaziabad sends a vehicle to take the body. The issue was cleared after lot of discussions and Meerut officials decided to send body in their vehicle. As per norms, the last rites can take place in the district where the death has taken place. If the family requests, the district will send the body to the home district in their vehicle,” said a health department official from Ghaziabad.Another issue cropped up when officials figured out the name of the victim. Ghaziabad health officials said that they were under the impression that the body had to be cremated, but later figured that they needed to bury it.“The confusion was cleared around 11pm on Tuesday when we came to know that the deceased had to be buried because of his religion and a place for the same needs to be prepared. This was because we had no records of the patients with us and he died at Meerut during treatment. After the body left Meerut in a vehicle, it stopped midway at Modinagar. We were told that we need to send some officer to formally receive the body there. Once that issue was sorted, the vehicle finally arrived at Ghaziabad around 1am on Wednesday,” the officer said.The family of the deceased said that they were also amazed at the turn of events, which led to hours of delay.“We received information of death round 5.30pm on Tuesday and were told that burial will take place in Meerut. When we reached Modinagar, we got a call from Meerut that the burial will now take place in Ghaziabad. We had made no request for a burial in Ghaziabad as there was a risk of the infection spreading during transportation,” said the elder son of the deceased.“After we reached Meerut around 10pm, the vehicle started its journey. But, it stopped midway for an hour in Modinagar. Again we made number of calls and officials of both districts spoke to each other. Once the issue was cleared, the vehicle reached Ghaziabad around 1am. Thereafter, the body was buried as we stayed about 400 metres away from the site,” he added.The family stays at Kaila Kheda locality near Pratap Vihar in Ghaziabad.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the Meerut officials sent the body in their vehicle.“There was confusion about protocols, vehicle and responsibilities of officials from the two districts. We were regularly in touch with Meerut officials and both sides worked out the issues over calls. The body arrived at Ghaziabad and we had made all arrangements for the burial. It took place around 1.30am on Wednesday,” he added.Dr Raj Kumar, chief medical officer of Meerut district, said that there was no delay on their part.“There was no delay in transportation as such. The designated officer of Ghaziabad did not reach Modinagar so the vehicle halted there for 15 to 20 minutes. We did not take any request in writing from deceased’s family, but they verbally told us that burial should be done in Ghaziabad. So we made arrangements accordingly,” he added.Dr RC Gupta, the principal of Meerut Medical College, said that there were several protocols which had to be followed and that may have resulted in delays.“The patient was admitted on April 9 and later tested positive for Covid-19. He suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and developed comorbid conditions. There was no confusion in transportation of body,” Dr Gupta said.“His family has a right to seek burial in their home district if they wish to. In such a case, the CMO from here (Meerut) sent the body in vehicle and the CMO of Ghaziabad made arrangements for last rites. Initially there was some issue that people from outside the district will not be allowed burial here. So the body was sent to Ghaziabad for burial,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/caught-in-protocols-and-indecision-body-of-covid-patient-takes-7-hours-to-reach-ghaziabad-from-meerut/story-tM4wtBYxSalJOpJMrNU2CO.html
13-05-2020||Noida||Amid lockdown, dispute between residents’ bodies leads to water crisis in Sapphire society||A dispute over common facilities between two apartment owners’ associations (AOAs)of Amrapali Sapphire I and II, located in Noida’s Sector 45, has caused a water shortage in 1,000-odd flats of Sapphire I. AOA office-bearers of Sapphire II have allegedly stopped supply from a borewell to Saphhire I flats, says a complaint addressed to authorities. Both housing societies have about 1,000 flats each and are separated by a temporary wall. There are two borewells and water storage tanks in Sapphire I and three in Sapphire II. In a complaint, the AOA of Sapphire I alleged that Sapphire II AOA stopped water supply on Monday evening from one of its borewells.“Since Tuesday morning, we are not getting adequate supply and are surviving on limited supply from the two borewells we have. We have filed a complaint with the court receiver and other authorities for immediate action because without water we will suffer amid this pandemic and ongoing lockdown. The AOA of Sapphire II keeps troubling us in this manner quite often,” Anisur Rahman, president, AOA Sapphire I, said.Amrapali Group had delivered Sapphire I and II projects in 2014 partially, but most of the common facilities were not ready for use. The clubhouse, swimming pool, and grocery store are located in Sapphire I and are fully functional. These facilities are yet to be developed in Sapphire II and that became a bone of contention.Sapphire II residents said Sapphire I did not allow them to use the club house, pool or grocery store. The water supply issue is the latest in a long list of standoffs, residents said. “I am not aware of how water supply got disrupted. But the background is that Sapphire I people did not let us use the clubhouse and even now during this crisis, they are not letting us use the grocery store. The water tank is located in our area. If Sapphire I will send a letter or call us for help, then we will resume the supply,” Abhishek Kumar, secretary of Amarapali Sapphire II, said.On July 23, 2019, the Supreme Court had appointed the court receiver to carry out various activities, such as registration of ready flats, accepting money from buyers, selling unsold flats, and ensuring completion of stuck housing projects etc. In March, 2019 Amrapali chairman and managing director Anil Sharma and two other promoters were sent to Tihar Jail for regularities, including delaying projects. They are still in jail and now NBCC has been tasked with finishing the remaining projects, including the common facilities in Sapphire II, officials said.“We have got a complaint from AOA of Sapphire I. There are some long pending issues pertaining to common facilities, which will be settled soon. The two AOAs can settle their issues though dialogue,” R Ventakramni, the court receiver, said.The Noida authority said it was an internal matter of the AOAs.“We received a complaint on this but we got to know that the water supply from our end is proper. One AOA has cut the supply to the other. Therefore they will sort it out themselves,” BM Pokhriyal, deputy general manger, Noida authority water department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/amid-lockdown-dispute-between-residents-bodies-leads-to-water-crisis-in-sapphire-society/story-7FjvwNXySpt6PqujOTGxcL.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi’s virus count crosses 1,000; toll at 40||With 66 new cases reported on Wednesday, Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster in Mumbai, crossed the 1,000 mark for Covid-19 cases. The case count has touched 1,028, with 40 deaths.The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1. The area recorded 100 cases on April 17 and breached the 500-case mark on May 3 and 200-case mark by April 24. The toll in Dharavi also doubled in nine days from 20 deaths on May 3 to 40 as of May 13.Mumbai reported highest single-day spike in the number of deaths with 40 deaths being reported on Wednesday, taking the total to 596. Overall, the city reported 800 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 15,747.In a change of strategy dictated by new Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, the civic body has reduced the number of containment zones in Dharavi to 20 from 213 by merging smaller areas. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G-North ward under which Dharavi falls, said, “We have clubbed the containment zones and we are also appointing citizens as volunteers to ensure people do not venture out of their houses in containment zones. We are distributing maximum number of food packets in Dharavi, considering the volume of detection is high.”A total of 2,500 citizens identified as high-risk are under institutional quarantine facility. Chahal has also directed all ward officers to map high-risk areas within their containment zones and target slums and congested areas. These zones will have stricter rules for movement.Other areas like Dadar and Mahim which also come under G-North ward have also seen a steady increase in number of cases. In Dadar, 133 cases along with seven deaths were reported as of Wednesday, followed by 155 cases in Mahim with seven deaths.The number of cases in G-North ward now stands at 1,316, of which 1,028 cases are from Dharavi. Other administrative wards where cases have crossed the 1,000 mark include G-South ward consisting of Worli and Prabhadevi; and E ward, including Mazagaon, Byculla.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, a senior BMC official tested positive, following which he was sent into isolation. His close contact, an IAS officer from BMC, has been quarantined. The BMC has, however, not provided any figures on the total number of BMC officials who have tested positive.Wednesday also saw a series of visits by top IAS officials, including Chahal, to several quarantine facilities set up by BMC, community kitchens where food is cooked for distribution to migrants and those in need of relief.Chahal along with additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani visited several quarantine facilities, including the one at NSCI Worli and Race Course in Mahalaxmi where 300 beds for quarantining patients is set to come up. They also visited the MMRDA Grounds in Bandra-Kurla Complex, where 1,000 beds have been set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-s-virus-count-crosses-1-000-toll-at-40/story-0RuLj1bjWQmAwhgcX13gmJ.html
13-05-2020||Noida||Noida: Woman walks 7km to borrow ₹5,000, robbed on her way home||A woman, believed to be in her late thirties, walked seven kilometres to borrow ₹5,000 from a relative to feed her family, only to be robbed by two motorcycle-borne snatchers in broad daylight on Monday.The woman lives with her husband and two ten-year-old children in Sadarpur village in Sector 45 and works as a domestic helper, while the husband works as a rickshaw puller and part time security guard.“I haven’t been able to work ever since the lockdown started. Sometimes I get called for guard duty but I don’t make nearly as much as I used to. My wife only got partial wages this month. For several days in the past week, we slept on an empty stomach,” said the husband, requesting anonymity for himself and for his wife. “Some relatives of ours live in Sector 2. On Monday afternoon, my wife and our 10-year-old son walked seven km to their house and she borrowed Rs 5,000 from them. On their way back, around 2.30 pm, two motorcycle-borne men, who had their faces covered, snatched my wife’s purse and sped away,” he said. When HT asked to speak to his wife for a comment, he said his wife is scared and does not wish to speak to the media. He said the incident took place at the Atta Peer red light near Sector 18.He said his wife is illiterate and could not note the number plate of the vehicle, nor could she recognise the snatchers. She then called him up, and he drive his rickshaw to the spot to pick them up, he added.“I could not go to the relative’s house myself as cycle rickshaws are not permitted to ply on roads due to the lockdown. Luckily, my wife and son were not injured. But now, not only do we have no money, we are in debt with no way to pay it off. Some people have come forward to help us with ration. In addition, our elder son (18) who is back home in Bihar with his grandparents, as well as some other family members, are dependent on us but we don’t have the means to help them anymore,” he said, adding that he could However, the husband said he did not inform the police as his previous attempt of reporting a crime did not go down well.“Three months back, my phone was snatched in Sector 18. A passenger in my rickshaw took my phone on the pretext of transferring the fare through PayTM as he didn’t have cash on him. But instead of paying, he fled with my phone. I went to at least three police stations with my complaint but everybody kept referring me to a different police station. I ran from pillar to post but no help came. Why would this time be any different?” said the husband.The police said the incident has been brought to the notice of police officials by media persons and the family has been contacted by local cops. He said a complaint will be filed at the Sector 20 police station. “We will have the case investigated along with the three month old incident and take necessary action,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-woman-walks-7km-to-borrow-5-000-robbed-on-her-way-home/story-qo6EMDua7QgWgNCZe5z8nN.html
13-05-2020||City||Migrant workers prefer trucks to a bus home, refuse to stay at shelter homes||More than 2,000 migrant labourers gathered at Morta near the Delhi-Meerut road on Wednesday morning in a bid to catch a bus home, only to be told by district administration officials that the buses left a day before. The workers, most of them are natives of Bihar and other districts of Uttar Pradesh, reached Ghaziabad from different parts of Haryana and Delhi after they came to know that some buses would be run for their home towns from Morta. Though the officials asked the labourers to stay at shelter homes for a few days after which buses would be arranged for them, but they decided to not wait in the city and moved on to the highway to catch a truck.Pooja, a 23-year-old migrant worker from Gonda district in UP, had arrived with her husband and their one-and-a- half years old child. She said that they came from Mandoli in Delhi and paid Rs 200 each to a truck driver who dropped them to Morta.“We waited for hours at Morta but there was no bus. Hundreds of workers like us waited along the roadside and in nearby green belts, but we were driven away by the police. Then we decided to walk to our home town. We have hardly Rs 500 left with us. So, we are going to highway to catch a truck,” she said.Ravi Kumar, who arrived from Jagatpuri in Delhi, said that he would prefer to catch some passing truck.“Migrant workers were driven away by the police. Even the women and those having children with them were not spared. There were no buses for us. I just have Rs 50 left with me and I decided to travel afoot to my home town. With no buses available, everyone is now trying to catch some truck or any commercial vehicle,” said Ravi, a daily wager who is a native of Madhepura in Bihar.On Wednesday, several groups of migrant workers were seen sitting along the roadsides at Delhi-Meerut Road, Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar and other localities near NH-9.“We came here after knowing that buses were going from Morta in Ghaziabad. It has been three days since I have been walking along with my friend to reach Ghaziabad. Trucks are still our best bet. We will request drivers to drop us midway from where look out for some other truck. We don’t have money to pay for train fare. Besides, many of us don’t even have smartphones so that we can book (online) tickets. I borrowed Rs 1,000 from a friend and came to Morta,” said Monal Kumar Mondol, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar who worked as daily wager in Panipat, Haryana.His friend Ranjeet Kumar, who is also a native of Bhagalpur, said that they are now solely dependent on langars and food items which are distributed to them by locals.Ghaziabad police officials said that some buses left on Tuesday night and took along workers who were present in shelter homes.“It seems that more and more workers are coming from Delhi and Haryana after coming to know about the operation of buses from Morta. On Wednesday, about two thousand migrants arrived and it led to a huge build-up. So, we had to disperse them but no force was used. There have been strict instructions to our personnel not to misbehave with any migrant worker,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).A senior district administration officer said that it’s difficult to communicate with migrant workers stranded in Delhi and Haryana. “They generally come after rumours spread by people in their respective states. We ask the migrant workers who arrive here to stay at our shelter homes. We are facing problems as they prefer travelling by trucks and other commercial vehicles,” the officer said, on condition of anonymity.“Migrant workers staying at shelter homes are being ferried by buses and they are the ones who are given information about buses. We have about 150-200 buses, which have left Ghaziabad so far in the past one week. One of our shelter homes at Apsara Garden in Morta is vacant as migrant workers are not ready to stay and everyone wants to continue their travel. If they stay, they will be given proper food and lodging,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-workers-prefer-trucks-to-a-bus-home-refuse-to-stay-at-shelter-homes/story-du1AT9kuq29OdnlZTiGozL.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Industries may face workforce crunch as 6-8 lakh migrants leave||The large scale exodus of migrant workers from Maharashtra amid the Covid-19 lockdown is likely to pose a challenge to industries that are expected to become operational in phases.With 6 to 8 lakh migrant workers on their way out of Maharashtra, the state government has now launched its own mechanism to provide the skilled workers required by industries, by roping in local unemployed youth.The state has sent more than 1.5 lakh migrants back to their hometowns by arranging 70 trains and over 2,500 state transport buses to transport them. The government has also demanded at least 225 more trains to transport migrants from cities like Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Nashik, and Pune.Several migrants travelled out of the state in private vehicles.The state government had made arrangements for 5.70 lakh migrants in more than 4,600 shelter camps since the lockdown was imposed on March 24. The number has now come down to 3.84 lakh migrants at 3,164 camps across the state.“The labour department had registered about 2 lakh workers living in the shelters during the lockdown. Besides this, some migrant workers live at their worksites or in rented homes. Around 15-20 lakh people are expected to migrate back to their home states, and of them, 6-8 lakh are expected to be labourers,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. According to the 2011 census, Maharashtra has more than 38 lakh migrants living mostly in the urbanised areas of the state.Sensing a challenge in the days ahead, the state government has decided to form a Kamgar Bureau which will enroll the local unemployed youths and impart them with training in various fields. “It will be a joint venture of industries and the skilled development and labour department, to generate the workforce required by various sectors,” said Subhash Desai, industries minister.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his video conference on Wednesday, directed the district authorities to ensure that local youths fill the gap created due to the exodus of migrant workers.Manohar Shroff, senior vice president, Navi Mumbai unit of Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (MCHI) said that the construction industry will suffer a lot, and projects will get delayed due to the labour shortage. “The real estate projects will be delayed by four to six months due to the crunch of workers. At least 70% of them will not even return,” he said.Since the government has allowed the partial operations of industries with a limited workforce, the manufacturing industry is currently not facing any crunch. “But four to six months down the line, we may face a crunch of workers,” said Ram Bhogale, former president, Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture.According to officials, migrant workers who have been protected with schemes like provident fund and health insurance may return but there is no such surety about the others. Officials said that the government may even have to roll out incentives to attract them back in the coming months.State receives 511 complaints of job, pay cutsThe state government received 511 complaints of lay-offs and salary cuts during the lockdown, in response to its appeal to employers not to issue pink slips to employees. “Of them, 362 have been successfully disposed by mediation and making employers withdraw their decision of lay-offs or salary cuts. Some of them were even found to be fake and 149 are in the process of action. Of the total complaints, 205 are from Konkan and 127 from Pune division,” said Raviraj Ilawe, joint commissioner of labour. 8 migrants injured after vehicle topples in ThaneA small transport vehicle carrying 25 labourers toppled at Cadbury Junction in Thane on Wednesday after the driver lost control of the vehicle. Eight labourers were injured. The labourers had hired the vehicle from Masjid Bunder to take them to Bhiwandi and from there they planned to go to their village in Uttar Pradesh.The Rabodi police have registered a case against the tempo driver, Najir Qureshi, 35. “The tempo was speeding and rammed into the divider and turned turtle,” said an officer of Rabodi police station.100 migrants booked by Nagpada policeThe Nagpada police have booked more than 100 migrants for gathering and protesting on Wednesday morning near Kamathipura. The crowd was demanding immediate transport to Uttar Pradesh. “We told them that we are making efforts to get a train as approval must come from the concerned state too. The crowd alleged migrants from other areas were getting trains to reach home and questioned the delay for those in Nagpada,” said a police officer from Nagpada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/industries-may-face-workforce-crunch-as-6-8-lakh-migrants-leave/story-8Hf7dBV4RU0oAJSxFAIwlL.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Waldhuni river turns red; locals files fresh complaint with CPCB||Waldhuni, a river that provides drinking water to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has turned red due to discharge of untreated industrial effluents. On Tuesday, members of the Ulhasnagar Citizens Forum, a residents’ body, filed a fresh complaint with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) attaching photographs of the polluted river turning red (see image).“After decisions have been taken to allow industries to function during lockdown-3, there has been a surge in production, but at the same time common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) are dysfunctional,” said Satyajit Burman, member of the citizen’s forum.“Despite repeated complaints, government bodies are violating the law along with industries dumping chemical effluents directly into the river leading to serious health problems for the entire Thane district,” said Burman.The Ulhas river and its tributary, the Waldhuni, drinking water to more than 30 lakh residents in the Thane-Badlapur. The water is pumped out from the higher reaches of the rivers before it reaches the industrial area. A water quality report from last year of samples from the drinking water zone of the rivers by residents at private lab showed the water was highly polluted.Local municipal bodies said they were not aware of the issue as they were busy dealing with Covid-19 matters.SL Waghmare, regional officer, MPCB said, “This section of the Waldhuni river does not meet Ulhas river at all, and drains at Ulhas creek before entering the sea. There is no threat to the drinking water of the Thane-Badlapur belt due to these industrial effluents. However, there is a threat to the natural environment and biodiversity of the creek. We will soon have our inspection results in the matter.”HT had reported that the Central Pollution Control Board had taken cognisance of increasing water pollution in Waldhuni last month and directed the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to act on complaints.“The red colour seems to be coming from either dye industries or bulk drug-producing (pharmaceutical) plants,” said Waghmare. “A list has been made of such units and investigation on the source of this pollution began on Wednesday. We will be filing a detailed inspection report and taking action against violators.”According to Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation, there 30,115 industrial units functioning across the state during lockdown with 8.06 lakh employees working. Of this MMR has around 386 functional units mostly sanitiser production and pharmaceutical bodies. “Strict orders were issued to units to ensure treatment of waste before discharge. With MPCB’s help, we will be identifying the polluting bodies,” said Kalidas Bandekar, superintendent engineer (MMR), MIDC.Meanwhile, high water pollution continues even though the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. Petitioners said they will be filing fresh applications against the Maharashtra government and all pollution abatement agencies that they were in contempt of court orders. “A free run has been given to perennial violators by all concerned government bodies in this lockdown. We are forced to move the SC,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/waldhuni-river-turns-red-locals-files-fresh-complaint-with-cpcb/story-JEH15rIi2uHszeC8G7M1EK.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Screening, home quarantine mandatory for train passengers: State||The state government on Wednesday issued a notification outlining the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed at railway stations for the screening and health protocol for passengers entering Maharashtra on outstation trains, which resumed on Tuesday. The notification, issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, has fixed the responsibility on district collectors and the municipal commissioner in Mumbai to ensure screening of passengers, their home quarantine for 14 days, and transport facilities from the railway stations. “Asymptomatic passengers should be allowed to go home after screening. They should be stamped and directed to follow a 14-day home quarantine. Relatives coming to receive them at the railway stations should be allowed by showing the e-ticket as a pass to travel to the station. Two and three-wheelers will not be allowed to transport passengers and private cars will be allowed to carry 2 passengers less than the vehicle’s capacity,” the order states.The transport commissioner has also been directed to arrange for the buses and taxi services from the railway stations by following the lockdown SOP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/screening-home-quarantine-mandatory-for-train-passengers-state/story-shEN9l2aSt39ZtrIW8dJHL.html
13-05-2020||City||Labour shortage hits work on Kharar flyover, but admn hopeful of meeting Sept deadline||As a result of mass migration of labourers to their native states in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, work on the Kharar flyover has taken a hit.The shifting of the overhead high-tension power cables to be undertaken by the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) is yet to be completed and is holding up the construction work.“We are planning to open the flyover’s Khanpur to Desumajra stretch for public by July end,” said Himanshu Jain, Kharar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM).There were three poles to be shifted. Out of which two have been shifted, while the one at Khanpur is yet to be shifted to allow elevation.Jain said, “PSTCL was facing labour issues, but we have directed them to complete the shifting of high-tension wires by June 20.”Earlier, in February, Punjab public works minister Vijay Inder Singla, in reply to question by Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu, said the new deadline for the Balongi-Khanpur flyover project in Kharar was September 2020.After reviewing the progress of the work, Jain said, “I was assured in the meet that service lanes will be completed by the first week of June. When the new Khanpur bridge to comes up by July end, the old one would be demolished and the entry and exit points of the flyover would be constructed.” Efforts on to bring back labour from Uttar Pradesh“Skilled labourers deployed by L&T are stuck in Uttar Pradesh. We are tying-up with authorities in Uttar Pradesh to get them back and add pace to work,” added Jain, who is overseeing the progress of the flyover.However, the work of making service lanes and construction of the Kharar flyover has picked pace. About 375 local labourers have been deployed at the site to complete the work. Traffic has been diverted to one side of the flyover which is leading to bottlenecks.The 10-km Kharar-Chandigarh road expansion project that entails construction of two flyovers and three bridges and the authorities is struggling to meet the fifth deadline of the project. The NHAI had handed over the ₹368-crore project to Larsen & Toubro (L&T) and the construction began in November 2015. It was to be completed by December 2018. However, in the past four years only 68% work was completed.Delays were on account of shifting the start point of the flyover from Dara Studio to Balongi due to agitation by locals in June 2016, issues of land acquisition, disbursement of compensation, demolition of critical structures and limitations of traffic diversion in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labour-shortage-hits-work-on-kharar-flyover-but-admn-hopeful-of-meeting-sept-deadline/story-I4yOv3HZXlOicWqHLW3jzO.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Single mega permission for new industries in Maharashtra: State government||In an attempt to woo investors in Maharashtra, the state government has planned to provide single permission named as ‘Maha Parwana’ (mega permission) for the industries to invest in the state. It means that the investors do not need to get a number of permissions and clearances. The industries and their operations can be started instantly.Subhash Desai, state industries minister, said industries ready to invest will not have to run around for permission, as they will get a single ‘mega permission’ to start their operations. “Applicants will be given a ‘mega permission’ with the help of which, the units can be started instantly. Once, the industrial unit has started, the rest of the permissions can be obtained in the next two years,” the industries minister said.To deal with the shortage of workers, Desai also said that they would create a labour bureau with the help of state industries, labour and skill development departments. “The labour bureau would be compiling a list of workers and grade them as per their skills, such as skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers. They will also be provided training as per the requirement of the industries,” he said.The state is also planning to appoint relationship managers to interact with companies to resolve their issues if any.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has appointed senior IAS officer Bhushan Gagrani as state coordination officer, for attracting new investment in Maharashtra. “Gagrani has been asked to prepare a blueprint for government to attract more foreign direct investment (FDI) particularly from Japan, US, Korea and Germany,” said a senior official.He said that they have formed a task force to attract foreign direct investment. Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has also reserved 40,000 hectares of land for foreign investors. They are also working on a policy for pharmaceutical companies considering their willingness for investment.The order issued by the state industries department enumerates a number of responsibilities entrusted to Gagrani. It states, “Communication with various companies, business groups, consulates, trade organisations, associations, and prepare database; coordinate with industries department, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and other state undertakings and public sector units, in this context; produce required promotional material, arrange roadshows, meetings and conferences accordingly and coordinate with concerned ministries of the Government of India as per necessity.”State Industries development commissioner Harshdeep Kamble said that the state is also going to appoint relationship managers on the lines of private banks to interact with companies and solve their issues. “We are rolling out the red carpet for the industries and would be appointing relationship managers so that their issues can be resolved in no time,” said Kamble.Since April 20, the number of industrial units operational in Maharashtra has reached over 36,000. “We have given permission to 64,487 units to start their operations in the state so far. Of them, 36,383 units have started their operations with a workforce of over 10.26 lakh. We are expecting the rest of the industrial units will also start their operations in the coming days,” said a senior official from the state industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/single-mega-permission-for-new-industries-in-maharashtra-state-government/story-fBgLWcXxIIB3iofcaElG4H.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||State requests Centre for 20 companies of CAPF to reduce police’s workload||Two days after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for additional central forces to support the state police, the home department on Wednesday, requested the Centre for the deployment of 20 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in Maharashtra. The state has demanded additional force of about 2,000 personnel to relieve the state police from excessive workload and for additional deployment during Eid on May 25. State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said that the state police personnel were falling sick due to long working hours amid the Covid-19 lockdown and more and more police officers are testing positive for Sars-Cov-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. He said the deployment of central forces would allow the government to give some rest to the state personnel. “The police force has been fighting against the coronavirus day and night by putting in additional duty hours. Many of them have tested positive for the virus. The demand raised for the additional force is made while keeping in mind the ensuing festival of Eid on May 25,” he said.The state government has already deployed 32 companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in various districts with rising Covid-19 cases. Around 84 police officers and 709 constables are undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Eight police constables including five in Mumbai have lost their lives to the novel coronavirus disease. According to home department officials, the additional force requested from the Centre is expected to be deployed in containment zones in cities like Mumbai, Pune and Malegaon.CM Thackeray, during his video conference on Monday, had requested the Prime Minister for additional force. Both the CM and the home minister clarified that the government does not intend to deploy the military in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-requests-centre-for-20-companies-of-capf-to-reduce-police-s-workload/story-KTVN3MvqNUL9VC8sGFUTTM.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||ANTI-SIKH RIOT CASESC declines interim bail to Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court Wednesday refused to grant interim bail on medical grounds to former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar who is serving life imprisonment in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case.A bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde and justices Indu Malhotra and Hrishikesh Roy perused his medical report and said that he did not need hospitalization at the moment. Declining the interim bail plea, the bench, holding proceedings via video-conferencing, said that it would hear the regular bail application in July.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, and senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for some riots victims, opposed the bail plea of the convict leader.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing Kumar, said that his client be granted bail as if something happens to him in jail then his life imprisonment would become death penalty for him. Kumar and Balwan Khokhar are serving life imprisonment in Tihar jail in the case after the Delhi high court convicted them on December 17, 2018.Khokhar has also sought parole in the case. His life sentence was upheld by the Delhi high court in 2018, while it had reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013, in a case related to the killings of five Sikhs in the Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II. The riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984 by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anti-sikh-riot-casesc-declines-interim-bail-to-sajjan-kumar/story-imRl3rCV6ZzqITq4qitDwL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pvt school owner shot at in Bhiwani, 3 booked||Three unidentified assailants fired shots at a private school owner in Bhiwani’s Garwa village on Tuesday evening, police said.The injured man, identified as Ravinder Lakhlan (39) of the same village, is said to be stable now.As per eyewitnesses, three bike-borne assailants, seemingly in their early 20s, parked their bike near village sarpanch Sonia’s house.“Ravinder and four to five other persons were sitting outside the sarpanch’s house when two of the accused came close to Ravinder and took four shots at him, leaving him severely injured. After the villagers raised an alarm, the assailants fled the spot. Ravinder was rushed to a private hospital in Hisar,” a villager said.Bhiwani police spokesperson Abhishek said, “Ravinder is stable and out of danger now. During his treatment, the doctors pulled out two bullets from his body.”Jhumpa police have formed a team to trace the accused, he said.The police have registered a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act against the unknown youths. “We have started the investigation and the assailants will be nabbed soon,” Abhishek added.Ravinder’s brother Suresh Kumar said they suspect the involvement of some youths of their village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pvt-school-owner-shot-at-in-bhiwani-3-booked/story-wwgcjRfw5M9GOJ5XVpDINP.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: RERA revises deadline for real estate projects||Considering the Covid-19 situation, Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) on Wednesday revised completion date of real estate projects by six months. These projects were earlier scheduled to be completed before March 15.RERA chairperson NS Kanga said the period of validity for registration of such projects will automatically be extended by six months from the original date.“For all projects, the registration of which had lapsed prior to March 15, the period of validity of registration will be extended by six months in addition to a period that would normally be granted on processing the application, provided they apply for extension after paying the necessary late fee. In calculation of late fee, the period from March 15 to June 30 will be excluded,” said a statement.The RERA chairperson said the time limit for all statutory compliances in relation to real estate projects and real estate agents, in accordance with the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, which had become due till date, is extended up to June 30.The matter will be reviewed constantly to take note of, and respond appropriately, to any emerging situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-rera-revises-deadline-for-real-estate-projects/story-u5l0hcVpNksadtrZQiPPeJ.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Vacant middle seats won’t be needed as passengers sit facing forward: Air travel safety report||As the world prepares for the resumption of air travel, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and Airport Council International (ACI) stated that social distancing on board - like leaving the middle seat vacant - will not be necessary as passengers sit facing forward and not towards each other, and thus the risk of coronavirus transmission is low. In a recommendation document issued on the safety guidelines for passengers, the airports and airlines bodies, stated that the direction of the airflow on board acts as protection against the virus. It read, “... Customers sit facing forward and not towards each other, seatbacks provide a barrier, the use of HEPA filters and the direction of the airflow on board (from ceiling to floor), and the limited movement on board aircraft once seated, add to the protection. As an added protection against possible in-flight transmission, IATA recommends the use of face coverings by travellers in situations where physical distancing cannot be maintained, including in flight. In this regard, it should not be assumed that physical distancing on board (e.g. through blocked seats) would be necessary.”IATA and ACI recommended individual state governments to set up online portals for collecting contact information for passengers to be used for tracing purposes. In the recommendation document, ACI and IATA, stated that people who have recovered from Covid-19 should not have to undergo all the processes which have been put in place for general passengers to ensure their safe travel - during pre and post flights and while on board. The joint paper stated, “If a passenger could be documented as having recovered from Covid-19 and thus as being immune, they would not require many of the normal protections...boarding and on board processes, bypassing many of the protective steps such as face cover and temperature.”It also stated that the measures will have to be taken to ensure social distancing in the boarding area and passengers must be asked to self bag drop, to minimize interactions with check-in staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vacant-middle-seats-won-t-be-needed-as-passengers-sit-facing-forward-airline-safety-report/story-sM3UF3sFE77zj95UaPkWoN.html
13-05-2020||City||Padma Shri awardee from Panipat accused of bungling panchayat funds||Panipat-based Padma Shri recipient Narender Singh Didwadi has been accused of bungling panchayat funds by misusing his position as a panchayat secretary, an allegation which he refuted. The misappropriation of ₹1.51 crore meant for development works was highlighted in the findings of an investigation carried out by Israna block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Jitender Singh, a report of which he submitted to the office of Panipat deputy commissioner (DC). On the basis of the findings, DC Hema Sharma has given directions to chargesheet Didwadi under Section 7 of the Haryana Civil Services Act and issued a show-cause notice to the Mandi village head. PROBE FINDINGSThe BDPO in his investigation report has accused Didwadi of withdrawing the money meant for the Haryana rural development fund administration board from bank accounts of Mandi panchayat with the connivance of sarpanch Gurmit Singh and making payments to contractors without completion of projects in 2018-19. The report also states that the development works were not verified by the junior engineer and other authorised officials. Didwadi is also said to have used substandard material in the construction works in the village. However, Didwadi has refuted the allegations and termed them baseless. The 48-year-old said he was ready for any investigation and claimed that some officials were trying to defame him. He was awarded the Padma Shri, country’s fourth-highest civilian award, in 2019 by President Ram Nath Kovind for his successful venturing into rearing of livestock, particularly Murrah bull Golu, which is known for producing high-milk yielding buffaloes in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/padma-shri-awardee-from-panipat-accused-of-bungling-panchayat-funds/story-mHCOlosdRwzxY9vh5b9Y8N.html
13-05-2020||City||2,100 leave Jhajjar, Rohtak for UP and Bihar||After staying in shelter homes for over a month, nearly 600 migrant workers, engaged in agricultural activities, left Jhajjar for Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr in 15 Haryana roadways buses. Besides, 1,533 workers departed for Patna, Bihar, from Rohtak railway station in a Shramik Special train.Rohtak deputy commissioner (DC) RS Verma and former minister of state for cooperatives Manish Grover interacted with the workers and distributed food, masks, sanitisers and water bottles among them.Kishan, a migrant worker from Patna, said, “I have been coming to Haryana every year to harvest wheat crop, but this time we did not get work due to the coronavirus outbreak.”“Now, I am feeling homesick and am desperate to return to Patna. Haryana is safe but we can’t continue staying in shelter homes as mercury is soaring,” the worker added.Radhe Shyam, a migrant from Bulandshahr, said that he had come to Jhajjar four years ago to work as an industrial labourer. “I consider myself fortunate to have got a chance to go back home while a few other workers are still staying in camps.”“The Jhajjar administration had asked us to go for a medical check-up before boarding the bus. I don’t know whether the local administration in UP will ask me to quarantine at home or stay in a hostel,” he added.‘CAN NOW GO HOME IN PRIVATE VEHICLES’Jhajjar DC Jitender Kumar said that they have allowed migrant workers to go home in their own vehicles after getting permission.“The workers will be given movement passes after they apply online and submit their medical fitness certificates to the administration,” Kumar added.YAMUNANAGAR ADMN SENDS 164 MIGRANTS BACK HOME The Yamunanagar administration sent 164 migrants back to their native places by buses and trains on Wednesday.As per details, 113 of them were sent to the Rohtak railway station by bus from where they travelled to their native places in Bihar. As many as 19 migrants from Jammu and Kashmir, including two elderly and 17 students, stuck in various areas of the district, were also sent back. Around 32 migrant labourers were sent back to Uttarakhand’s Dehradun.DC Mukul Kumar said, “We are sending migrant workers back to Uttarakhand, J&K, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states by buses and trains.”“A similar activity is being carried out for migrant labourers belonging to Punjab. All passengers are being screened beforehand. They are only being sent back after getting checked by the civil surgeon.”(With inputs of Bhavey Nagpal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-100-leave-jhajjar-rohtak-for-up-and-bihar/story-aRMXtWUVh8ChoKgjOi6qxN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Give details of PPE sellers, HC tells Navi Mum civic body||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) to give details of the companies and prices at which the civic body had purchased personal protective equipment (PPE) and hand sanitisers and how often they were being replenished in a bid to contain the Covid-19.The court was further informed that due to the callous approach of the officers of the corporations many workers had contracted the virus and had to be quarantined, hence directions should be issued to the corporation.The single bench of justice S J Kathawalla, while hearing a petition filed by the Samaj Samata Kaamgar Sangh through video conferencing, was informed by advocate Bhavesh Parmar that the grievances of around 6,277 employees was represented by the petition. Parmar submitted that around 3,261 workers were involved in solid waste management and day-to-day road cleaning and were doing so with their bare hands. The workers were not provided enough water to clean their hands and in the name of hand sanitizers were given two-three drops before and after completing their duty.The bench was further informed that though the workers were reporting to their jobs regularly, they were not provided with any protection from Covid-19 virus such as hand sanitizers, hand gloves, face masks, PPEs etc on a regular basis. They were provided with low-quality face masks and hand gloves on one occasion. As a result of this, there were few positive cases among the workers while over 24 persons were placed under home quarantine and at quarantine centres. The advocate for the corporation, however, refuted the allegations and said that all personal protective equipment including hand gloves, face masks and hand sanitizers were being provided from time to time to all the workers. However, when asked as to when the protective equipment was last provided to the workers the advocate could not respond.The court then directed the corporation to file an affidavit setting out the number of face masks, hand gloves, hand sanitizers which were in their possession prior to the lockdown, the subsequent additions to that, along with the detailed breakup of the distribution carried out from time to time till date. The court also sought the names and addresses of the individuals/firms/companies from whom the hand gloves, sanitizers, face masks, etc were purchased and at what price. The corporation was also asked to disclose on oath, how often the face masks, sanitizers and gloves etc provided to the workers were replaced/replenished and posted for further hearing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-details-of-ppe-sellers-hc-tells-navi-mum-civic-body/story-4ZZzXahMDDCXOtFZGfJVsL.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||3,000 migrants leave for home in two trains||Under strict supervision and tight security arrangements, the district administration on Wednesday sent 3,000 migrants to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh from the Gurugram railway station in two special shramik trains.Relieved to finally leave for home, the migrants—men, women, children and the elderly—boarded the trains while following social distancing norms at the station under the supervision of the local police, the government railway police (GRP) and civil defence volunteers, officials said.Hitesh Sharma, the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Badshahpur, said that the exercise—including the registration of migrants, getting them to assemble in a centralised place, ferrying them in buses, making food packets for them for their journey, making security arrangements during their bus journey within the city, as well as at and around the railway station—involved the manpower of more than 500 personnel, including the local police, the GRP and the civil defence volunteers.The police secured the railway station and the area around it and did not allow even the media to enter the station premises.“This was done to make sure there is no unruly incident and no crowd gathers at the station. There are densely populated areas around the station and anybody can enter the station and board the train; we had to maintain law and order,” Sharma said, adding that the migrants’ first train for Tikamgarh left at 10.30am—one-and-a-half hours behind its scheduled time at 9.00am—with 1,400 migrants on board.The second train left at 12.30pm for Madhubani in Bihar with 1,600 migrants.Locals told Hindustan Times they had never witnessed such tight security around the railway station before. SK Singh, a resident of Rajendra Park, said, “Our locality is adjoining the railway station. We were told the GRP personnel were deployed to enhance security.”The Haryana government, however, has been discouraging the migrants who have been living here for years from going back to their hometowns, assuring them that activities in industries and other areas are slowly reopening in the city and their jobs are safe.“Ram Bihari, a daily wage earner who hails from Jhansi, told us that he did not earn a single penny since the imposition of the lockdown. He was unable to feed his family and he saw no scope of earning in the current scenario. He told us he would return to Gurugram later,” an official who was part of the team that saw off the migrants at the railway station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/3-000-migrants-leave-for-home-in-two-trains/story-cYdyrU5mZ3BqTQ43QibeoO.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Sharpshooter of Ashok Rathi gang arrested for having rival killed||The city police on Wednesday arrested the suspected sharpshooter of a gang for allegedly ordering the murder of a rival gangster in Naurangpur village near Kherki Daula on Monday morning.Thirty-five-year-old Dhiraj Yadav, suspected of ordering the hit, is allegedly part of the Ashok Rathi gang. The police said he sent three of his associates to kill the victim, identified as one Manjeet Yadav, while he was at a park with his children. Manjeet sustained at least 14 gunshot wounds in the chest, abdomen, head and leg, the police said.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said Dhiraj, a resident of Nakhrola village in Manesar area, was arrested from Iffco Chowk around 4.00pm on Wednesday for allegedly conspiring to murder Manjeet from Shikohpur. “He had visited the park in his village with his two children, who were playing nearby when he was shot dead,” the police said.However, his children escaped unhurt as they were in a separate area of the park at the time of the incident,” he said.A crime team was formed on Monday evening, which tracked Dhiraj’s location and followed him on Wednesday. He had got down from a car at Iffco Chowk when the police arrested him.The police said they received a tip that the vehicle used in the crime was used by the suspect a few days ago. The police started surveilling his phone number and scanned his call details and location records.The police recovered a 7.65mm countrymade pistol and 12 live cartridges from his possession.The police have now launched a manhunt to nab the other members of the Rathi gang who shot Manjeet dead. They carry a reward of ₹25,000 for information on each of them.During interrogation, the suspected sharpshooter told the police that he and his associates had hatched a conspiracy to kill Manjeet as he had control over newspaper distribution, and the supply of security guards and domestic help to condominiums in the Kherki Daula area and he wanted to take over the business. However, Manjeet would not let anyone enter his jurisdiction, Sangwan said.“The murder took place on Monday morning as Dhiraj wanted to eliminate him and take over all three businesses to resolve his financial crisis,” he said.“The men shot Manjeet 12 times but when he fell to the ground, he was still breathing. One of them noticed and shot him two more times to end his life. Villagers took him to the hospital, but doctors declared him dead on arrival,” Sangwan said.The police said Manjeet and Dhiraj had been rivals for the last decade and were involved in several cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion.Sangwan said Dhiraj is currently hospitalised in a private hospital in Sector 38 because he complained of chest pain. His condition is fine but he is trying to evade police interrogation, he said.Manjeet was a close aide of deceased gangster Bhudev Singh, alias Bhanwar, who was killed in a shoot-out with the Gurugram police in Manesar in September 2018. After him, his close aides are running the operations and are involved in extorting money from businessmen in the city, the police said.The preliminary probe suggests that Dhiraj and his associates had conducted a recce of Manjeet’s village for 20 days. “Dhiraj had prepared a layout of the park and followed Manjeet for a week. He was waiting for the right opportunity to have him eliminated,” Sangwan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sharpshooter-of-ashok-rathi-gang-arrested-for-having-rival-killed/story-SjFsSF4D3rGet5EjWAnu2I.html
13-05-2020||City||Two women killed in hit-and-run on Hero Honda Chowk flyover||Gurugram Two women were killed after an unidentified car allegedly hit them on Hero Honda Chowk flyover while they were pushing a cart towards Nakhrola village, the police said on Wednesday. Another woman who was accompanying the two sustained minor injuries and her condition is reported to be stable.According to the police, the deceased were identified by their first names as Sonia, 36, a native of Hailey Mandi in Pataudi, and Heena, 38, from Feroz Gandhi Colony in Sector 9. They were daily wagers and living in Nakhrola village. The incident took place on Sunday when both of them, along with their acquaintance Reena, were returning home from Gurugram after buying ration, the police said. Reena, who is also a resident of Nakhrola village, works as a vegetable vendor. In her police complaint, Reena said, “We were returning to Nakhrola after buying ration. When we were on Hero Honda Chowk flyover, suddenly a car came at a high speed and hit our cart. We fell on the road and when I got up, I saw that Sonia’s head was profusely bleeding and she had died. Heena was also severely injured and was taken to a hospital in Sector 10 from where she was later referred to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi.” The police said that Heena had sustained severe injuries to her legs and stomach. She died on Monday night.A case was registered against the unidentified suspect under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station, the police said.Naresh, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Naharpur police post, said, “Reena had sustained minor injuries. We registered a case against the suspect based on her statement. He is yet to be identified. We are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-women-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-hero-honda-chowk-flyover/story-88lrynqzXS2in3Lee2Lh1L.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Post-lockdown: Ro-ro operators re-think operations, schedule||Launched just a few days before the Maharashtra government announced a lockdown in the state owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) services operators are now re-thinking ferry schedules, price and operating times once it opens post-lockdown.Mumbai’s ro-ro services between city’s Ferry Wharf and Mandwa in Alibaug was launched on March 15. The large passenger-vehicle transport ship can carry 145 vehicles and 500 passengers at one-go. M2M Ferries Private Limited (MFLP), the operators, is now surveying to understand travel patterns in the coming months.A spokesperson from MFLP said, “A lot has changed since the outbreak and lockdown. While we have seen a rapid increase in travel demand between Mumbai and Alibaug in the last five years, we want to understand what will be the utility in the monsoon.”During the launch, it was estimated that MFLP along with the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) and Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) will run two services to and from Mandwa for a month initially, which will be increased to six trips, during the monsoon.“We are expecting people to use it for a quick getaway post lockdown. We are also working on our standard-operating-procedures to adhere to social distancing norms,” the spokesperson added.The 19-km sea-route between Mumbai and Mandwa by the ro-ro is covered in an hour instead of four hours taken to cover the 113 km distance by road. The M2M1 ship, which can travel at a speed of 15 knots, arrived from Greece in the city on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/post-lockdown-ro-ro-operators-re-think-operations-schedule/story-VSVSDsrMQoduhS3JUPDPEK.html
13-05-2020||City||Sohna village donates ₹21 crore to state’s Covid-19 relief fund||Gurugram: Palra village in Sohna, located almost 12 kilometres south of the Gurugram city, has donated ₹21 crore to the Haryana Covid Relief Fund. For the contribution, the village gram panchayat liquidated a portion of the amount which it received after selling a village land to government agency in 2017.This is the highest donation made by any village panchayat in the state, said Ravinder Kumar, a gram panchayat member.Palra village sarpanch Munesh Devi presented a cheque for the amount to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at his residence in Chandigarh on Tuesday.“The idea was floated in a gram panchayat meeting in the first week of April. A part of the village land, which falls under the Sohna block, was acquired by Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in July 2017. The gram panchayat at that time received an amount of almost Rs 40 crore which was deposited in different banks as fixed Deposit (FD),” Kumar said , a gram panchayat member, said, who was present at the CM’s residence in Chandigarh on Tuesday.“Twelve of our gram panchayat members were present in Chandigarh to give the cheque to the CM, who hailed us for our contribution,” said Kumar. According to him, they have been utilizing the interest generated from the amount for the development work of the village. “We realised that the panchayat has no dearth of funds to invest in development work. Releasing a certain amount for relief fund would not hamper our functioning,” said Kumar.On April 11, the gram panchayat had submitted the proposal to the Gurugram district administration to liquidate FDs with different banks. “From the deputy commissioner’s office, the proposal was shared with the Haryana cabinet for approval. An approval is needed from the state government to withdraw money using those FDs. On April 21, the gram panchayat was permitted to do so and donate the amount,” said Kumar.Khattar appreciated the initiative by the Palra villagers and said that the government has been receiving good response from panchayats and social organisations, said a statement released by the district administration. The Palra gram panchayat member further said that the villagers wanted to give their contribution especially at a time when the state government is spending money on migrant workers to mitigate their hardships. “At a time when industrialists and different organizations are coming forward to help the state, we thought of doing it too,” said Kumar.Like Palra, a village from Panipat – Bal Jattan– also donated ₹10.5 crore to the state relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sohna-village-donates-21-crore-to-state-s-covid-19-relief-fund/story-2T6zkjXtSvoqfGlGdy6SsI.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Residents allege cross-border movement from Delhi at Salarpur, seek stricter vigil||Residents have alleged that workers from Delhi continue to pour into the city through the Salapur border, despite the lockdown and curbs imposed by the Haryana government on cross-border movement of commuters from Delhi. Residents of sectors 21 and 22 wrote to the police on Wednesday, asking them to curtail the movement of pedestrians, cyclists and bikers from Delhi, who are entering the city through their residential areas.“We wrote to the police on Wednesday requesting them to stop such movement of people till the situation becomes normal and borders de-sealed. Residents in our sector are worried as coronavirus cases in Delhi are increasing and this has caused an increase of cases in Gurugram also, due to which the Haryana government ordered police to seal all border and roads for movement, except essential services,” said Shahipal Yadav, the president of the Sector 21 residents’ welfare association (RWA).The police sealed all Gurugram-Delhi borders on May 1. “Borders at Bijwasan, Kapashera, Sarhaul and MG Road have all been sealed. Thousands of workers live in Delhi villages adjoining Gurugram’s industrial hub of Udyog Vihar. Many factories and constructions have resumed operations and these workers have no way to reach these sites or units but to use the Salapur route,” said Bhim Singh, the president of Sector 22 RWA.Police put barricades and deployed four police personnel at Salapur border after the restriction was imposed on movement.Naresh Kumar, a resident, whose house is on the Gurugram side at the border, said, “I have shot many videos and clicked many pictures of frequent movement of pedestrians, cyclists and bikers — the rush can be seen in morning and evening. The police hardly stop them. We have raised complaints with these videos and pictures on Twitter tagging all top officials and chief minister office also.”Rajender Kumar, station house officer, Palam Vihar, said, “We have deployed adequate police at Salapur border and movement is restricted. However, I will look into the residents’ complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-allege-cross-border-movement-from-delhi-at-salarpur-seek-stricter-vigil/story-mJjAOST4DXpvyyGqqhEouJ.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||14 new Covid cases in Punjab, tally reaches 1,983||Fourteen more persons, including five each from Amritsar and Ludhiana, tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the total count of those infected by the disease in the state to 1,983.A 22-year-old youth, who reached Punjab on foot from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh recently, was found infected by the virus in Rupnagar town. He along with his father visited the flu corner of the local civil hospital for check-up where their samples were taken. His father’s report is awaited. With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has reached 55.Amritsar becomes first dist to cross 300-markAmritsar reported five more cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, becoming Punjab’s first district to cross the 300-mark.“Three positive patients from Amritsar are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Tarn Taran while other two are admitted in Gurdaspur. With this, the district’s tally stands at 301. Of the 301 patients, 54 have recovered while four have died of the disease. All the patients are stable and are in isolation wards,” civil surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore added.One case each in Jalandhar, Kapurthala, HoshiarpurA 66-year-old woman of Basti Sheikh locality in Jalandhar city tested positive. Civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said a total of 198 cases, including 6 deaths, of the coronavirus have surfaced in the district. As many as 5,408 samples were collected in the district, of which 4,489 turned out to be negative while the results of 564 were awaited.In Hoshairpur district, a resident of Khuralgarh village in Garhshankar sub-division was found to have been infected by the disease.The 29-year-old, a driver, returned from Maharashtra on May 11. Two more returnees tested for the coronavirus were found negative. The total count of positive patients in district had reached 93.In Kapurthala, a 14-year-old tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/14-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-tally-reaches-1-983/story-sZ6uPH9JaUFRrHfk5QU5aM.html
13-05-2020||City||MCG starts anti-larval ops, fumigation in all 35 wards||Gurugram: Amid measures to contain the spread of coronavirus, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has also turned its attention towards vector-borne diseases such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria, and started fumigation and anti-larval operations, said officials on Wednesday.The MCG has formed 12 teams for this task. Last year, the civic body had started these operations in mid-July. The officials have created a beat system where areas in all 35 wards would be covered in a three-week period from May 11-31. They said the monthly roster will subsequently be updated and then altered to include those areas which were not covered in the three-week period, to ensure all parts of the city are covered before monsoons arrive.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said that with health officials already stretched in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, the civic body decided to advance its measures against vector-borne diseases to ensure minimal cases of dengue and malaria are reported, .“We have initiated pre-emptive measures to ensure diseases caused through mosquitoes are kept at a minimum level. Our focus remains on limiting the spread of coronavirus outbreak, and ensure there are no other diseases or ailments which make matters even more complicated,” said Singh.As per the MCG officials, over 80 workers will be carrying out fumigation and anti-larval operations with hand-held machines for fogging, as well as adding chemical insecticides into water bodies or large catchment of stagnant water to kill larvae. The officials said that the unseasonal spell of rains over the past two weeks is also one of the major reasons to start the operations earlier than usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mcg-starts-anti-larval-ops-fumigation-in-all-35-wards/story-keIHHKJlNOtpjs0wfpSxzL.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Exclude 15% of Western Ghats ESA for mining, industries: State requests Centre||The state will request the Centre to exclude 15% of the area proposed as eco-sensitive area (ESA) in the Western Ghats, in Maharashtra, to allow mining and industrial activity.The proposal will be made today during a meeting with the Union environment ministry, which is expected to decide on the matter at the same meeting. On Monday, during a meeting chaired by state forest minister Sanjay Rathore with senior forest officials, it was decided the state would request the Union environment ministry to exclude 15%, or 17 villages, from the final ESA notification, said Jeet Singh, additional principal chief conservator of forest, Maharashtra forest department. “This was proposed based on suggestions received from the state’s industries department and mining bodies as the draft ESA extends into some villages falling within mining and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) areas,” said Singh. He said the state would modify its final response to the draft ESA on the basis of the Centre’s response.Declaring an ESA imposes restrictions on setting up projects such as mining, quarrying, thermal power plants, industrial units and construction in the area. On October 3, 2019, the Union environment ministry had proposed a draft of the ESA in the Western Ghats — 56,825 square kilometres (sqkm) spanning six states and covering 37% of the Western Ghats — of which 17,340 sqkm (2,133 villages) were in Maharashtra. So far, the state forest department has excluded 358 of the 2,133 villages from the ESA.A senior forest official, requesting anonymity, said among the villages planned for exclusion are those in the Dodamarg-Sawantwadi forests, an important elephant and tiger corridor along the Maharashtra-Goa border. The wildlife corridor, home to tigers, leopards, elephants, sloth bears, migratory bird species and the Indian giant squirrel (Maharashtra’s state animal) connects the Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary in Kolhapur in Maharashtra to Bhimgad Wildlife Sanctuary in Karnataka. The villages will be opened up to mining projects. Ecologist Madhav Gadgil, who headed the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel formed by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2010, said, “There is a much larger area that needs to be protected comprising origins of rivers and major water courses. They have all been traditionally protected. We are witnessing an era of complete destruction of nature to fill the pockets of a small number of people, which is leading to an increase in the economic disparities. Exclusion of 2,500 plus sqkm will certainly lead to social unrest for local communities for these villages.”Kanchi Kohli, an environmental governance expert with Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research said, “From the very beginning ESAs are being declared without taking the local situation into account or holding any public consultations. A decision to keep such areas in or outside protected zones needs to be a much more widespread exercise rather than a decision between state and Central governments alone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/exclude-15-of-western-ghats-esa-for-mining-industries-state-requests-centre/story-PrnMTA9DyE4pUQXSnyyiIM.html
13-05-2020||City||Covid impact: Staff at Ludhiana hospital go on strike against pay cut||Over 50 paramedical staff of Mohandai Oswal Hospital, near Sherpur Chowk, went on a strike on Wednesday to protest against pay cut. As employees received their salary slips in morning, they confronted the hospital management leading to heated arguments. Following this, the nursing staff and other employees gathered outside the hospital in protest, ignoring need for social distancing.They said their pay was deducted without prior notice, and salaries of some nurses were also not paid in lieu absence. Last month the hospital management had sent the staff on five-day holiday to control the spread of Covid-19, they said. But now, the hospital had not paid them for those five days, and for unavailed leaves.“Majority of the nurses draw a monthly salary of ₹12,000, of which ₹5,000 has been deducted. The management says that the cut has been imposed due to the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 lockdown,” said one of the protesters.“When we raised objections, the management misbehaved with us. How are we supposed to run our households? We are already doing a crucial duty and handling suspected patients. To top it all, we have been subjected to such an unfair treatment,” another protester said.Repeated calls and messages failed to evoke any response from Yogendra Awadhya, head operations of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-impact-staff-at-ludhiana-hospital-go-on-strike-against-pay-cut/story-WhjguAfAHLehyAwZJJ7KPK.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sonepat prisoner among 13 test positive in Haryana||A rape accused, who was kept in the Sonepat district jail’s isolation ward since Monday, has been found infected with coronavirus. Sonepat civil surgeon Dr BK Rajaura on Wednesday said the undertrial was tested for the virus on Monday, report of which came out positive. “We have launched a massive search to trace about 30 of his contacts, including the complainant woman, and sent their samples for testing,” he added.Sonepat jail superintendent Satvinder Godara said as per the guidelines, samples of the undertrial brought to the jail on Monday were taken and he was kept in the isolation, away from the barracks. “Seven more people, including jail employees who were in his close proximity, are also being tested,” he added.Haryana now has 793 corona cases, 12 of which were reported on Wednesday from Gurugram (5), Sonepat, Faridabad, Rohtak (2 each) and Jhajjar and Rewari (1 each). 2 NANDED-RETURNEES FOUND INFECTED IN KARNALA 13-year-old boy is among two persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Karnal on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 11.Though the health department bulletin did not mention these cases, district officials said the patients had returned from Nanded in Maharashtra on April 30. The boy belongs to the Pakhana village and five members of his family have already been tested positive, whereas the other infected person belongs to Ram Nagar area of Karnal.In Kurukshetra, a 38-year-old woman was tested positive in Lakshman Colony, while in Jind, two vegetable sellers were foujd infected in Narwana area. A Haryana Police staffer was found positive in Rewari and a contact of an infected vegetable seller tested positive in Jhajjar.76 DISCHARGEDThe state also saw a jump of 10% in the recovery rate, from 43% to 53 %, in a day. Of the total 76 persons discharged, 30 were from Sonepat, 14 each from Jhajjar and Panipat, eight each from Jind and Gurugram and one each from Faridabad and Palwal.Senior doctors said the recovery rate improved because of the revised guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sonepat-prisoner-among-13-test-positive-in-haryana/story-eV9PvbYKSIbF71WoeneicI.html
13-05-2020||City||Over 110,000 auto, taxi drivers paid Rs5,000 each as aid by Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi government has transferred a compensation of ₹5,000 each to a total of 110,093 PSV badge holder para-transit drivers In the city. The government claimed that the drive has now become the largest financial assistance scheme in the country in the transport sector. In the second week of April, the Delhi government decided to provide one-time financial help of ₹5,000 to drivers of autos, taxis, e-rickshaws and other para transit vehicles to help them tide over the financial crisis caused by coronavirus pandemic.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said this was possible only after his teams decided to leverage technology so that no person needed to step out of their homes and stand in a queue.“The government has paid a total amount of ₹55,04,65,000. To do this without requiring beneficiaries to leave their homes during lockdown, we developed a unique mobile-based technology and software, and leveraged Aadhaar-based direct benefits transfer (DBT),” he said.“We witnessed that in around 60,000 cases there was a mismatch in names between driving licence and Aadhaar. So, we faced a lot of issues in their verification. All the 13 MLOs were directed to manually cross-check and verify the names and details in the driving license with the Aadhaar details. This way, through mobile technology and round the clock efforts of the Delhi transport department officials, the verification process was completed. We have received nearly 158,000 applications,” Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-110-000-auto-taxi-drivers-paid-rs5-000-each-as-aid-by-delhi-govt/story-2KGt1JiFAGYFzDUuOyGODM.html
13-05-2020||City||Kalyan records two Covid deaths||Two Covid patients died in Kalyan-Dombivli in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths in the city to seven.With 18 new cases, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has a total tally of 386.A 42-year-old autorickshaw driver from Dombivli died in a Mumbra hospital on Tuesday. As per the health department of KDMC, the man had jumped from the third floor his in-laws’ building in Diva a few days ago. He suffered multiple fractures.“He was taken to Jupiter Hospital. After he tested positive to Covid, he was shifted to a private hospital in Mumbra. He died on Tuesday,” said Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.A 58-year-old man from Kalyan, who suffered a cardiac arrest, was admitted to Meera hospital in Kalyan. His Covid test report showed he was positive. He died on Wednesday morning.“He was diabetic and was on a ventilator after the cardiac arrest,” said Patil.On Wednesday, a team of central government officials visited Kalyan and Dombivli to check the facilities provided for Covid patients and to keep a track of the measures undertaken by the civic body to fight the pandemic.The team health care centres, some of the containment zones and Tata Amantra quarantine centre in Bhiwandi.“The team of central government officials checked and reviewed the measures taken by KDMC and gave their suggestions,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kalyan-records-two-covid-deaths/story-ZSwcn7vpYHKo0GB578GhuN.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Deadlock over chief secy deepens as Cong leaders press for probe||A day after Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh was relieved of the additional charge of financial commissioner, taxation, the stalemate between the ruling Congress leaders and the state government on Wednesday deepened with several of them demanding a probe into revenue losses in the excise department in the past three years.State cooperation and jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar were among those who backed the demand for immediate removal of Karan Avtar, a 1984-batch IAS officer, from the post of chief secretary besides an inquiry into the decisions taken by the excise department.Besides the two, Congress MLAs Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Raj Kumar Verka, Joginder Pal, Balwinder Singh Laddi, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Barinder Singh Pahra, Fatehjang Singh Bajwa and Kulbir Singh Zira also pressed for the demands.The logjam was triggered by a showdown between the chief secretary, who also held the charge of financial commissioner, taxation, and two ministers — Manpreet Singh Badal (finance) and Charanjit Singh Channi (technical education) at a pre-cabinet meeting last week over some changes in the state excise policy to provide relief to liquor contractors for the lockdown period. The ministers expressed reservations over the proposed changes and stormed out of the meeting, objecting to the chief secretary’s demeanour.At Monday’s cabinet meeting, they demanded Karan Avtar’s removal with some other party leaders alleging that he had “conflict of interest”, seeking a probe into revenue losses in the last three years. Even as Amarinder relieved the chief secretary of the additional charge of financial commissioner, taxation, after his showdown with some ministers and Warring’s allegations that the officer’s son had business interests in liquor trade, the move failed to placate the party leaders. Warring, who had thanked Amarinder for relieving thee officer of the additional charge, was the first one to demand an inquiry against him on Wednesday for revenue losses of Rs 600 crore in the excise department. “..kindly remove him from his post of chief secretary so that he is unable to influence the enquiry,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deadlock-over-chief-secy-deepens-as-cong-leaders-press-for-probe/story-4VbZ7jheVYhPcl80zBoXOJ.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Liquor loot on in Punjab: Majithia||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Wednesday alleged that the Congress government in Punjab was in a state of open gang-warfare among leaders of the liquor mafia, holding high offices in the government.“This is virtually bootleggers’ liquor lust and loot out in the open. It is shocking that while people are fighting for their lives, ministers and other Congressmen are losing their sleep not over finding solutions to their problems, but only over their share in liquor loot,” a statement from Majithia said.Referring to the ongoing tussle between the ministers and the chief secretary in the state, Majithia added it was unprecedented that ministers had been accused of running massive illicit liquor cartels, by their own head of the civil service.“The ministers must either resign immediately on moral grounds or be summarily dismissed on corruption charges,” he claimed, alleging that the ministers seemed to have launched a counter-attack on senior bureaucrats only to deflect public attention from the allegations of liquor loot. “The ministers want to put the chief secretary on the defensive through political blackmail and public calumny. However, if there is substance in the allegations of either the chief secretary or the ministers, then the government must dare to act, and file and FIR against whichever side is prima facie guilty,” he said.He added, “If the ministers have any principles, then instead of refusing to sit in cabinet meetings with the officer, they should show moral daring and resign from the cabinet, unless he is removed. They, however, won’t take this principled stand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/liquor-loot-on-in-punjab-majithia/story-0bZWBa14jhLTTKNVJbQnMO.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Police to organise conference calls with doctors for their personnel and families||After issuing a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the daily health monitoring of their personnel to ensure timely prevention and protection from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi Police on Tuesday took an initiative to launch a tele-advice initiative, through which personnel or their relatives will be put in direct contact with a doctor for medical advice. According to the police, doctors from government and private hospitals in every district have volunteered for this initiative. “As per this system, the station house officers (SHOs) and unit heads will maintain a panel with names of doctors who have offered their services,” a senior police officer said.“If any police personnel or his/her relative has any health concerns, the SHO and the unit head will connect them on a conference call with the doctor. This round-the-clock facility will ensure that the police personnel and their families have access to medical advice at all times,” the officer said. This will also reduce the need for testing and hospitalisation in cases in which it is not really needed, the officer said. Anil Mittal, additional PRO of Delhi Police, said that the initiative will help reduce anxiety and fear psychosis among the personnel. “Each district police station now has access to a list of doctors in its area. In case of even minor symptoms, the police will be able to receive timely guidance. In these extraordinary times, anxiety and stress could be more dangerous than the actual infection itself. The initiative will help deal with that,” Mittal said. So far, one policeman has succumbed to the virus and at least 125 Delhi Police personnel have been infected, said an officer aware of the matter, who didn’t want to be named. Earlier, the police had issued an SOP for monitoring the health of its personnel. As per the SOP, any police personnel feeling unwell, suffering from cough, sore throat, fever, breathlessness or any other symptom “must immediately report” the same to the duty officer (DO) of the police station or unit where they are posted “by any means of communication”.At the district level, the police are taking additional steps to ensure that their personnel are not infected. While health registers, masks and sanitiser at police stations are a must, in the south Delhi district, the police have begun an ‘Ayu Raksha Rath’, a vehicle that will take rounds of all police pickets in the district every day. “The staff in the vehicle will distribute Vitamin C tablets and Ayurvedic products to all staffers deployed at the pickets,” Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said.Earlier, last week, the Delhi Police commissioner, SN Shrivastava, in a video conference with reporters, had told HT in response to a question about the police’s preparedness in case of a large number of their personnel tested positive, that at least 15% of the staff had been kept on standby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-to-organise-conference-calls-with-doctors-for-their-personnel-and-families/story-jHS9fY814WhEry820crk0K.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Caretakers of persons with disabilities are exempt from lockdown restrictions: Centre to HC||The Centre on Wednesday informed the Delhi High Court that caretakers of persons with disabilities should be allowed to reach them “by exempting them from restrictions during lockdown or providing [them] passes in a simplified manner on priority”. The information was given to Justice V Kameswar Rao after he had posted a query to the Centre seeking to know whether caretakers of such persons are exempted from the restrictions. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, in response, told the court that on March 26, it had issued detailed guidelines to provide better facilities to persons with disabilities.In an affidavit, the Central government’s standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia told the court that the guidelines covered various aspects. The guidelines stated that all information concerning the Covid-19 pandemic should be available in a simple, local language in accessible formats, including Braille and audio, for persons with audio/visual impairment.The guidelines also stated that all emergency service providers should be trained to deal with persons with disability (PwDs) in the right way and on the risk associated with additional problems for persons with specific impairments. It also said that online counselling sessions should be provided for the PwDs to help them de-stress.The court was hearing a plea by Varun Khullar, a disabled person and a DJ and music producer, who had sought directions to the Centre to classify caretakers, attendants and support staff of persons with disabilities as medical personnel and consequently grant them exemptions under the National Disaster Management Act, including but not limited to, their transit.The plea filed through advocates Karan Mathur and Ivo D’Costa had contended that the petitioner was suffering from 100% disability and, accordingly, could not perform his day-to-day functions without the help of a caretaker/attendant.It also highlighted an April 24 report by Hindustan Times which mentioned the various problems faced by disabled persons due to the lockdown and the absence of caretakers.Following such submissions, the court disposed of the matter even though it did not pass any order on the resumption of public transport for caretakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/caretakers-of-persons-with-disabilities-are-exempt-from-lockdown-restrictions-centre-to-hc/story-ASD7XYlQOjMGuPQgiNhU7J.html
13-05-2020||City||North MCD unveils new property tax interface on its portal||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday unveiled a new interface on its portal for citizens to file their property taxes.This new section (https://mcdonline.nic.in/citizenndmc/web/citizen/info) is user-friendly and is aimed at getting more residents to file their taxes online at a time when people can’t step out due to the lockdown, officials said. Property tax is the largest source of revenue for the corporations followed by toll tax, parking, advertisement and renting out community halls. In the last financial year (2019-20), the north corporation earned Rs. 1,118 crore in property tax, which was almost 45% of its total income of Rs. 2,485 crore. Officials said 4.68 lakh houses have already been enrolled in the UPIC (Unique Property Identification Card) system and brought under the tax net.“We have estimated our lost property tax this year, attributable to Covid, to about Rs. 180 crore. In fact, the largest amount of property tax comes to us at the end of the year as a lot of people wait for March, but this time the lockdown coincided with that,” said north corporation commissioner, Varsha Joshi. Naina Soin Kapil, additional commissioner (revenue) with the corporation, their earlier portal was handled by a private company, whose contract with us ended in December 2019. “Now, our website is designed and operated by a government agency, National Informatics Centre (NIC). The entire data is now cloud-based and hosted at NIC’s Bhubaneswar data centre with back-up in Pune. So we are 100% data secure,” she said.“We have incorporated several new user-friendly features. For example, visitors can now file their property tax dues for the previous years as well, while on the earlier website, you could do it only for the current year. They can see their entire payment history over the years on the new portal,” she said.The north corporation has suspended all submissions through cheques and cash.“We are creating provisions for each resident under our geographical jurisdiction to be able to create his or her own unique log-in through his or her Unique Property Identification Card (UPIC) and uploading details of their payments not just regarding property tax but various licences as well. So this will become a one-stop centre for all such details a resident is looking for,” Naina said.“Besides, we will keep updating revisions in property rates on the portals for people to be able to calculate their dues correctly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/north-mcd-unveils-new-property-tax-interface-on-its-portal/story-Aw4YOFjl45rnGMQTTKE44N.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Eight employees at New Delhi DM office test positive||Eight employees in the office of the New Delhi district magistrate at Jam Nagar House have tested positive for Covid-19, a senior government official said on Wednesday.“They have been quarantined and placed under observation. The officials were engaged in the control room and quick response departments. The entire office premise is being sanitised,” District Magistrate New Delhi Tanvi Garg said.As many as 375 cases and eight deaths have so far been recorded in the New Delhi district, records showed. It also showed, 72 individuals have recovered.Last month, officials associated with the district magistrates in Central Delhi and South-West Delhi revenue districts had tested Covid-19 positive, forcing the two magistrates to isolate themselves in their residences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/eight-employees-at-new-delhi-dm-office-test-positive/story-MKEBsu9xlF0jgpM2KdwsxM.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||With 2 more from Bapu Dham infected, Chandigarh Covid tally 191||Two more cases of novel coronavirus were reported from Bapu Dham Colony containment zone on Wednesday, taking Chandigarh’s Covid count to 191.Officials said the two males who tested positive are aged 32 and 36 years and residents of the affected colony. They were the family contacts of the Bapu Dham Covid patient who died. With this, Bapu Dham now has 122 cases which account for 68.3 % of total cases and 77.5 % active cases in city.Meanwhile, two patients were discharged from Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, taking the tally of recovered people to 32. The discharged patients include 28-year-old woman from Ram Darbar who was admitted on April 28 and a 33-year-old man from Sector 38-B who was admitted on April 30.Ten others tested negative. Six family contacts of the 35-year-old healthcare worker at Government Mutli Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, who was exposed to the infection while handling the body of a 32-year-old Hallomajra man, tested negative. Also, four family contacts of the Covid-positive 7-year-old boy from Sector 40, tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-2-more-from-bapu-dham-infected-chandigarh-covid-tally-191/story-kzzhcibqVRRLNrF291k9yJ.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||At 1,392, Punjab’s testing per million better than national average: Sidhu||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said the testing per million for coronavirus in Punjab has now risen to 1,392 per day, which is higher than the national average of 1,243.In a statement, Sidhu also said the state has conducted a total of 41,849 tests for Covid-19 till Wednesday (May 13).He said Punjab has followed an effective approach towards testing and formulated its strategy in consultation with experts from the state, the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi, and Johns Hopkins University, US.The minister said that Punjab rapidly ramped up its testing rate by increasing its lab capacities. “The state had tested 20,000 samples by May 2. Moving forward, it completed the next set of 10,000 tests in just 5 days, crossing the 30,000-mark by May 7.”The state, he said, plans to commence testing at four state government labs -- Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar; Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana; Punjab Biotech Incubator, Mohali; and State Forensic Science Laboratory, Mohali.Besides, labs are also being set up at four central government institutions -- Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali; National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali; National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI); and Panjab University, Chandigarh, he added.Sidhu said a proposal has also been sent to the Centre by the health department to set up four new labs in the district hospitals at Barnala, Rupnagar, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur.“Government labs are also going in for pool testing in low prevalence areas to enhance the testing capacity in the state. So far, approximately 7,435 pool tests have been conducted in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-1-392-punjab-s-testing-per-million-better-than-national-average-sidhu/story-mq88aAymcdVW9fQupq8cOM.html
13-05-2020||City||Lockdown, increased western disturbances may have led to cooler start to summer in Delhi||New Delhi Delhi is experiencing an unusually cool summer this year. Compared to the average temperature recorded in the national capital since 1980 between March and May, the city’s average temperature has been three to six degrees lower this year in the same period, researchers observed.Limited industrial and commercial activities and vehicular movement because of the nationwide lockdown, along with an increased number of western disturbances this year, could be the reasons behind this change, environment experts said. Two researchers, Mudit Kapoor, an associate professor of economics at the Indian Statistical Institute (Delhi Unit), and Shamika Ravi, a senior fellow at Brookings Institute, compared Delhi’s average daily temperature from 1980 to 2017 and marked the deviation against 2018, 2019 and 2020. The researchers observed that this year, between March and May 5, the temperature was three to six degrees lower than the average.“We compared the temperatures of Delhi, Ahmadabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai and Lucknow via a visual presentation. We marked the average temperature of a particular day based on data from 1980 to 2017. We marked any recording above this average in red and any recording below this average in blue for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020,” Kapoor said.He said, “In Delhi, April 2019, was very hot compared to the average April, but April 2020 is much cooler.”While the researchers have only made these observations, and are yet to come up with an analysis of the reasons behind the variation in temperature, they are not ruling out the effect of the 49-day nationwide lockdown to control the Covid-19 pandemic, which has restricted industrial and commercial activities in the city and limited vehicular movement on roads.“It has been an unusual year. Compared to the average temperature (from 1980 to 2017) in Delhi, this year’s lower temperatures so far are an anomaly. This might be because of the lockdown,” Ravi said. Experts are divided over the reasons behind the dip in temperatures in the city. Some credit the increased number of western disturbances that brought intermittent wet spells through March, April and even the first week of May for the comparatively low temperature. Others are not ruling out the possibility of lower pollution levels in the Capital.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Delhi received six WDs in March and six in April, which is unlikely for these months. This trend, however, began from January, when nine WDs passed Delhi, and seven crossed in February.On May 10, thunderstorm and light rain in certain parts of Delhi-NCR also brought down the temperature. The IMD forecast has predicted cloudy weather for the week, with maximum temperature hovering between 34 degrees Celsius and 39 degrees Celsius.“There has been an increased effect of WDs in the whole of north-west India, which has kept the temperature in Delhi lower than usual this year. By this time of the year, the normal temperature touches 40 degrees Celsius, but the mercury is yet to rise,” Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said.He added, “We have also noticed that even when it doesn’t rain, clouds hover over the city after the WDs pass, which does not allow the temperature to rise.”In the summer forecast issued in February, the IMD had indicated that the average temperature in Delhi from March to May is likely to be warmer than normal by 0.5-1 degree Celsius.Other experts said that though a proper analysis is yet to prove the connection between the lockdown and the lower temperature levels this time, there is scientific proof that vehicular and industrial emissions add to the heat levels of the city.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the pollution levels in Delhi and NCR have remained in the green zone for this duration and its positive impact will surely be visible.“These are such unique circumstances; it is like Earth is in repair mode. We know that emissions from vehicles and industries add to the heat island effect, which increases temperatures in urban centres. It is highly possible that we are benefitting from the restriction in emissions,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-increased-western-disturbances-may-have-led-to-cooler-start-to-summer-in-delhi/story-wUM5vrXrW7lNGKIfqVAdOJ.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Rats, termites and waterlogging damage goods as shops keep shutters down for 45 days||Naveen Shankar, a dry fruits trader in Old Delhi’s Khari Baoli, says that when he opened the shutter of his shop on Tuesday to take stock of the situation after nearly 40 days, his jaw dropped in shock. Sealed cans of cashews, walnuts and almonds, imported from across the globe, were strewn on the floor, and white powdery remains were pouring from sacks that had been nibbled into. A few dead rats lay around the shop, taking credit for the damage.He estimates that this loss would nearly be worth ₹50 lakh, and he hasn’t even looked at the condition of his godown yet, where he has stored nearly 250 sacks of various varieties of dry fruits.Rat-nibbled garments, termite-infested paper rolls, fungal growth in eatables and knee-deep water in showrooms and godowns—nearly 45 days after the lockdown, traders in the national capital are bearing the brunt of downing their shutters. Many say that since shops have remained closed for many days now, the losses caused by insect infestation and waterlogging is already estimated to be worth several crores of rupees and this is just the beginning.“Anticipating Ramzan, we had stored high-priced dates, figs (anjeer), cashews, almonds and walnuts. Before we closed our shop, we moved a lot of the items into our godowns. We sealed the stuff in the shop in sacks and airtight cans. But when we opened the shutters to check the situation, we found the shop in a mess,” Shankar says.On March 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. Only shops selling essential commodities such as groceries, vegetables and medicines could operate. While many trader unions supported the lockdown, as days pass, the losses are proving back-breaking for many small traders.Traders in Old Delhi say that while those in other parts of the city were dealing with problems of rat and insect infestation, they were facing additional challenges unique to this area. Since the area has a higher underground water-level compared to the rest of the city, many basements and godowns are filled with knee-deep water that has damaged clothes, jewellery and stationery items.Paramjeet Singh Pamma, president of Sadar Bazar market association, says that many shops in the market are located below ground level, and because no one could come to inspect the situation in the shops for over a month, the shops are flooded. The recent rain in parts of the national capital has also added to the damage.In many shops, the godowns, which are mostly located behind the shops, have also been flooded or have had rats running amok, destroying the stock. There are nearly 30,000 to 40,000 traders in the market.“On Monday, when the Delhi government announced some relaxations, some of us managed to check on the situation. Many told us of their stock being soaked in water, resulting in a fungal coating on their goods. All of it is unfit for sale now,” Pamma says.Not far from Sadar Bazar, in Chandni Chowk and Chawri Bazar, the situation is similar. Traders dealing in paper and wholesale stationery items have been hit the worst. They say paper rolls have completely been destroyed and cannot be salvaged. The estimated loss in Chawri Bazar, where there are nearly 120 paper traders, is over ₹5-8 crore till now, the Chawri Bazar Paper Traders’ Association says.Apart from the losses incurred from just the damaged goods, traders are also worried that prolonged closure will also add to the costs of redoing their shops, as walls have been coated with algae remains and furniture has been destroyed by termites.Sanjay Bhargava, president of Sarv Vyapar Mandal in Chandni Chowk, says that many traders in the market are unable to reach their shops as their residential areas have been marked as containment zones by the government. The gravity of the situation will unfold in the coming weeks, he says.“I am also a victim. I opened my shop after many days and found dead rats just lying around. Apart from this, traders have also complained of sarees and lehengas being eaten by insects and termites. Silver jewellery and work on wedding wear have also been oxidised. It is a very peculiar situation and we do not know how the government can intervene to help us out,” Bhargava says. Similar scenes have been witnessed in markets across the city. Traders say that this is just the tip of the iceberg because many of them are yet to open their shops and assess the damage caused.In south Delhi’s popular Sarojini Nagar market, traders have written to Prime Minister Modi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to allow shops of non-essential goods to open. Showrooms of popular brands in the market have also experienced cases of insect infestations that have damaged goods worth crores in the market.“We have written to the PM and the CM asking them to allow us to open our shops. Every day that our shop remains closed is adding to the losses. Termites and rats have caused major damage. We’ll even agree to certain restrictions if the permissions are given,” Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders’ Association, says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rats-termites-and-waterlogging-damage-goods-as-shops-keep-shutters-down-for-45-days/story-29rMIf8W3E859M3dyMHTIP.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hotels, eateries allowed start home delivery in Pathankot||Seeing a considerable dip in Covid-19 cases, the Pathankot administration has now allowed hotels and eateries to start operations via home deliveries.DC GS Khaira said as Pathankot has witnessed dip in coronavirus cases, the administration has taken this step. He said hotels and eateries can operate but only for home deliveries. “The unit will ensure that their employees are free of any infection. They will get the employees’ medical examination done ad ensure the staff’s fitness,” he added.“We will keep a strict watch and any violation will attract severe punishment,” he said. Hotelier Ashish Kumar said the decision is a welcome move.Over relaxation for the crusher industry and mining in Pathankot, the DC said that they have already been allowed to operate but only if they follow certain conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hotels-eateries-allowed-start-home-delivery-in-pathankot/story-cU5BN97vMsogymUwVGgifN.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Azadpur mandi vendors want market to be sanitised twice daily||With three more traders testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the vegetable and fruit vendors in Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi have written to the Delhi government suggesting a slew of safety measures to be implemented in the wholesale market in the next few weeks. The vendors have suggested that the markets be sanitised twice daily and dedicated teams formed to ensure that used masks and gloves are not discarded carelessly around the market area. The traders also highlighted the need to conduct regular temperature screening for both owners and workers employed in shops. “We have requested the government to co-operate with us a little more to control the spread of infection here. Everyone is afraid for their lives and safety but we also want our businesses to not be affected,” Rajendra Singh, a fruit trader in Azadpur Mandi, said.Anil Malhotra, a member of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), said that they are also requesting owners to not bring in any new workers to their shops so that the risk of infection can be controlled. “Traders are requested to stick to the workforce that they already have. Any new worker will only increase the risk of infection,” Malhotra said. As on Wednesday, 17 traders in the Azadpur Mandi tested positive for the disease. On Monday, three new cases were recorded here.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has assured traders that all possible steps are being taken to ensure maximum sanitation and social distancing in the wholesale market. “We are screening all customers and are only allowing a limited number of people to be present at the market at a time. We are also conducting regular thermal screening of those entering the mandi to control any spread. If there are any suggestions from the traders, we are willing to incorporate those as well,” Adil Khan, the chairperson of the APMC, Azadpur, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/azadpur-mandi-vendors-want-market-to-be-sanitised-twice-daily/story-Wdz3f1j4iphcGh4fx98YtM.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||NAFED delivers 8,574 MT pulses to Punjab||The National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited (NAFED) has supplied 8,574 metric tonnes of sabut urad dal (black gram whole) to Punjab under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).NAFED, which has to deliver total 10,800 MTs of pulses to the state government for distribution to 1.41 lakh poor households, said on Wednesday that as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) decided by the Central government, it is the responsibility of the state government to take care of the stock once it is accepted after quality check. The SOP has been decided by the department of consumer affairs for supply of foodgrains to poor families affected by the coronavirus lockdown. NAFED is the nodal agency for supplying pulses under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nafed-delivers-8-574-mt-pulses-to-punjab/story-SZqnNpIeJK0eeL4OtIjIrM.html
13-05-2020||City||Navi Mumbai Covid cases cross 900 mark||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) crossed the 900 mark of covid positive cases on Wednesday with 54 new cases. The city has 910 Covid positive cases.Among the new cases, 14 are from Turbhe, 11 from Vashi, 10 from Kopar Khairane, nine from Airoli, five from Ghansoli, two from Belapur, two from Nerul and one from Digha.(Inputs from )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-covid-cases-cross-900-mark/story-1C5WGVQuIqT5QAa10zyLAP.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown effect: Amarinder sets up committee to assess losses to liquor traders||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced a three-member committee of officials to assess the losses to liquor contractors from March 23 to May 6 but rejected the demand for extension in vend contracts beyond the current financial year.The CM said adjustments will be made for the losses incurred during the lockdown period in the current year itself.The committee will comprise principal secretary (finance) Anirudh Tiwari, principal secretary (power) A Venu Prasad, and excise and taxation commissioner Vivek Pratap Singh. On Monday, the CM was authorised by the council of ministers to approve changes in the state excise policy, as demanded by liquor contractors citing losses. The excise and taxation, and finance departments had suggested not to extend period of contract for liquor vends beyond March 31, 2021.Amarinder approved the finance department’s recommendation to provide proportionate adjustment of ‘minimum guarantee quota’ for the losses incurred in the 9 days of lockdown in March (2.5% cut from total revenue quota of Rs 5,675 crore), which comes out to Rs 141 crore. In the current financial year, relaxation of 10% (Rs 620 crore) was approved of a total of Rs 6,200 crore revenue projection.The CM also directed the excise department to complete allotment of vends as per the 2020-21 state excise policy, which he said was approved by the cabinet on January 31.Of a total of 756 groups, 500 were renewed as per the 2019-20 policy while the remaining 256 were restructured into 186 groups of which 89 groups were allotted as per the 2020-21 policy. The remaining 97 groups are yet to be allotted vends.“We were expecting clear-cut announcement today but the entire process has been delayed by bringing in a committee and the group of ministers,” said Sunil Mahajan, a liquor contractor.GoM TO GIVE REPORT ON LEVYING COVID CESS The CM also constituted a group of ministers (GoM) comprising Manpreet Singh Badal (finance), Vijay Inder Singla (education) and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (housing & urban development) and mandated it to consider levying special Covid cess on the sale of liquor, as has been done by other states. TRADERS TO DECIDE ON HOME DELIVERY The CM asked the contractors to take call on the issue of home delivery of liquor which has started in Fatehgarh Sahib and Faridkot districts. He said the apex court had suggested home delivery or indirect sale of liquor in its order May 8 to ensure social distancing during the lockdown. Many contractors are opposing the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-effect-amarinder-sets-up-committee-to-assess-losses-to-liquor-traders/story-UBG92xLy0a2WXyWnOvwjeI.html
13-05-2020||City||22-year-old Covid patient dies in Thane||A 22-year-old woman is among the three Covid deaths reported from Thane on Wednesday. Among the 37 people who died of Covid till now, she is the youngest. The number of positive cases in Thane has crossed 800 with 47 new cases.The total tally in Thane is 843.RT Kendre, officer on special duty for Covid-19, said, “The 22-year-old woman was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa on May 8 with severe pneumonia. She died on May 10. She did not have any comorbidity. The delay in testing might have led to her death. She is a resident of Rabodi and the youngest patient in the city to die after being infected.”Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “A 56-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar in Manpada and 70-year-old man from Kisannagar died in Thane. Lokmanyanagar Sawarkarnagar ward recorded 15 new cases today, taking the ward’s tally to 203.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-year-old-covid-patient-dies-in-thane/story-jfChEYPepfNHUME4PNhQAK.html
13-05-2020||City||Man kills live-in partner; flees with son from Greater Noida||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly strangled to death by her live-in partner in a rented accommodation in Swarn Nagri area of Greater Noida. The incident came to fore on Wednesday morning after locals informed police about a foul smell from their flat. A police team from Sector Beta 2 police station reached the spot, broke into the flat and found the decomposed body of the woman on the floor.According to police, the victim Pinki Kumari, who hailed from Bihar, had moved in to the Greater Noida society with the suspect Sumit Rajput, 35, and his six-year-old son from his first marriage. The suspect is currently on the run with his son. The victim and suspect had some monetary dispute, police said.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said prima facie, it appears that she was killed about three or four days ago. “The neighbours said they had not seen the family for nearly a week. The door was locked from outside,” he said.Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer, Sector Beta 2 police station, said the post-mortem report revealed that the victim was strangled to death. “We talked to the Kumari’s family members and came to know that Kumari and Rajput had met six months ago while working as employees at a paying guest facility in Delhi. The man had divorced his first wife and he had a son from that marriage. The victim and suspect started living together and moved to Greater Noida,” he said.Upadhyaya said that Kumari was demanding some money from Rajput to start her own paying guest facility, and this had led to frequent arguments. “Police investigation showed that Rajput strangled the woman and fled the spot over the same issue,” he said.Police said they found another address of Rajput in Ashok Nagar, New Delhi. A police team visited that address but he could not be found. Police informed Kumari’s parents in Bihar and launched a search to trace her live-in partner and son.Tejveer Bhati, president of the Swarn Nagri Resident Welfare Association said that the couple had moved in six months ago. “On Wednesday, some neighbours noticed the foul smell from the flat and we informed the flat owner,” he said.Police said they have not received a complaint from the victim’s family or relatives yet. In the absence of a complaint, the police have not registered an FIR and are conducting preliminary inquiries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-kills-live-in-partner-flees-with-son-from-greater-noida/story-vteROYpvuxNq84iLGMEndN.html
13-05-2020||City||Out-of-work auto drivers in Thane district seek aid from CM||The Thane city rickshaw taxi union has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, asking for financial support. Around 75,000 autorickshaw drivers in Thane district are without work for almost two months now. They have exhausted their resources and are finding it difficult to make ends meet.The Thane, Kalyan and Dombivli auto union has around 75,000 auto drivers, of these, around 12,000 have left the city for their hometown. “People are left with no option but to go to their village, where they will at least get food. Some auto drivers have left the city in their vehicles,” said Vinayak Surve, president, Thane city rickshaw taxi union.“We do not have any earnings for the past two months. We have exhausted our savings and have loans to repay. Many have only one meal a day,” said SurveThey have written to the Chief Minister’s Office to provide each auto driver’s family with at least ₹10,000 to survive the lockdown. “There are some social organisations that are providing groceries or meals but many haven’t got these. Every year, we had been paying around ₹20,000 for various taxes. The government can at least give ₹10,000 per family,” added Surve.Many have taken loans, which are adding to their burden.“Many have taken loans not only from banks but also from private financial organisations, that keep asking for payment. Even after the lockdown is lifted, we will have to spend at least ₹4,000 in repairing our vehicles,” said Kalu Komaskar, president of Dombivli rickshaw union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/out-of-work-auto-drivers-in-thane-district-seek-aid-from-cm/story-v3rJUSPQGvATCpcTsmEscP.html
13-05-2020||City||Hisar woman asks husband to undergo health check-up, gets beaten up||A man allegedly thrashed his wife and threatened her with dire consequences after she asked him to undergo a medical check-up as he had returned from Punjab’s Talwandi Sabo. The woman lodged a complaint against her husband, Sandeep Kumar alias Nippi, who has been booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 505 and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act.The woman, Urmila, said her husband had been working in Talwandi Sabo for last several years and returned to Hisar on Monday. She said even her in-laws supported her and asked Sandeep to get screened for coronavirus, but he assaulted her. Police spokesperson Vikas Kumar confirmed that an FIR has been registered against the accused, who was arrested by ASI Naseeb Singh. “Further investigation has been launched into the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-woman-asks-husband-to-undergo-health-check-up-gets-beaten-up/story-K5aONH8dgHnC1eg1m1xZHO.html
13-05-2020||City||19-year-old youth stabbed to death in Karnal, two held||A 19-year-old youth was stabbed to death by two persons of his village in Karnal district, police said on Wednesday. The victim is Vikas Kumar alias Babu of Kunjpura, who was attacked on Tuesday evening, the police said, adding that there were multiple injuries on his face and neck. The accused identified as Sonu alias Naag and Akash Kumar have been arrested for the murder. Kunjpura police station in-charge Gaurav Punia said the duo has confessed to the crime, which was triggered by an altercation. He said they will be produced in a court on Thursday. He said the victim’s body has been handed over to his family members after post-mortem examination at Kalpana Chawla medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-year-old-youth-stabbed-to-death-in-karnal-two-held/story-kecXeYlcekqLPVa9V0P13M.html
13-05-2020||City||Update phone numbers with licences for easy disposal of e-challans: Delhi top cop||New Delhi: Delhi police chief SN Shrivastava on Wednesday urged the Delhi High Court to pass necessary directions so that the mobile phone numbers of all the registered vehicles is updated for the easy disposal of the traffic challans in the national capital.At the same event, Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud proposed a new initiative to link all institutions of criminal justice system to make the process seamless.Speaking at the inauguration of two more virtual courts, the police commissioner, Shrivastava said that even during the lockdown, 20000-25000 challans are being generated on a daily basis and the numbers are going to increase ten times when the lockdown is lifted.He said that the new system of disposal of e-challans through virtual court is effective, however, absence of mobile numbers during the registration of the vehicles will come in the way of speedy disposal of the e-challans. He requested the judges to pass a direction for updating the mobile numbers during the registration.Justice Chandrachud, who inaugurated the virtual courts, said they are in the process of starting an Inter-operable criminal system (ICJS) to link the various stakeholders like police, courts, hospital, prison, forensic labs, etc so that the metadata can be captured and the process be made seamless.He said the initiative was first started in Telengana and after its success, they are going to implement it in the entire country.With ICJS in place, the courts can access live data of FIRs and charge sheets from the police, provided both are ready, in electronic form in the police system. Judges will have access to details of cases, FIR numbers, names of the accused and details of arrest the moment they are uploaded into the system.In reciprocation, the court will be able to send details of remand orders, bail, property release and other information to the police electronically. Police officers will be able to access live update of court proceedings in each case and also orders passed.Justice Chandrachud also said that the next initiative would also include launching of e-seva Kendra in the high court of each state and one district court so that people who are not technology savvy can also avail the e-facilities.Justice Rajiv Shakdher, chairman of the Information and Technology Committee of the Delhi High Court, said more than 732,061 cases have been disposed so far with the help of the virtual court wherein the offenders have paid a fine of Rs 89.54 crore as fine. He also said that single judge is dealing with the issues and 20 other judges who used to hear such matters are now free to hear other cases.Even as the function of inauguration was on, the new site had disposed of cases and Rs 97,000 was already deposited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/update-phone-numbers-with-licences-for-easy-disposal-of-e-challans-delhi-top-cop/story-YcyT5DiZDOMxEngS17ji2M.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police seized over 2 lakh liquor bottles in Hisar Range during lockdown||Ever since the lockdown was imposed on March 24 midnight in the state, Haryana Police have recovered more than 2 lakh bottles of liquor either illicit or being transported illegally and arrested 817 people in five districts of Hisar Range on the charge of bootlegging, director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said on Wednesday. The range comprises Hisar, Jind, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Hansi, where 650 cases have been registered under the Excise Act. Police have seized 39,712 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), 59,315 of country-made liquor, 1.05 lakh of beer, 5,174 of illicit liquor and 31,878 litres of ‘lahan’ (a raw material for producing illicit liquor). In addition, 45 working units being used for producing illicit liquor were also destroyed, the DGP said.The liquor vends were opened across Haryana a week back. During this period, five most-wanted and 48 other criminals from Hisar Range were also nabbed.While one most-wanted criminal each was apprehended from Hisar, Hansi and Jind districts, two were arrested in Sirsa district. Among the 48 criminals involved in various heinous crimes, 16 were arrested from Hisar, eight from Hansi, nine from Jind, 13 from Sirsa and two from Fatehabad. 972KG NARCOTIC SUBSTANCE RECOVERED“Police have seized over 972kg narcotic substance in the Hisar Range during the lockdown period,” the DGP said.Yadava said all field units were directed to step up vigil and increase police presence to send all criminals behind bars. Since the lockdown, he said, police have intensified its patrolling while ensuring strict lockdown to ensure the safety of citizens, which yielded fruitful results. The DGP said they have also nabbed 261 people under the NDPS Act and registered 151 cases. He said among the drugs seized from the possession of arrested accused included over 9kg heroin, 745kg poppy husk, 97kg ganja/charas, 7,220 banned capsules and 21,185 tablets. In Yamunanagar, around 19,000 liquor bottles have been seized by police during this period.SP Himanshu Garg said, “Our teams have seized 18,761 bottles of various types of liquors and 6 litres of lahan during the lockdown period. We have registered 35 FIRs and arrested 39 people. Similarly, 31,400 intoxicating tablets, 35 injections and 2.9 kg poppy husk has been recovered during the same period. In these cases, three FIRs were registered and four accused were nabbed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-police-seized-over-2-lakh-liquor-bottles-in-hisar-range-during-lockdown/story-Kdu9cHkhCxxXLculcvKJdL.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||MHRD seeks ‘info’ from Allahabad University, varsity complies||The Union ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has sought detailed information from Allahabad University (AU) on four specific issues including discontinuing the MCA course being offered by its department of electronics and communication. The AU officiating V-C maintained that the ministry has just sought information and not served any show-cause notice, as was being claimed by some and said that the information has duly been provided to the ministry.Officiating V-C RR Tiwari on Wednesday said, “The ministry had sought information on four issues including discontinuing MCA at JK Institute, providing degrees to students of Ewing Christian College, admission in DPhil programme at the department of commerce, and postgraduate courses being run in constituent colleges.”The V-C said that the university has informed the ministry that the “decision of discontinuing MCA has been taken after following the set process, including approval of the board of studies at the department level to the Academic Council (AC). The decision was taken only after getting a go-ahead at all levels and the same has been informed to the ministry”.On other issues, Tiwari said that AU has been following set norms in taking any decision. “ECC students are being given their degrees, students of the commerce department could not be issued a letter of admission in DPhil course because of the lockdown and the PG courses are still being run at constituent colleges,” the V-C said.He further clarified that the ministry had just sought a detailed report from AU and it was not a show-cause notice.A couple of months back, the MHRD had asked the officiating V-C to refrain from taking policy decisions on any subject or issue on the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mhrd-seeks-info-from-allahabad-university-varsity-complies/story-yS1gqc8uel2kEhHM43H4GK.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||First relief package shows no intent of securing lives: Captain||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday expressed his disappointment over the first tranche of the fiscal relief announced by Union finance minister Niramala Sitharaman and said immediate intervention in the unorganised labour sector should have been a priority.“It was unfortunate that the Union finance minister had not deemed it fit to balance the needs of MSMEs, NBFCs and the housing sector with urgent requirements of lakhs of migrant labourers facing unprecedented problems due to the current crisis,” the CM said.Citing Prime Minister Modi’s emphasis on securing ‘jaan’ with ‘jahan’, Captain said the first set of announcements showed no intent at protecting lives.“MSMEs, housing sector, etc have to survive first, and then take the leap to revival stage. And how will they survive without workers who have left in hordes?” questioned the CM, urging the Centre to take note of the woes of labourers, especially in the unorganised sector.The CM said on the face of it, MSMEs have not received a bail-out package from the Union finance minister. Instead, they were being offered loans, which will only end up plunging them into a deeper debt crisis.“Even the MSMEs working in the critical health sector have not received any special incentives to give them the impetus that they need right now to support the covid battle,” Amarinder said, lamenting the “absence of serious thought in prioritising the nation’s needs at this critical juncture.”Pointing out that Punjab had 2.52 lakh industries, of which only 1,000 are large-scale, the CM said given the magnitude of the problem, Centre will need to come out with a huge package for the MSMEs to resume operations. Labourers will return only when MSMEs start operations, he added.The CM hoped that the next set of announcements from the Union finance minister will see some concrete announcements for the unorganised labour sector, in particular, and address unemployment crisis in country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/first-relief-package-shows-no-intent-of-securing-lives-captain/story-swn5IZn7mlgBV350ExTXvL.html
13-05-2020||City||One more tests positive in Himachal, tally rises to 67||One more person from Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 67. Active cases stand at 26 now. The 29-year-old man hails from Kakrail village of Sulah block in Palampur sub-division, deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.He returned home from Gurugram on April 28 along with two others in a taxi and was under home quarantine. The DC said the taxi driver had taken four rounds of the state while ferrying passengers from other states.Authorities have started contact mapping and the village where the patient belongs is being sealed. Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases with a total of 27 people testing positive in the last 10 days. Kangra has reported 11 cases in the corresponding period. So far, thirty-five people have recovered in the state.Una is the worst-hit district with a total of 17 cases followed by Kangra with 16 cases and Chamba 12.Nine cases have been reported in Solan, six in Hamirpur, three in Mandi, and two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-tests-positive-in-himachal-tally-rises-to-67/story-nByPdDykLLYOObn6EngcwN.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||Provide vehicles to those walking their way to home: Yogi to officials||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said arrangements should be made to provide vehicle to migrant labourers found walking on road or rail tracks anywhere in Uttar Pradesh.Presiding over a high level meeting to review the lockdown situation and arrival of migrants, the CM said the lockdown should be strictly implemented in Agra, Meerut and Kanpur Nagar districts.He said respective state governments should be informed about residents of other states who wanted to go back to their homes.Yogi said all those coming back to UP should be screened and quarantined.He also ordered arrangements for medical treatment of migrants who are not found in good health.He said capacity of quarantine centres should be increased in view of arrival of large number of migrant labourers.He also asked officials to formulate an action plan to provide jobs to migrant labourers.Insisting that giving a push to industry was needed to restore economic activities in the state, the CM said appropriate amendments to sectoral policies should be made to simplify them.He said a revenue and land bank should be set up for industrial development department.He said social distancing should be followed while carrying out business at branches of banks, ‘mandis’ and shops.He said there should be regular communication with members of monitoring and vigilance committees. He said all nursing homes should follow protocol while providing medical and health facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/provide-vehicles-to-those-walking-their-way-to-home-yogi-to-officials/story-8dQoiZtCPWdQQmY7cRS2RL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Resentment brews among traders in red zone districts in Punjab||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave clear-cut signals of extending the ongoing nationwide lockdown, resentment prevails among the traders running businesses in red zone districts in the state. As per central guidelines, the state government has not allowed operation of commercial establishments dealing in non-essential items in these districts – Patiala, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. The traders in red zone areas claim they are suffering huge financial losses not only in terms of income, but their stored goods worth crores of rupees are deteriorating due to the lockdown since March 22.In Patiala, traders on Wednesday held protests in their respective commercial areas against the Centre and the state government for not providing any kind of relief to them. Rakesh Gupta, president of Patiala District Beopar Mandal, said the traders had extended full cooperation to the authorities, but now the lockdown has started taking toll on their businesses as well as patience.“Not only small traders, but big traders and multi-brand stores are facing losses of crores of rupees. The traders are left with no money as they have exhausted available funds for meeting their committed expenditures,” Gupta said. Ludhiana-based Naresh Singla, Punjab chairman of Readymade Garments Markets Association, said the garments lying in their stores have been damaged in bug attack. Termites have eaten up the furniture at their outlets. The fungus has damaged the leather stuff. We have asked the authorities to visit our shops just to see our plight,” said Singla, who also owns a store in Patiala.Singla said the government should allow the traders to open their shops on rotational basis. Abhishek Garg, a cloth merchant in Patiala’s Sher-e-Punjab market, said, “We had stocked up summer stuff worth Rs 40 lakh before the announcement of lockdown, but all of it has gone waste due to covid-19 pandemic.”He added, “Traders have no money to pay salaries to our salesmen, who make frequent rounds to our residences.” Nikhil Bindra, who launched his clothing merchandise in Ludhiana two years ago, said he earned good profit last year, but is now reeling under heavy losses.Meanwhile, Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said the administration understand the plights of traders is holding consultations with them.“We are following the Centre’s directives while implementing restrictions in red zone areas. We have already put forward our demand before the state government to confine red zone status only to containment areas in the district so that commercial activity can be allowed in other areas,” the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/resentment-brews-among-traders-in-red-zone-districts-in-punjab/story-srBBXEAe6NZNWsHWaojA1I.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||NHAI official held taking bribe of Rs 80,000 in Moga||The Punjab vigilance bureau has arrested a junior engineer (JE) of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday, while allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 80,000 in lieu of helping a hotel owner to get approval for compensation for his land acquired for construction of the Bagahpurana-Nihal Singhwala highway.Ferozepur range SSP (VB) Hargobind Singh said that JE Honey Singh posted at NHAI central works division-2 PWD, Bathinda, was arrested with Rs 80, 000. Complainant Jagroop Singh, of Gholia Kalan, runs a hotel on Phulewala bridge, which is on a two-kanal land and his land was supposed to be acquired for construction of NH-254.“An assessment of the land was conducted by JEs Honey Bansal and Amarjit Singh, both posted in Bathinda. Jagroop alleged that when he complained that as per assessment compensation is low, both the JEs demanded 10% of the total amount of compensation for increasing the amount. A deal was struck for Rs 4.70 lakh. The complainant disclosed that he has already paid Rs 3.50 lakh to the JEs,” he added.After verifying the information, the VB team laid a trap and the accused JE was arrested on the spot while accepting bribe from the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses.The SSP said that both the accused JEs were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. “We are conducting raids to nab Amarjit. Involvement of other officials will also be investigated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nhai-official-held-taking-bribe-of-rs-80-000-in-moga/story-az5LEw67Em4XSPMbyqIqVN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||CPCB bans use of PoP, thermocol, plastic for idol-making, sets revised guidelines for immersion||After the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) banned the use of plaster of paris (PoP), thermocol and single-use plastic in idols on Wednesday, idol makers in the city said this could mean a loss of livelihood for many. The CPCB has issued guidelines that promote using eco-friendly materials to make and decorate idols.On Wednesday, the CPCB published a revised version of its 10-year-old guidelines, which cover instructions for idol makers; immersions at waterbodies and in the sea; festival organising committees; and the responsibilities of state pollution control boards.Use of pyramid of sugarcane sticks for pandals along with natural clay and natural clay mixed with alum have been suggested for idols by the CPCB. “Idols and decorations made using PoP, plastic and thermocol accessories as well as dyes used to colour these idols, having harmful and toxic chemicals are banned for future use,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB. This decision is to aimed at tackling the environmental impact of idols and their immersion. Gargava said state pollution control boards have been directed to take a call on suitable penalties for illegal use of banned materials.The Brihanmumbai Ganesh Murtikar Sang, an association with over 700 idol makers in Mumbai, said it was opposed to the new guidelines. “Over 500 of our idol makers use PoP. It takes a minimum of 22 days to make the smallest clay idols and six months to complete large idols. During lockdown with restrictions on movement of non-essential goods, how will we manage to get large quantity of clay before this year’s festival?” said Gajanan Tondwalkar, president of the association. He said adhering to these guidelines could lead to almost 5 lakh artisans losing their livelihoods. “We will challenge the Centre’s decision before courts and submit our reservations to the Maharashtra government,” said Tondwalkar.According to the Brihanmumbai Samanvay Ganeshotsav Sarvajanik Samiti (BSGSS), the umbrella body of Ganesh mandals in the city, an average of 11,000 large (sarvajanik) idols and 1.6 lakh household idols are made every year using PoP. The use of thermocol and plastic was disallowed by BSGSS last year. An average of 75 large idols and 40,000 household idols are made using clay while 250 paper idols are made annually during the 11-day Ganeshotsav festival, which will take place in August this year.Naresh Dahibhavkar, president, BSGSS said, “Less than 5% of the total idols in 2019 were eco-friendly. If concerns of Covid-19 affecting this year’s festival were not enough, the latest guidelines will ensure none of the pandals have any idols this year. We request the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board to intervene and issue some relaxations.” Lalbaugcha Raja, Mumbai Cha Raja Ganesh Galli, Andhericharaja, Fortcha Icchapurti and many other popular mandals have been using PoP to make their idols for almost a decade.Other guidelines issued by the CPCB require groups of craftsmen making over 100 idols to be registered with urban local bodies and state pollution control boards, which will grant fresh permits to artisans. “Under the new norms, only registered idol makers will be allowed and all previous permits stand cancelled,” said Gargava.Idols must be immersed in artificial ponds but in case there is no option to their immersion in rivers, lakes or ponds, a designated location with shallow depth needs to be identified by local authorities. For immersions at sea, idols will be immersed between the high tide and low tide line at designated sites defined by the state’s coastal authority. The waste generated by the idol’s immersion must be collected and disposed of safely by the local civic body within 24 hours.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, last year 2.11 lakh idols were immersed across 129 immersion spots in Mumbai. The figure was 2.03 lakh in 2018; 1.92 lakh in 2017; and 2.09 lakh in 2016. Dahibhavkar estimates that percentage of eco-friendly idols increase from 2% to 5% over four years with a maximum increase in paper idols being adopted by mandals.“The Centre should have issued a buffer period before publishing the guidelines. It will affect festivities this year, but we will see how best they can be implemented by consulting local bodies and the state government,” said Swapnil Parab, secretary, Ganesh Galli Mandal (Mumbai Cha Raja).THE MATHS OF IMMERSIONPoP contains chemicals such as sulphur, phosphorus and magnesium and is the cheapest and least labour-intensive material for idols. PoP idols are priced between Rs 500 to Rs 1,000, depending on the size of the idol. However PoP takes months to completely dissolve in water. Dyes currently used to colour idols usually contain mercury, cadmium, arsenic, lead, and carbon — all of which are harmful for aquatic biodiversity.Clay idols take two to three weeks to dissolve in water and are more expensive than PoP. For example, an 18kg clay idol costs Rs. 5000, according to Mumbai-based idol makers.Idols are also made out of paper and glue, or a combination of paper, flour and water. The latter is the most expensive material for idols and dissolves the fastest when immersed in water. ‘Natural’ idols — made from a combination of corn powder and spinach powder; and painted with natural colours derived from ingredients like turmeric, sandalwood (chandan) and ochre (geru) — dissolve in water within four to five hours. The cost of a nine-inch natural idol would be Rs 900.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cpcb-bans-use-of-pop-thermocol-plastic-for-idol-making-sets-revised-guidelines-for-immersion/story-n1012DUheqN3WZakNJ4AtK.html
13-05-2020||City||No joy rides for 500 pony owners as lockdown ceases tourist activity in Kufri||The Covid-driven lockdown has snatched the livelihood of around 500 pony/horse owners who used to earn from offering joy rides to tourists at Shimla’s famous attraction Kufri.Currently, there are 1,029 horses registered at Kufri.President of Kufri Ashva Palak Kalyan Samiti, Shekhar Sharma told Ht, “The business is completely dependent on tourists, so there is no income right now. Around 70% of these pony owners have no land or are migrants with no other source of income.”He said the rising cost of feed and maintenance of the animals was an additional financial burden on them. “The cost of whole gram (chana) on which these ponies and horses survive is over ₹150/kg and the average cost to maintain a horse was no less than ₹600-700 a day. Also, we have to pay ₹100 every month for the sanitation and maintenance of the tourist spot,” he said.A horse owner, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “All my savings have been exhausted, and I am unable to take care of the two horses I own. So I am going to sell one of them, but due to the pandemic, no one is ready to buy it either.”Geeta Ram, who has been in the profession for 15 years now, said, “This is the peak season for us. For the past many years, I have been taking online booking as well. But this year, all the bookings got cancelled due to the lockdown. Small businesses like ours go unnoticed by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-joy-rides-for-500-pony-owners-as-lockdown-ceases-tourist-activity-in-kufri/story-1UWSRk1mha0wiWXtYHu0cJ.html
13-05-2020||City||72-year-old man from Jammu is J&K’s 11th Covid fatality||COVID-19 test results of the samples taken from a 72-year-old man shortly after he was declared brought dead by doctors at a hospital here on Wednesday turned out to be positive, officials said. This is the second death due to coronavirus in Jammu region and 11th in Jammu and Kashmir. “The man, a heart patient hailing from the Preet Nagar locality of Digiana in Jammu, was brought to the Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital in an unconscious state and declared brought dead by the doctors, officials said. Dr Nasib Chand Digra, principal, GMCH, Jammu said his samples sent for COVID-19 testing turned out to be positive. Officials said efforts to locate all the contacts of the deceased have been intensified. On April 9, a 61-year-old woman from Udhampur district had died due to the disease at the GMC hospital, while nine others have died of the infection in different districts of Kashmir valley. With 37 fresh infections, UT tally rises to 971Thirty-seven more people tested positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the Union territory to 971, officials said.Of the fresh cases, 30 were reported from Kashmir division—Anantnag, Baramulla, Shopian, Budgam and Kulgam districts—where the tally has risen to 874. Seven people tested positive for the virus in Kathua and Jammu districts.Also, 11 more patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals, including two from Jammu and nine in Kashmir division, officials said. So far, out of the total positive cases—409 in Kashmir and 57 in Jammu division–have recovered.Active cases in Kashmir stand at 456 and 38 are in Jammu.Till date, 10,0683 people in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance—25,393 in home quarantine, 149 in hospital quarantine and 11,694 under home surveillance. Besides, 62,942 have completed their 28-day surveillance period.A government advisory has informed public that all passengers arriving by trains or any other means in J&K will be tested for COVID-19. “All such passengers will be put into mandatory administrative quarantine till their test results come out to be negative or till they are sent to hospital if results are positive. They are required to wear face masks and follow social distancing norms. Any violation of these instructions will attract penalties under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other provisions of law,” the advisory stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-year-old-man-from-jammu-is-j-k-s-11th-covid-fatality/story-LV1OknHWasnp4qM0WMiGOP.html
13-05-2020||City||Ludhiana lockdown: Delivery of school textbooks to block offices begins amid manpower shortage||After Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar directed the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) depot officials to start distribution of textbooks among block offices in the district, the officials were seen scrambling to execute the task at the Punjabi Bhawan on Wednesday amid manpower shortage.These books are provided free of cost to all students from Classes 1 to 8 and to those under SC/ST and BC categories in Classes 9 and 10.Earlier, depot officials used to hire adequate workers to load the trucks with books, which were further delivered to 19 blocks of the district. But, this time, due to the outbreak of coronavirus, officials have to work with the existing staff at the depot.The depot here has one Class 4 employee, four daily wagers, one storekeeper and a manager. The employees, with the storekeeper, first unload the books sent by the board office and then keep them in the designated rooms at the depot. A proper record is maintained by the store keeper about the books received and then sent to the blocks, subject-wise and class-wise. Then the employees count the bundles of books and load them in the trucks, which are sent to various blocks in the district.Depot manager Tarlochan Singh said, “The office was sanitised on May 9 and all employees were asked to wear masks and keep washing hands. As per instructions, only 33% staff is coming to the office on rotation basis. We received 3.35 lakh textbooks from the board office before March 23 and more books have been sent in the last two days. We need more staff to deliver the books, but cannot hire workers due to the coronavirus scare.”To start the distribution of textbooks with the existing staff, a total of 30,000 books were sent to the Mangat-2 block on Wednesday, and another 11,000 to Mangat-1 block on Tuesday. So far, the depot, which caters to the entire district, has received textbooks for only 20 subjects out of the total 110. For primary classes, the depot has received mathematics books for Class 2, Reader Punjabi for Class 3 and mathematics, EVS, Hindi and Reader English for Class 5.Kumar has directed deputy district education officers (DEOs), secondary and elementary, to get the textbooks delivered to schools. As per sources, the district officials are planning to depute nodal officers to take books to schools and then students will be asked class-wise to reach schools to collect these. The school head will follow all guidelines for Covid-19 and ensure social distancing among students and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-lockdown-delivery-of-school-textbooks-to-block-offices-begins-amid-manpower-shortage/story-y7FEDj88IJb1dApGbaDItK.html
13-05-2020||Noida||6 new cases push Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Covid-19 tally to 236||Six more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the total number of cases to 236 in the district, officials said on Wednesday. Also, two patients were discharged from hospital after successful treatment for COVID-19, leaving 90 active cases, the officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western UP has recorded three deaths due to coronavirus so far, according to officials. “Total 167 reports have been received in the last 24 hours, of which six were positive and the rest negative for COVID-19. The number of confirmed cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar now stands at 236,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Among the new patients are a 51-year-old man from Sector 5, a 22-year-old man from Sector 22, a 24-year-old man from Sector 8, a 34-year-old man from Sector 66 and a 34-year-old woman from Sector 76 -- all in Noida, the officer said. A 30-year-old resident of Jewar in Greater Noida has also tested positive for the infection, he added. On the brighter side, two male patients, aged 25 and 42, were discharged from the Sharda Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility, after treatment, Dohare said in a statement “So far, 143 of the 236 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 90 active cases in the district,” the surveillance officer said. The recovery rate of patients is 60.59 per cent, according to official statistics. According to officials, so far 4,376 samples have been collected for COVID-19 test in the district, while 501 people are currently under institutional quarantine. So far, three men, two of them aged 60 and one 62, have died in Gautam Buddh Nagar due to coronavirus, as per the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/6-new-cases-push-gautam-buddh-nagar-s-covid-19-tally-to-236/story-QoCrnJstZxCffJH7Q1dAcL.html
13-05-2020||City||Seven buses carrying stranded NRIs from US leave Ludhiana for Delhi airport||Around 100 stranded non-resident Indians (NRIs) from the United States, who were stranded in Jalandhar, SBS Nagar (Nawanshahr), Moga and Khanna boarded multiple buses from a pick-up point in Ludhiana for Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, to fly back home on Wednesday.Seven Volvo buses were arranged by the United States (US) embassy to ferry the NRIs from Bhai Bala Chowk, Ludhiana, to the Delhi airport. Each bus carried around 15 passengers.A huge rush was witnessed at the bus pick-up point as the NRIs accompanied by their family members reached at the pick-up point in their cars and taxis.Officials from the US embassy checked the passports and other documents before allowing passengers to board the buses.Harmail Singh, 50, of Littran village in Jalandhar was here with his father Davinder Singh,71, to travel back to Fresno, California. Harmail said they had come to their village on February 29 for some work and were to fly back to the US on March 23, but their flight was cancelled due to the lockdown and since then they had been stuck here.“I also missed the opportunity to fly back home last month when the US Embassy had started special flights to evacuate their citizens from India. Later on April 11, I applied to the embassy, which sent an email asking to report here at Park Plaza near Bhai Bala Chowk,” he said, adding that he was happy as he will get to see his family after nearly two-and-half-months.Gurpinder Kaur,36, who was also travelling to California, said she had come to SBS Nagar in mid-March and was supposed to stay in India for a month. “I am glad the Indian government and the US embassy made this arrangement to send us back home,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-buses-carrying-stranded-nris-from-us-leave-ludhiana-for-delhi-airport/story-i3TCDJUVgT2d2EemKSwjKK.html
13-05-2020||City||Unidentified youth found murdered in Ludhiana’s Railway Colony Number 5||Police have initiated a murder probe after the body of an unidentified man was found at a demolished structure in Railway Colony Number 5 on Wednesday morning.Investigators said the body of deceased, who appeared to be in the 20s, bore stab wounds on the head and face, and ligature marks on the neck, indicating he was attacked with a sharp-edged weapon and strangled.However, the cause behind the death has not been ascertained. Police have sent the body to the Ludhiana civil hospital for autopsy.Sub-inspector Richa Rani, SHO, Division Number 5 police station, said the deceased seemed to have died three days ago. No wallet or mobile phone was found on his person. Police questioned the colony people living nearby,but no one could identify him.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified assailants at the Division Number 5 police station. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unidentified-youth-found-murdered-in-ludhiana-s-railway-colony-number-5/story-8IXxO1wCuYrOaEC8Pq2lWI.html
13-05-2020||City||Congress demands rollback of Himachal’s decision to cut ration of middle class by 50%||Opposed the state government’s decision to reduce ration by 50% for people above poverty line, the Congress on Thursday demanded its rollback.State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore termed the decision as discriminatory. “As soon as BJP came to power in Himachal, it took lakhs of people out of the below poverty line list and now with this decision, the state government has attacked the middle class people,” he said.Rathore said the pandemic had already affected all sectors and unemployment was at its peak. “All the facilities granted to the middle class should be continued and concessions should be given to them on electricity and water bills. Small shopkeepers should also be granted relief in commercial rates of electricity.”“The state government has already done injustice by cutting salaries and dearness allowance (DA) of middle class employees. This is a time to provide relief to the people, not to make cuts in it,” he added.He alleged that the state had disappointed farmers and horticulturists, who are the backbone of Himachal’s economy, by not granting any relief package to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-demands-rollback-of-himachal-s-decision-to-cut-ration-of-middle-class-by-50/story-3V8fKU1qkm3YRVVDz5KGkJ.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Over 2 lakh liquor bottles, 972 kg narcotic substances seized during lockdown: Haryana police||Nearly 972 kg narcotic substances and over two lakh bottles of liquor were seized from different parts of Haryana during the lockdown period, police said here on Wednesday.Five wanted and 48 other criminals were arrested from the Hisar Range during this time, they added.The Hisar Range comprises Hisar, Jind, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Hansi police districts.Police have seized over 972 kg narcotic substances and more than 2.04 lakh bottles of liquor, either illicit or being transported illegally, in the Hisar Range during the lockdown period, Director General of Police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said in a statement here.During the lockdown, all field units were directed to step up vigil, he said.Since the lockdown came into effect, police have intensified patrolling, while ensuring strict adherence to restrictions, to ensure the safety of citizens which yielded fruitful results, Yadava said.“A most-wanted criminal each have been apprehended from Hisar, Hansi and Jind districts while two were caught from Sirsa district. The other 48 involved in various heinous crimes included 16 from Hisar, eight in Hansi, nine in Jind, 13 in Sirsa and two in Fatehabad,” he added.“We have also nabbed 261 people on charges of possessing narcotic substances by registering 151 cases,” the DGP said. He said the narcotic substances seized include over nine kg heroin, more than three kg opium, nearly 115 kg opium plants, around 745 kg poppy husk, over 97 kg ganja/charas, a little over nine gram smack and 7,220 capsules, 21,185 restricted tablets and 90 syrup bottles.Police had also launched an intensive crackdown on bootleggers and arrested 817 people for their involvement in illegal transportation or sale of liquor by registering 650 cases in five districts of Hisar Range under the Excise Act, the top cop said. After the lockdown was imposed, police seized 39,712 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor, 59,315 bottles of countrymade liquor, 1,00,494 bottles of beer, 5,174 bottles of illicit liquor and 31,878 litres of lahan (raw material for producing illicit liquor), he said. “Amid the lockdown, our teams are constantly making efforts to check the crime rate as well as to track and arrest the most-wanted and other notorious criminals,” Yadava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/over-2-lakh-liquor-bottles-972-kg-narcotic-substances-seized-during-lockdown-haryana-police/story-2NTt4EGFoeT8AqybcUGtcL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Newborn girl’s body found in garbage dump in Chandigarh||The body of a newborn girl was recovered from a garbage dump in Ram Darbar on Wednesday. Chandigarh Police said a safai karamchari was segregating waste when he found the infant buried under a heap of filth in the morning. The worker informed the police, who took the body in their custody.Three other cases of female infanticide were reported in the city earlier this year. On February 5, police and municipal workers had recovered bodies of two newborn girls from different places, and another had been found on February 2.The dead infant found in Ram Darbar has been moved to a mortuary in Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16). Police said the body of the baby girl also had some marks which are being examined by doctors. Police are also investigating as to whether the newborn was abandoned in the garbage or the body was ferried there along with garbage collected from another area.A case has been registered under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified person at Sector 31 police station.EARLIER CASESIn the earlier cases in the city this year, on February 2, a newborn girl was found dead near the boundary wall of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, a short distance from the forest area in Sector 25. While on February 5, bodies of two newborn girls were recovered from different places within a span of half an hour by police and municipal workers. In Palsora, as workers opened the manhole cover to find the cause of a blockage, they discovered the body of a newborn girl covered with a small cloth with her umbilical cord intact. Only half an hour later, a sanitation worker found another newborn girl dumped at the MC’s collection centre located behind a petrol pump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/newborn-girl-s-body-found-in-garbage-dump-in-chandigarh/story-0J8oJdcXAKxOgZcqsh0KzK.html
13-05-2020||City||₹50,000 fine for violating home quarantine in Kangra||Any person found violating home quarantine in Kangra district will be slapped with a penalty of ₹50,000, as per an order issued by deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati on Wednesday. In case of default of payment, it will be treated as arrear of land revenue and the amount will be realised through the auction of land owned by the offender, the DC said. “I want to warn those who have been jumping quarantine that it will cost them dearly,” he added.He said people coming from red zones and even those from orange and green zones having influenza-like symptoms will be home quarantined. Besides, those jumping home quarantine will be sent to an institutional facility for 28 days.Asymptomatic people coming from orange and greens zones will be home quarantined.Authorities have created institutional quarantine facilities with a capacity of 5,000 beds across the district.“Currently, a total of 42,323 people who have returned from other states are home quarantined and the number is likely to cross 50,000 mark by the end of this week,” the DC said.Till date, 1,620 people have been tested in the district including more than 500 frontline warriors, he said, adding that the testing capacity has been increased from 150 to 300 per day.Covid isolation centres have been set up at Baijanth, Dadh, Dharamshala and Fatehpur. Besides, 10 flu corners are already functional and ten more will start operating soon.The DC said Covid-19 cases may increase in the coming days and the administration is ready to deal with any situation. However, we are praying that there is no sudden spike in the cases, he added.He also asked people who came in contact with a Covid-19 positive tea seller from Paprola near Baijnath to inform the authorities on helpline number 1077.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-000-fine-for-violating-home-quarantine-in-kangra/story-5KarxTnjF5cFCenM2Z0seM.html
13-05-2020||City||Kashmir apple industry gets impetus as admn starts supply of cold storage produce||The apple growers of Kashmir have a reason to cheer as the administration has started supplying their produce which was dumped in cold storage due to the Covid-19 lockdown.As per information, around 1,450 trucks carrying apples have already been dispatched to various fruit markets, especially the Azadpur Mandi in Delhi.Major activity is being witnessed in the functioning of the cold stores. “We have restored industrial activity. The fruit that was lying in cold stores was a concern and now about 1,450 trucks have left for Delhi and other terminal markets,” said Kashmir industries and commerce director Mehmood Ahmad Shah. “There are around 31 cold stores housing about 25,000 MT of apple, which would be gradually exported to fruit markets till the mid of June,” he added.Regulating the supply of fruit produce to terminal markets is bound to fetch remunerative prices for the dealers as there were concerns that due to extended lockdown, the apples would have to be sold locally at throwaway prices. This holds promise for future of cold storage industry in Kashmir, which would benefit the growers and dealers alike as the problem of glut in the apple market can be averted by regulating supply to the terminal markets.“About 80 packaging units manufacturing cardboard boxes are also functional. By allowing cold stores and cardboard units to resume operations, the fruit crop would get the much needed packaging and marketing support. In the next 10 to 15 days, cherry season is going to start. Both cold stores and packaging units shall cater to the cherry crop and benefit the growers and fruit dealers. Since the shelf life of cherry is very short, this year more emphasis will be on canning of the produce,” the industries director said.Since August 5, the day of abrogation of Article 370, the fruit growers here have suffered huge losses as they could not dispatch their produce on time. Many of these growers had dumped the fruit in cold stores with a hope to supply the same in April to earn profit. However, the lockdown had again put the growers in distress with many making appeals to local people to buy the produce. “With the resumed supply, the rates have also gone up, which is an encouraging sign,” said a cold store owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-apple-industry-gets-impetus-as-admn-starts-supply-of-cold-storage-produce/story-DBjZIz0Ne1wlCy0PrMMIcO.html
13-05-2020||City||Special train brings home 789 stranded Himachal residents from Karnataka||A special train ferrying 789 residents of Himachal Pradesh, who were stranded in Karnataka reached the Una railway station on Wednesday.The train had departed from Bengaluru on May 11.Among the returnees, 212 were from Kangra district; 167 from Chamba; 98 from Hamirpur; 85 from Shimla; 66 from Mandi; 32 from Bilaspur; 30 from Kullu; 21 from Una; 14 from Solan; five from Kinnaur and one from Lahaul-Spiti district.The Una railway station was divided into eight sectors and all passengers were screened for flu like symptoms, said deputy commissioner Sandeep Kumar.He said the district administration had made adequate arrangements to facilitate the passengers. A team of volunteers was deployed to distribute food packets and water to the passengers.“The returnees were sent to their home district in 40 Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) buses,” he added.All returnees will be placed under institutional quarantine for 14 days and will be tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-train-brings-home-789-stranded-himachal-residents-from-karnataka/story-RiortSQ7hUE8ncINoezNQN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||HC seeks inquiry into closed shop being raided by police||The Bombay high court has directed the police authorities to inquire into the allegations by an anticipatory bail applicant that his shop was raided by the police illegally. The applicant claimed that the raid was carried out when his shop was shut. A gratification of ₹2 lakh was also sought from him by the raiding officials. In light of the allegations, the court held that there was no need for custodial interrogation and granted pre-arrest bail and posted the matter for July 7.The single bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav while hearing the application of Ubaidur Rahman Shaikh a resident of Jogeshwari through video conference that Shaikh’s brother owned a shop on S V Road and he lived on the first floor above the shop. Advocate Rajesh Khobragade informed the bench that since the lockdown was announced, the shop had been closed. However, on April 13 the Oshiwara police conducted a raid by entering the shop through a rear door and seized and confiscated gutkha, tobacco, cigarette and beedies stored in the shop.The state through assistant public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde informed the court that the Oshiwara police had conducted the raid based on secret information that some people were storing N 95 masks and other essential articles against the public interest. Though the police did not recover any masks they did find the seized items stored in the shop and confiscated it.Based on the seizure, cases under sections 179, 188, 273, 328, 120(B) of Indian Penal Code and offence punishable under sections 26(ii), 4, 27(iii) of Food Safety Standard Act, 2006 along with Disaster Management Act, 2005 and under section 51(b) of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and under sections 37(3) and 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act were registered against Shaikh.Shaikh’s lawyer, however, complained that the raid was illegal as the shop was closed and the police also demanded a gratification of Rs 2 lakhs from Shaikh. A written complaint had also been submitted in this regard with the commissioner of police.In light of these submissions, the bench held that prima facie custodial interrogation was not warranted at present and directed that as ad interim relief in the event of arrest Shaikh should be released on furnishing a bond of Rs 25,000 with one or more sureties.Further, on the directions of the bench, the state said that it would ask senior officers to inquire into the allegations by Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-seeks-inquiry-into-closed-shop-being-raided-by-police/story-Dl5RZKUWhF5Rl4upYMwYSN.html
13-05-2020||City||Panvel records 10 new cases||Ten new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Wednesday. The total tally is 199.Among the new cases are 53-year-old BEST bus conductor from Kharghar; 33-year-old wife of a Covid positive policeman from Kamothe; a 43-year-old policeman from Panvel taluka police station living in Kamothe; a 35-year-old policeman from Kamothe; a 33-year-old BMC sanitation worker from Kamothe; a 29-year-old pharmacist living in Khanda colony; and a 51-year-old bank manager, who works in Mumbai and lives in Kharghar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-records-10-new-cases/story-V2H6fw5C9kyS0S0dAw4rOI.html
13-05-2020||City||Private hospitals in Thane will admit only city patients||Private hospitals in Thane will admit Covid patients who are residents of the city. Those from outside the city will not be treated in private hospitals, that are already stretched. Thane civic commissioner issued the directive on May 11 at a time when the number of cases in the city crossing 800 and the medical facility would be burdened by patients from other cities.A total of 500 cases have increased in May alone, putting pressure on the healthcare services as most doctors and medical staff too have tested positive.A TMC official said, “Around 236 people have recovered but over 800 people are still in quarantined facilities in Bhayanderpada. At present, we have reserved 1,051 beds in private hospitals and hotels for Covid patients. We will have to rope in more private hospitals when cases increase.”The city’s population is around 25 lakh and considering the increase the official said they would require 8,508 beds by May-end.“Keeping this in mind, the civic commissioner has given directives that no one from other cities will be admitted in private hospitals or hotels in Thane,” said the TMC official.He added that by May-end, 60% people will either have mild symptoms or will be asymptomatic. “Which means 5,105 people can be admitted in Coviod care centres or hotels. Considering the 20% recovery rate, we will still need hospital beds for at least 20% of patients, which will be around 1,702 beds. The directive to not allow outside patients in Thane hospitals has been issued keeping in mind the projected increase,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-hospitals-in-thane-will-admit-only-city-patients/story-t6HgTzuEA7wLG9XBtmTjPI.html
13-05-2020||City||Principal and CMS of Agra’s SN Medical College removed||AGRA The state government on Wednesday removed the principal and chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Agra’s SN Medical College and Hospital (SNMC) in wake of unabated rise in Covid-19 cases in the district and alleged anomalies at the hospital. According to a government spokesman, SNMC principal Dr GK Aneja is now attached to the Directorate of Medical Education and Training in Lucknow. He is replaced by Dr Sanjay Kala, head of general surgery, GSVM Medical College (Kanpur) who will be the officiating principal of SNMC till further orders.Dr AK Arya will be the new vice-principal at SNMC.SNMC’s chief medical superintendent SP Jain was removed and attached to DM Agra’s office. Senior consultant from Moradabad, Dr BB Pushkar will take over as CMS at SN Medical College (Agra), which had been in the news for deaths of patients for want of treatment or carelessness in handling cases. Meanwhile, the government removed Mathura chief medical officer Dr Sher Singh. Dr Sanjeev Yadav will be the new Mathura CMO.Agra has emerged as a major Covid-19 hotspot in recent weeks. The chief minister had sent a high-level team of officials to control the situation.The team comprising Alok Kumar, principal secretary (industrial development); Rajneesh Dubey, principal secretary (medical education): Vijay Prakash, inspector-general; Dr Avinash Kumar Singh, officer on special duty and Prof Alok Nath – head of department, pulmonary department, SGPGI. had been camping in city since Monday and held meetings to trace the loopholes.To recall, Agra chief medical officer (CMO) Mukesh Kumar Vats and additional director (health) Dr AK Mittal were also removed from their posts in wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Agra.The outgoing CMO was attached to the office of the district magistrate (Agra) and replaced by Dr RC Pandey.Dr AK Mittal was attached to commissioner (Agra division) office while Dr Avinash Kumar Singh took over as new additional director (health), Agra.BOX13 fresh cases, Agra’s Covid tally 777Agra With 13 fresh cases surfacing in Agra, the district’s tally of Covid-19 positive cases went up to 777 on Wednesday. So far, Agra has seen 25 deaths due to coronavirus. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that 9,751 samples had been tested in Agra.“In all, 369 Covid-19 positive patients have been cured and discharged and the number of active cases is 383. There are 44 live hotspots, after 16 areas lost the hotspot tag,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/principal-and-cms-of-agra-s-sn-medical-college-removed/story-oqnW61Op748QIXBY2SeBZN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||PMC Bank Fraud: HC rejects bail plea of bank director Jasvinder Singh Banwait||The Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected the plea filed by Jasvinder Singh Banwait, one of the directors of fraud-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank, seeking bail on medical grounds.Banwait had moved the high court seeking bail on medical grounds given novel coronavirus pandemic.Justice Sadhana Jadhav rejected the plea after reviewing a report submitted by the chief medical officer at Taloja central prison. The report stated that Banwait had complained of bronchial asthma on March 12, 2020, when he was brought to the prison and had given a history of diabetes mellitus.The report added that at present he is on medication and necessary diet. Special food was being provided to all prisoners, as directed by the court and Banwait’s health condition was stable and satisfactory.Justice Jadhav rejected the plea but directed the jail authorities to continue to provide medicines and necessary diet to the prisoner.Economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police had on September 30, 2019, registered an offence in connection with the fraud at the multi-state scheduled cooperative bank, accusing many of its directors of illegally extending huge loans to realty firm Housing Development and Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) and its group companies.According to the Reserve Bank of India, PMC Bank had masked 44 problematic loan accounts involving advances to the tune of ₹7,457.49 crore to some entities, including HDIL, by tampering with its core banking system, and the accounts were accessible only to limited staff members.The bank had created 21,049 fictions accounts to ensure its master data tallies to the loan disbursals of ₹7,457.49 crore, RBI has stated in an affidavit filed in response to other PMC Bank related petitions before the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmc-bank-fraud-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-bank-director-jasvinder-singh-banwait/story-LDM0NM4atk5cphsngjV1kI.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||BSNL union funds the contract labourers||BSNL Employees Union Maharashtra Unit and Maharashtra BSNL Contract Workers Union under the guidance of BSNL CCWF has extended financial aid of ₹1000 per labour to 280 contract workers engaged and deployed in several districts across the state. These labourers are not paid their wages for the last eight to 10 months. To reach out to these suffering labourers, a Contract Workers Relief Fund is formed. The disbursement has already been made to about 280 labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bsnl-union-funds-the-contract-labourers/story-rpfYdYCHaGnUc4gCZ3H4nI.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||35-yr-old dies after crashing his car into tempo||A 35-year-old businessman died after he hit his car into a divider before crashing it into a parked tempo near the MIDC police station in Andheri (East) on Tuesday night. Police are investigating why he was out during the lockdown.The driver, Hitesh Golchha, 35, was a businessman from Andheri (West).“The incident occurred around 10.30pm on Tuesday. He was driving a Jaguar when he lost control and hit it first into a divider and then a parked tempo. When locals informed us about the incident, we rushed to the spot and took him to Cooper Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment,” said Jagdish Shinde, senior inspector, MIDC police station.“We are awaiting a post-mortem report to know if he was drunk driving,” said another officer.Ankit Goyal, deputy commissioner of police, zone 10, confirmed the development and said an accidental death report has been registered.Golchha had been arrested by Amboli police in 2018 after he, in a drunk state, had rammed his Jaguar car into six vehicles at Sadar Patel Nagar in Andheri (West) and had injured four people, said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/35-yr-old-dies-after-crashing-his-car-into-tempo/story-2TSFVoG5BQ7hRi2qmfCsuN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s Dharavi cross 1,000-mark||The number of coronavirus cases in Mumbai’s Dharavi, considered to be the biggest slum of Asia, rose to 1,028 on Wednesday with 66 new patients being detected, said an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The death toll due to the pandemic in the area rose to 40 on Tuesday from 31, but no new Covid-19-related death was reported thereafter, he said.These nine deaths had taken place on different dates but the information was collated on Tuesday, the official said.Dharavi recorded its coronavirus patient on April 1, 20 days after the first case of coronavirus infection was reported in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-cross-1-000-mark/story-qyjEvRQACBLGErpT9hTjbM.html
13-05-2020||City||Pune’s Armene Modi awarded Albert Schweitzer medal by World Literacy Foundation||Armene Modi, the founder of Pune based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Ashta No Kai, was awarded the Albert Schweitzer award by the world literacy foundation, U.K (WLF) in an online ceremony for her “academic excellence and extensive service in education and literacy.” This online ceremony was held on April 18, 2020.Ashta No Kai, the non-profit organisation has been educating and empowering rural women and girls in ten villages of Shirur taluka of Pune district since 1998. The award citation noted that, “Armene’s exceptional efforts towards empowering rural women in India has helped to improve the educational outcomes of hundreds of adolescent girls over the last two decades.”The award named after Albert Schweitzer, the famous Austrian, is presented to an individual who has made outstanding contribution to literature through their intellectual work in both writing and research. Armene said, “Issues of poverty and illiteracy are not the problems of just the poor and marginalised alone, but universal issues that concern us all.”In an online message, Andrew Kay, chief executive officer of WLF said the award aimed to celebrate the valuable contribution of Armene Modi to education in India over the past 22 years.The WLF strives to ensure that every young individual has the opportunity to acquire literacy and reading skills to reach their full potential. This year’s online world literacy summit on April 18 brought together leaders from 85 countries representing over two-thirds of the world’s population..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-armene-modi-awarded-albert-schweitzer-medal-by-world-literacy-foundation/story-TXij9e6gwPlmsu82cl62ZL.html
13-05-2020||City||Himachal cabinet excludes income tax payers from availing benefits under PDS ration scheme||The Himachal Pradesh government on Wednesday gave an approval to exclude income tax payers from drawing benefits of subsidy under the targeted Public Distribution Scheme as proposed by the cabinet sub-committee for post Covid-19 economic revival.In a bid to install confidence in the public, the cabinet headed by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met at the government-run Hotel Peterhoff here for the first time since the lockdown. The cabinet expressed its gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for announcing ₹20 lakh crore economic package for the country to tackle the adverse affects on economy due to lockdown imposed in wake of COVID-19. It observed that the package will go a long way in reviving the economy by providing much needed relief to weaker sections, MSME, business community, workers and public. In order to provide more employment opportunities and to facilitate employers to small units and petty contractors, the cabinet gave its approval to make necessary amendments in Section-1 of the Contract Labour (R&A) Act, 1970 (37 of 1970) in its application to the state of Himachal Pradesh, in sub-section 4. The amendment proposes to enhance the threshold limit for contract employment from 20 to 30 workmen. It will also help in increasing industrial investment, production and ease of doing business in the state.The cabinet also gave its nod for amendment in Section-2 (m)(i), 2(m)(ii), Section-65 (3)(iv), Section-85(1)(i) and insertion of New Section 106 (b) for compounding of offences in the Factories Act, 1948, to increase manufacturing activities of small units in the state by enhancing the existing threshold limits of ten and twenty workers to 20 and 40 respectively. This amendment will encourage the establishment of small manufacturing units resulting in creating more employment opportunities for workers. At present, a worker may work overtime for maximum 75 hours in any quarter. However, the amendment in clause (IV) 3 of Section 65 proposes to increase this limit to 115 hours subject to the condition that the overtime will have to be paid twice the rate of ordinary wages to provide more earning opportunities to the workers.The cabinet also gave its consent to make amendment in Section -22, (I) Section 25 F(b) Section-25 K of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (14 of 1947). This will increase industrial investment, production and employment opportunities and further enhance ease of doing business in the state. It will ensure in providing a conducive and business friendly environment to industrial establishments and workforce which will help in increasing employment opportunities.An approval was also given to upgrade Community Health Centre, Tihra in Mandi district to 50-bedded civil hospital and opening a Primary Health Centre at Bhekhali in Kullu district.The cabinet also decided to provide extension in the validity period of Letter of Intent in favour of M/s Alco Spirits Private Ltd. at Kundla village (Gumti) in Nahan tehsil of Sirmaur district to facilitate the company to complete its project work which has been delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic.The cabinet also proposed to enhance the upper income ceiling limit for selection of beneficiaries of BPL/priority households to ₹45,000 approximately. This will increase the number of National Food Security Act households by 1,50,000 thereby making them eligible for getting wheat flour and rice at the highly subsidised rate of ₹3.30 per kg and ₹2 per kg respectively.An approval was also given for rationalisation of subsidy on pulses, edible oil and sugar provided by the state government to the APL families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-cabinet-excludes-income-tax-payers-from-availing-benefits-under-pds-ration-scheme/story-rzwetGPFHa10Giip7fmnSM.html
13-05-2020||City||Kashmir education department mulls reopening of schools next month||To compensate for the academic loss caused by Covid-19 outbreak, the school education department is mulling to reopen schools across Kashmir in June, amid the virus threat.“We are planning to reopen the schools in the first week of June to avert further loss of the studies,” school education principal secretary Asgar Hassan Samoon told the Hindustan Times.He said the administration has ordered complete renovation of all schools in Kashmir. “We will soon start whitewashing and fumigation of the school buildings and the same will be completed by the end of this month,” he said.“Be it turmoil or any other natural calamity, the student community of Kashmir has always suffered. We are trying to bring things back on track,” Samoon added. Another official said the department was planning to take a call on skipping morning assembly and holding shift-wise classes. “A decision in this regard will be out soon,” he said.The decision to reopen schools has been taken in view of interruptions caused during online classes due to the poor internet speed, the official said.In his recent meeting with education officials, J&K Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu directed them to review the department’s functioning and the conduct of online classes, besides distribution of dry ration for midday meals among schoolchildren.Following the LGs directions, an official communiqué was also sent to the UT school education director stating that all government school buildings should be whitewashed before their opening.Samoon on Wednesday urged all private schools to defer fee collections from students. “It is a tough times for the parents and students,” he said.“We have distributed 60,000 books and 1,200 educational tablets among the students not having access to mobile phones,” he said adding, “It is being done to enhance their virtual learning experience.”Mushtaq Ahmad, a parent from Baramulla district, said it was not the right time to open schools. “This will put the lives of our children at risk,” he said.Kashmir private schools association president G N Var opined that schools should be reopened in the valley. “One is not sure how long will the virus scare continue, but we can’t see more academic loss of students. We have suffered it in past as well,” he said.“Social distancing will be maintained, sanitisers and masks will be made available to the students for their safety,” Var said.When asked about school fee, Var said, “Depositing fee is mandatory in schools. We can’t skip this option. But an exception can be made for poor students only,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-education-department-mulls-reopening-of-schools-next-month/story-dIgrxVcmg7PLJqr6YgK2LM.html
13-05-2020||City||Students of govt schools in Punjab yet to receive books for new session||Around one and a half months have passed since the new academic session began at government schools in the state, but students are yet to receive their books.The absence of reading and reference material has disrupted their studies and syllabus coverage.Even as the session started on April 1, the education department initiated the process of book distribution only three days ago, after it asked the deputy commissioners to grant permission for the same in their respective districts.Every year, the education department provides books to all students of classes I to VIII and classes 9 to 12, who belong to SC and BPL categories.Besides the delay in distribution of books, the state education department’s initiative of online classes has also failed to reach all students. According to teachers, 90% students remain absent from online classes, especially in rural areas.A math teacher from Patiala said, “Absence of books and unavailability of phones and internet connection have badly affected the students. Most students of government schools belong to economically weaker backgrounds, and cannot afford mobile phones or books.”“During online classes, hardly 10% students remain present. A student’s presence in online class depends on the availability of their family members’ phones,” he added.Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) member Vikram Dev told HT, “We have demanded reduction in the syllabus for this academic session, keeping in view the grim situation due to Covid-19 pandemic.”On May 10, education department secretary Krishan Kumar had written to all deputy commissioners in the state to allow district education officers to distribute books to students.District education officer (primary) Harinder Kaur said, “The books have reached the block levels and will be distributed to the students soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-of-govt-schools-in-punjab-yet-to-receive-books-for-new-session/story-cWGx6Rt706rOSaNavvUz6N.html
13-05-2020||City||Kangra administration marks Covid-19 containment zones on Google Maps||With Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, the administration has marked containment zones in the district on Google Maps to provide easy access of information to the public.Kangra is the first district in Himachal to mark containment zones on Google Maps. The easy-to-access map shows users the zones near their locality. One can also access the map on the district administration’s website http://hpkangra.nic.in.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare guidelines, a containment zone means at least one person from the area has tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s family and house are identified as a cluster zone, nearby houses, sometimes the entire village or group of villages is mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s geography and population density.The containment zones are completely blocked and no movement is allowed for at least two weeks. Essential services are provided through home delivery.“The containment zone strategy is an important and time-tested for limiting the spread of epidemics like COVID-19. The approach is likely to remain in use for quite long,” deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said.“The new initiatives of the district administration to disseminate information by using IT tools will help spread awareness about the ever-changing containment zones and measures taken to contain the spread of the disease,” he added.Additional deputy commissioner, Raghav Sharma, who leads the team which is developing various IT applications to tackle the spread, said new orders are issued daily in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak but for the common man it is tough to dissect useful information.“IT tools make it easier for public to access such information,” he said, adding that the Google Map linked to the district website shows active containment zones in red colour.“The de-notified containment zones are depicted in green colour. If someone wants to get information about active containment zones, he may access the information by clicking on the red icon. The information about the time period for which the area has been notified as containment zone is also available on the map,” the ADC said.At present, Kangra has six active containment zones. The district has recorded ten Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kangra-administration-marks-covid-19-containment-zones-on-google-maps/story-1Svf92Tz4xgCbPH7scahaM.html
13-05-2020||City||Trade union to protest against 12-hour work shift in Himachal on May 14||The Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) has decided to stage a statewide protest on Thursday against the Himachal government’s decision to increase work hours from eight to 12 hours.CITU state president Vijendra Mehra said labourers and daily wage workers have been affected the most due to the lockdown and this decision is completely inhumane and anti-worker.CITU has accused the state government of favouring capitalists and industrialists.Mehra said as a result of this decision, workers will become bonded labourers. In many countries, workers are fighting for a six hour shift, but the state government is forcing them to work for 12 hours a day.Due to this decision, about one-third of the employed workforce would be laid off as the shifts will be reduced from three to two times a day, he added.CITU said that the Minimum Wage Act 1948 and Salary Payment Act 1936 have not been implemented in many industries of the state and by increasing working hours, exploitation of labourers and workers will also increase.The union has warned the state government to stop formulating policies favouring industrialists and capitalists, else CITU would launch a labour movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trade-union-to-protest-against-12-hour-work-shift-in-himachal-on-may-14/story-vvdORKHlPPWW8s7Op3f5kM.html
13-05-2020||City||Another special train from Delhi to ferry stranded J&K residents||After three Shramik special trains ferried over 3,200 residents of Jammu and Kashmir from Bengaluru, Goa and Delhi to Udhampur district since Tuesday, another train from New Delhi will reach Jammu on Thursday morning. Chetan Taneja, station director and senior divisional traffic manager of the railways, said, “A special train will leave New Delhi on Wednesday evening at around 9:00pm and will reach Jammu Tawi on Thursday morning at around 5:45am.” “All arrangements have been made and sufficient mock drills were conducted in the past three days,” he said. On the same day, the train will leave Jammu at around 8:00pm and reach Delhi at 5:00am on Friday. “It is a fully air conditioned train and the fare is similar to Rajdhani Express. However, food and blankets will not be provided to the passengers,” he said. Tanjea said people de-boarding at the railway station will go through the mandatory protocols and guidelines issued by the administration amid COVID-19 pandemic. He said all arrangements have been made by the administration with regard to testing and providing quarantine facilities to the passengers reaching here. J&K chief secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam on Monday visited the Jammu railway station and took stock of the mechanism for the upcoming trains bringing stranded people of the UT from other parts of the country. All officers deployed at different levels were asked to work in close coordination so that the arrangements and logistics work smoothly. The passengers will be asked to follow social distancing norms while deboarding from their trains and ensure strict compliance of all the guidelines and SOPs issued to check the spread of coronavirus. “Every returnee has to undergo mandatory Covid-19 test and there are no exceptions to it,” said principal secretary Rohit Kansal. The district administration has been asked to ensure that registration and allocation of buses to the passengers for their journey to their home districts is done in an expeditious and hassle-free manner. Taneja said all passengers arriving at Jammu Tawi Railway station from May 14 will be tested for Covid-19 on the premises for which the UT administration is making arrangements. After samples are taken, passengers will be sent to administrative quarantine centers till their report comes. The train will run on daily basis and railways will ensure proper sanitation. Meanwhile, the third Shramik special train carrying migrants from Delhi arrived at Udhampur on Wednesday morning. “The third train reached at 5:30am in Udhampur carrying 316 passengers of Kulgam, 275 of Ramban, 131 of Srinagar, 122 of Kathua, 91of Udhampur, 58 of Poonch, 44 of Rajouri, 31 of Budgam, 22 of Baramulla, 21 of Anantnag, 17 of Samba and 13 of Jammu,” said Udhampur district commissioner Piyush Singla. He said since Tuesday morning three trains have arrived in Udhampur. “Another train from Goa will reach Udhampur on Wednesday evening,” he added. The evacuation of J&K residents stranded in Haryana also began early on Wednesday morning, Kansal said, adding that all passengers were being screened at boarding points and those who have registered will be contacted by the administration. “Evacuation from Haryana begins. Ambala, Hissar, Mewat, Yamunanagar- everywhere screening and boarding in progress...looking forward to your return. Others please be patient. Everyone who has registered will be contacted,” tweeted Kansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-special-train-from-delhi-to-ferry-stranded-j-k-residents/story-XlgTtZ4WsuS7iqNTZ2W7uO.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||With mining on halt, construction material becomes dearer||As mining has stopped amid the coronavirus lockdown, construction business is suffering due to inflated prices of construction material and shortage of labour. Those in the construction business say good quality sand from Anandpur Sahib and Pathankot is difficult to come by these days. “Retailers were selling Anandpur sand for Rs 23-25 per cubic foot before the lockdown was imposed but now the prices have inflated to Rs 31-33. Consumers will have to shell Rs 6,000-8000 more per truckload (with a capacity of 1000 cubic feet),” says a businessman. Nowadays, sand from Haryana is being supplied in most parts of Punjab. Supply from Himachal, too, has dried up.Anandpur Sahib sub-divisional magistrate Kanu Garg said approved sites were not permitted to start sand mining. Ropar district mining officer Damanpreet Singh says, “Five sites have been approved in Ropar since the lockdown. They are not operational. The supply of sand has been stopped but it is expected that a decision on the front will be taken soon.” PENDING WORK BEING COMPLETED “We have allowed some crushers to start operation but only to complete their pending work. The matter will be discussed with the Ropar deputy commissioner,” he said. Nabha-based sand wholesaler Gurmeet Singh says, “There has been a rise in the price of the sand as mining license holders are charging a huge sum at places where mining activity has been allowed.”Cement companies have also raised their prices. “Earlier, cement companies were selling a 50kg cement bag for Rs 360 but now they are being sold for Rs 380-400 in different parts of Patiala,” says a buisenessman.Iron bar prices have also gone up from Rs 43/kg to Rs 46/kg, as reported in retail markets. Brick prices have risen from Rs 5,000 to 5,700 per 1,000 units.CUSTOMERS POSTPONE CONSTRUCTION A Nabha-based retailer of building material Bachan Singh says, “Being granted permission to open outlets has no meaning as customers are postponing construction due to the inflated prices.”“We get dozens of query calls every day but customers are not placing orders. Labouers are also unemployed as the price hike has caused a fall in demand for construction,” he said. The sales manager of a cement company said manufacturing plants were not running at full capacities and supplies remained obstructed due to contrasting stances of deputy commissioners in different districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-mining-on-halt-construction-material-becomes-dearer/story-K06J44ZLfWNkpFikwyageJ.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Man, 25, killed after he rams his Jaguar into divider in Mumbai||A 25-year-old man was killed after he lost control of his Jaguar car and crashed into a divider before ramming a parked tempo a few metres away from MIDC police station in Andheri (east) on Tuesday night.Hitesh Shah, who was driving the car, was rushed to Cooper Hospital after locals informed a team of police officers patrolling the area. “He died during treatment at Cooper Hospital. We have registered a case of accidental death, and are awaiting his post mortem,” said deputy commissioner of police Zone-10.“Last night, we were busy sending migrants to their states. We came to know about the accident through locals and our patrolling team reached the spot. Our priority was to save his life and we shifted him to the hospital for treatment where he died. Whether he was drunk or not it will be clear after his post-mortem report,” said a police officer.The police are trying to find out why the man was out during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-25-killed-after-he-rams-his-jaguar-into-divider-in-mumbai/story-3FgDDPEFBG8Gf5HopLG5RN.html
13-05-2020||Jaipur||After 2 Covid-19 +ve cases, Jaipur Jail’s new inmates to be shifted to Dausa||After two inmates in Jaipur Jail tested positive for Covid-19, Rajasthan’s prisons department has decided to shift all new inmates to Dausa. This is the first instance of prisoners testing positive for coronavirus disease in a Rajasthan jail. The 140 prisoners in Dausa district jail, in turn, will be moved to a special central jail of Shyalwas to make room for the prisoners from Jaipur. One 29-year-old inmate who was lodged in Jaipur district jail and another 20-year-old inmate from Jaipur Central jail were found positive on Monday.Ashok Jain, member secretary, Rajasthan state legal service authority (RSLSA) said that on the instructions of RSLSA chairman, the prisons administration was instructed to take all necessary steps including of designation of temporary place as Jail for keeping new under trials.“The administration was also advised to shift inmates from Dausa District Jail to nearest special jail situated in Shyalwas so that the Dausa district jail can be used for keeping new inmates of Jaipur and nearby districts,” said Jain.He added that the prisons in Rajasthan are safe and the prisons administration is working day and night to ensure that the prisons are kept safe from the effects of coronavirus.Meanwhile, the state government again amended Rajasthan’s Prisoner Release on Parole Rules for the second time as the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 is set to be extended, with new rules, from May 18. The decision was taken by the state to release prisoners and decongest jails.The latest amendment in parole rules, done through gazetted notification on May 11, said, “The extension of special parole granted may be further extended by the state government from time to time, if emergent situation on account of spread of Covid-19 pandemic persists,”The first amendment, done on April 10, said that in the wake of emergent situations of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic which warrants immediate easing of population of prisoners in the prison, the state government in order to secure the interest of prisoners, on the recommendation of the Prisoners Parole Advisory Committee, may grant special parole, for a period not exceeding four weeks, to a prisoner who has already availed first, second or third Parole peacefully and his behaviour has been good during the period of such parole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/after-2-covid-19-positive-cases-jaipur-jail-s-new-inmates-to-be-shifted-to-dausa/story-L7WTfxPEsBzqtZtQFDqNyH.html
13-05-2020||Kolkata||Echoing Mamata’s views, Chhattisgarh CM accuses PM of taking unilateral decisions||Lending a strong voice of support to Mamata Banerjee who charged the Centre with discrimination, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said that leaking of central action and communications to the media ahead of informing states tantamounts to undermining their power. Within days of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with the chief ministers, Baghel said that even the Tamil Nadu chief minister has raised concern of not coordinating and informing states ahead of sending migrant trains, putting everybody in a grave danger of the novel coronavirus. “If the statements are made (by central leaders) and the information is leaked to newspapers including about the visit of the central team, then the states are justified in getting angry,” he told PTI in an interview. Making a strong case for a more coordinated approach in the battle against the coronavirus, Baghel said the states “need to be and must be” taken into confidence. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has recently accused the Centre of “playing politics” and dubbed as “poorly planned” exercise of national lockdown. She had attacked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for allegedly releasing to the media a letter he had written to the state about not allowing trains to ferry migrant labourers to West Bengal. “...why did Mr. Amit Shah need to write a letter and send that to the press? After it was out in the news, people were asking me. What am I supposed to do? Why don’t you speak to us directly? I request this must not happen to other states,” a TMC press release had quoted her as having said in the meeting with the prime minister. In a video conference with Modi, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami has opposed resumption of passenger train services and air services in the state till May 31. “We know from media that regular train service to Chennai (from Delhi) and from Chennai will commence from May 12. As the positive cases in Chennai are showing an increasing trend, don’t permit train service up to 31.5.2020, in my state,” Palaniswami had told Modi. Baghel said the states need to be taken into confidence before any measure is initiated while pointing out had the Centre consulted states on time, many of the hardships could have been averted. Citing the plight of labourers who are forced to travel by foot on roads and on railway tracks, the chief minister of the Congress-ruled state said it is heart-wrenching to see starvation or accidental deaths. “If the central government had done all arrangements (related to the movement of workers) before they allowed the movement of migrants, then we would have not seen such frightening scenes of large numbers of people walking on the roads barefoot and with all their family members,” he said. Baghel said that had the Centre decided on the resumption of trains for ferrying workers and on their movement, before March 24, pains of labourers could have been minimised. “They should have arranged for their movement earlier. They should have taken the states into confidence. There was no arrangement for buses and trains for the workers. People are worried. They want to go back to their home. Some are going on foot and even walking on railway tracks. It is resulting in death of some as well, which is heart-wrenching,” he said. On the question of returning migrant workers to his state, Baghel said some of them might have the potential of carrying the deadly virus. “We have done all preparations to deal with it. It is true that thousands of workers and stranded people of Chhattisgarh are coming back to the state. They will come from red zone and orange zone. Who all might they meet on the way and get contamination? It is a matter of concern for us. But we have done all preparations for it,” he said. Baghel said over 16,000 quarantine centres have been made in villages so that these people can be kept there in case of need for 14 days. “We have to manage their food and shelter as well and also for the employment needs after they have completed 14 days’ quarantine. None of the states like Chhattisgarh is trying to run way from its responsibility of providing basic needs to these returning workers,” he said. The chief minister, however, said if the states do not know about the trains carrying workers started by the Centre, then there are chances of cases of infection going up. “If we do not know where would people go after coming from trains? If we do not know whether they are clean or carrying the infection? Then there is a possibility of infection cases going up,” he said. Baghel said the states should have the rights to decide on what all activities can be started for reviving the economy and also on resumption of inter-state road, rail and air services for the passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/echoing-mamata-s-views-chhattisgarh-cm-accuses-pm-of-taking-unilateral-decisions/story-Q4OBlldHk0R4UTE1EfIdLL.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||UP govt suspends transfers of its employees during 2020-21 due to Covid-19 outbreak||The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended transfers of its officers and employees for the financial year 2020-2021 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, an official order said.However, in case of unavoidable circumstances, transfers can be carried out with the chief minister’s approval, it stated.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the order issued by Chief Secretary R K Tiwari late on Tuesday night, transfers of government employees for the financial year 2020-2021 would remain suspended till further orders in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.Posts falling vacant due to death, medical emergency, promotion, resignation, suspension can be filled through transfers after approval from relevant authorities, it said.One of the worst-hit states in the country, Uttar Pradesh had reported 3,664 Covid-19 cases and 82 fatalities due to the respiratory disease till Tuesday, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-suspends-transfers-of-its-employees-during-2020-21-due-to-covid-19-outbreak/story-xglEMQysUWde38DrxyIRxK.html
13-05-2020||Bangalore||Ready to welcome passengers, says Bengaluru airport||With stringent operating procedures in place, the Kempegowda International Airport (BLR Airport) here on Wednesday said it was ready to welcome passengers. Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), operator of BLR Airport, said it has introduced a slew of measures, including social distancing, thermal screening, sanitisation and disinfection tunnels, as well as contactless F&B experience to ensure travellers pass through the airport as safely as possible. With the highest priority on safety of passengers, employees and other stakeholders, we have implemented a series of actions to protect them and minimise exposure from the transmission of the virus when the Airport reopens, MD & CEO of BIAL, Hari Marar said. BIAL said it is taking additional precautions to create extra space, right from entry to boarding. Seating across the Terminal, including at F&B outlets has been rearranged and marked in a manner that promotes social distance. At security checkpoints, additional separation is marked this area will be managed by BIAL staff. For all of this to work, signage, including floor, seating, digital and standees, have been installed across the Airport to help passengers maintain an adequate distance. Social distancing will also be enforced across the parking areas, BIAL said in a statement. The airport would continue to work with the Airport Health Officer and State Health Department to conduct thermal screening of all arriving and departing passengers. Passengers are encouraged to use online check-in and bring an electronic or printed boarding pass with them to avoid contact with high-touch surfaces and queues at check-in counters. The ‘Aarogya Setu’ app is now mandatory for passengers to download before they enter the Terminal. Passengers will have access to hand sanitisers, placed at nearly 500 locations across the terminal. Face masks are now mandatory at all public places, including the airport. Passengers would be able to purchase both sanitiser and masks at BLR Airport. As part of the enhanced cleaning drive, the entire 155,000 sq.m terminal, airside and landside infrastructure have undergone multiple rounds of deep cleaning and sanitsation, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/ready-to-welcome-passengers-says-bengaluru-airport/story-CD1spAyUCTWWAswhiwWA2H.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Vande Bharat Mission: 178 stranded Indians to return from Dubai to Amritsar today||A special flight under the Vande Bharat Mission will bring back 178 Indians, who had been stranded in Dubai during the coronavirus pandemic, back to Amritsar. They will land at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport (SGRDJI) around 8pm. An official of ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B) said one of the flights will land in New Delhi and the other in Amritsar. The Delhi-bound flight is likely to bring 241 passengers and four infants while the Amritsar-bound flight will bring 178 ‘distressed Indians’.On Wednesday, under the Vande Bharat Mission, five flights from the Gulf will bring around 900 distressed Indians.Two flights from Kuwait scheduled for Ahmedabad and Kozhikode will bring 330 people. A flight from Jeddah to Calicut will bring 149 people. Another flight to Delhi has been rescheduled for tomorrow due to operational reasons. An official said priority was being given to workers in distress, elderly people, sick, pregnant women and others stranded in difficult situation. Only those found asymptomatic will be allowed to board the flight, he said. Amritsar additional deputy commissioner (ADC-general) Himanshu Agarwal said they have identified hotels in the city to quarantine passengers returning from Dubai. “We will give them an option between hotels, requirements and facilities, as per the government’s direction,” Agarwal said.“They will have to incur the cost for their stay in hotels,” he said, adding that the passengers who will not be able to pay the rent will be taken to government quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vande-bharat-mission-178-stranded-indians-to-return-from-dubai-to-amritsar-today/story-y8KybGrv71poczaJtEkYIN.html
13-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19: K’taka’s road transport corporations employees donate one-day pay of employees to CM relief fund||Officials and employees of all the four road transport corporations in Karnataka have contributed their one day salary amounting to Rs 9.85 crore to the Chief Minister’s Covid-19 relief fund. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who also holds the transport portfolio, handed over the cheque to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday, an official statement said.State’s bus services are operated by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North East Road Transport Corporation (NERTC).Top officials of the road transport corporations and transport department were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-k-taka-s-road-transport-corporations-employees-donate-one-day-pay-of-employees-to-cm-relief-fund/story-S18JhLyL8agWNuwrz9NFLK.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Deploy revenue staff where police not needed: High Court tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay High Court has said the Maharashtra Police machinery is under “great stress and strain” during the lockdown, and directed the state government and local civic authorities to deploy off-duty revenue officials for duties where police personnel are not required.Justice R V Ghuge of the high court’s Aurangabad bench gave the directive on Tuesday while hearing a petition taken up suo moto (on its own) by the court on various issues concerning medical, paramedical staff and police personnel.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe court said the state police machinery is under great stress and strain as the security personnel are deployed on streets, railway stations, residential localities, even for dealing with applications of those seeking travel passes, and other duties.I am sure the local administration and the state government are aware that several officers and employees of the revenue department are off duty,” the judge said. “The state government should consider deployment of such revenue officers, especially those below the age of 50 years, for the purpose of dealing with such activities and issues wherein police personnel need not be necessary, he said in the order.If migrants, displaced workers or students desire to return to their native places and are required to register themselves, then the state government and local administration can utilise revenue department employees to ease the burden and pressure on the police department, the court said.The court directed the government and local authorities to allot such duties to the revenue department’s ‘off duty’ employees in areas where policing or the presence of police authorities is not necessary.The court also took note of an incident where a nurse working in the Aurangabad district general hospital in Chikalthana area was assaulted in her house by a group of persons who threatened her and her family to leave the society as locals feared she could spread coronavirus infection there.It also noted that last month, while hearing another matter on the issue of Covid-19, the Aurangabad civic body authorities and police assured the court that adequate protection would be given to members of medical faculty who are facing such threats and assault.“I am of the view that time has come to direct the authorities concerned to register offences against such residents who threaten, abuse or assault medical and paramedical staff, the judge said in the order.“The police authorities shall consider such offences seriously and should not hesitate to initiate appropriate action against such miscreants and register offences by following due process of law, the court ordered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/deploy-revenue-staff-where-police-not-needed-high-court-tells-maharashtra-govt/story-dapd86qL7G1CKidG3hDjwK.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab professionals are back to the soil, organically||Highly qualified professionals are increasingly quitting their lucrative jobs and returning to Punjab to try their hand at organic farming. These new-age farmers, compost kit makers and teachers are using social media, participating in pop-up organic farmers’ markets and organising day-long farm tours to ensure those wanting pesticide-free food grains don’t have to look too far. ‘ASCERTAIN ECONOMIC BENEFITS FOR FARMERS’Rahul Sharma, a former top executive in a leading IT company, now grows cereal grains, pulses, oil seeds, turmeric and garlic at his five-acre farm in Kapurthala “If the government is serious about providing nutritional security, then it must ascertain that farmers get economic benefits so they can go in for sustainable agriculture,” he says. Sharma does not regret switching his job. He regularly lectures and interacts with school and college students. He has decided to streamline the production and ordering process. “I have now a set rotation of crops, which provide nutrition to the soil, as well as work well in the consumer market,” he says. ‘GREATER AWARENESS AMONG CONSUMERS’Shivraj Bhullar, who has a four-acre farm in Manimajra, left his cushy banker job in Canada to start organic farming in 2014. “The organic farming convention that was held in the region in 2015 brought a lot of people together. Since then, the movement has been growing and there is greater awareness among consumers,” he says. He plans to improve his farm by installing a drip irrigation system and rain water harvesting. Coordinator of the Chandigarh Farmers’ Market, Seema Jolly, owns a five-acre farm in village Karoran in Punjab. Seema wants her farm to be a school for organic/natural farming, yoga and Ayurveda in the near future. One of the directors of the Baikunth Resorts Pvt Ltd, Jolly started organic farming in 2011 and there has been no looking back.‘GOVT’S POLICY OF 100% WHEAT PROCUREMENT MUST CHANGE’. Former national-level hockey player Mohanjit Dhaliwal, has two farms , one in Ropar and another in Fathegrah Sahib, the latter being part of perma-culture food forest in ‘Sanjhi Mitti Food Forest Community’, has been involved in organic farmer for 10 years now. On roadblocks, he feels, that the government’s policy of 100% wheat paddy procurement has to change. “Farmers, who used to be entrepreneurs and solutions finders, are now behaving like robots. Nothing is going to change unless policy makers get out of process.” Chandigarh-based Jyoti Arora, who supplies odour-free composters in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Chandigarh to houses, hotels, institutions, municipalities, and engages with Swachh Bharat teams of different municipalities, says, “I also do a lot of lecture demonstrations to encourage people to go green.” ORGANIC WAY OF LIFE Everything changed for Diksha Suri, a former corporate communications head with a major hospital chain when she spent time at Auroville in 2004. “Being there and learning from experts started a journey of a more conscious approach towards the living greens and browns. I attended formal workshops and started experimenting with an organic way of living,” says Suri, who, along with a friend set up Chandigarh’s first Nature Club in 2012. Chandigarh-based Rishi Miranshah, who has made the nine-part docu-series ‘The Story of Food - A No Fresh Carbon Footprint’ says, “Considering what chemicals have been doing to our food and the need to switch to organic, it was important for me to make this documentary which is an investigation, tracing the trail of devastations bringing us to the point where we are today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-professionals-are-back-to-the-soil-organically/story-0LFQNERxBQcoQu2Mpfz8XL.html
13-05-2020||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka near 1,000-mark, 32 deaths reported||A 60-year-old man from Kalaburagi district became the 32nd Covid-19 related fatality in Karnataka, where 26 new positive cases have been confirmed, taking the total number of infections to 951, the health department said on Wednesday.The deceased man from a containment zone was brought dead on May 11 to a designated hospital in Kalaburagi, and he has tested positive for Covid-19, it said.“26 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon.... Till date 951 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed.This includes 32 deaths and 442 discharges,” the department said in its mid day situation update.The fresh cases include- eleven from Bidar, four from Hassan, two each from Kalaburagi, Uttara Kannada, Davangere, and Vijayapura, and one each from Bengaluru urban, Ballari and Dakshina Kannada.Among the new cases, while eleven are from containment zone in Bidar, seven are with travel history to Maharashtra, five are contacts of patients already tested positive, one each are from containment zone in Kalaburagi and with history of SARI, and the other person’s contact is under tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-near-1-000-mark-32-deaths-reported/story-WNxgYo9lR0JrbcYwNBcB3H.html
13-05-2020||Patna||Migrant workers in Bihar’s quarantine centres allege food being served in plastic bags||The migrant labourers quarantined at different centres in Kaimur Monday created ruckus allegedly over delayed food supply, sub-standard meals and lack of sanitation facilities.At an isolation centre in Ramgarh, the migrants refused to eat. Similar incident was reported from two other centres at Kudra. The migrants allegedly threatened to leave the centres.A migrant worker said, “We are only given tea and biscuits in breakfast. Also, the lunch is provided late in the afternoon and is of low quality.” Another labourer accused the centre in-charge and staff of rude behaviour.Meanwhile, the local administrative and police officials reached the centres and pacified the migrants. At Bhagwanpur quarantine centre, migrants protested alleging late supply of food and usage of polythene bags for meals.However, Bhagwanpur BDO Mayank Kumar Singh and SHO Rakesh Kumar Raushan assured the migrants to redress their grievances soon.Binod Anand, district panchayati raj officer who is also the nodal officer for quarantine centres said that there were some problems but they were solved.“We are providing counselling to the migrants and trying to involve them in positive activities,” Anand said.Prabhat Kumar Jha, district supply officer-cum-nodal officer for food supply to migrants, said a standard menu with changed food items for all seven days has been made available at every centre and district officials are monitoring the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrants-up-in-arms-at-quarantine-centres-in-kaimur/story-Eozgaz4rgjgEngLYmpaH8I.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||Cities after Covid-19: Will the Sangam city regain its vibrancy?||The sandy banks of the Sangam, which witnessed over 240 million people bathe in its holy water early last year, today stands as a mute testimony to the Covid fear.With the coronavirus fear gripping the entire world some questions haunting the Sangam city residents are: In an era of social distancing and mass sanitising, would the religious congregation of several crore in the annual Magh Mela, the six-yearly Ardh Kumbh or the grand 12-yearly Kumbh Mela be a reality now? Or how far could a virus distance the devotee from his/her beliefs and rituals?The city has a complex mix of religion and tourism, which is gasping for breath, now.Rajendra Paliwal, general secretary of Prayagwal Sabha, the official body of ‘teerth purohits’ in Prayagraj, said: “If the forthcoming Magh Mela, to be held in January-February 2021, is called off, it would be the first time in history to be cancelled. It would be a decision based on belief versus well being. Not even the mughals in their 500-year rule or British in their 100-year rule called it off,” he said.According to Paliwal, a sixth generation ‘teerth purohit’, around 800 families, roughly having 10 members each, are dependent on ‘purohiti’, the act of guiding Hindu devotees in performing religious rituals.“Every purohit family, during the annual fair, earn enough cash, and kind, from devotees to survive the whole year. ‘Pratishtha’ and ‘maryada’ are of utmost importance for a purohit, who despite hailing from a middle class background, would never beg. But the pandemic has spelled trouble never thought off. Purohits, after the mela, also visited houses of devotees, on their invitation, the rest of the year for collecting food grains from their fields. But this year, owning to the lockdown, they could not go visiting,” he added.The annual mela also spells economic boom for sectors like food and hospitality too. According to Joginder Singh, president of Prayagraj Hotel and Restaurant Association, over 100 hotels exist in city limits, which on a monthly basis, owing to the lockdown, were losing of Rs 1,000 million (Rs 100 crore).“The future of hotels for at least the next one year is bleak. The corona pandemic has spelled doom for the hotel industry. The Magh Mela meant business for hospitality sector in the city. But now the fear of the pandemic will continue to cast its affect on our cash registers,” he added.Similarly, the tourism industry will be at receiving end post lockdown owing to the pandemic.Tourism department officials said Prayagraj received the maximum ever of over 280 million tourists in 2019, including the 240 million tourists who participated in the mela. The Kumbh crowd comprised of 23,94,70,000 Indian tourists besides 10,30,000 foreign tourists.The official graph of tourist footfall in the past five years in Prayagraj had recorded a steady rise. For example in 2015, around 41 million tourists visited Sangam city which swelled to around 42 million in 2016. In 2017, nearly 42 million tourists arrived in Prayagraj while in 2018 the figures increased to over 45 million. The figure significantly swelled to over 285 million in 2019.A senior UP Tourism department official, who did not want to be named, said the pandemic will hurt the tourism industry like nothing before. “Prayagraj is one of the major revenue earners for the state as far as tourism is concerned. But sadly, no one can help as far as revival of tourism in state post lockdown is concerned as the lurking corona fear will kill even a bleak chance of revival of tourism,” he added.President of UP chapter of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), Mahendra Kumar Goyal, claimedfinancial loss suffered by businesses during lockdown was a staggering Rs 60,000 million.“The whopping financial loss includes Rs 2,750 million of hotel industry, Rs 6,500 million of shops selling clothes, shoes etc, Rs 10,000 million each of FMCG and transport sectors, Rs 3,000 million of electronics and electrical good, Rs 170 million of shops selling laptops and mobiles etc, Rs 17,000 million of jewellery shops, Rs 8,000 million of automobile and spare part dealers, Rs 9,000 million of shops selling building construction material etc.“Also, around 4 lakh residents engaged in different sectors are also at the receiving end as most of them have lost their jobs,” he added.Prof GC Tripathi of department of economics, Allahabad University, said: “The government will have to initiate well-planned short and long term approach to bring the economy on track. Under short term measures, the government will have to ensure availability of essentials to all, specially the migrants and low income group people. Likewise, under the long term measures establishing of small cottage industries and business ventures to re-establish displaced rural masses should be a priority.”As per the economist, post lockdown every economy, both developed and developing, would adoptprotective measures to deal with any such pandemic-like situation in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cities-after-covid-19-will-the-sangam-city-regain-its-vibrancy/story-ezqCdP39I0JECFGJTi37uN.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||MNNIT inks MoU with firm for production, sale of Viralyser||In a bid to provide better and affordable tools for checking spread of Covid-19, Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad has signed an agreement with a firm on Tuesday for manufacturing and commercialisation of viralyser, a portable, low-cost UV sanitisation device for home and office use, developed by its experts.Given the prospective benefits and synergistic cooperation possibilities of translating science into technology, this small step would also pave future pathways for bridging the gap between academia and industry, claimed MNNIT officials.Sarvesh Kumar Tiwari, registrar of MNNIT signed the MoU with Garg Telecom Corporation, Prayagraj.Prof Rajeev Tripathi, director of MNNIT, Prof Geetika, chairperson of IPR cell and dean, research and consultancy besides Ravi Agarwal, owner of Garg telecom Corporation and his team members were also present when the “non exclusive technology transfer and licensing agreement” was signed. All those present on the occasion maintained social distancing throughout the event. Prof Rajeev Tripathi said that the agreement would help enhance the culture of innovation and startup in the institute and would also support in commercialisation of the product through an established company.To deal with challenges being faced by the people living in a world under threat of Covid-19, an initiative under design innovation project, was sponsored by Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) for fabricating viralyser, a UV sanitisation device. The team of experts comprised Sameer Srivastava, Ambak K Rai, Ashutosh Mani, NK Singh and Prof Shivesh Sharma from department of biotechnology, under the guidance of Prof Rajeev Tripathi.Viralyser is equipped with UV-C fluorescent lamps which are capable of killing variety of microorganisms including novel Coronavirus.Prof Tripathi said that this device would serve as a weapon for India’s battle against majority of microbes including novel coronavirus. He highlighted that it could be used to sanitise all types of inanimate items such as currency notes, postal letters, files, mask, groceries, vegetables, fruits, etc and also in homes, hospitals and offices at regular basis during this pandemic and beyond.Prof Geetika said that prior to the signing of MoU, the team had also filed a patent to protect the intellectual property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mnnit-inks-mou-with-firm-for-production-sale-of-viralyser/story-lcUJXCYpmvcl6LfzqoNaCM.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mandi villagers demand body of 24-year-old who died in Saudi Arabia be repatriated||Residents of Syanjkothi village in Nachan assembly of Mandi have demanded that the state government repatriate the body of a 24-year-old man who died in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in March.A memorandum regarding the same was submitted by social activist Brahmdas Chauhan to governor Bandaru Dattatreya and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur through the Sundernagar sub-divisional magistrate. Chauhan said the victim, Hans Raj, left for Saudi Arabia in February, after he got a job with a private company. The family last heard from him on March 8. On March 10, his father, Poshu Ram, received a call informing him that his son had passed away. The caller, however, did not specify the cause of death.“Soon after Hans Raj’s death there was a ban on international flights due to the coronavirus outbreak,” said Chauhan: “The consulate of India in Jeddha had assured us that the body will be repatriated soon after international flights resume.”“As special flights have begun operating between India and Saudi Arabia, we demand that the state government intervene and ensure that the body is repatriated so that Hans Raj’s last rites can be performed ,” Chauhan said.Hans Raj is survived by his parents and three siblings. “The family falls below poverty line (BPL) and the government should provide financial help to the family,” Chauhan said.Poshu Ram has demanded that the government conduct a probe into his son’s death: “My son was not suffering from any disease. He was in all likelihood murdered in Saudi Arabia,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mandi-villagers-demand-body-of-24-year-old-who-died-in-saudi-arabia-be-repatriated/story-6sEgpIeRCPA4H0d1tCqPjI.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 359 new cases, 20 deaths in Delhi; number reaches almost 8,000||National capital Delhi is two short of 8,000 Covid-19 positive cases. The state’s health minister Satyendar Jain said that Delhi received 359 new cases till midnight on Tuesday.“Twenty deaths and 359 new positive cases were reported in Delhi in 24 hours till midnight yesterday, taking the total number of cases to 7,998 and deaths to 106. Three hundre forty six people have been cured/discharged taking the total number of recovered cases to 2,858,” Jain said on Wednesday morning.In its health bulletin on Tuesday, the Delhi government said that the total number of tests in the city has crossed the 1,00,000-mark. This puts the number of tests per million in Delhi at around 5,200, the highest in India.On Tuesday, 383 people recovered from the viral infection, taking the number of recoveries to 2,512 so far in the city-state. This puts Delhi’s recovery rate at almost 33 per cent, mirroring the national average of about 32 per cent.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, meanwhile, sought suggestions on Tuesday from the public on relaxations that could be allowed in the national capital after May 17, when the third phase of national lockdown ends. He also stressed that opening up the city completely was not possible as this stage given the number of new Covid-19 cases every day.Kejriwal, who was addressing a media conference digitally, said his government is also engaging with experts and doctors to get a holistic view on services that could resume and those that would have to shut after May 17.Kejriwal said the Delhi government will accept suggestions from the public till 5pm on Wednesday, and a final proposal will be sent to the Centre on Thursday.During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with all chief ministers on Monday, Kejriwal had appealed to PM Modi to categorise only the containment zones, not all the 11 revenue districts of the city, as “red zones”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-359-new-cases-20-deaths-in-delhi-number-reaches-almost-8-000/story-ymLIDeTOKkql1IzZBC5HgP.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||‘Proper diet, sleep can treat asymptomatic patients’||Majority of asymptomatic patients of Covid-19 virus need no treatment but balanced diet, rest and adequate sleep to recover, said Prof MLB Bhatt, vice chancellor, King George Medical University (KGMU), in a video message issued on Tuesday.The KGMU has successfully treated and discharged 80% of the coronavirus patients admitted here till now.“Till now, 27 of the total 34 patients have been treated and made virus-free,” said Prof Bhatt. Pointing towards the high number of asymptomatic patients, Prof Bhatt said that new recommendations for such patients say there is no need to test viral load.“The number of asymptomatic patients is between 60 to 80 percent. Even in random sampling and testing also many asymptomatic patients are testing positive. Majority of these patients need no treatment but rest and a balanced diet,” he said while claiming that proper food along with traditional soups that boost immunity have worked well for patients admitted at KGMU.He claimed the KGMU had all comprehensive treatment facility for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/proper-diet-sleep-can-treat-asymptomatic-patients/story-ZATyB6IwyZFRnw0g6WWLoM.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||Tehsildar terminated for illegal land transfer in Kausambhi||Board of Revenue, Uttar Pradesh, on Tuesday dismissed a tehsildar (land tax official) for illegally transferring a piece of land belonging to the gram sabha to a villager without following the due procedure during his posting in Manjhanpur tehsil in Kaushambi district even as the dispute was pending in the court.Tehasildar Santosh Kumar Sonkar is currently posted in Jaunpur. Confirming the action, chairman, Board of Revenue, Deepak Trivedi said, “Three departments had initiated departmental probes against Sonkar in different cases.” However, his dismissal has been done in the matter relating to illegal transfer of gram sabha land rights to a villager.”As per the dismissal order, Sonkar declared one Indrapal of Gamdhi Nagar under Manjhanpur nagar panchayat as ‘land owner with transferable rights’ without following the due procedure of the law. In a judgment passed in 2009, the additional district magistrate had cancelled the lease of the said disputed land and ordered its entry into the gram sabha’s records. Applicant Indrapal challenged the order in court of additional commissioner, Prayagraj. “But the delinquent tehsildar declared Indrapal as land owner with transferable right from land owner without transferable rights at his own level without the recommendation of registrar/ kanoongo even as the appeal was pending in the court,” said the dismissal order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/tehsildar-terminated-for-illegal-land-transfer-in-kausambhi/story-LVvFDyO7jK70O4kj2WnabO.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||Three more cured patients donate plasma at KGMU||Three more cured patients of corona virus donated plasma for treatment of other patients at the King George’s Medical University.The plasma therapy aims to treat Covid-19 patients by using immunity developed by treated patients. This is done by transfusion of plasma from treated patient to those under treatment, of the same blood group.“The two patients came from Siddharthnagar some 280 kilometres away from Lucknow. Their tests were conducted and then they donated plasma,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine at the KGMU.One of the donors was of AB positive blood group, which in terms of plasma is universal donor. Hence his plasma can be used for transfusion to any corona patient, irrespective of the blood group.The medical university had obtained permission from the Drug Controller General of India and done plasma therapy on one patient till now. The patient had tested negative for corona but unfortunately died with some medical complications. The institution aims to carry forward the therapy for other patients too.“This is a noble gesture to help others. More of the treated patients should come forward to help other patients as only treated patients can help by donated plasma,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“These two patients were discharged after treatment on April 12. Now they have completed 28 days after discharge from hospital,” said Prof Chandra. Apart from the AB positive the other two are A positive and O positive.“Till now six patients have donated plasma at KGMU blood bank,” said Prof MLB Bhatt vice chancellor KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-more-cured-patients-donate-plasma-at-kgmu/story-hi43WY7MLDwuudusbytJFJ.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||Post Covid: Lucknow University panel suggests ways to hold exams||The Lucknow University is set to reverse its approach of centralised exam centers by making new exam centres in colleges, taking exams in shifts, regulating number of students in one exam hall and even reviewing the questions paper.The said measures were put forward by a committee of Lucknow University that met on Monday, three days after the higher education department issued directions to state universities for conducting examination.The committee has submitted its report regarding the status of examinations at the University. It suggested reducing the movement of students appearing in the upcoming end semester exams. The committee recommended self-exam centres at colleges and the University. It has been suggested that evaluation of masters level examinations should be done in their respective departments and that of graduate level should be carried out at the University and a few selected colleges.Students can expect more options in questions paper but the pattern of question paper would not change.The committee also suggested conducting of examinations in three shifts instead of two.Evaluation centres should be opened for longer duration and also the evaluation work should begin with the final year examination, the panel suggested. Spokesperson of Lucknow University Durgesh Srivastav said,” The recommendation made by the committee will be discussed with management of colleges before being implemented.”Earlier on May 8, principal secretary higher education Monika S Garg has issued guidelines for all the state Universities regarding evaluation of answers sheets, conducting remaining examinations and academic calendars for the next session 2020-21. She said the University should conduct the final year/ final semester examination for 2019-20 as soon as the lockdown ends and their results should be declared as the first priority so that the admission process for the next level was not delayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/post-covid-lucknow-university-panel-suggests-ways-to-hold-exams/story-7xLQYfJm1t9TtH7klNUgHJ.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Militant leadership void in Kashmir, Pak desperate, says Lt-Gen BS Raju||Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic, Kashmir is bracing for a familiar summertime pattern of last three decades of Pakistan-sponsored insurgency: an escalation in infiltration bids on an increasingly ‘live’ Line of Control and a surge in militant violence in the hinterland. The killing last week of two army officials in an encounter, followed quickly by security forces’ retaliatory operation eliminating Riaz Naikoo, a top commander of Hizbul Mujahidin, are the latest pointers to what may lie ahead in the volatile Valley agog with a new portent of likely impact of withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan. In an interview with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak, Lt-Gen BS Raju, General Officer Commanding of Srinagar-based 15th Corps, dwelt on the current situation and security challenges in the Valley. Edited excerpts:What is your assessment of the current security scenario in Kashmir?The present situation in Kashmir is stable but fragile. Precautionary and pre-emptive measures are being taken for the safety and security of people, and these have been instrumental in saving innocent lives. Post-Pulwama, we have successfully neutralised the top local commanders of various terrorist outfits, thus resulting in a leadership void. Many overground workers (OGWs), who were providing logistics and other material support to terrorists, have been apprehended in joint operations with other security agencies.How has the dynamics of Pakistan’s cross-LoC support to terrorism changed in last one year or so?Pakistan has consistently found ways and means to further its agenda of fomenting terror in the Valley. It persists in doing that. Numerous intrusion attempts have been foiled and Pakistan army is constantly resorting to ceasefire violations to support the terrorists’ infiltration.Internet restrictions in Kashmir have rendered the terrorist outfits less effective in carrying out their agenda and limited the spread of false narratives being spread by Pakistan to misguide the youth.What has been the outcome of anti-militancy operations since the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year?Militancy has since been on a sharp decline due to our persistent efforts. We had anticipated that Pakistan will increase its efforts to cause turmoil in Kashmir. In spite of best efforts of Pakistan-sponsored proxies, there has been no loss of civilian life in security operations. That in fact has been the hallmark of efforts of all stakeholders for maintenance of peace in Kashmir.What is the current state of militant outfits active in Kashmir?We work on concepts, and not numbers. And the concept is the constant attempts by Pakistan to infiltrate terrorists and war-like stores to commit sensational terrorist activities. Over the past year, the leadership of all terrorist ‘tanzeems’ (organisatons) including Hizbul Mujahideen, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Ansar Ghazwat-ul Hind and Jaish-e-Mohammed has been effectively targeted and eliminated. There is now a definite leadership void.The number of terrorists presently operating in the Valley has also greatly dwindled owing to the reduced recruitment and the recent successes in the counter-terrorist operations. In all operations, we extend every opportunity to local terrorists to ‘return’. Half way through, the encounters are halted and the parents or society elders are involved to urge the trapped local terrorist to ‘return’. We call it ‘Operation MAA’ where the mothers appeal to their sons gone astray, and we have been successful many times.The terrorist launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are full, and Pakistan army is trying hard to push maximum infiltrators into the Valley.What has lately been the trend in local recruitments to militant ranks?The recruitment of local youth in the terrorist ‘tanzeems’ has reduced by more than 45% from 2018 to 2019 and is even lesser in 2020. The Pakistan-sponsored proxies who are instigating and indulging in stone-throwing and recruitment have failed in their attempts. Today, the stone-throwing has also come down to negligible in the recent months. Also, the life span of a terrorist has come down drastically, with 64% getting eliminated within one year. Joining terrorist ‘tanzeems’ has become a non-lucrative option for the Kashmiri youth have understood the false narratives of separatists and now see through the Pakistan-sponsored propaganda.How has the restrictive Internet impacted the militant outfits?That has rendered the terrorist ‘tanzeems’ less effective in carrying out their agenda and limited the spread of false narratives being spread by Pakistan to misguide the youth of the Valley. Presently, 2G and broadband internet is available and that enables all essential work on the internet. If the high speed internet is restored now, Pakistan will try to vitiate the peaceful environment by employing its online propaganda machinery.What is the current situation on the Line of Control?The Pakistan army knows our capabilities very well. Every day, we have infiltration attempts on LoC even at a time when the whole world is coming together to fight coronavirus. But, our counter-infiltration grid is very effective in neutralising -these infiltrators.What challenges you foresee in the current summer months?Pakistan has always wanted to disrupt normalcy in the Valley and these summer months would be no different. It is unable to digest that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and improved law and order situation. The infiltration bids will go on. The un-coordinated terrorist acts in the hinterland are a sign of desperation. All that is well anticipated. Every plan is in place to thwart any such attempts.The life span of a terrorist in Kashmir has come down drastically, with 64% getting eliminated within one year. Joining terrorist outfits has become a non-lucrative option for the J&K youth.What is your assessment on the likely consequences of the US-Taliban pact in Afghanistan on the security scenario in Kashmir?The developments in the sub-continent, including the US- Taliban deal, will have an impact on the security situation in Kashmir. The terrorist launch pads in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir are full, and Pakistan army is trying its best to push maximum infiltrators into the Valley to disrupt peace.Is the internal security situation in Kashmir steady enough to revive on-ground political activities?On the political front, the government has clearly enunciated the objectives and benefits of the new political landscape. The subject of political conjecturing is not within the purview of my mandate. To support all political/administrative initiatives, security forces have been proactive in ensuring that peace and tranquillity are maintained. We have made repeated appeals to mothers, parents, elders and other opinion makers to ask local boys gone astray to shun the gun and rejoin the mainstream. I am happy that many such boys have chosen to ‘return’.How do you plan to bolster the army’s outreach to the common Kashmiris?Our outreach programmes through Sadbhavana initiatives include quality education to about 10,500 students through 28 army goodwill schools (AGS) in the Valley. The initiatives of Super-50 (engineering) and Super-30 (medical) and capacity building tours to other states, have been very effective and have achieved stupendous results. As per our records, no student of AGS has ever joined terrorism. It proves that good parenting and quality education make better citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/militant-leadership-void-in-kashmir-pak-desperate-says-lt-gen-bs-raju/story-s3JuNEwcb2a3enwbdrSK1K.html
13-05-2020||Ranchi||172 Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand||Seven more Covid-19 cases were reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 172, state Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said.Of the new cases, 6 cases have been identified form Hazaribagh and 1 from Ranchi.Click here for Covid-19 coverage“7 more Covid-19 cases reported in Jharkhand today - 6 from Hazaribagh and 1 from Ranchi. The total number of positive cases in the state rises to 172,” Kulkarni said.A total of 70,756 cases have been reported from the country of which 22,455 persons have been cured and 2,293 deaths had occurred.In the last 24 hours, 1,538 patients were cured of the disease. At present, there are 46,008 active coronavirus cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/172-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand/story-XDxameZKBf2IRDyMpRHRmN.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Five of tyre manufacturing unit test positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana, district count reaches 141||Ludhiana: Five employees of a tyre manufacturing company in Ludhiana’s Focal Point area tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that their samples were taken after the manager of Hindustan Tyres, Narsi Benipal, 64, tested positive last week. Benipal is undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, and his condition is stated to be serious. He has been put on ventilator.Benipal’s wife and son had also tested positive but are asymptomatic.ALL FIVE ASYMPTOMATICThe health department had collected samples of the company’s employees, according to the protocol, after the manager was diagnosed with Covid-19.Of the 102 samples sent for testing, five tested positive. All five employees are asymptomatic.With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in Ludhiana has reached 141.PANIC AT PRIVATE HOSPITALIt is learnt that three of the five tyre company employees who tested positive on Wednesday had visited Mohandai Oswal Hospital at Focal Point for a medical check-up three days ago. They did not disclose that they had given their samples to the health department for Covid-19 testing.The company had resumed operations since May 1.Meanwhile, there is panic at Mohandai Oswal Hospital, where more than 50 paramedics have been protesting against a pay cut, giving social distancing norms the go by. The paramedics complained that up to 30% of their salary had been deducted by the authorities, who instead said talks were on with the protesters to end the stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-of-tyre-manufacturing-unit-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ludhiana-district-count-reaches-141/story-EVCwoFul4xbCjnf8eLu7LO.html
13-05-2020||Ranchi||Person who travelled to Jharkhand by Shramik train tests positive for Covid-19||A person who returned to Jharkhand from Telangana by a Shramik special train has tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe patient hails from Latehar district of the state. The total positive cases in Jharkhand now stands at 173, informed the state Health Secretary, Nitin Madan Kulkarni.The Railways are running Shramik special trains after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) granted permission for movement of stranded citizens including migrants labourers, workers, students, tourists to return to their native towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/person-who-returned-to-jharkhand-from-telangana-by-shramik-special-train-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Dxxkq0QqFDKrYVlQV7XpSN.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||In 50 days of lockdown, number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi increases 254 times: Report||Delhi completed 50 days of lockdown on Tuesday. And in these 50 days, the national capital saw the number of Covid-19 cases rise by 254 times, an analysis of the health ministry’s figures by Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan shows.There were just 30 positive Covid-19 cases in Delhi till March 24, a day before nationwide lockdown came into effect. It increased to 7,639 by May 12, Hindustan reported. This is because of a spike in numbers in May with 200 to 400 Covid-19 positive cases being recorded every day.Also, only one person had died due to the coronavirus disease till March 24. This number now stands at 86. In the second phase of the lockdown, the fatalities in Delhi had reached 59 till April 30. In the first phase of the lockdown (from March 25-April 14), 29 people had died due to the disease, according to Hindustan.Delhi, meamwhile, recorded its highest number of Covid-19 deaths in a single day - 13 - on Tuesday. The highest single-day Covid-19 toll so far was six deaths, recorded on April 16.The Delhi government’s health bulletin on Tuesday showed that with 8,431 tests, the total number of tests in the city crossed the 1,00,000-mark. This puts the number of tests per million in Delhi at around 5,200, the highest in India.On Tuesday, 383 people recovered from the viral infection, taking the number of recoveries to 2,512 so far in the city-state. This puts Delhi’s recovery rate at almost 33 per cent, mirroring the national average of about 32 per cent.Along with the 13 deaths, Delhi also reported 406 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases in the city-state to 7,639. This puts the doubling rate in the city at about 11 days, lower than the 13 days recorded at the beginning of the month.It is not just the number of cases that have gone up. The number of people in the intensive care units of the city has also more than doubled from around 50 persons at the end of April to 111 on May 12. The number of people on ventilators has gone up from just five on April 30 to 20 on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-50-days-of-lockdown-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-increase-254-times-report/story-kVAhn9kVIp2BcLpyM4XhnO.html
13-05-2020||Education||Result delay puts students’ PU admission dreams on hold||With the final semester results put on hold, thousands of students pursuing various undergraduate courses are unable to apply for postgraduate (PG) courses in Patna University (PU).The online application for PG courses necessitates mark sheet as compulsory, but results of the final year undergraduate courses have not been announced yet. Mark sheets forms the basis of admissions for PG courses, as there is no entrance test for these courses this year onwards.The online admission process stipulates that those candidates, whose results have not been announced yet, must wait for the publication of their results to fill up the online form. “Applications of those,who do not fill up the marks in the specified column, would be rejected,” read the instructions.“Fate of thousands of third year students of various universities is hanging in a balance as they are not eligible to fill admission forms in absence of their final results. PU itself has not announced results of any course yet,” said Subham Prakash, a PU aspirant.Considering the issue, Patna University Students’ Union (PUSU) has written a letter to vice-chancellor seeking extension of admission dates for PG courses.Priyanka Shrivastava, general secretary of PUSU, said “Hundreds of PU students approached us to voice their problem after failing to fill the admission form. Last week, we submitted a letter to the vice-chancellor’s office requesting extension of admission date at PG level till undergraduate results are not announced. We are waiting for the response.”In a bid to complete the admission process under various undergraduate and postgraduate courses in time, PU began the online admission process for the new academic session on April 30.The last date for applications is June 20.Meanwhile, a senior official of PU said that the academic calendar would be revised if normalcy was not restored till the fixed date. “As per UGC guidelines, universities can complete their admission process by August. PU’sz academic calendar is a month ahead in completing the process. The university may review the academic calendar and extend dates of the admission process. We are waiting for guidelines from Raj Bhawan,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/result-delay-puts-students-pu-admission-dreams-on-hold/story-0tKmbmA7FWOMPx1HpNF2MN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||42,000 migrants left in 35 trains from Maharashtra so far: Official||Nearly 42,000 migrant labourers have so far been ferried to their home states in 35 trains from Maharashtra, a state Home department official said.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs earlier this month allowed the use of trains for ferrying people stranded due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown to their respective states.“As many as 35 trains have left so far from various parts of Maharashtra carrying nearly 42,000 migrant labourers back to their home states. The number will jump in the coming days, thanks to the Indian Railways’ decision to run more trains for migrant workers,” the official said on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA large number of migrant labourers in Maharashtra have been registering themselves with local police in a bid to go back home.Some of the main railway stations for long distance trains in the state have been witnessing a steady stream of migrant workers who are desperate to go back home.The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has also conducted about 300 bus services so far to drop the homeward-bound migrant labourers at the state border along Madhya Pradesh, another official said. This has been done to facilitate transportation of labourers who have set off for their homes on foot, a senior MSRTC official said.“The MSRTC has been running some bus services from Nashik, Pune and Mumbai for labourers who are walking on roads. We have decided to drop them at least at the Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border to ease some of their travel woes,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/42-000-migrants-left-in-35-trains-from-maharashtra-so-far-official/story-3BAiYG0XXjy7gTHgxphsAP.html
13-05-2020||Noida||Third Covid-19 death in UP’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, cases rise to 230||A 60-year-old coronavirus patient died due to cardiac arrest at a hospital in Greater Noida, becoming the third Covid-19 fatality in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar, officials said on Tuesday. The man was admitted to the Sharda Hospital, a dedicated Covid-19 facility, in Greater Noida where he died on Monday night, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “He expired last night (Monday) of cardiac arrest caused by acute respiratory syndrome,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The daily Covid-19 bulletin of the district mentioned the man’s death as caused due to coronavirus, with the number of people dying due to the pandemic rising up to three. Earlier on Tuesday, a spokesperson for the Sharda Hospital, however, said, “The man died due to cardiac arrest and not by coronavirus, though he had tested positive for the infection.” The deceased was a resident of Sector 19 in Noida and had tested positive for coronavirus on May 8, the spokesperson added. Meanwhile, six more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar, pushing the tally of cases to 230. Another six people got discharged after treatment for the novel virus and now there are 86 active cases in the district, the officer said. “Total 57 reports have been received in the last 24 hours, of which six were positive and the rest negative for Covid-19. The number of confirmed cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar now stands at 230,” Dohare said. “So far, 141 of the 230 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 86 active cases in the district,” he added. The recovery rate of patients is 61.30 per cent, according to the official statistics. According to officials, so far 4,251 samples have been collected for Covid-19 test in the district, while 484 people are currently under institutional quarantine. So far, two men, aged 60 and 62, have died in Gautam Buddh Nagar due to coronavirus, as per the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/third-covid-19-death-in-up-s-gautam-buddh-nagar-cases-rise-to-230/story-rboM1TDK5ERzjVIiVNQi9H.html
13-05-2020||Indore||Doctors at Indore hospital refuse to wear Covid-19 masks, probe ordered||An inquiry has been ordered into quality of masks distributed among doctors of MY Hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore. The probe was ordered after the hospital tranche of masks to the health department citing doctors’ unwillingness to wear them.Indore district collector Manish Singh also shifted the officer in-charge of the health department’s store.A week ago, Dr Anand Rai, a whistleblower in the Vyapam scam, had raised the issue of quality of masks provided to health workers in Indore.Dr Rai posted a picture of what he said was fungus coated mask on his Twitter account. “Packaging of PPE and mask was more important and that storage and manufacturing units of PPE and masks should be bacteria and fungus free,” he wrote on Twitter.Around the same time, a Twitter user Raj Shekhar wrote, “Just got off a call with my sister who is a doctor at a red zone hospital in Indore. She told me that she and her co-residents refused to enter the Covid ward today morning because they realised that the face mask being provided to them were fake.”When contacted, chief medical and health officer Dr Pravin Jadia confirmed that an inquiry had been initiated and the in-charge of the store shifted. He, however, said, “The masks provided were not purchased by the department but gifted by some organisations. There are several individuals and organisations who donate such masks. They are helping us at the time of crisis. There is no mechanism in the department to issue any certificate on the quality of such masks donated.”Dr PS Thakur of MY Hospital said, “It’s unfortunate that a controversy is being created that the masks returned were fake. We never said that masks were fake. Also, the masks were not sub-standard either. The only issue was that our doctors didn’t like it. Our doctors are using the best of masks that we purchase and also get from health department.”“If we raise doubt against intention of such people who donated the masks it will be very unfortunate for Indore and it will discourage others from coming forward to help people at the time of tragedy,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/doctors-at-indore-hospital-refuse-to-wear-covid-19-masks-probe-ordered/story-e20w6jZj41V9aDWtvQzHnK.html
13-05-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Police recover wheat being diverted for black marketing||The Rajasthan Police on Tuesday recovered nearly 50 tonnes of wheat, which was supposed to be distributed free of cost through fair price shops in tribal areas, but was allegedly diverted for black marketing in Udaipur.The recovery was made by a team of the police’s Special Operations Group (SOG). Following a tip off, the team recovered the wheat from three trucks and the godown of transporter Dalichand.Dalichand and his associates have the contract to transport wheat from Food Corporation of India godowns to ration dealers, Additional Director General SOG Anil Paliwal said.They in connivance used to divert some sacks of wheat for selling it to flour mills and retail dealers to earn profit, he said.The SOG team conducted a raid in the Amarpur Jhariyana area and found three trucks with wheat. Sacks of wheat were also recovered from Dalichand’s godown there, he said. Truck drivers were not present at the time of the raid but Dalichand was there. He was arrested and is being interrogated, he said. Paliwal said that 1,035 sacks, with nearly 50 tonnes of wheat, were recovered. In another action, the SOG arrested three persons including a container truck driver in Jaipur while delivering bidi packets worth Rs 1 crore. The container came from Telangana for supplying the cartons of bidi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-police-recover-wheat-being-diverted-for-black-marketing/story-tsyP0WsGkt6rlxvg83KUMP.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||One more Mumbai cop succumbs to Covid-19||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Mumbai police died due to Covid-19, an official said on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith this, five personnel of the Mumbai police have died due to the viral infection so far, while the fatality tally in the state force has gone up to eight.The deceased ASI was posted at the Sewree Police Station and was undergoing treatment after testing positive for the infection, he said.The Maharashtra police tweeted about the death of the ASI through their official Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-more-mumbai-cop-succumbs-to-covid-19/story-LLqvynmgaPrMhqqLpjlviL.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi man, who killed mother 33 years ago, shoots dead son||Police in Delhi have arrested a 60-year-old, who had killed his mother 33 years ago, for allegedly shooting his son dead in Rohini area of ​​the national capital.Ompal, a property dealer, shot dead one of his five sons after he stopped his father from shouting at his mother on Monday night. His wife, Pavitra Devi, had asked him not to drink alcohol.Also read: Delhi man kills wife after heated argument, surrenders before copsThe father and the son started arguing and soon ended up scuffling with each other. In the middle of the fight, Ompal went inside the house, got a licensed pistol and opened fire at the son. An alcoholic, Ompal had shot and killed his mother Maya Devi in 1987 after she had asked him to stop drinking. He was convicted in connection with his mother’s murder and released after serving the sentence. Police have seized the pistol of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-man-who-killed-mother-33-years-ago-shoots-dead-son/story-tuLF7Pic9wZos09bTeXP0J.html
13-05-2020||Noida||Security guard found dead outside Noida hospital; FIR lodged||A private security guard was found dead outside a hospital here, prompting the police to lodged a complaint of “negligence” against the medical facility on Tuesday, officials said.The body was found on Monday and the deceased identified as 35-year-old Devanand Bhagat, a native of Saharsa district in Bihar, they said.An FIR has been lodged at sector 24 police station against the private hospital in sector 33 for “negligence” and its role was being investigated, a police spokesperson said.In another incident, a 23-year-old woman allegedly killed herself by hanging from the ceiling fan at her house in Sarfabad village in sector 73 on Tuesday afternoon, the police said.“According to her family, the woman was worried over the ill-health of her husband and that pushed her to taking the extreme step,” the police said.Also, a cyclist was mowed down allegedly by a speeding truck near the Spice Mall in the city around 4 pm, the police said. “The truck was being driven irresponsibly and the cyclist died on the spot. An FIR has been registered and the body has been sent for autopsy,” the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/security-guard-found-dead-outside-noida-hospital-fir-lodged/story-hq6u8nO38sYU1tYympf93K.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||DMRC trains staff amid lockdown, no order for resumption of services||Delhi Metro authorities have trained their housekeeping and other staff to adhere to enhanced safety norms to make them ready to do their jobs whenever the services are ordered to be resumed, officials said on Tuesday.The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the Janata Curfew was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Specially trained housekeeping staffs are deployed in stations to clean passenger movement areas and associated equipment such as AFC gates, lifts and escalators to begin safe operations,” the DMRC said in a tweet.A senior DMRC official, when contacted, however, said, no official order has come from authorities to resume services.“We are keeping ourselves ready though, so that operations can be resumed smoothly once the orders come,” he said.The third phase of lockdown is till May 17.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought suggestion from people as to which sector should be given ease in lockdown after end of phase three. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Tuesday mounted to 7,639, with 406 new cases, while the death toll mounted to 86.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dmrc-trains-staff-amid-lockdown-no-order-for-resumption-of-services/story-btlQpGJXekboi21dQULi6M.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||AIIMS to exempt patients from paying charges till patient care services restored fully||The AIIMS has exempted its patients from paying charges for admission in general wards and medical investigation during the period of coronavirus pandemic till normalcy of patient care services is restored as before, officials said. “The AIIMS in view of exigency situation has exempted all charges payable on account of admission and hospitalisation of all patients being admitted in general wards through emergency or with referral from outside as a special case during the period of epidemic till normalcy of patient care services is restored as before,” an order issued last month said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage According to the order, the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (AB-PMJAY) beneficiaries being hospitalised in AIIMS and all centres will continue to get requisite benefits under the scheme as before, including provision of all medicines and surgical consumables, package surgeries and issue of medicines for up to 14 days at the time of discharge. In addition, BPL patients will also continue to be provided all non-available medicines and surgical consumables and exemption of package charges etc as before on case-to-case basis, it said. However, for non-AB-PMJAY and non-BPL patients, procurement of such medicines, surgical consumables, implants and prosthesis (which are not routinely procured by AIIMS) by the patients, private wards hospitalisation and investigational charges, and levying of package charges for requisite procedures in CT centre, NS centre and Dr RP Centre of Opthalmic Sciences will continue as before, the order said. For the first time in its history, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here shut down its OPD services, including speciality and all new and follow-up registration from March 24.The AIIMS had also issued a circular postponing all non-essential elective procedures and surgeries and directed for only emergency life-saving surgeries with effect from March 21. The hospital authorities have, however, asked an AIIMS sub-committee to prepare a blueprint for smooth restoration of OPD and non-emergency surgery services, with the administration planning to resume the services soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-to-exempt-patients-from-paying-charges-till-patient-care-services-restored-fully/story-xEnwS8vW58bkGzXWzlERYL.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||225 passengers arrive at Mumbai airport from Malaysia as part of Vande Bharat Mission||Under the Vande Bharat Mission, Air India’s repatriation flight AI-1377, carrying 225 passengers from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia arrived at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport early on Wednesday.The evacuation operation is part of the country’s largest-ever initiative to bring back Indian nationals amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.Similarly, an Air India repatriation flight carrying 169 medical students from Dhaka in Bangladesh reached Srinagar on Tuesday.“Indian Embassy in Bangladesh and Indian Govt helped us a lot. We are happy to be back. We are thankful to the Indian Government,” one of the medical students said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMinistry of Civil Aviation had said that a total of 6,037 Indians have been flown back to India in 31 inbound flights operated by Air India and Air India Express under Vande Bharat Mission in 5 days beginning from May 7.“Under this mission, Ministry of Civil Aviation is coordinating with Ministry of External Affairs and state Governments for bringing Indians back to their homeland,” the Ministry said.Air India along with its subsidiary Air India Express are operating a total of 64 flights (42 by Air India and 24 by AI Express) to 12 countries including USA, UK Bangladesh, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Philippines, UAE and Malaysia to repatriate 14,800 Indians back in the first phase.The second phase of Vande Bharat Mission will be launched from May 16-22 during which 149 flights, including feeder flights, will be operated to bring back Indians from 31 countries, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vande-bharat-mission-225-passengers-arrive-at-mumbai-airport-from-malaysia/story-T9Jbo04XcYSBYeUBPruvXM.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Haryana requests Delhi to issue special passes for govt employees||The Haryana government on Tuesday informed the Delhi High Court that it had requested the additional chief secretary of the home department of the Delhi government to issue special passes to the employees working with the Delhi government to facilitate their commute to and from Delhi. However, to date, no reply has been received from the Delhi government. A senior official in the chief minister’s office said, “We haven’t received any letter from Haryana government.”Stating that about 56% of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital region districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar and Sonepat had Delhi connections, the Haryana government on Tuesday told the Delhi High Court they would allow the movement of medical professionals from Delhi only on the basis of passes. Gurugram and Faridabad, on Tuesday, did allow medical professionals, health workers and sanitation personnel to cross the borders from Delhi, said the police, nearly two weeks after Haryana government curbed the movement of people from the Capital. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner (DC), Gurugram, said, “The borders connecting Delhi have now been de-sealed for people associated with emergency services and for medical professionals. We will monitor the situation closely and changes will be made only after the situation has been brought under control. Unregulated movement at the Gurugram-Delhi borders will not be allowed.”Hearing a public interest litigation, the Delhi HC on May 8 had said that orders of Sonepat district magistrate (DM) obstructing the movement of doctors, nurses, court officials and trucks from Delhi to Sonepat constituted an infringement of the constitutional provisions.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on May 1 asked the states to ensure that interstate movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedics is facilitated. The directions came after the issue of restrictions being imposed by some states including Haryana was flagged during a meeting of the cabinet secretary and state governments on Sunday. “ Ensuring unhindered movement of medical professionals is essential for meeting public health requirements and saving precious human lives,” Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in his communication to the state governments.Haryana’s additional advocate general (AAG) Anil Grover who appeared for the state government on Monday told the court that in furtherance of May 11 directions of the MHA, the state government has evolved a procedure of movement passes (e-passes) which will be given to medical professionals without any hassle. “Today we have provided about 55 passes to medical professionals living in Haryana’s NCR districts and working in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, to facilitate their interstate movement around the national capital,’’ Grover said.The neighbouring state told the court that they since the majority of cases till May 9 in the bordering districts of Haryana are mainly due to their Delhi connection, it became imperative in the interest of the public to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of people.The HC, however, asked the Central government to convince the state government not to press for movement passes and resolve the issue. A bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula also asked the Haryana government for an additional affidavit detailing the situation on the ground and posted the matter for May 14.The AAG said that the argument is centred around the fact that the majority of Covid-19 cases in four districts were an outcome of the daily commute of passengers from Haryana’s NCR districts to the national capital. He also stated that the movement of doctors, nurses and paramedics is not being halted on the borders.The movement restriction orders are not Delhi-centric. They applied to interdistrict travel within Haryana as well as to the movement of commuters to Uttar Pradesh, the AAG said. “ The entire endeavour is to ensure that the pandemic does not enter the rural areas of Haryana because there will be havoc if it does,’’ Grover told the HC.In an affidavit filed before the court, the state government said that the April 30 orders of Sonepat district magistrate had exempted the movement of ambulances, ATM cash vans, LPG, oil containers, tankers from Delhi. Besides, the movement of grains, milk, poultry, cereals, lentils and other eatables, excluding fruits and vegetables from Delhi, green and dry fodder, medicines and medical equipment and transit logistics movement of essential and non-essential goods was allowed by the Sonepat administration.The Haryana government, in the affidavit, also told the Court that on April 24, the deputy commissioner, Sonepat, had written to the Delhi government stating that the e- passes for the government employees would not only help in the regulation of movement but also have prevented people from Delhi, claiming to be on official duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/haryana-requests-delhi-to-issue-special-passes-for-govt-employees/story-VU8RzPI8zyTmlqQAGsbhOP.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: Domestic workers allowed now, yet RWAs and residents lock horns||Even with government’s approval on allowing a certain number of domestic workers back into Delhi-NCR societies, the debate continues whether to let them rejoin work or no. And though some residents, out of dire need of help in household chores, are desperately wanting to have house helps back, some RWAs are just not giving a nod. Under directions issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the RWAs have been asked to take a call on whether domestic helpers would be allowed in their localities, following the recent relaxation incorporated during lockdown 3.0. Tensions have also surfaced between residents who are on the opposite ends of the matter to whether allow the workers inside the societies, or no. Take for instance, a resident of Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave informs that his RWA is still deliberating on whether domestic workers should be allowed into the area, or not. On condition of anonymity, he adds, “There are people who do not want to allow domestic helps back into the society at present, but there has been a constant debate on whether an exception can be made for the senior citizens, who need help the most.’’   Missing your domestic helps right now? Watch this hilarious video and think twice 😜 #MaidInHeaven * * * * * #maidvideo #SIT #shittyideastrending #sitvideos #Babymaid #iconicmaid #domestichelp #househelp #funnyvideo #funnymaidvideoA post shared by  SIT (@shittyideastrending) on May 4, 2020 at 6:30am PDTIn Mahagun Moderne society at Noida’s sector 78, the RWA joint secretary Shweta Gupta informs that they are opposed to allowing maids back into the locality. “The cases are increasing by the day and residents’ safety can’t be compromised with, inspite of the recent government orders,” she says, adding, “There are some residents who are keen to allow maids, and at the same time there are those who think otherwise. We have a very big society and any action we take may lead to undesired consequences. Though we understand many residents are facing problems, especially in case of those who have no helping hand in form of a younger person at home, but the decision to not allow outsiders is for the benefit of all.’’ If the RWAs have strong arguments for denying entry to domestic helps, then the residents, especially those living in apartment complexes, have their own concerns. Payal Singh, who lives in a gated society in Delhi’s Janakpuri, says that the absence of domestic help has made it hard for her to juggle work and care for her aged parents. “My office requires me to work long hours during the day. I’m managing food and household chores but it’s getting exhausting now. I understand the safety concerns, but to do so in spite of the government orders allowing for domestic help is unfair!’’In Gurugram’s DLF Hamilton Court, part-time workers have been allowed since the lockdown was eased on May 4. Isha Bhandari, culture secretary of the RWA, says ‘’Many senior citizens and younger residents who require assistance have opted to call domestic helps... but there are concerns within a section of residents around how we can ensure the well being of others. The RWA has set up an internal committee of residents to address all the concerns that are being raised in this matter.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-domestic-workers-allowed-now-yet-rwas-and-residents-lock-horns/story-N6cELiDyT4lRlO9Ln3zUkJ.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus jinx: DU aspirants for 2020 miss enjoying campus life||According to the recent instructions by the University Grants Commission (UGC), colleges in the Capital will reopen from August. This means that the admission process shall kick-start from August, and the new batch of students aka freshers will get to join classes and visit the campus not until it’s September. The delay in DU’s admission process is due to the coronavirus pandemic. And this has left those were looking forward to enter campuses as soon as possible, quite heart broken! “Why us? I mean aaise kya hi karm kiye the ki we have to face this,” questions Dev Gupta, a Delhi-based student who had high hopes of getting to visit the campus and attend college earlier than expected now. He adds, “My sister is from Delhi University, and so is my father. I have heard so much about DU from them. And now was the time to experience whatever they used to talk about, but Covid-19 has ruined it all for me... September is too far!” For a college-goer, it’s pretty chill at this time of the year to find memes around college cut-off and sweat over every cut-off list that gets announced. But right now, it’s just the pandemic and its affects that are ruling the Internet. Saumya Sharma, a Gurugram-based student, says, “When I was in high school, every year I used to see a rush to get admission in one of the best colleges, and the internet getting flooded with talks and memes on who made it and how! But this year, it’s highly unlikely to feel all that. In fact, some days I search out for old memes and just look at them to feel better. Kuchch to pata lage college life ke baare mein!” The question is how to wrap around one’s mind on this. Teachers suggest taking the online route. Dr Kanika K Ahuja, associate professor, department of psychology, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, DU, says, “Moving forward, we need newer roadmaps. Newcomers need to take onus of their learning and not depend on teacher’s spoon-feed. Online classes will be the future for quite some time; so learn not to get distracted. Work on your attention spans and be intrinsically motivated. Peer learning will be hampered, so depend on yourselves. Develop other skill sets like writing, research, analyses, and above all, self-determination and resilience... It’s appreciable that flexibility is given to the universities to frame their own examination and academic calenders, keeping in view the UGC guidelines and preparedness and constraints so that the vulnerable sections of students are not adversely affected.” Anil Kumar, associate professor at Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), echoes the same sentiment: “I am of the view that there would be possibilities of disruptions in the traditional mode of teaching in the next academic session. Universities and colleges should prepare themselves by augmentation of online capabilities to conduct some of the courses or portion of the courses online. This should be mandated by the UGC with the necessary funding backup.” Follow @htdelhi for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-jinx-du-aspirants-for-2020-miss-enjoying-campus-life/story-P55FStOGHHb96pgkvcdnFP.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Flouting Covid-19 lockdown rules? Beware, this Yamraj will come after you!||At a time when following social distancing and Covid-19 safety guidelines is of utmost importance, Delhi Police has come up with unique and quirky ways to educate the masses. Be it the simple joy of celebrating birthdays of citizens by singing songs for them or helping those in need, they are doing it all. And now, the Police have even brought Yamraj — the Hindu God of death — to Earth, quite literally! Read More: Gumnaam hai koi: This ghost is scaring the hell out of people breaking lockdown in OdishaTo urge Delhiites to follow social distancing, among other rules to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Police in a recent drive sought help of a local artist; who dressed as Yamraj and walked the lanes of RK Puram, to create awareness on Coronavirus among people. “We wanted to make the drive something unusual and different as compared to formal announcements or written pamphlets, jo koi nahin padta. We thought kuch aisa hona chahiye jisse log jagruk ho,” says Rajesh Sharma, SHO, RK Puram Police Station, adding, “We wanted to educate people in an interesting manner and therefore thought of asking the artist to dress up like Yamraj. And, corona Yamraj ki tarah hi hai... The artist dressed up as Yamraj said ‘Main Yamraj hoon aur maine Corona bheja hua hain aapke paas, aur agar aap ghar ke andar nahin rahenge toh mera doot aapko uthake le jaayega. Though this message, we wanted to announce that you’ll be safe if you follow the guidelines for social distancing and self-isolation.” The drive managed to get attention of most, and the cop says that the response was excellent. “People have themselves demanded to replicate this drive in more areas of Delhi, and to do it more often,” adds Sharma. Author tweets @nainaarora8 Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/flouting-covid-19-lockdown-rules-beware-this-yamraj-will-come-after-you/story-gOtn8sW35EXqymUHZtgNeL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Parents flag concerns as schools in and around Chandigarh consider reopening||“My 4-year-old daughter will be going to the school for the first time in her life. She is so young, she does not know a thing about coronavirus. How will the teachers ensure that she does not touch her face or wash her hands constantly? Will a child as young as her be safe in school?” asked a Panchkula-based parent, Manoj Khattri.As deliberations continue at the Centre as well as the local level to re-open schools in phases, parents across the tricity are concerned about their children attending school amid the pandemic.Although most of the parents are not in favour of sending their kids out yet, the group is divided when it comes to senior students who say they won’t mind sending them to the school if proper precautions are taken.OKAY WITH SENDING SENIORS TO SCHOOLVikas Kumar, a shopkeeper based in Mohali, said, “My son is in class 10. It is a crucial year for him. Although he is taking the online classes, they are not as effective as regular classroom teaching. If students follow social distancing norms or the odd-even scheme is implemented, I think schooling could be safely resumed.”Madhura Kapoor of Panchkula said, “Children learn the most from their peers. Eventually, schooling and classroom teaching have to start. It can begin in phases with the senior-most classes as they know how to behave themselves.”On the other hand, parents of the students studying in junior classes say that the kids, even under strict supervision, cannot be made to ensure social distancing and hygiene.Saumya Suman Rawat, a 33-year-old homemaker from Chandigarh, said, “A child who is not even capable of keeping their beds and study tables clean, schools are expecting them to be super vigilant.”Dipti BR, an IT manager based in Panchkula, said, “When a school doesn’t allow kids to attend classes in case they have a regular flu, how can they force them to come to school now? Kids have low immunity,” adding, “Some parents are already taking unpaid leaves just to make sure their kids are home and safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-flag-concerns-as-schools-in-and-around-chandigarh-consider-reopening/story-mU1yEqx40hWMOkaZkARZKL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab chief secy Karan Avtar relieved of financial commissioner taxation charge||Three days after his showdown with state ministers, Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh was on Tuesday night relieved of the additional charge of financial commissioner taxation.On Monday, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and his other cabinet colleagues had asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to sack the chief secretary saying they won’t be part of meetings attended by Karan Avtar.Amarinder’s move, which came after a flurry of activity in the state top brass to find a way out of the crisis, is seen as an attempt to mollify the ministers“This will certainly pacify the ministers,” said a cabinet minister, pleading anonymity. The chief minister has in fact adopted a middle path. He has taken care of ministers’ grouse and tried not to upset the bureaucracy by axing the chief secretary.The chief secretary had taken on the ministers at a pre-cabinet meeting on the excise policy on Saturday, insisting that the changes recommended by the ministers to the policy could not be taken on board. The unsavoury face-off had led to ministers storming out of the meeting, with Manpreet being the first one to walk out. Principal secretary (water resources) A Venu Prasad will now hold the additional charge of financial commissioner taxation, according to an order issued here. As Prasad is on leave till May 20, principal secretary finance Anirudh Tewari will look after the work of the post of financial commissioner Ttaxation in addition to his present assignments, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-chief-secy-karan-avtar-relieved-of-financial-commissioner-taxation-charge/story-ZIx7ZrqaozEe3GNkEBiU6K.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Now, people returning from abroad can rent a place for ₹100-10,000 a day in Chandigarh||After concerns regarding lack of stay options for people returning from abroad came to the fore, the administration on Tuesday finalised a new rate list according to which accommodation in Chandigarh can now be availed for ₹100-10,000 per day.The first batch of five passengers arrived here from Delhi late in the night. While they are all being kept at the Mountview Hotel where per day stay fare varies between ₹5,000-10,000 depending upon the type of room, those coming in the future batches will be given the option to choose. But there is a catch here: the lowest fare of ₹100 per day is reserved for low-income group returnees.UT home secretary AK Gupta said that not all those returning from abroad are well-off. “For them, we have roped in 50 independent rooms with attached bathrooms at girls hostel number 10 on Panjab University campus for ₹100 per day and meal charges as per actual rates,” he said. For others, the UT-run hotels are already lined up.RATE LIST AVAILABLE ONLINEThe persons will be told about the options when they land at the airport, he said. The rate list will also be uploaded online. The local contacts of those coming from abroad can also seek local inquiry regarding different stay options.“For now arrangements have been made for around 500 persons that will be gradually increased depending on the rush of passengers,” said Gupta.He, however, said how many passengers were actually coming would only be confirmed once they boarded the planes. UT adviser Manoj Parida earlier estimated the arrival of 5,000 people from abroad.TESTING MADE MANDATORYOn Tuesday, the administration made Covid testing mandatory for all those returning from abroad, even though it has not been suggested by the central government. Parida said there will be two levels of screening—at the airport and on arrival. All those found negative will be allowed to go to their houses after mandatory 14-day quarantine period, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-people-returning-from-abroad-can-rent-a-place-for-100-10-000-a-day-in-chandigarh/story-esNV7QmcRoO7hUmZoNYtUJ.html
13-05-2020||City||Sixth special train carries 1,201 migrants to Chhapra in Bihar from Mohali||The sixth special train left the Mohali railway station for Chhapra in Bihar on Tuesday, carrying 1,201 migrant workers back home.In a sweet gesture by the district administration, the children of the migrant workers were also distributed chocolates.The migrants were taken in buses to the railway station from the eight collection centres where they were first thoroughly screened. They were provided cooked food packets, water and biscuits. The migrants in turn cheered and clapped for the officials.Meanwhile, seven buses also departed on Tuesday, carrying 160 students back home to Ladakh and Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sixth-special-train-carries-1-201-migrants-to-chhapra-in-bihar-from-mohali/story-43KUHkaeUa4p6tJKkEMWJN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||18-year-old killed in car crash at Marine Drive||Aaryaman Nagpal, the 18-year-old son of Rajesh Nagpal – part-owner of Taj Group of Hotels, was killed in a car crash at Marine Drive on Tuesday afternoon.Aaryaman, along with his friend 19-year-old Shaurya Singh Sharad Jain, was taken to Sir H N Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre where he succumbed to his injuries. His friend has been admitted to the hospital with serious injuries, said Marine Drive police officers.“The accident took place between 4:15pm to 4:30pm near B D Somani Chowk at Marine Drive when the car in which Nagpal was travelling lost control and crashed into a bus that was parked from behind,” said a police officer.However, police officials did not reveal who was driving the car, or if the driver was driving the car under the influence of alcohol. DCP Sangramsingh Nishandar confirmed the incident but did not divulge any further details. Marine Drive police have registered an accidental death report and are further investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/18-year-old-killed-in-car-crash-at-marine-drive/story-Eu6s3pRcDgMV4oZhnqUspM.html
13-05-2020||City||Members of transgender community deliver 5,000 ration kits in 40 days in Kharar||Before the lockdown the residents of various villages in Kharar often saw them moving around seeking ‘badhai’ (donations); Jyoti Mahant, the head of a transgender community here, is on the move again, but this time for distributing ration kits.The curfew may have put a stop on the incomes of the third gender, but it has failed to deter Jyoti from reaching out to those in need. “We have always sought money on happy occasions like marriages, births from the village residents, so how could I have not come out to help the families in this hour of need,” said Jyoti.Jyoti was found abandoned in Kalka some four decades back and was raised by the transgender person heading a gaddi there at the time. At the age of 13, Jyoti came to Kharar, and is now heading the gaddi here.In the last 40 days, they have distributed around 5,000 rations kits containing rice, flour, oil, tea leaves, sugar, among other essential items. Each kit has a ration to last for about 15 days.“People have my phone number and they call me seeking ration,” added Jyoti who has distributed 100 ration kits in Sialba Majri village and another 100 in Hoshiarpur village in Kharar. “Sometimes we get calls from outside the district, too,” they said.After they get a call, Jyoti and his associates gets in touch with the panchayat of the village and prepares a list of people. Accordingly, purchases in bulk are made and then packing is done at Jyoti’s house. The store room is stacked and with the help of other transgenders persons of her gaddi, kits are prepared to be distributed.“I want other members of our community to come out and help the society in this hour of need,” said Jyoti, who like other transgender persons, too, has faced a lot of stigma. They make it a point to inform the police station concerned wherever they go for distributing ration, said Jyoti||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/members-of-transgender-community-deliver-5-000-ration-kits-in-40-days-in-kharar/story-ywqH4yiXL1EJz0ZtILBNiL.html
13-05-2020||City||Six-storey commercial building in Ulhasnagar catches fire||A six-storey commercial building near Chopda Court in Ulhasnagar caught fire of Tuesday morning.No one was injured. The building belongs to Kumar Infra India Limited and it is shut owing to the lockdown.Ulhasnagar fire brigade reached the spot with four water tankers. Century Rayon and Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation also sent one water tanker each.“The fire broke out around 9.45am on the top two floors of the building. It took almost two hours to douse the fire. The fifth and sixth floor of the building had to be cooled down completely for half an hour after the fire was doused. The cause of the fire is not known as the building was shut for a long time,” said Sandip Asekar, sub-officer, fire department, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-storey-commercial-building-in-ulhasnagar-catches-fire/story-iBQuZgmUK2FifT1c8qU59L.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||HC rejects pre-arrest bail pleas of Wadhawan brothers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday rejected two separate anticipatory bail pleas filed by Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of the Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) group, in the proceedings initiated against them by the enforcement directorate (ED) in connection with the Yes Bank scam and the alleged diversion of funds from two trusts in Uttar Pradesh. A single-judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre said given the serious allegations of money laundering, with a conspiracy entered into by Wadhawans with several others, particularly Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and his family members, call for their custodial interrogation. ED had initiated proceedings against the Wadhawans based on an first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on March 7, 2020 against Kapoor for conspiracy, cheating and under relevant provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.It is alleged that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term, non-convertible debentures of DHFL and Kapoor received Rs 600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL, in the form of loan advanced to two firms, DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Private Limited and Morgan Credits Private Limited. While Kapoor’s daughters hold 100℅ stake in DOIT, Morgan Credits is controlled by his wife.The Wadhawans, however, maintained that these transactions were entered into regular course of business. They sought pre-arrest bail, claiming that there was no fraudulent misrepresentation and no wrongful loss was caused to the bank in the transactions.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, opposed the pleas and stated that the debentures were not yet redeemed by DHFL and Yes Bank had not received its amount back. He added that DHFL has extended a loan of Rs 600 crore to the firms controlled by Kapoor’s family by showing grossly overvalued properties as mortgages.Justice Dangre accepted ED’s arguments. The judge said that only the applicants can throw light on the nature of the transactions and the alleged conspiracy can be cracked only by interrogating them.The applicants will have to be confronted with variousincriminating documents regarding the loans sanctioned by Yes Bank and further loans sanctioned by the DHFL in favour of Kapoor to unearth the multi-crore conspiracy, added the judge. Justice Dangre also rejected anticipatory bail pleas of the Wadhawans in connection with diversion of funds from two trusts in Uttar Pradesh - Uttar Pradesh State Power Sector Employees Trust and Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Contributory Provident Fund Trust. Both trusts have received part of their funds invested in DHFL, but are yet to receive about Rs 2,268 crore.The judge said ED was justified in seeking custodial interrogation of the accused, as the crime involved complicated financial linkages and involvement of several individuals and group of companies. Widespread business activities of the applicants call for deep search into the money trail, added the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-pleas-of-wadhawan-brothers/story-ocIacQZ8MmL4xdc2pJniHN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Court allows terror accused to see mother’s funeral through video call||The sessions court on Tuesday allowed Faisal Mirza, booked for conspiring to carry out terror attacks in various places in Gujarat, Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh to attend his mother’s funeral through a video call.Mirza’s lawyer Arshad Shaikh had on Tuesday morning approached the special court to direct the prison authorities to make necessary arrangements for him to attend the funeral of his mother who passed away on Tuesday morning.The court after hearing the plea directed the prison authorities to arrange a video call for Mirza. The court has further directed the prison authorities to submit a report for the same. Mirza, a 32-year-old electrician and resident of Jogeshwari, was allegedly in touch with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) members. Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) officials said his association with the terror outfit that carried out November 26, 2008, attack on Mumbai became stronger when he went to Sharjah and later Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).Mirza was arrested by Maharashtra ATS in May 2018. He was allegedly planning to kill several leading politicians, film personalities, and also conduct a series of bomb explosions in various cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-allows-terror-accused-to-see-mother-s-funeral-through-video-call/story-EY5rC8tYXuw8aVEfbvJXLO.html
13-05-2020||City||Migrant labourers block Ludhiana-Delhi highway||Around 250 migrant labourers blocked the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway near Kakowal Road here on Tuesday alleging inadequate arrangements for their journey back to their native places.The blockade started at around 11am and continued for at least one hour before the police reached the spot and dispersed the protesters using mild force.Some protesters also alleged that the police personnel are demanding Rs 500 as bribe for allowing them to board the special trains run by the government for their departure.A labourer said that they have no work due to the lockdown and are left with no money. The administration is not making adequate arrangements to send them back, he added.Another labourer said he reached the railway station to board the train but the police personnel did not allow him to board it, saying it is already full. “I had my booking confirmed but was not allowed to go.”ADCP Gurpreet Singh Sikand said the agitators were from Kishanganj and Araria districts of Bihar. They were demanding special trains for their districts. “We have conveyed their demand to senior officials.”To a question, the ADCP said the police did not use any force against the labourers. They fled after seeing the police vehicles, he added.On May 3, around 250 migrant labourers had gathered on the national highway near Dhandari and blocked the road for around 20 minutes.75,000 MIGRANTS HAVE LEFT FOR HOME STATES FROM FEROZEPUR DIVISIONAs many as 63 Shramik Special Trains have ferried 75,000 migrants from three stations of Ferozepur divison to their native states so far.On Tuesday, a total of 13 such trains departed from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar railway stations. Of these, six trains carrying around 1,200 migrants each, left from Ludhiana, while five trains departed from Jalandhar and two from Amritsar.Divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal informed that as of now, 41 trains have left for Uttar Pradesh; 15 for Bihar; four for Jharkhand; two for Madhya Pradesh; and one for Chhattisgarh. More such trains will run in coming days, he added.6TH SPL TRAIN LEAVES MOHALI FOR CHHAPRA Meanwhile, the sixth special train left the Mohali railway station for Chhapra in Bihar carrying 1,201 migrant workers. The migrants were taken to the railway station in buses from eight collection centres where they were first screened. The district administration provided packed food and water bottles to the migrants, besides distributing chocolates among their children. Also, seven buses left Mohali on Tuesday carrying 160 students to Jammu and Ladakh. Six of these buses left for Jammu and one for Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/migrant-labourers-block-ludhiana-delhi-highway/story-koLAalDHv0972QSip8JigI.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Metro lines 2A, 7 to be delayed by 3 months: MMRDA chief||Mumbaiites can expect a three-month delay for Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro -7 (Dahisar East -Andheri East) to get operational, Mumbai metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said in a webinar, hosted by a media outlet on Tuesday evening. The two lines were to be operational by December this year.“Though we had a workforce of 11,000 labourers at various sites, the work was stopped for a month or two. Now, many migrant workers are looking at going back to their states. So we are expecting a two to three-month delay. The Metros that were to start in December 2020, might start by March-April next year,” Rajeev said.Though the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had talked about the delay in the two projects when the lockdown was announced in March, this is for the first time that the commissioner has announced revised dates for the two Metro projects.Rajeev also said that the delay period has been estimated as per the current situation.“If we see another surge [in Covid-19 cases], we will have to revisit the timelines and finances. These are times of uncertainty. There will be cost escalations and delays that have to be borne,” he said.The 18.6-km Metro-2A project is estimated to cost ₹6,410 crore, while the 16.5-km Metro-7 project is expected to cost ₹6,208 crore.MMRDA is the nodal authority for the Mumbai Metro Master Plan, which is looking at implementing a 337-km network in and around the city. MMRDA is also implementing the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) – a 22-km sea-bridge connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.Rajeev said that MMRDA has resumed work at many sites in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region now and the workers are taking due precautions.“All the workers are wearing masks and adhering to social distancing wherever possible. Hand sanitisers have been provided at all sites. We take two meetings a day to guide them on the precautions to be taken,” he said.The state agency is also building a make-shift 1,008-bed capacity hospital at the MMRDA grounds and is also planning to construct another one at the Bandra-Kurla Complex, Rajeev said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/metro-lines-2a-7-to-be-delayed-by-3-months-mmrda-chief/story-UodpzX0AgmfV4e1OBrDxCK.html
13-05-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: 14 more held by CID||Fourteen more tribals have been arrested by the CID on Monday in connection with the April 16 Palghar lynching case in which 134 arrests have been made so far.A CID officer said, the 14 accused were picked up from the surrounding jungles in Kasa and have been remanded to police custody till May 20 by the Dahanu court on Tuesday.There are still more than 500 unidentified and absconding accused named in the three FIRs filed at Kasa police station. The three men, including two sadhus, were lynched on April 16. They were reportedly mistaken for thieves by the accused. Five policemen from Kasa have been found guilty of failing to protect the victims from the mob while 35 personnel transferred and the Palghar SP Gaurav Singh sent on compulsory leave by the home minister Anil Deshmukh. They are under suspension.Meanwhile, the 105 suspects first arrested a day after the lynching will be produced in Dahanu court on Thursday. The tribals have alleged that innocents are being arrested while the CID said that the arrests are being made as per CCTV images from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-14-more-held-by-cid/story-GbedCiDpVyk0CtpeUBsvaO.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||State starts online medical services for non-Covid patients||In an attempt to provide relief to non-Covid patients that are suffering due to the ongoing lockdown, the Maharashtra government started free online teleconsultation medical services from Tuesday. A patient will have to register online after which he or she will be able to directly chat with an expert doctor through video conferencing or text chat on the portal — www.esanjeevaniopd.in.It is a joint venture started with the help of the central government. State health minister Rajesh Tope said this is an online OPD service started considering the difficulties faced by the people in the absence of services of private practitioners. A patient will have to register on the portal with the help of his mobile number. He or she can upload any medical report or other documents available and get a token number. The patient will be notified via to log in on the portal. He or she will be kept in waiting and will be asked to press ‘call now’ button once a doctor is available for them. The patient can directly chat with the doctor through video conferencing or text message and will also get e-prescription after the discussion, the officials said.“In the beginning, it was started on a pilot basis a few days ago but from now on the services is available across the state. A patient from any district of the state can get the benefit of the services,” Tope said.However, the service will be available only in the first half of the day between 9.30am to 1.30pm. It will also not available on Sundays.Tope said that the timings will be increased gradually based on the response from the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-starts-online-medical-services-for-non-covid-patients/story-iBuN9K0yuHilD3qjU57WPP.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||OBC leaders being sidelined by Maharashtra BJP leadership: Khadse||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse, who was sidelined by the party leadership yet again in the Legislative Council polls, trained guns on state leadership, accusing former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of consistently working against him.Khadse, along with former ministers Pankaja Munde and Chandrashekhar Bawankule, were given a miss even as party nominated four other candidates for the upcoming elections.The party nominated Gopichand Padalkar, RanjitSinh Mohite Patil, Pravin Datke and Dr Ajit Gopchade to the Legislative Council. Khadse on Monday alleged that the BJP’s state leadership had given a fake impression to him and other two senior leaders that their names were being considered. He also said that he had an offer from the Congress to contest the sixth Legislative Council election and several BJP legislators had even promised to cross vote in his favour against the formal BJP candidate.“Consistently, BJP’s senior leaders, those who have worked for the party are slighted in favour of newcomers. The party which grew with the help of Bahujan leaders is now systematically sidelining OBC leadership. I was told by Fadnavis and state chief Chandrakant Patil that they are trying to get me in the Legislative Council, but these candidates knew they would get a nomination in March itself,’’ said Khadse, speaking to a Marathi TV news channel, ABP Majha.“I was given an offer by Congress but there was no time to act on it. This is not the time to do politics also,’’ he added. Khadse, Munde and Bawankule represent the Other Backward Class (OBC) community. He said that he plans to take up the issue with BJP’s president and then decided the future course of action. “I had given the go-ahead to make Fadnavis the state BJP chief. I gave him an opportunity in the state legislature as the leader of the Opposition. And, I am now facing the consequences of my actions. Forget me, any other party loyalist could have been given a chance instead of outsiders,’’ he added.Padalkar, a Dhangar leader who joined BJP ahead of state Assembly polls and contested polls against senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar, had been promised a rehabilitation by Fadnavis. Similarly, former NCP MP Ranjitsinha Mohite Patil had been promised MLC seat when he and his father Vijaysinh Mohite Patil joined BJP ahead of Lok Sabha polls by the former chief minister. Datke, party’s Nagpur city chief, is seen to be close to both Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Fadnavis.This is not the first time Khadse has complained publicly against the BJP leadership. After Assembly polls, the senior leader had slammed BJP leadership at a public rally held in Beed by Munde. Neither Munde nor Bawankule has, however, complained of the decision publicly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/obc-leaders-being-sidelined-by-maharashtra-bjp-leadership-khadse/story-UqyTZslDNTDCckaQT1rWfI.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai topped in reduction of pollutants among six cities||Mumbai has seen the sharpest reduction in harmful air pollutants during the lockdown among major Indian cities, said the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Tuesday.Researchers compared a three-week average pollutant concentration between March 1-21 and March 23 to April 14 for six cities (Delhi, Pune, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai), using data from multiple monitoring stations including those of the Central Pollution Control Board, the American Consulate, and SAFAR’s own monitoring stations. The results were presented by Gufran Beig, director, SAFAR, from a yet-to-be published research paper, during a the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ webinar on Tuesday.Between March and April, Mumbai has witnessed maximum percentage reduction for two pollutants — nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and particulate matter (PM) 2.5 (breathable particulate matter which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller) — among the six cities. However, even without major industrial and automobile emissions, Mumbai’s lowest PM2.5 concentration, defined as the baseline or background PM2.5 levels by SAFAR, was highest among six cities.Mumbai recorded a 76% decline in NO2 (gases mainly emitted from automobile fuel burning) followed by Kolkata (67%), Pune (56%), Delhi (39%), Ahmedabad and Chennai (25%). A 54% reduction was recorded for PM2.5 for Mumbai; 40% for both Kolkata and Ahmedabad; 30% for Delhi; 25% in Pune and 11% in Chennai. “Geographical and weather factors are both responsible for maximum pollutant decline in Mumbai against other cities,” said Beig. “Being a coastal city, Mumbai got the advantage of sea breeze resulting in faster dispersion of pollutants. Though the same can be said for Chennai, baseline line levels for the city are already low, but the rate of dispersion is not as high as Mumbai as the financial capital is surrounded by the sea from three sides.”At landlocked cities like Delhi and Ahmedabad, and low dispersion rate for Kolkata, human-induced bio-fuel and industrial emissions combined with sporadic incidents of mild dust storms during lockdown did not allow very high pollutant reduction, said Beig. Meanwhile, background PM2.5 concentration for the study period in Mumbai was 33 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) followed by Ahmedabad at 31 µg/m³, Pune 29 µg/m³, Delhi 22 µg/m³, Kolkata 18 µg/m³, and Chennai 6 µg/m³.“Pollution levels can never be zero. Background levels are the permanent concentration in any city when anthropogenic emissions are at its lowest. This shows that even though Mumbai may have high pollutant dispersion, its background air already has higher PM2.5 than other cities. While the lockdown has presented us with an unique opportunity to gather such data, more investigation is needed to understand what causes this,” said Beig.The national safe standard for PM2.5 is 40 µg/m³ for 24 hours while it is 25 µg/m³ for the same duration as per the World Health Organisation (WHO).Independent experts said research was needed to understand sources from the larger airshed in the Mumbai region during lockdown to assess high background PM2.5. “The magnitude of sources like solid fuel usage, power plants or even minimal vehicle movement in the region’s airshed, and how it could be influencing background PM2.5 needs to be assessed,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.PM2.5 LEVELS IN MUMBAI’S AIR IN 2019SAFAR on Tuesday presented the emission inventory for PM2.5 pollutant and different sectors contributing to the pollutant in Mumbai’s air during 2019. While the transport sector was the most dominant source at 30.49%, sources titled ‘others’ including open fires, brick kilns, textile plants, dust storms, sea salt etc. all inside and outside the airshed accounted for 20.88%. The residential sector including biofuel or solid fuel emissions for domestic cooking and other activities accounted for 15.52%. Remaining sources 14.8% was from windblown dust and 13.08% from industrial emissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-topped-in-reduction-of-pollutants-among-six-cities/story-zTkvWf9iMG5f7AZKE6oKPJ.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||TIFR develops country’s first low-cost device to test efficacy of masks||The Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, has recently developed India’s first low-cost testing equipment to assess the efficacy of facemasks.Considering the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), including masks, for frontline health workers during the Covid-19 pandemic, TIFR is also studying how masks can be reused post decontamination.N95 masks are designed for 95% filtration efficiency for very small 0.3 micrometre (µm) sized particles, while surgical or cloth masks are meant mainly for protection from relatively larger droplets of infectious material emitted during coughing, sneezing or talking, according to the Union health ministry.A team of scientists led by professors Arnab Bhattacharya and Shankar Ghosh of TIFR, along with Ronak Sutaria of air quality research group Respirer Living Sciences (RLS), built a prototype — mask integrity test resource (MITR) — using air quality measurement units and other components to develop a setup that measures fine particle (0.3µm) filtration through N95 masks. This was built during the lockdown using home-made items such as a vacuum cleaner, boxes, bottles, and a plastic ball (used as a mannequin).“We estimate that such a unit could be built for ₹30,000-50,000 ranging from the most basic one to a slightly advanced unit within the country,” said Bhattacharya. “Commercially available units that need to be imported cost over ₹10 lakh. At the same time, recent US Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) guidelines restrict the export of PPEs, which will impact the availability in India.”For the project, different types of N95 and surgical masks being used by Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai were supplied to TIFR, and were tested using this equipment. The filtration efficiency could drop significantly if the mask was not well fitted, and allowed leaks from the side, Bhattacharya said while cautioning that these experiments were done using a rudimentary set up on a plastic ball. “While we expect a better fit for the human face, we found that even if the best N95 masks are used unless the mask is worn properly or well-sealed from the sides, it can be dangerous for frontline workers,” he said.The TIFR scientists also evaluated the filtration efficiency of several materials used at home for masks – from folded handkerchiefs to cotton T-shirts. “Even home-made masks could have 50-60% filtration efficiency, comparable with surgical masks, and are good for everyday use by the public,” said Bhattacharya. The testing protocol plays a critical role in evaluating the efficiency of masks across intensive care units (ICUs) and health care facilities, said Sutaria. “Many hospitals across India are currently facing a severe shortage of facemasks, leading to the manufacture of varying quality. The existing mask testing equipment available from the US costs between ₹12 lakh to ₹90 lakh. Masks are going to be required not only during Covid-19, but for all kinds of infections and epidemics,” he said, adding that such a low-cost set up could also help in quickly comparing the quality of masks, with the risk of the market being flooded with inferior quality products. The other aspect of TIFR’s research looked at reusability of masks after disinfecting them.According to N95decon.org, an international consortium of scientists and researchers for N95 mask decontamination, alcohol-based disinfectants, soaps or detergents, bleach solutions, ethylene oxide etc. though effective in virus inactivation could degrade the filtration efficiency or leave hazardous residues. However, moist and dry heat treatment, hydrogen peroxide vapour, ozone, and ultraviolet radiation were useful.A major contributing factor that enhances filtration efficiency was a layer of electrically charged fibres that trap particles in N95 masks, TIFR researchers found. The charge diminishes significantly when cleansed using alcohol-based solutions. Researchers developed a procedure to recharge these N95 masks. “We believe recharging could allow recovery of the filtration efficiency of used masks, allowing them to be reused for relatively longer periods than the current norm,” said Ghosh.How masks are being used by city’s health workers Frontline Covid-19 workers from private and municipal hospitals in Mumbai are following a procedure wherein four to five N95 masks are being provided for every 20 days to each person. “A worker will use a mask a day, sterilise it after use, store it safely at the end of the shift, and reuse it again after five days. The same process is repeated for each mask until a new set is supplied,” said a doctor from Nanavati Hospital.A senior surgeon from King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital said, “We get four masks for 20 days. We steam the mask before reusing it on the fifth day. Over the past week, health workers dealing with Covid-19 patients in the ICU are getting a new mask every day, and the used ones are discarded daily.”Technology built over weekend amid pandemic Researchers at TIFR and RLS managed the development of the mask testing technology in a matter of days amid restrictions during the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. As TIFR was developing the mask testing prototype, they got in touch with RLS to use their low-cost air pollution monitoring units, which were supplied within a day. Over just one weekend, TIFR researchers along with RLS managed to develop testing principles, completed their prototype, and were ready to do tests to evaluate filtration efficiency of masks for front-line health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tifr-develops-country-s-first-low-cost-device-to-test-efficacy-of-masks/story-6DzOzG2Qqho1HiaS5VgqsJ.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Completion of medical college in Mohali held up amid Covid-19 lockdown, session not starting anytime soon||The Punjab government’s plan to kick start the first academic session after the completion of the Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Mohali from August this year will be delayed because of the Covid-19 lockdown, state medical education and research minister OP Soni said on Tuesday.Starting the session by August would have required completion of all formalities regarding intakes by April, which has not been done, he told the Hindustan Times.Construction work on the campus too will take another three months to be completed.The Rs 300-crore project was sanctioned in 2012 under the Centre-state partnership scheme of the Government of India with funding in the ratio of 60:40. The Punjab government finalised the site of the existing Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here to set up the institute which will start with 100 seats and be eventually upgraded to 220 MBBS seats.The state government had also announced funding of Rs 157 crore for the construction of the college in its 2020-21 financial budget. “We are not sure whether we will be able to start the session this year and are trying our best to complete the project as soon as possible,” Soni said.The process of recruiting staff had begun, he added.Director principal of the college, Dr Manjit Kaur Mohi, said student intake will also be affected by the postponement of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test-Under Graduate (NEET UG) 2020, from May 3 to July 26.In November last year, during an inspection of the institute before granting of permission for the commencement of the MBBS course with 100 seats from 2020-21, the Medical Council of India (MCI) pointed out several shortcomings in a report, including poor infrastructure and equipment, failure to recruit faculty and to upgrade the existing Civil Hospital to 300 beds, the last one being a basic requirement for the medical college.At present, the hospital has a bed capacity of 170, which includes a 50-bed de-addiction centre located 10km away in Sector 66, which the MCI team feels is “too far from the site”.ABOUT THE PROJECTThe medical college project was sanctioned in 2012 under the Centre-state partnership scheme of the Government of India with funding in the ratio of 60:40The Punjab government finalised the site of the existing Civil Hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, to set up the institute, which will start with 100 MBBS seats and eventually be upgraded to 220Project costs have been estimated at Rs 300 crore, excluding the existing infrastructure and land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/completion-of-medical-college-in-mohali-held-up-amid-covid-19-lockdown-session-not-starting-anytime-soon/story-aevLUKTC7RPjK2FudNBuZK.html
13-05-2020||City||Labourers block National Highway in Ludhiana, demand arrangements for sending them to native places||About 250 migrant labourers blocked the Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway near the Kakowal Road here on Tuesday for at least one hour.The labourers were demanding arrangements to send them to their native places. Some protesters alleged that police personnel were demanding Rs 500 as bribe to make them board trains.The police reached the spot and dispersed them allegedly using mild force.The labourers said, “We neither have jobs nor money and food to survive. But the administration is not making arrangements to send us back home.”Another labourer said, “After I applied to go back to my hometown, I got a confirmation message on my phone and reached the railway station to board a train, but the police did not allow me to board the train, despite the confirmation message. The police said the train was already full.”Another agitator alleged, “The policemen at the Guru Nanak Stadium are demanding Rs 500 from each person to allow us to board a train. This is how the Punjab government is treating us. I have been living in the city for the past 20 years, but now I want to go back home.”Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city-1) Gurpreet Singh Sikand said, “The agitators are from Kishanganj and Araria districts of Bihar. They are demanding to run trains for Kishanganj and Araria so that they reach their native places. However, we have written to senior officials about demands of labourers.”The ADCP added the police did not use any force against the labourers. Instead, they fled after seeing police vehicles, he said.On May 3, around 250 migrant labourers, residing in Sherpur, Dhandari, Focal Point and nearby areas, had gathered on the National Highway near Dhandari and blocked the road for at least 20 minutes. The labourers also shouted slogans against the Punjab government and the police. The labourers had also pelted the police personnel and vehicles with stones and damaged at least 10 vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourers-block-national-highway-in-ludhiana-demand-arrangements-for-sending-them-to-native-places/story-u1zA1d9fUrvEEHhqXYpZLP.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||HC grants divorce to man after wife writes letter to his employer||The Bombay high court (HC) granted divorce to a 47-year-old Navi Mumbai resident, on the grounds of his estranged wife writing a letter to his employer, levelling unfounded allegations of adultery against him. The division bench of justices VM Deshpande and SM Modak accepted the wife’s act of writing the letter to her husband’s employer “as an actionable cruelty within the purview of Section 13(1) (i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act” and granted him divorce. The couple married in May 1993 and had two sons. Relations between the spouses soured and in May 2006 the woman left her matrimonial home along with the children.In June 2008, the woman visited her matrimonial home again, break open the lock in absence of her husband and wrote to his employer, stating that he had an extra-marital affair.A few days later, the 47-year-old moved the family court in Nagpur, where the marriage was solemnised. He sought divorce on the grounds of mental cruelty and desertion. He moved the HC in appeal after the family court rejected his divorce petition in March 2012.The HC accepted his contention that the woman’s conduct, making unsubstantiated allegations against the husband, amounted to mental cruelty, as contemplated under the Hindu Marriage Act and the husband was entitled to a divorce. HC said trust and confidence are foundations of a marriage and if one spouse establishes an extra-marital affair, it is considered as an act of damaging the foundation. “And, if one of the spouses makes such allegations and he/she fails to prove it, it is considered as an act causing mental pain to the other spouse and an instance of cruelty,” stated the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-grants-divorce-to-man-after-wife-writes-letter-to-his-employer/story-GFtmCtooMFFuSwxJJPQoTI.html
13-05-2020||City||Covid positive cop’s family harassed by Navi Mumbai building residents||After a 35-year-old police sub-inspector tested positive for Covid-19, her family is facing harassment from the housing society members in Vashi.She and her husband, who works in a local hospital, live in Vashi with their 18-month-old daughter.As the officer worked in the night shift, she used to leave the baby at her parents’ house at Juhu village in Vashi.The officer got herself tested after she had mild fever. On May 7, the report showed that she was infected.After the officer was sent to institution quarantine, the officer’s elderly parents, sister and niece are taking care of the child. The family has self-isolated themselves. They have undergone a test and the reports are awaited.When her parents’ building residents came to know that she has tested positive, they told the family to leave the flat.The officer’s brother, who is working in Bangalore with an IT firm, said, “My sister had last visited our parents’ house around 10 days ago. After the residents came to know that she has tested positive, they started troubling my family.”The family members alleged that the building residents did not let sanitation workers collect garbage and stopped home delivery people from going to their house.On Saturday, at least 10 people from the building and nearby houses gathered around the housing society and asked the family to leave the premises.“After I posted an online complaint to the police, they sent a team to the building. The cops spoke with the residents and pacified them. She got infected while serving the public. People should not harass families of essential service workers who are risking their lives every day,” her brother added.The local police station, however, downplayed the incident.“In such a situation, some people are scared. We spoke to the residents and told them about safety precautions. There was no case registered and it was not a major issue,” said Sanjeev Dhumal, senior inspector at Vashi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-positive-cop-s-family-harassed-by-navi-mumbai-building-residents/story-UGEp9PouYQ8PQvnaM7XH7K.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab health minister launches cleaning of N-Choe in Mohali, distributes PPE kits to sanitation workers||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu launched the cleaning work of the N-Choe in Phase 9, Mohali, which flows into the district from Chandigarh, on Tuesday. He said the work will be given utmost priority as monsoons are approaching, which could turn N-Choe into a breeding ground for mosquitoes and lead to unhygienic conditions, especially in view of the Covid-19 crisisSidhu said the work will be completed within two months at a cost of ₹ 13.58 lakh.The minister also handed over personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to sanitation workers at the MC Bhawan. Muncipal commissioner Kamal Garg was present on the occasion. He praised sanitation workers for their contributions during the crisis and described them as ‘corona warriors’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-launches-cleaning-of-n-choe-in-mohali-distributes-ppe-kits-to-sanitation-workers/story-eGwiIcx0unJTHZumV0eNgK.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police constable who defeated Covid-19 says pranayam, strong willpower helped him recover||Constable Dinesh Rane, attached to the crime branch said that his strong willpower as well as the practice of pranayam – a form of breathing exercise in yoga – helped him defeat Covid-19 within two weeks. On Monday, after he was discharged from the hospital, the 46-year-old Gorai resident was welcomed by his colleagues and family with a thunderous applause. On April 23, Rane developed fever and cough, which were not cured despite taking medicines. So he went for a test on April 26 and the results came positive for Covid-19 two days later, following which he was admitted to Apex Hospital on the same day. It is not established yet how Rane got infected. During his stay in the hospital, his family, friends and colleagues kept him motivated. Fortunately, the constable does not have comorbidities. “I want to tell my colleagues and others who are battling the disease that they should not panic and keep a strong willpower and they will definitely get cured,” he said, adding that he would consume warm water and gargle with salt water everyday while at the hospital. Until Monday, more than 1,000 personnel of the state police department were tested positive for Covid-19, of who 900 are constables. Rane is among the 113 personnel who have recovered so far. The police department has also lost seven of its personnel to the virus. 2 lakh labourers on ‘waiting list’ to leave cityOn Tuesday, another 5,000 labourers from the Mumbai Police’s north region jurisdiction (Goregaon East to Dahisar East) left for their native homes in north India on four trains. Three trains operated from Borivli station, while one left from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The police said around 2 lakh more migrant labourers are on the ‘waiting list’ and their applications have been processed. 33 FIRs filed on Monday for lockdown violations The Mumbai Police on Monday registered 33 first information reports (FIRs) against 48 people and arrested 22 for lockdown violations. A majority of the FIRs (21) were filed in central region, while the remaining eight in western region – both of which are badly-affected by Covid 19. The most number of FIRs (11) were filed for gathering at one place, followed by 10 against illegal vehicles, nine for not wearing masks and three against shops operating despite being non-essential services. Woman makes video outside actor’s house, booked Bandra police booked a woman for allegedly making a TikTok video of her morning walk outside Salman Khan’s residence in Bandstand, Bandra (West). The woman identified herself as Zara Baloch in video. The police learnt about the incident after the video was circulated on social media. “I am at Bandstand. I am here for my morning walk after having my Sehri [meal] at home,” the woman is seen to be saying in her video. ₹40-lakh gutkha smuggledThe Mumbai crime branch’s unit 11 in Kandivli (West) on Monday evening intercepted a truck carrying gutka and tobacco products worth ₹39.65 lakh and arrested two people – Malwani resident Musahid Ahmed Shaikh, 33, and Nallasopara resident Amanullah Khan, 25 – who were inside the vehicle. The police also seized the truck, worth ₹12 lakh. The accused had pasted a sticker of essential goods on the truck to mislead the police. (With inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-constable-who-defeated-covid-19-says-pranayam-strong-willpower-helped-him-get-cured/story-6JqGkhXP5ER66qGbdHKZNI.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||State govt allows home delivery of liquor, but not in city, Nagpur||Maharashtra on Tuesday issued a notification allowing home delivery of liquor across the state, barring Mumbai and Nagpur, where the civic bodies have denied permission for liquor shops to open.According to excise commissioner Kantilal Umap, the order is to prevent people from crowding outside shops. “In view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, we want people to remain at home and avoid coming in contact with each other. This [order] will prevent people from lining outside the shops,” said Umap.He added, “Liquor shops in Mumbai and Nagpur, which are closed, will not be allowed to run home deliveries,” he added.The government had allowed sale of liquor from May 4. However, serpentine queues outside these shops sans any social distancing forced the then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi to shut shops in Mumbai within two days.Umap said that shop owners will have to deliver liquor to permit holders at their addresses after an order is placed. The notification also pointed out that delivery boys should use masks and sanitisers frequently.Meanwhile, liquor shop owners in Mumbai said that it is time for the government to open shops in the city. “We are ready for home delivery, but then we want some help to tackle crowds who will again line up outside,” said a shopkeeper, who refused to come on record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-govt-allows-home-delivery-of-liquor-but-not-in-city-nagpur/story-XNKSrhxIBDHPdim4HuwbQM.html
13-05-2020||City||New Mumbai civic body chief, new policy for Covid||With Covid-19 case count rising, new Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief IS Chahal has changed the policy to tackle the outbreak, including new testing protocols that clarify who is allowed to get tested and who isn’t, fewer but stricter containment zones, mapping of high-risk zones within every ward and reshuffling of responsibility given to top bureaucrats from the civic body and the state in the BMC’s war room. Chahal took over from former municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on Friday. Most decisions were taken on Saturday, during Chahal’s first meeting at the BMC headquarters.‘WATERTIGHT’ CONTAINMENT POCKETS Chahal has called for ‘watertight containment zones’ and directed all ward officers to map high-risk areas within their containment zones. He has also asked for slum and congested areas to be targeted. With a new containment policy likely to be introduced this week, the number of containment zones in the city will drop, but rules of movement within them will become stricter.“Currently, each building where a Covid-19 positive case is found is a containment zone. That is how Mumbai reported over 2,500 containment zones. This created panic and restlessness among residents. Now all ward officers have been asked to identify areas that can become containment zones and seal them completely,” a senior civic officer said.In Dharavi, the BMC on Tuesday identified 15 to 20 high-risk ‘containment pockets’. The area currently has 213 containment zones. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of G-North ward, said, “The municipal commissioner has asked all ward officers to have a self-management approach towards containment pockets. I am merging my containment zones into key high-risk areas. These will be completely locked in.” Dighavkar is also identifying local community leaders such as corporators and member of legislative assembly (MLAs) who can be incharge of management, distribution of essential supplies and fever clinics. High-risk zones within containment zones are being mapped in all wards with a large slum population, such as Kurla and Bandra East, Wadala, Andheri, Malad, Byculla and Worli’s chawls.COVID-19 TESTINGWithin this week, the BMC is likely to release new testing protocols. A senior civic officer said, “The new civic chief is of the opinion that the testing protocols have changed too many times, in some cases owing to directives from the Centre.” The civic body is likely to strictly follow the ICMR protocol. “The testing protocol will be like a manual, and the municipal commissioner wants it to eliminate confusion about who can be tested and who cannot,” said a senior officer.The new testing policy is likely to allow testing of high-risk contacts of a positive patient between five and 14 days from the time they were identified, contrary to the earlier decision to allow only selective asymptomatic high-risk contacts to get tested. Last week, the BMC had briefly introduced and revoked a policy that mandated all those getting tested for Covid-19 to remain in institutional quarantine centres between the time of collection of their swab and outcome of the Covid-19 test result. Healthcare professions feared this would discourage those with symptoms from self-reporting, due to the fear of moving to a quarantine facility, where a negative person may have to share a facility with a positive person before detection. RESHUFFLING OF RESPONSIBILITYTweaking Pardeshi’s order, Chahal has reshuffled the responsibility given to top officers working in the Covid-19 war room. Pardeshi had divided Mumbai into seven Covid-19 zones. Each officer from the war room was tasked with monitoring a zone.The war room consists of BMC’s four additional commissioners Suresh Kakani, Ashwini Bhide, P Velarasu, and Sanjeev Jaiswal, and other top bureaucrats, including Manisha Mhaiskar, who is the principal secretary of the protocol department, Prajakta Lavangare, secretary of the Marathi department, and N Ramaswami, on special deputation to the BMC. Ashutosh Salil, joint municipal commissioner in the BMC is also part of the task force. While Mhaiskar is incharge of ramping up Covid beds in hospitals and care centres and decongestion of health facilities, Bhide is incharge of BMC’s Covid war room, contact tracing and containment zones. Jaiswal is incharge of formulating a policy to relax lockdown rules in a phased manner and issues of migrant labour, while Lavangare is incharge of Covid Yoddha Volunteers at containment zones, and screening of elderly citizens with co-morbidities. Velarasu has been tasked with pre-monsoon preparedness work, and handling incoming passengers at the Mumbai airport. Kakani is incharge of the health department. Ramaswami is incharge of enhancing medical facilities at SevenHills hospital. Salil has been tasked with creating jumbo facilities for quarantine, and corporate social responsibility. The capacity of Seven Hills will be increased to 1300 beds. The BMC is preparing for the peak. Kakani, who is incharge of the health department, said, “We are expecting cases to peak by May-end, and the situation is likely to improve after that. This is the projection for now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-mumbai-civic-body-chief-new-policy-for-covid/story-6hqAWcC0NefUz1sKeg6MyN.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||First train from Mumbai takes migrants to Delhi||After a suspension of 52 days, the first passenger special train departed from the city for New Delhi on Tuesday evening. Those stranded were relieved to go back to their hometowns.A special train, with 1,487 passengers, departed at 5.30pm from Mumbai Central railway station for New Delhi railway station on Tuesday. About 1,107 passengers boarded the train from Mumbai Central, 97 from Surat railway station, 83 from Vadodara railway station, 23 from Ratlam and 177 passengers from Kota. Passengers started arriving at the Mumbai Central since morning and were happy to be able to reunite with their families in New Delhi. “I arrived in the city after a relative passed away due to cancer. The lockdown was announced immediately and I got stuck here. I am happy to go back home after over 50 days.” said Fauziya Khan, a passenger. Mamta Khatri, an Airoli resident, arrived at the railway station in personal protective equipment(PPE). “I tried to book tickets from multiple locations on the IRCTC website and that is how I managed to get one. I have to be with my daughter who is pregnant.”Naeem Shaikh, a passenger, travelled from Khopoli to reach Mumbai Central. He works at a construction site and came along with four other passengers in a taxi and arrived just three hours before departure. “We came in groups from Khopoli and spent the last money we had on tickets. There was no problem in booking tickets. We just want to reach our homes.” said Shaikh. The Western Railway has positioned five officials for the screening of passengers at the entrance of the stations. The passengers were screened and only those asymptomatic were allowed to board the train. Indian railways suspended all passenger train operations on March 22 owing to the spread of coronavirus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/first-train-from-mumbai-takes-migrants-to-delhi/story-mHyA4BJCfQyKNqK4JRXm9L.html
13-05-2020||City||19 shops challaned for violating lockdown norms in Ambala||The Ambala municipal corporation challaned and shut as many as 19 shops for violating lockdown norms on Tuesday.In an order issued last week, district magistrate (DM) Ashok Kumar Sharma had allowed opening of shops with some curbs. “All other ‘left-side’ shops in markets marked with ‘L’ will open on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10am to 5pm and all the ‘right-side’ shops in the same markets market with ‘R’ will open on the remaining days, except Sundays,” the order read.Teams led by city project officer inspected the markets at Jagadhri Gate, Durga Nagar, Manav Chowk, Naraingarh Road and Sounda village, and issued challans to 19 shops that were found violating the rules.MC commissioner Parth Gupta said, “Our enforcement teams are inspecting the areas since the curbs were relaxed. They are ensuring that the rules are followed, they had earlier warned the violators and later issued challans.”Earlier, on Monday, an FIR was lodged based on a complaint filed by a municipal council officer in Ambala Cantonment stating that a few shop owners had misbehaved with employees and officials of the council.According to the FIR, the incident happened on May 9 when the team along with Ambala Cantonment sub-divisional magistrate went to inspect the markets and asked violators to close shops, but the violators misbehaved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/19-shops-challaned-for-violating-lockdown-norms-in-ambala/story-OWidImBNjYmYDERntckj8M.html
13-05-2020||City||Nurses are pillars of health infra: Punjab minister||Lauding the efforts of the nursing staff in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Tuesday said nurses are the pillars of health infrastructure.Speaking on the occasion of International Nurses Day, Sidhu mentioned a recent video tweeted by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh wherein nurses made their best efforts to boost the morale of the Covid-19 patients and were seen performing giddha in the isolation ward of a government hospital.He said nurses have to stay away from their families while performing their duties in this critical time and they were the real warriors.He said this year’s theme for the day, ‘Nursing the world to health’ is very relevant in these times. International Nurses Day was celebrated at Mohali district hospital wherein director of family welfare, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, felicitated the nursing staff by with flowers.All safe delivery champions of the labour room and SNCU were also presented ‘safe delivery champions’ badges and roses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurses-are-pillars-of-health-infra-punjab-minister/story-Go7a7WhTeYWu2P6zO1Ca0L.html
13-05-2020||City||IT engineer ends life in Navi Mumbai||A 27-year-old IT engineer ended his life in his Kopar Khairane apartment on Tuesday.The man was staying alone in the apartment after his brother and sister-in-law left for Jawali in Satara before the lockdown. In a suicide note, the man wrote he was missing his family. ‘How much will I speak to the family on phone. The more I speak to them, the more I miss them. Don’t know for how long I will have to stay away from family,’ read the letter.A neighbour had been helping him with the meals every day.“We have found a note where he has said he was lonely. We have filed an accidental death report,” said Suryakant Jagdale, senior inspector at Kopar Khairane police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/it-engineer-ends-life-in-navi-mumbai/story-epho5zdpE4cFvtlwCjtc6M.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s salon and spa association writes to admn for permission to restart operations||The Tricity Salon and Spa Association has written to UT adviser Manoj Parida and deputy commissioners (DCs) of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali, asking for permission to let them restart operations, on Tuesday. The missive has also been sent out to all members of Parliament (MPs) of the tricity.As per the letter, many spas will have to shut down if they aren’t allowed to operate, as they have to pay rent and salaries. The letter highlighted how some freelancers have started beauty services at home which has been deemed illegal as per orders.Members added that if they are allowed to resume operations, they will use sterilised equipment, PPEs and masks, and adhere to other safety norms, to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-salon-and-spa-association-writes-to-admn-for-permission-to-restart-operations/story-YnmWhqJu1ST3snIBc6VDHJ.html
13-05-2020||City||Protesting Malerkotla mill workers resort to stone-pelting, lathi charged||Over 400 migrant workers, including women, employed with a private spinning mill in Malerkotla held a protest against their alleged exploitation and pelted the officials with stones, with police resorting to lathicharge on Monday night.The incident left Malerkotla sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vikramjeet Singh Panthey and deputy superintendent of police Sumit Sood besides many labourers injured.The workers of Arihant Spinning Mill, a unit of Vardhman Textiles Ltd, were demanding salary hike and transfer of some mill administration officials. Meetings were held between district administration officials, mill representatives and workers on Tuesday, but to no avail.The labourers alleged that they were not getting any facilities and were forced to buy ration from a shop inside the factory area at high prices.“We are not allowed to step outside the unit even if we are unwell or the factory owners deduct our salary. We are only being paid Rs 6,000 a month despite working here for years. We demand Rs 18,000-Rs 20,000 salary,” a protester said.Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori spoke with the mill owners about the issue and SDM Panthey held meetings with workers in their residential area.“Negotiations are on,” the SDM said.Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Garg said around 300-400 unidentified people were booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act.Malerkotla SP Manjit Singh Brar said a mild lathicharge was carried out to control the situation.In a press statement, Vardhman officials said, “A handful of workers employed at the Arihant Spinning Mill unit created ruckus when they were denied wages for the period they had not worked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/protesting-malerkotla-mill-workers-resort-to-stone-pelting-lathi-charged/story-C77fyBCJlcu5NoyN3JTsON.html
13-05-2020||Lucknow||Give ration cards to every eligible person: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Tuesday that ration cards should be issued to every eligible person, including migrant labourers needing them, while food grains should be provided to even those without a ration card.He told his team to ensure that no one faced any problem in getting food or food grains.Reviewing the situation following lockdown at a meeting of his Team-11 here, Yogi said the lockdown should be strictly implemented in Agra, Meerut and Kanpur Nagar where the state government had already sent senior IAS, IPS and health department officers to effectively check spread of Covid-19.He said vigilance and monitoring committees played an important role and they should be activated for better surveillance and effectively check spread of Covid-19. He said the committees should be activated at village panchayat level in rural areas and at ward level in urban areas to keep an eye on quarantine centres. He said the committees should inform the administration about entry of any unauthorized person in their area.Stressing the need of increased testing and training of medical and health staff for effective control of Covid-19, he said more testing would help check the infection. He said preparations should also begin to check spread of contagious diseases before the commencement of the monsoon.The chief minister said hardware shops outside hotspots should be opened and farmers should be trained in diversification of agriculture. All the Krishi Vigyan Kendras should encourage farmers organisations. He said wheat procurement with minimum support price scheme and Prime Minister’s Kisan Samman Yojana should be implemented in a better manner.Yogi also said private ‘mandis’ or agriculture markets should be set up at some places for betterment of farmers and measures to attract more investment should be expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/give-ration-cards-to-every-eligible-person-yogi/story-zTSU1zlQwy5OAR3hfbc2fO.html
13-05-2020||Mumbai||93-year-old is among oldest to recover in the city||A 93-year-old woman from Mazgaon has become one of the oldest patients in the city to recover from Covid-19. After getting diagnosed with the novel coronavirus disease, she got admitted at Saifee Hospital on April 17. The woman had a medical history of hypertension and considering her age, doctors were speculative about her recovery. After being admitted for 12 days at the hospital, her swab test report came negative. On April 28, she was discharged but was still kept under home quarantine for 14 days. “What helped me get through the illness was faith and inner strength,” said the patient. As per the data provided by the state health department, patients above the age of 60 with comorbid health issues are most vulnerable to the infection. The rate of mortality is also high among them. Dr Vernon Desa, director (medical governance and clinical compliance) at Saifee Hospital said, “Seeing her leave after recovering from the disease gave our staff the motivation to perform their duties more diligently. We wish her story gives some hope to other patients and encourages them to fight back.”In April, an 82-year-old woman with Covid-19 recovered and got discharged from Kokilaben Hospital. Earlier, a 93-year-old woman from Kerala became the first oldest lady to get cured of the virus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/93-year-old-is-among-oldest-to-recover-in-the-city/story-uvSRf8Cch3DWuvrrVNL1cI.html
13-05-2020||City||Punjab liquor vends stay shut as traders insist on excise policy change||It has been over a week since the lockdown 3.0 started in the country allowing opening of vends, liquor traders in Punjab have not opened their shops even as the state was among the first to make the demand to boost its excise revenue.The majority of vends have remained shut (since March 23) as traders are waiting for changes in the excise policy to accommodate their concerns. They are demanding to compensate them for the period during which vends remained closed due to the lockdown. They are also demanding changes in the policy to link revenue collection with the sale of liquor instead of the minimum guaranteed revenue on the basis of fixed quota in the original policy. Sarabjit Singh, a liquor contractor in Tarn Taran, said, “We have paid revenue to the government from March 2019 to March 31, 2020. However, the lockdown was ordered on March 22, 2020. The fee collected by the government from March 22 to March 31 this year should be returned.”The state government has pegged the annual revenue from the sale of liquor at Rs 6,200 crore, which comes to over Rs 16 crore a day.The Punjab cabinet on Monday authorised chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to take decision on changes in the state’s excise policy in view of impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown.Assistant excise and taxation commissioner (Bathinda) RK Malhotra said they have not received any communication yet regarding changes in the policy.There are 5,800 liquor vends in Punjab. Varinder Sharma, a Ludhiana-based liquor trader, said, “We want to cooperate with the government and are ready to bear part of financial losses. But the traders can’t be made to suffer the entire loss due to the prevailing situation.”Anil Mahajan, who runs liquor business in Doaba, said, “We will have lesser hours to open vends under these circumstances, which too will impact our sales.” An official in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said the excise and taxation department is expected to come up with a proposal of a relaxation to liquor vend owners on Wednesday.Vendors say no to home deliveryThe traders said the home delivery of liquor is not feasible as they do not have the required staff to do so and the government has ordered that only 2-litre liquor can be delivered to one household.On Sunday, Congress councillor and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s wife Mamta Ashu had also urged the CM to reconsider the decision to allow home delivery of liquor in the state.133 liquor boxes stolen in BarnalaUnidentified persons barged into a vend in Barnala disstrict’s Bhadaur and stole 133 boxes of country-made liquor worth Rs 4 lakh on intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The vend also had another 350 boxes of the same-brand liquor. The thieves did not steal a single bottle of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL).Ankit Sood, the shop owner, said, “It is the third theft in our vends in the district.”Bhadaur station house officer (SHO) Gurvir Singh said the police are investigating the matter. (Inputs by Anil Sharma and Harsimran Singh Batra from Amritsar and Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-liquor-vends-stay-shut-as-traders-insist-on-excise-policy-change/story-sQHPBkccUnRyrvhlFW5mqK.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn allows home isolation of mild Covid patients after 10 days of hospitalisation||The UT administration on Tuesday allowed home isolation of mild or asymptomatic coronavirus (Covid-19) patients after 10 days of hospitalisation.But there is a rider. UT adviser Manoj Parida said only those patients who have adequate facilities for home quarantine and can follow proper isolation and social distancing will be released under this move.“Others, who have smaller houses, like the ones in Bapu Dham, and cannot follow social distancing norms will be kept in the hospitals till the time their reports are negative,” he said. Parida said detailed guidelines issued by the central government in allowing home isolation of positive cases will be strictly followed in permitting such cases.ELIGIBILITY FOR HOME ISOLATION- The person should be clinically assigned as very mild/asymptomatic case- Such cases must have requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts- Patient will submit an undertaking on self-isolation and follow home quarantine guidelines- Caregiver should be available to provide care on 24x7 basis. A communication link between caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home quarantine- Caregiver and all close contacts of the patient should take hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol- Aarogya Setu app should remain active on the patient’s phone at all time- Patient should agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the surveillance officer- Home isolation is to be discontinued only when the surveillance officer has certified the patient to be free from infection after laboratory testingWHEN TO SEEK MEDICAL ATTENTION- Difficulty in breathing- Persistent pain and pressure in chest- Mental confusion - Developing bluish discolouration of lips or face- As advised by treating medical officerPGI TEAM TO VISIT BAPU DHAMWith Covid outbreak in Bapu Dham Colony far from containment, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to send its public health team to visit the colony and recommend improvements in field operations. Badnore has stressed that Covid containment be done effectively in the area and, at the same time, area residents be fed with free ration.Badnore also advised senior officials to focus on the containment zones, so that there is no further spread of infection in the areas.He said that decision on relaxation of the lockdown in the city will be taken on the basis of the Centre’s guidelines and suggestions from different stakeholders. Meanwhile, the UT administration has operationalised the Covid centre at Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22. The centre will be managed with a medical team from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-allows-home-isolation-of-mild-covid-patients-after-10-days-of-hospitalisation/story-Sso93FF0Ek8t8oFFxbANfN.html
13-05-2020||City||TMC changes discharge rule for Covid patients from slums||The Thane Municipal Corporation has decided to discharge asymptomatic patients, especially those living in the slums and congested areas, only after they test negative in the second or third test. It will also ensure that there is proper arrangement for home quarantine for such patients. The decision has been taken so that patients are completely cured and do not infect others in the slum, where there is hardly any space for social distancing.A meeting of guardian minister Eknath Shinde, mayor and civic officials was held on Tuesday, when the decision was taken to restrict the spread of disease in slum pockets.Shinde said, “The central government had decided that asymptomatic patients can be discharged after seven or eight days without testing if they still do not develop any symptom and the patient are home quarantined for seven days. We decided to change this as it would lead to increase of infection in the slum pockets. Patients from slums or congested area will not be discharged till they test negative.”A research committee will be formed to reduce death rate among patients above 50 years of age.Shinde added, “TMC will bear the medical expenses of nurses, doctors and other medical staff who test positive. We will focus on increasing medical staff and ambulance facility to deal with the increasing number of cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tmc-changes-discharge-rule-for-covid-patients-from-slums/story-UC8SbHScUJSuUfugAYHJ1I.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||100 staff at Rohini hospital tested Covid positive over one month||At least 100 healthcare workers from the 500-bed Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in Rohini, the biggest tertiary-care hospital in Northwest Delhi, have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the last one month.“So far, 106 hospital staff have tested positive for the infection, of which 21 are doctors and 50 are contractual employees,” said an official from the hospital, on condition of anonymity. Around 250 hospital workers who were traced as contacts of the positive cases, were also put under quarantine, including the medical director of the hospital Dr MM Kohli.“Many have already completed their quarantine and have joined back work,” the official said.Around 500 healthcare workers have tested positive for the infection in Delhi. This means around 6.5% of all the cases recorded in the city are among the healthcare workers.When the first batch of hospital staff started testing positive at Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, the administration began a testing drive. “We tested many of our healthcare workers after we detected the infection initially in some of our staff; many people who were asymptomatic also tested positive. The exact source of the infection cannot be detected. There are several containment zones around the hospital and many people from these areas come to the hospital for treatment,” the official said.The hospital is still running its routine out-patient clinics and emergency department.To reduce the risk of infection, the hospital has a screening point at all the entrances from where any person who might have Covid-19 has to follow a clearly demarcated path to go to the testing and isolation centre. Anyone who tests positive is referred to the dedicated Covid-19 Lok Nayak hospital.In the neighbouring 100-bed Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital, 75 hospital staff had tested positive for the infection late last month. The hospital is located in Jahangirpuri amid six containment zones.Many district officials had raised the issue in April that hospitals were becoming hotspots for new infection.At All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), 62 hospital staff have tested positive so far. “This is since the infections started being reported in the hospital. Many of these people have already recovered and joined work. Thus, there hasn’t been any major impact on medical services,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS.The first cluster of infections in hospital had been discovered at the Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) in the beginning of April where 26 hospital staff had tested positive for the infection along with four patients and one of their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/100-staff-at-rohini-hospital-tested-covid-positive-over-one-month/story-ZWOIY0d8JcBnOPa9P5GHsO.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Army man who tested positive for Covid-19 commits suicide at Base Hospital||A 31-year-old army jawan who had tested positive for Covid-19 hanged himself from a tree at the army’s Base Hospital in west Delhi’s Naraina in the early hours of Tuesday, the police said. The jawan was being treated for lung cancer and had been admitted to the army’s Research and Referral (RR) Hospital in Dhaula Kuan before being moved to the Naraina hospital on May 5 after testing positive for Covid-19, said Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (west). Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“He was last seen by other patients at 1am on Tuesday when he visited the toilet behind the Covid ward of the hospital,” he said. He was found hanging from a tree behind the toilet around 4am that morning.“He didn’t leave behind a suicide note, but we feel he killed himself due to distress over his illness”, Purohit said The jawan was from Maharashtra, but his family lives in Rajasthan’s Alwar, where he was posted as a signalman until he was admitted to the RR Hospital for cancer treatment. A spokesperson of the Indian Army confirmed the incident and called it “sad and painful”.“The autopsy is awaited. The army has a deep sense of responsibility towards our rank and file. All necessary support will be extended to the family ,” the spokesperson said. “His family has been informed about his death and an autopsy will be conducted when his family arrives. We have initiated inquest proceedings,” Purohit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/army-man-who-tested-positive-for-covid-commits-suicide-at-base-hospital/story-5cVqqwyBDlUUC2I8y4aCGP.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC flags security concerns over liquor home delivery, lets govts take final call||The Delhi high court on Tuesday expressed concern over a suggestion that alcohol be home-delivered through food delivery platforms, saying such a move would be “fraught with security and safety issues.” The court refused to pass an order on petitions seeking regulation of the sale of alcohol and left it to the Centre and the Delhi government to decide.Home delivery of alcohol, distribution of which till now has largely been in the hands of the state, would also increase the risk of adulteration of alcohol, resulting in possible loss of life, the court said. The possibility of alcohol being snatched during transit to the homes of consumers cannot be ruled out, .said a bench of justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal. The court was hearing a bunch of pleas that had sought regulation of the sale alcohol and home delivery to maintain social distancing and avoiding overcrowding at liquor stores in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. When liquor sales resumed n the capital earlier this month for the first time since the lockdown came into effect, long lines formed at liquor stores and buyers jostled each other, ignoring the social distancing norms put in place to prevent the spread of the disease.The court asked the authorities to consider the suggestions like online sale of alcohol, discussed during the hearing of several petitions against the crowding outside liquor vends. It noted the submission of the Delhi government which submitted that even the E-coupon scheme of liquor selling had not been successful because the holders of these coupons needed to spend considerable time at liquor stores, which leads to crowding“We need time to study the order and seek legal opinion on the way ahead,” a senior official in the Delhi government said, requesting anonymity.Standing counsel of the Delhi government, Ramesh Singh, told the court that the rules framed under the Excise Acts in force now do not permit the online sale of liquor. He stated that all the vends could not be permitted to reopen because of restrictions already in force under the directions of the Centre. The court also noted that the possibility of deployment of police personnel outside each liquor vend to maintain order had also been discussed, but the conclusion was that it was not a solution to the problem.The bench said any delay on the part of the Centre and the Delhi government in coming up with a solution “can exacerbate the problem of crowding outside liquor shops” and would increase the probability of Covid-19 spreading.“Moreover, it is not as if the problem is of a permanent nature, solution whereof can be devised at leisure. The problem is perhaps of a few days more in as much as once the patrons of alcohol are satisfied that there would be no further closure, the crowding outside liquor shops is likely to disappear,” the high court said in a nine-page order.Its asked the authorities to take a decision at the earliest “so that more damage than has already been done is not caused and so that the decision taken serves the need of the hour”.During the hearing, standing counsel Singh told the court that instructions had been issued by the Delhi government to liquor vends to ensure social distancing by having separate queues for those with E-tokens and those without. The bench said the instructions had been issued “without regard to the location and position of the liquor vends”. “It appears to us that considering the location and position of most of the liquor vends in the city, it is not possible to maintain social distancing as has been prescribed and the instructions stated to have been issued will not serve any purpose and will remain on paper only,” the judges observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-hc-flags-security-concerns-over-liquor-home-delivery-lets-govts-take-final-call/story-vt0WHAWTJZhdvLDwffcZTI.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||Quarantine can go beyond 14 days as pathogen new, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi high court has said the period of home quarantine linked to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cannot be limited to 14 days, with there being no certainty over the virulence of the pathogen, even as it added that a person who doesn’t display symptoms and hasn’t tested positive can ask authorities for an explanation over being kept in quarantine beyond two weeks.The order came after a petition was filed by a person who was put in quarantine from midnight of March 24-25, when he first had contact with a delivery person who tested positive, till April 28 – about 30 days. The petition said the man did not test positive for the disease within 14 days from being quarantined.Justice C Hari Shankar said that so far, there was no certainty of opinion regarding the extent of the virulence of the virus, its actual period of gestation, the time taken for symptoms, or for how long a person remains a potential source of infection.In a judgment passed on Monday, justice Hari Shankar said the court was “unwilling to hold that in each and in every case, the period of home quarantine must stand limited to 14 days, and no more” while also observing that unjustified quarantine also has “deleterious civil consequences”.“…this court is of the opinion that, at this juncture, the interests of justice would be abundantly protected by a direction, to the effect that if any person, who does not display COVID-2019 symptoms, and has not tested positive for the COVID2019 virus, is home quarantined for over 14 days, he shall have a right to represent to the authorities against such continued quarantine and, if he so represents, the authorities would be bound either to lift the quarantine forthwith, or to explain, to the person concerned, as expeditiously as possible and without any undue delay, the reason for keeping him in home quarantine for over 14 days,” the court said in a 22-page judgment.The Delhi government’s counsel said that in the case of the petitioner, photojournalist Amit Bhargava, the medical team engaged for listing cases was under pressure as even a single case left untraced could turn an entire locality into a hot spot. The government submitted that a “Home Under Quarantine” notice was pasted as per the contact history tracing and information of exposure received from the authorities. It was submitted that in the process of keeping the petitioner safe, the pasting of HQ notice was highly in his own interests.Advocate Shyel Trehan, appearing for the petitioner, contended that the people who were under home quarantine were unaware of the officer who was required to be contacted in case of any exigency during the home quarantine.Following this, the counsel for the Delhi government, advocate Shobhana Takiar, said that a helpline number will be displayed on the official website of the Delhi government in this regard.The judge said that in formulating and implementing its policy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, which has befuddled the entire global community, the executive administration is traversing uncharted territory.“The executive must, in such a circumstance, be afforded the requisite play in the joints, so as to formulate, and implement, its policy, as meaningfully and efficiently as possible. Absent any legal or constitutional infraction, therefore, Courts have necessarily to be slow in subjecting executive action, taken in the context of the COVID 2019 crisis, to searching judicial scrutiny,” the court said.“Delhi Government strictly follows the guidelines prescribed by the centre and ICMR. In fact, the latest guidelines issued by centre three days ago recommends 10 days of isolation followed by seven days of home isolation for mild patients. We are following the same,” a senior official in the chief minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/quarantine-can-go-beyond-14-days-as-pathogen-new-says-hc/story-NmzzNzdTIbJywONJJyW4yH.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal seeks public’s suggestions to ease lockdown curbs in Capital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday sought suggestions from the public on relaxations that could be allowed in the Capital after May 17, when the third phase of national lockdown ends, while stressing that opening up the city completely was not possible as this stage given the number of new Covid-19 cases every day.Kejriwal, who was addressing a media conference digitally, said his government is also engaging with experts and doctors to get a holistic view on services that could resume and those that would have to shut after May 17.“I want to know from the people of Delhi whether or not relaxations should be offered. Lockdown can’t be lifted altogether. To what extent should we offer relaxations? In which areas? Should buses or the Metro be allowed to operate? Should autos and cabs be allowed? Should schools, markets, industrial areas be opened? We need your ideas on what all should remain under lockdown and what should be reopened,” Kejriwal said.The appeal to citizens from the CM comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked all chief ministers to submit lockdown exit plans for their respective states by May 15. Kejriwal said the Delhi government will accept suggestions from the public till 5pm on Wednesday, and a final proposal will be sent to the Centre on Thursday. He aid that the suggestions can be emailed (delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com), sent on WhatsApp (8800007722), or recorded after dialling the government’s dedicated 1031 helpline.The chief minister added that whatever relaxations are offered, people will still have to maintain social distancing, wear masks, and follow all other hygiene and safety norms. “This is time to stop the spread of Covid-19, but there is also a need for starting economic activities. I am looking for ideas from you. There won’t be any voting on the suggestions we receive,” Kejriwal said. During the PM’s video conferencing with all chief ministers on Monday, the Delhi CM had appealed to Modi to categorise only the containment zones, not all the 11 revenue districts of the city, as “red zones”.Delhi had 78 containment zones as on Tuesday where relaxations such as opening of standalone shops and industries, movement of people in private vehicles, entry of self-employed persons such as electricians and plumbers is not allowed. These activities are allowed in the rest of the city - which has been otherwise categorised as a red zone by the Centre. The national Capital had 7,639 Covid-19 cases as on Tuesday which included 2512 recoveries and 86 deaths. The bulletin issued by the government also stated that with 8,431 tests done on Tuesday, the total number of tests in the city has crossed the 100,000-mark. This puts the number of tests per million in Delhi at around 5,200, the highest in India.On Tuesday, several state government departments also held a meeting in this regard and various possibilities of “opening” the markets were discussed. “One of the ideas under consideration is staggering the timings of shops. Another is to introduce an odd-even system for opening of shops. But, all these are just possibilities. We will get a final picture once the suggestions come in and the consultations with experts are held,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity.Later in the day, the government in a statement said it received around 3.3 lakh responses from the public in just a span of seven hours since Kejriwal announced about the move. “The response to the CM’s call for suggestions has been overwhelming. In Just 7 hours, we have received nearly 3 lakh WhatsApp messages, nearly 5,000 emails and around 25,000 recorded messages,” the chief minister’s office said. R1 CRORE TO THE FAMILY OF MCD TEACHERKejriwal paid condolences to the family of a 45-year-old teacher who lost her life on May 4 after being afflicted with Covid-19, and announced a compensation of R1 crore to her family. The woman was a contractual teacher with municipal corporation and was appointed for food distribution duty at a hunger relief centre in the city.Her husband, an Ayurvedic doctor with a private practice, also died of Covid just a day before, on May 3. They were both admitted in the Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital. They are survived by two sons: one aged 18, who is a school student, and the other 21, who is in college.“She performed her food distribution duty for the needy on April 10, 17, and 18. But, on April 24 she could not report to work as she was unwell. First, she was admitted to the Ambedkar hospital in Rohini, and then was shifted to RML hospital where she passed away on May 4. May God give strength to her family to face this irreparable loss. We all are proud of Covid warriors like her. The Delhi government will give an honorary compensation amount of Rs 1 crore to her family,” Kejriwal said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-seeks-public-s-suggestions-to-ease-curbs/story-VOncxtkqTG7sDpPJukvdTK.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad police starts tracking people who visited Azadpur Mandi||The Faridabad Police is tracing people who have visited Azadpur Mandi in Delhi recently by picking up dump mobile data from cellphone towers over the last 10 days, said the police.This new method was adopted after a number of cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were reported in Faridabad that had connections with Delhi.On Tuesday, a total of 11 Covid-19 positive cases were reported, out of which six were contacts of a person who had visited Azadpur Mandi, four were contacts of a vegetable seller in Mujesar Mandi, and one was the nephew of a Covid-19 positive patient. The total number of positive cases in the district has now reached 117.The police said Azadpur Mandi has emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 and therefore contact tracing of people who have visited the market in recent times was necessary. KK Rao, Faridabad commissioner of police, said they had formed special teams for keeping a strict vigil in and around the city, including the vegetable vendors who were regularly visiting Delhi markets. “We picked up the data of people through their call logs, who had visited hotspot areas and started to track them down,” he said.The data, saved by telecommunication companies, include location information and call history. These were shared with the police, following which the police started tracking.“We have conducted a screening of all the vegetable vendors and their close contacts. Within three days, we have also identified people who had gone to the vegetable markets in the Capital in the past 10 days through their mobile data. We are trying to get them tested,” said Rao.The district administration on May 2, had formed teams consisting of police officers, health department and other administrative officials, who visited the vegetable markets of the district and collected samples of more than 200 people in three days. Of these samples, more than 20 people were tested positive.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner (DC) of Faridabad, said they have been spreading awareness and have requested people who had visited Delhi to come forward and get their tests done. “We are also sending our teams to collect samples in case anyone is unable to visit hospitals. Our mobile vans are also visiting residential areas to collect samples,” he said.Four coronavirus deaths have been reported from Faridabad in the last 10 days, said officials, adding that the recent patient was a 65-year-old man who was a resident of Sector 18.Yadav said while all the four cases were found positive for Covid-19, but the cause of death also included multiple ailments and comorbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-police-starts-tracking-people-who-visited-azadpur-mandi/story-TVtjE7UsIqYvSm14fxgKmO.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram, Faridabad allow medical workers from Delhi to cross borders||Gurugram and Faridabad, on Tuesday, allowed the unrestricted entry of medical professionals, health workers and sanitation personnel to cross the borders from Delhi, said the police, nearly two weeks after Haryana government curbed the movement of people from the Capital to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Police personnel deployed at the Sirhaul border, connecting Gururgam to Delhi, continued to check identity cards and curfew passes of commuters on Tuesday but exempted doctors, nurses and other paramedical support staff. The ambulances, which were not allowed free movement earlier, have also been permitted to cross the border without any movement passes.Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner (DC), Gurugram, said, “The borders connecting Delhi have now been desealed for people associated with emergency services and for medical professionals. We will monitor the situation closely and changes will be made only after the situation has been brought under control. Unregulated movement at the Gurugram-Delhi borders will not be allowed.”The new directions were issued after doctors living in Delhi requested the district administration to allow them as they were unable to resume work even in case of an emergency, said Khatri.Essential service workers, including paramedical staff in some of the capital’s major Covid-19 hospitals, had complained that these curbs have hindered their ability to work and have even affected the ongoing process of testing patients.Borders connecting the two cities were sealed in the last week of April and the entry of only those engaged in essential services, carrying valid passes, were allowed.Mohammad Akil, commissioner of police, Gurugram, said that they are allowing the exempted people after checking their identification cards. Their vehicles are also being checked before entering in the city. “All the vehicles carrying vegetables and essential items will also be checked to ensure that there is no smuggling of illicit liquor, illicit drugs, and migrant labourers,” he said, adding that vehicles do not need passes like before if they are registered under essential services. The police have also changed the layout of deployment at the Sirhaul border by reducing the deployment to 25 policemen instead of 50, said the police.On the other hand, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad issued fresh directions allowing paramedical staff and sanitation workers to cross the border connecting Faridabad and Delhi.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner(DC) of Faridabad, issued an order, stating that they have allowed the movement of medical professionals and others attached to essential services between Faridabad and Delhi as per the exemption provision mentioned in the border closure order. “We are allowing them to cross the border and they do not require to apply for the curfew passes any longer. We salute these corona warriors for their efforts,” he said.According to the police, doctors and paramedics who have been issued Covid-19 duty passes either by the Centre or by the Delhi government or the Haryana governments will be allowed through the Faridabad-Delhi border without any fresh passes.Faridabad had sealed its five borders with Delhi on April 29, prohibiting the entry of all commuters, including essential workers, while Gurugram intensified surveillance at the interstate and interdistrict borders. Only people with special passes are being allowed to cross the border. A spike in Covid-19 cases was cited as the reason for the decision to seal the border, said the police.On Tuesday, Faridabad reported 11 new cases of Covid-19 out of which 10 are contacts of people who had visited Azadpur Sabzi Mandi in Delhi, said the police.KK Rao, Faridabad’s commissioner of police, said that most patients, who had tested positive for Covid-19, had travelled to Delhi and caught the infection there. “The movement for people involved in non-essential services are still being regulated. We are questioning people entering Faridabad from Delhi and attempts are being made to prevent unwanted movement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-faridabad-allow-medical-workers-from-delhi-to-cross-borders/story-rnqWf5BSFCoYlKYemX3FZK.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||Women demand shifting of liquor vend from Rohtak village||Fed up of frequent brawls and facing harassment by drunkards, several women on Tuesday led a protest demanding the authorities to shift the liquor vend in Sundana village to the outskirts.The women, who were joined by other villagers, staged a dharna outside the liquor vend situated in the heart of the village. They alleged that the district administration and state government had not taken any steps in relocating the liquor vend even after the panchayat passed a resolution in this regard.Sarpanch Kuldeep said the panchayat had passed a resolution for the shifting of the vend to the outskirts of the village, but to no avail.“This area has become a hotspot for criminals and drunkards. Girls and women have been facing problems while passing through this part of the village. This liquor shop is a big problem, but the government is not ready to act despite villagers’ repeated pleas,” he added.Sandheri Devi, a villager, said they wanted to the liquor shop to be shifted elsewhere as women and girls had been complaining of harassment.“Three firing incidents taken place outside this vend, but the authorities have ignored this issue. This vend has become a permanent station for criminals, liquor traders and thieves. Due to this vend, young children also got hooked to liquor and brawls. We will launch an intensified stir if our demands are not met. Despite heading the excise and taxation department, Dushyant Chautala has betrayed us by not fulfilling his poll promise to shift the vend outside the village,” she added.A day earlier, women had protested against the government’s decision to open liquor vends at Meond village in Fatehabad. They had blocked the roads and urged the government to shut them down them immediately.An amendment bill to modify Section 31 (1) of the Haryana Panchayati Raj Act was passed by the assembly on November 26 last year. The amendment prohibited sale of liquor in a village if 10% members of a gram sabha passed a resolution. Under this Act, 872 village panchayats had passed such resolutions against opening of liquor shops in their villages.The excise and taxation department had received over 120 such proposals from Rohtak, which is highest in the state among 22 districts.When contacted, Rohtak additional deputy commissioner Mahender Pal said he will look into the matter and act as per the government policy to resolve women’s grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-demand-shifting-of-liquor-vend-from-rohtak-village/story-gTeYVwF5oAB0HF6XQyhMNK.html
13-05-2020||Gurugram||Two trains with Bihar- and MP-bound migrants to leave Gurugram on May 13||Two trains will ferry migrant workers in the city to Bihar and Madhya Pradesh (MP) on Wednesday from the Gurugram railway station as a part of the special arrangements made by the government to assist migrant workers trying to return to their home states.Station house office (SHO)-level police teams are making lists of passengers as per the train schedule shared by the Indian Railways. The trains to ferry migrants are non-air-conditioned ones with 22 to 24 coaches.The trains will not stop at any stations other than the destination stops. The administration, however, refused to divulge any details about the fare and food of the travellers. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Usha Kundu, who is the charge of the matter, said, “The passengers will be strictly maintaining social distancing and follow all other requisite Covid-19 guidelines inside the coaches.”The first train for Patna in Bihar will leave Gurugram railway station at 9am with 1,700 passengers. “The second train for Tikamgarh in MP will leave with nearly 1,600 to 1,700 passengers at 12 noon. The train schedule with timings has been shared with the passengers,” said Kundu, adding that the government railway police will be taking care of the seating of passengers while boarding the trains at the station. The migrants living in the home shelters of the administration will be ferried in government buses to the railway station under also under the supervision of the GRP.“We are making sure that there is no chaos while boarding the trains at the railway station,” said Kundu.A tentative train schedule for the next five days, i.e. from Wednesday to Sunday, for the purpose of ferrying these migrants to states such as Bihar and MP has been shared with district administration by the Indian Railways.However, some migrants said that four trains scheduled to leave Gurugram railway station for Patna and Darbhanga on Tuesday were cancelled. The migrants were informed by the officials who are in charge of managing this exercise.“On Monday evening, we were told that two trains will leave for Patna at 6am and 9am respectively. Later, two trains will leave for Darbhanga at 12 noon and 3pm respectively. But on Tuesday, the officials told that the trains have been cancelled,” said Satbir Singh, a migrant. An official familiar with the matter said, “We were informed by the administration and we passed on information to passengers accordingly. We have the schedule in writing.”When asked about the cancellation, Kundu said, “Those train schedules were not correct. That was false information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-trains-with-bihar-and-mp-bound-migrants-to-leave-gurugram-on-may-13/story-vX58G4sfwu4dEy14igtyAK.html
13-05-2020||City||Now, police to reveal faces of accused held in snatching, robbery cases in Ludhiana||In view of repeated incidents of snatchings and robberies in the city despite the lockdown, police has decided to reveal the faces of those caught for these crimes.Earlier, they used to cover the accused’s faces with a mask or a piece cloth.Police have sought locals’ views on the decision through a Facebook post. The move was widely appreciated by the residents at large.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “At a time when the whole society is fighting against the novel coronavirus, such criminals are increasing the problems of the people by indulging in such crimes and robbing them of their mobile phones, cash and belongings.”He said, “As per the decision, we will reveal the faces of habitual offenders who are already facing trials in several criminal cases, so that the residents know about them. The first timers would be spared.”During the lockdown, around four gas agency employees were robbed. Apart from it, scooters of two women were stolen and a Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar resident lost ₹14,000 to miscreants.“Covering the face of an accused is necessary in case of identification parade. Delhi police has already started revealing the faces of hardcore criminals,” said Agrawal.Parupkar Singh Ghuman, former president of the District Bar Association (DBA), Ludhiana, said, “In case the face of the accused is caught on closed circuit television (CCTV) camera, while he is executing the crime, and he has been identified by the victim, then the police can reveal his face.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-police-to-reveal-faces-of-accused-held-in-snatchings-robbery-cases/story-Shqdj6IjyH9v6HpwNYGC3K.html
13-05-2020||City||Husband of woman ‘drug peddler’ held for murder bid in Ludhiana||Sunil Kumar, husband of a woman‘drug peddler’, infamous as ‘Chitte wali Bhabhi’, who attempted to murder a Daba resident late Sunday night, was arrested on Monday evening.The accused was produced before a court on Tuesday and the court remanded him in three-day police custody.The police have recovered a .32 bore revolver, two bullets and four shells from him.Nirvair Singh, 55, of Gurbachan Nagar of Daba, had lodged an FIR against the accused that he, along with his accomplices, opened fire at him and one of the bullets had hit him in his back.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP city-4) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the police have lodged an attempt to murder case against the accused at the Daba police station and launched a manhunt for the arrest of other accused.On Monday night, the police arrested Sunil from near the Toba Chowk near the Lohara Road when he was trying to escape from the city.Sunil is already facing trial in two cases, including drug peddling and attempt to murder lodged against him in 2018.Residents of Gurbachan Nagar of Daba had on Saturday staged a protest against a woman drug peddler accusing her of selling drugs among the locals. On Sunday, her husband, along with his accomplices, opened fire on Gurbachan Nagar residents. The accused had fired three bullets and one bullet hit Nirvair Singh on his back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/husband-of-woman-drug-peddler-held-for-murder-bid-in-ludhiana/story-S5keUg2KPKhlqN5BO61Z7J.html
13-05-2020||City||UP migrants, their families start 1,400-km journey||Dashrath Verma, 28, came to Navi Mumbai five months ago hoping for a steady income to support his ageing parents in Uttar Pradesh. After lockdown, Verma too lost his job at a garment workshop.Verma, his wife and two children aged four and five, his brother’s family and his uncles with their families decided to leave for their hometown.Twenty of them started the 1,400-km journey in a tempo from Digha in Navi Mumbai on Sunday after undergoing a screening test.While there are talks among migrants about truck drivers charging anything between Rs2,000 and Rs4,000 to go to northern states, Verma said one of their relatives arranged for a tempo for free.“We carried food and water for the journey. We are not accepting water and food from roadside volunteers. It will be useful for those who need it more than us. We are rationing our food and stopping at hotels near highways to fill water,” said Verma over phone.He said they came across many people walking on the highway but cannot take them along.“We cannot help people even when we want to. After we reach home, we will get another test done,” said Verma, adding that they had no problems crossing police check posts.“The police can see our plight. It is better to be with our families rather than dying in a faraway place,” he added.On Tuesday morning, the group had reached the Madhya Pradesh border and is likely to reach Pratapgarh by Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-migrants-their-families-start-1-400-km-journey-in-a-van/story-bt7PbAwvLBZxxpLPJI7JTI.html
13-05-2020||Delhi||After a nearly 50-day gap, trains chug out of New Delhi railway station||Early on Tuesday morning, 28-year-old Bitto Raja, a labourer, packed his bags, locked his one-room apartment in Gurugram, and began walking to the New Delhi railway station to catch a train home to his village in Uttar Pradesh. The train, to terminate at Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, was scheduled to depart at 4pm, but since public transport services have been off the streets since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, he had to cover the 30km journey on foot.“I left at 2am and reached the station around noon. I will get off at Jhansi. My village is around 60km from there,” Raja said as he stood in line outside the railway station along with hundreds of others, who were finally able to board trains for their hometowns on Tuesday, the day the Centre partially resumed railway services in parts of the country.Despite the nearly 10-hour-long walk, Raja was excited to be going home. He said it was getting harder to find a job in the city, and he was fast running out of money.On Tuesday, three trains departed the national capital — for Bilaspur, Dibrugarh in Assam and Bengaluru in Karnataka, with a total of 3,461 passengers. A statement released by the Union railways ministry read that 1,177 passengers booked tickets for the Delhi-Bilaspur train, 1,122 for Delhi-Dibrugarh and 1162 for Bengaluru.“With the departure of these trains, restoration of passenger train services on Indian Railways will start in a graded manner,” the statement read.Railway services had been shut across the country since the lockdown kicked off, and it had been 48 days since a passenger train last left the New Delhi Railway Station.Five trains will reach Delhi from Howrah, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Rajendra Nagar (Patna) on Wednesday.Even though the first train on Tuesday was flagged off from the Capital at 4pm, passengers began gathering outside the station early in the morning, compelled by the lack of public transport. Many, like Raja, had to walk several kilometres to the station. Some asked relatives to drop them, and still others had to depend on lifts from commuters on the roads.While several passengers managed to book tickets online, some reached the station without a confirmed booking, hopeful they would also be able to board a train home, but were turned away by the police. “We do not have any cash left. We had come to Delhi to get my son treated in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), but got stuck here because of the lockdown. The doctors refused to treat him, but I have spent nearly R50,000 on lodging and medicines. I am willing to take loans but we just want to go home now,” said Rajan, who went to the station with his wife and son in the hope of catching a train back home to his village in Bihar. He too, was turned away. Even though a large crowd started gathering outside the gates early on, security forces and the station authorities ensured the entire area was cleared and only those people who had confirmed tickets were allowed in.As people stood in a winding queue, authorities ensured that everyone maintained a safe distance from each other. Before crossing the barricades to the station entrance, security personnel gave away hand sanitisers and made sure everyone had masks on.Railways security personnel were deployed in large numbers to manage the crowds, check tickets, and to ensure passengers maintained a social distance.“Ticket-checking counters were set up at the main entries to the station — one at Chelsmford Road from Connaught Place’s outer circle and another near the Paharganj flyover. Door-frame metal detectors (DFMDs) and baggage scanners were also installed,” said Harendra Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police (railways).Inside the station, positions were marked for each passenger, as they got their baggage scanned and were thermally screened at the gate.“The station was clean and officials checking the passengers kept reminding everyone that they need to follow the norms for their own safety,” said Ravi Negi, an 18-year-old student, who had come to Delhi to visit his relative and had been stuck in the city since the lockdown.The chief public relations officer (CPRO) of the Northern Railway, Deepak Kumar, said passengers were thermally screened before being allowed to enter the station.“The passengers were asked to sanitise their hands at the entry gate and wear marks throughout their journey. The trains, with all the seats filled, departed on the scheduled time,” Kumar said.A message was sent to passengers, informing them that Paharganj was the only entry point into the station, he added.“We also informed the passengers that no linen or blankets would be provided, and encouraged them to bring their own food and water. Packed food and water have been arranged, but passengers will have to pay,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-a-nearly-50-day-gap-trains-chug-out-off-ndls/story-VOje7vfm6t6hbtLFnKUqeI.html
13-05-2020||City||Another ward boy of DMCH tests Covid-19 positive; Ludhiana tally 136||Two days after a ward boy at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) tested Covid-19 positive, another ward boy also tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The total number of positive patients in the district is now 136. As per the hospital staff, the patient, a resident of the Jain Colony in the Civil City area, was among the 100 staff members, including doctors, who were quarantined after a ward boy tested positive on Sunday. The hospital had commenced sampling of quarantined staff, following which the other ward boy was found positive.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Reports of 17 positive patients were received on Monday night, out of which 14 were Railway Police Force (RPF) personnel. One was the resident of Jalandhar, who died on Sunday night and the other two are from Ludhiana district. Two positive patients, who belong to Ludhiana, include a resident of Ghulal village in Samrala tehsil and a resident of the city.”As many as 98 more samples have been sent for testing, said Dr Bagga, while adding that 98 rapid response teams conducted screening of 306 residents, out of which 213 have been home-quarantined.He appealed to residents to remain home and contact at the helpline number 0161-2444193 if they have any symptoms of the disease.THREE OF A FAMILY DISCHARGED FROM CIVIL HOSPITALMeanwhile, three of a family, including district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur, 57; her daughter, block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Navdeep Kaur, 35, and BDPO’s husband, a food supply official, Prabhjot Singh, 39, were discharged from the civil hospital on Tuesday.Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Geeta and the staff members gave a warm send-off and congratulated them for giving a tough fight to the virus. Dr Geeta also urged them to spread awareness among others.The DMO was tested positive on April 16 and she was admitted to a private hospital. Following this, her daughter, Navdeep Kaur, tested positive on April 24 and Navdeep’s husband, Prabhjot Singh, tested positive on April 25. All three were admitted to the hospital as the DMO had also been shifted from a private hospital to the civil hospital a week after she was admitted to the hospital.As per the health department officials, in all, 13 patients have been cured in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-ward-boy-of-dmch-tested-covid-19-positive-ludhiana-tally-136/story-sILbpeyFMySU32PDKXAC8O.html
13-05-2020||Pune||More relaxations in operation of non-essential shops in non-containment zones of Pune: Civic chief||Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Tuesday announced more relaxations in the operation of non-essential shops in non-containment zones of the city. As per the new order, more shops like home utility, furniture repair, among others, have been allowed to run their business on specific days of the week in non-containment zones.Gaikwad issued the order and said that all the restrictions would continue in the 69 containment zones and there would be strict lockdown in those area. However, in the other 90 per cent of the city more relaxations have been brought in. The timing for shops to be operational in non-containment zones is 7am-7pm.As per Tuesday’s order, following shops will be open on Monday- laundry, stationery and raw material providers for medical equipment. On Tuesday, vehicle repair shops, ready furniture stores and home utility shops can operate. On Wednesday, laundry, footwear, stationery stores and raw material providers for medical equipment can resume business. Vehicle repair, home utility, stationery and ready furniture stores can also open on Thursday. Friday will see laundry, foot wear stores and construction material shops operating, while Saturday will see vehicle repair shops, home utility shops, construction material shops and ready furniture stores open.On Sunday, vehicle repair shops, home utility stores and shops selling construction material will be open along with footwear and stationery stores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/more-relaxations-in-operation-of-non-essential-shops-in-non-containment-zones-of-pune-civic-chief/story-ar3MqDuVxQS8wFjWZB5ZsJ.html
13-05-2020||Pune||With 45 out of 156 deaths, Bhavani peth continues to be Pune’s hot spot||Pune: The city reported seven Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday, all above 55 years. Two victims were from Bhavani peth ward which has been the maximum contributor of deaths in the city. The city reported 164 cases on Tuesday taking the final count of progressive positive to 2,737 cases. A total of 1,209 people have been discharged from hospitals till date, including 120 discharged on Tuesday. Bhavani peth, located in the middle of the city, has reported 45 of the 156 coronavirus deaths in PMC jurisdiction. Out of the 2,582 positive cases reported in the city, 511 are reported from this red zone. The second most deaths, 21, are reported from Dhole Patil road ward which is located near Bhavani peth area. This ward has reported 409 positives. Of the seven deaths reported on Tuesday, three from Sassoon include a 72-year-old male residing at Yerawada, who was symptomatic since May 5 and was admitted on May 8. He was tested positive on May 9 and was declared dead at May 12 with cause of death reported as acute respiratory failure with Covid-19 positive pneumonitis with acute kidney injury, hypertension and ischemic heart disease (IHD).The second death from the hospital include a 64-year-old male from Yerawada who was symptomatic since May 4 and was referred from Naidu Hospital. He was admitted on May 11 and was tested positive on May 12 and reported dead on the same day. Cause of death are acute respiratory failure due to bilateral pneumonitis, Covid-19 infection with Type 2 diabetes and hypertension.The third death includes a 75-year-old female from Bibwewadi, referred from Bharati Hospital who was symptomatic since May 6 and admitted on May 9 and tested positive on the same day. The patient was declared dead on May 12 due to bradyarrhythmia with cardiogenic shock due to myocardial infarction myocarditis, bilateral pneumonitis with Covid-19 infection, including comorbidity like diabetes, hypertension and IHD.Out of the 103 samples tested on Tuesday, none was positive at Sassoon. The hospital has reported 93 deaths till date and 95 have been discharged on Tuesday. The other deaths include a 57- year-old female from Nana peth reported from KEM hospital who was admitted on May 9 and declared dead on the same day. The swab test came positive on May 11 and the cause of death is stated acute respiratory failure secondary to Covid-19 positive.Another death from KEM hospital was that of a 59-year-old male from Nana peth who was admitted on May 10 and was declared dead on the same day. The swab report came positive on Tuesday and the cause of death is stated to be acute respiratory failure secondary to Covid-19 positive.A 75-year-old male from Tadiwala road was declared dead from Naidu hospital on May 11 after being admitted since May 9. The cause of death is said to be cardio respiratory arrest with COPD, bilateral pneumonia with Covid-19 positive.An 86-year-old male resident of Hadapsar, Malwadi was reported from Symbiosis hospital. The person was admitted to the hospital on May 1 and declared dead on May 12. The cause of death is said to be sepsis with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, secondary to Covid-19 positive.Out of the 1,372 positive patients admitted in hospitals, 107 continue to remain in critical condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-45-out-of-156-deaths-bhavani-peth-continues-to-be-the-hot-spot/story-SFiiQGP9sxJw1VPT42lB8I.html
13-05-2020||City||PSPCL to levy surcharge on late payment of power bills after May 10||After opening cash counters in its subdivisional offices for the public and starting meter reading amid the lockdown last week, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has now decided to levy surcharge on the late payment of any bill generated after May 10. However, different categories of consumers have expressed disappointment and asked the government for extension on relaxation of penalty on late bill payment as many people are facing financial crisis due to the lockdown. “We have requested the government not to impose surcharge on the late payment of electricity bills at least till September. Not even 5% industry in the state is operational currently. There is need for extension of relaxation against the surcharge,” said Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO).Similarly, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said industrialists are going through a critical time and need the government’s support.“Rather than increasing relaxations for industrialists, the power department will now be imposing surcharge on late bill payment. This definitely comes as a burden for us. The industry is not earning anything right now,” he added.“Since we are utilising the service, it becomes our duty to pay bills on time, but the government should at least be considerate towards people at this time and not impose surcharge on late bill payment. The curfew has not even been lifted in the state and a majority of the commercial operations still remain shut,” said Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Model Town Extension.In the circular, issued on April 21, the PSPCL has extended the due date of electricity bills of domestic and commercial consumers with monthly or bimonthly bills up to Rs 1 lakh payable from March 20 to May 10 without surcharge.Along with relaxation on penalty, the department has announced several other relaxations, including 1% rebate on the advance payment of power bills, 1% rebate on the bills paid till April 30, not disconnecting the connections of defaulters during the curfew.“The relief on surcharge on late bill payment in view of curfew was allowed till May 10 and extended for another day due to Sunday. Until now, we have not received any instructions concerning extension of relaxation,” said a senior official in the head office of the PSPCL, Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-to-levy-surcharge-on-late-payment-of-power-bills-after-may-10/story-sw7Lo1QmdAwOYVdX8rZNuM.html
13-05-2020||City||Ludhiana among six stations in Ferozepur division to deploy Covid-19 isolation coaches||As railways minister Piyush Goyal recently announced that 215 stations across the country will deploy railways’ isolation coaches to be used as Covid-19 care centre, six of these stations have been identified in Ferozepur division of Northern Railway.These stations are Ferozepur, Amritsar, Jammu Tawi, Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Pathankot.Three rakes of isolation coaches, one rake each in Ferozepur, Amritsar and Jammu Tawi railway station, have already been deployed. Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Pathankot were recently added in the list.Divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said the stations were selected on the basis of availability of water supply, power connection and other necessary infrastructure to manage the operations smoothly.He said isolation coaches will be provided on the request of the district administration. “These coaches are like an ambulance and can be moved from one station to another,” he added.63 trains ferried 75,000 migrants to their native states so farAs many as 63 Shramik Special Trains have ferried 75,000 migrants from three stations of Ferozepur divison to their native states so far.On Tuesday, a total of 13 such trains departed from Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar railway stations. Of these, six trains carrying around 1,200 migrants each, left from Ludhiana, while five trains departed from Jalandhar and two from Amritsar.The DRM informed that as of now 41 trains have left for Uttar Pradesh; 15 for Bihar; four for Jharkhand; two for Madhya Pradesh; and one for Chhattisgarh. More such trains will run in coming days, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-stations-in-ferozepur-division-to-deploy-covid-19-isolation-coaches/story-KzzaYpiAKbRjd0rplzAhoJ.html
13-05-2020||City||Ludhiana trader booked for selling spurious seeds||Acting on a complaint filed by a farmer, the agriculture and farmers’ welfare department of Punjab raided Brar Seed Store situated opposite to Punjab Agricultural University’s gate number 1 on Tuesday for selling spurious seeds.The officials confiscated seed samples, bill books and other documents. Police registered a case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and initiated investigation.Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal said for the last few days, the farmers’ organisations were complaining that the shop was selling spurious seeds to farmers at high rates. He said one farmer had also submitted a written complaint to the Ludhiana deputy commissioner stating that he was sold seeds of PR 128 paddy seeds at Rs 200 per kilogram.He said that the deputy commissioner had directed the chief agriculture officer of the district to take necessary action.He said a team of the agriculture and farmers’ welfare department of Punjab raided the store and took samples of PR 128, 129 varieties of paddy seeds, filled bill books and other seed varieties. Benipal said no dealer or trader will be allowed to sell spurious seeds, low quality fertilisers and insecticides to the farmers and strict action would be taken if they did so. He appealed to the farmers not to burn wheat stubble as it polluted the environment. He advised farmers to either prepare husk from wheat stubble or to go for in-situ management.He said the state government had allowed the farmers to sow paddy a week earlier. He said that the farmers can sow paddy after May 10 and transplant after June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-trader-booked-for-selling-spurious-seeds/story-isuQ8uaSaEYc5tjA0CXexO.html
13-05-2020||Pune||Uncertainty around national games in Goa remains||The state of Goa which will be hosting the 36th national games scheduled to be held later this year is looking at an uncertain future due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The national games were originally scheduled for November 2018 which were later postponed to April 2019. However, due to the general election, the government of Goa ordered cancellation.Now, the games are scheduled to be held on October 20, 2020, to November 4, 2020, however, without the central government’s directives the future remains uncertain.Indian Olympic association joint secretary Namdev Shirgaonkar feels national games should happen this year.“Whether it will be happening on the scheduled date cannot be assured currently due to the Covid-19 uncertainty. The Indian Olympic association will assess the situation before coming to a conclusion,” Shirgaonkar said.The state of Goa is in a green zone which is a positive sign for the games however there will be no positive progress without clearances from the centre and Goa government.“The National Games are very important for our athletes and it will be a good rehearsal for the Olympic qualified athletes as well. If games are postponed to 2021, then finding dates for the event will be very difficult since 2021 will be a jam-packed year for athletes,” added Shirgaonkar who is also the vice president of Maharashtra Olympic Association (MOA).If national games are postponed in October, then it will bring in big loses to the state of Goa as they have almost completed the infrastructure needed for the games, he added On Saturday, Shirgaonkar had a meeting over the zoom app with different sports associations in Maharashtra. The agenda of the meeting was to discuss the preparation of Maharashtra athletes for the national games.“We conducted a meeting to plan the future. One cannot waste time in lockdown and there should be a plan for our athletes. Since everybody is in lockdown, athletes cannot come straight away and take part in national games, there should be a proper camp. We also discussed on ways we can motivate all athletes during the lockdown,” Shirgaonkar added.Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju tweeted regarding resuming training for elite athletes in a phased manner after lockdown is lifted and Shirgaonkar feels it is the right way to move ahead.“I completely support the views of our sports minister, I advised the same to the state association. We definitely need to have a camp for selected athletes in Maharashtra. We have centers in our state where we can train our athletes by taking all the precautions. Soon MOA will figure out a plan for their athletes,” added Shirgaonkar. Shirgaonkar advised players to stay positive and keep preparing for the games in whatever way they can at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uncertainty-around-national-games-in-goa-remains/story-TpLt280cdMzkPRNeVgRR3K.html
13-05-2020||Pune||Final year exams from July 1, says Uday Samant||The Maharashtra higher education department has issued a circular to all universities and colleges to begin online applications for exams to be held in July this year for final year students, according to state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant.The syllabus for the examination will be considered up to the last day of regular classes held in college, which was March 13, 2020.Due to the nationwide lockdown, the state higher education department has instructed all universities and colleges to conduct exams for final-year students only.The principal of every college has been instructed to fill the application forms online before the deadline. According to the state directives, every college will form a students’ redressal cell and a helpline number to address queries and any issues regarding the exams.The university grants commission (UGC) and the state education department appointed a committee to decide about examinations to be held in the state. This committee instructed to conduct exams from July 1 to July 30, 2020.The final go-ahead will be given by the state government after a review in the first week of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/final-year-exams-from-july-1-says-uday-samant/story-dgM5snojhW7l0DEIzeaeAP.html
13-05-2020||Pune||Half of Maharashtra’s inmates to be released, says Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, on Tuesday, announced the release of 17,000 out of over 35,000 prisoners in the state. The decision was taken after 185 inmates of Arthur Road jail in Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19. An 82-year-old convict’s death was also reported inside Yerawada jail in Pune after testing positive for Covid-19.“We have also put eight jails in Maharashtra under lockdown to ensure that no new inmates will come in and neither will jail authorities from outside will go inside. The officials and inmates who are in these eight jails will also remain inside,” said Anil Deshmukh in a video released on Twitter.Out of the 17,000, around 5,000 will be under-trials; they have been released on a personal bond over the past four weeks.The under-trials were those who fit three criteria - arrested in cases that invite 7-year jail time upon conviction, residency in Maharashtra, and not named in serious crimes. This process began in March and concluded on May 2 after the release of 5,105 under-trials.This decision was taken based on suggestions by a high-power committee in March. In March, the Supreme Court had directed states on the formation of state-level committees comprising of chairman of the state legal services authority, the principal secretary of the prison department and the state’s director-general of prisons.Of the remaining 12,000 inmates, around 3,000 will be those convicted in cases with less than a 7-year jail term. An order to this effect was issued on May 8, 2020, and the process of release began on May 9 in all jails in Maharashtra.“For convicted prisoners whose maximum punishment is 7 years or less, on their application shall be favourably considered for release on emergency parole by the superintendent of prison for a period of 45 days or till such time that the state government withdraws the notification issued under the epidemics diseases act, 1897, whichever is earlier,” read the order issued by the office of Maharashtra governor.In three days between May 9 and May 11, a total of 695 convicts were released.The remaining 9,000 releases will be those of convicts named in cases with more than 7-year of jail term but not serious cases.The people booked in serious offences including rape, economic offence, bank fraud, under Maharashtra control of organised crime act (MCOCA), under the terrorist and disruptive activities (prevention) act (TADA), under the Maharashtra protection of interest of depositors act (MPID), and unlawful activities prevention act (UAPA) will not be considered for release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/half-of-maharashtra-s-inmates-to-be-released-says-deshmukh/story-2thOXfwjC3NdcmwAHwTw9I.html
13-05-2020||Pune||A tale of two cities as lockdown measures ‘split’ Pune||There were two contrasts of the lockdown situation in Pune on Tuesday, with the eastern and southern parts of city being, by and large, shut down, while the western part of the city gradually moved towards the easing of curbs.For many establishments such as small workshops, garages and sweet-marts, including Chitale Bandhu, it was back to business. At least 80% of shops on the Aundh-Khadki road and on the Bhau Patil road were open on Tuesday, including stores selling hardware, stationery and auto spare parts, apart from general stores. “Everything looked normal, but like a lazy Sunday,” a resident said, requesting anonymity.Amit Paranjpe, an entrepreneur, tweeted: “Good to see the Chitale Group Store at Deccan Gymkhana open. A sign of some gradual movement towards normalcy…though real normalcy from Feb ‘20 may take months.”Establishments in Kondhwa, Wanowrie, Koregaon park, Pune Cantonment, Undri, Sinhagad road, Kalyani nagar, Vishrantwadi, Yerawada, the peth areas of central Pune, Swargate, Bibvewadi, and Bharati Vidyapeeth remained shut.Apart from grocery and medical stores, a few mobile shops and jewellery stores opened in the Lohegaon market, while NIBM saw only essential shops, including chicken vendors, remain open from 10 am to 12 pm.Similarly, shopkeepers in Salunke Vihar said that though the timings to remain open were till 2 pm, police patrols forced them to shut much before the sanctioned time.Gaurav Sharma, a resident of Salunke Vihar said, “The timings are a major issue and it feels we are still under curfew. If the business establishments don’t function then it will lead to severe economic losses.”In Aundh and Kothrud, sweetmeat shops and some electronic shops were open. Some puncture repair shops and laundry stores were also open. Area residents said that they were delighted to see the city coming back to normalcy.Aditya Ghodke , a resident of Kothrud, said, “We are slowly opening in Kothrud and a number of non-essential shops too were open. We request the authorities to tighten the containment area and open the green zones.”PMC Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that the lockdown measures take into account the severity of the cases in the areas. “Those areas where there are no cases will get relaxation and strict lockdown enforcement will be done in containment zones.”At Dange chowk in Pimpri-Chinchwad, along with medical and grocery shops, clothing, hardware, footwear, mobile and liquor vendors were open. “People are behaving properly and they are not rushing, and all of them are wearing masks while coming to purchase groceries,” said Ram Jangid of Raj Groceries.“I was wearing broken sandals for a month and got one new ones today. Good to see normalcy returning to Dange chowk. It is good to see people are wearing masks and following government orders strictly,” said Akshay Padmawar, IT an professional from PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-tale-of-two-cities-as-lockdown-measures-in-pune/story-AgEWyyxc4cCOkylD5unxwN.html
13-05-2020||Pune||In 10 days, Pune’s Covid case doubling rate goes from 15 days to 7 days||According to the Maharashtra public health department, the doubling rate of Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases in Pune district has reduced from 15.4 days on May 1 to 7.4 days on May 10.The rate is higher than the national rate of 10.8 days or Maharashtra’s 9.1 days, as per data released by the state department on May 12.The report also points out that Pune district needs to provide better protection for the elderly population as it is above the 11 per cent state average.The department’s report prepared after analysis of data from the district health office states that the cases will multiply every week as per the trend. From between May 1 and May 10, the daily growth rate of the number of Covid-19 positive cases has been about 8 per cent which is higher than Mumbai’s daily growth rate during this period which was 6 per cent, according to the report.Officials say that the reported rise in the number of cases could be attributed to the increase in the testing of residents. The city’s testing capacity has gone up from 1,000 earlier to now close to 2000 with the to district administration urging laboratories, both private and government, to increase their testing capacity and working hours.As per the report, Pune conducted 38,000 tests which is 3,346 tests per million population of the city and it is higher than the Maharashtra average of 1,915 tests per million population.The testing trend for the red zone in Pune district indicates that there has been a growth of 44 per cent in the weekly tests.The case fatality rate (CFR) is the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the ailment for a certain period of time. According to the data analysis by the state public health department, the CFR for the district has improved to 5.8 per cent as of May 10 from 7.5 per cent as of May 1. The study also states that the CFR for the vulnerable groups, those above the age group of 50, has also improved from 20.1 per cent as of May 1 to 16.0 per cent as of May 10.The report states that Pune along with Nashik, Aurangabad, Solapur, Akola, Jalgaon and Dhule need better protection for the elderly as the CFR rate for the vulnerable population is above 11 per cent state average. In case of the non-vulnerable population too, those below 50 years of age, Pune’s CFR is higher than 1.5% along with Palghar, Akola, Jalgaon and Dhule districts. Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissioner, said that the data could be different from the real time figures recorded by the PMC. He said, “There is a likely possibility of data discrepancy since according to the data that we have currently. our doubling rate is 13 days. The data of the dashboard is prepared on the information uploaded on the ICMR website and so it could not be a real picture. Also, another factor could be that we are now testing more people especially those in the red zone. Hence, the number of positive cases reported are likely to increase, but in addition the mortality rate is also going down which is good news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-10-days-pune-s-covid-case-doubling-rate-goes-from-15-days-to-7-days/story-CdIpUVrqJrnUFtuxISX2uI.html
13-05-2020||City||Ludhiana EPFO resumes public dealing with safety measures in place||Two months after suspending operations in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) office, Ludhiana, resumed public dealing on Tuesday with safety measures in place.To abide by social-distancing norms, the office is addressing the queries of the employees’ provident fund (EPF) members through a public address system.“A mic system has been installed on both sides of the windows with the help of which the officials are attending to the visitors. The glass windows are working as a wall between our staffers and visitors. We have put up a wash basin outside the office and marked circles to avoid crowding,” read the office’s communiqué. People can now visit the office between 10am to 5pm. “We have made the office semi-functional to facilitate those EPF members, who are in dire need of a physical visit to avail different benefits. The department, however, urges everyone to stay at home and contact the office through email or via our official social networking handles. All complaints that are being received from the EPF members digitally are being addressed and resolved by our team on priority basis,” said Dheeraj Gupta, regional commissioner, EPFO, Ludhiana. He said people can reach the officials via WhatsApp at 8146802691, via national call centre at 1800118005 (toll-free) and through landline at 0161-244273, 0161-2423611.He added that people can mail their queries at ro.ludhiana@epfindia.gov.in or check their website, www.epfigms.gov.in, for information. He said people can also avail the drop-in-box facility at the office gate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-epfo-resumes-public-dealing-with-safety-measures-in-place/story-qggtWHiN6M1ucv7UcK7O4O.html
13-05-2020||City||Seeking revision of excise policy, Ludhiana contractors keep liquor vends closed||With the state government yet to take a final call on revision of excise policy, liqour vends in the district remained closed on Tuesday. The liquor contractors had been keeping their shutters down since last Wednesday, when the district administration lifted curbs on opening of liquor vends. There are around 750 vends in the district and all remained shut on Wednesday. The contractors are demanding compensation for the loss incurred in the last financial year due to imposition of curfew on March 23, review of excise policy 2020-2021 and withdrawal of quota condition.The contractors said that huge sales were witnessed on March 31 every year, however, vends remained closed this year due to the curfew. The state government’s annual revenue from liquor is around Rs 1,100 crore, which come to over Rs 3 crore a day.Leading the group of contractors, Varinder Sharma Bobby said that they will not open vends until the government announces changes in the excise policy. “On Friday, we also held a meeting with the excise and taxation commissioner (ETC) Vivek Pratap Singh, who assured to look into our demands. However, it is chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who will take final decision. We will take a call on whether to open vends or not after the CM’s decision,” said Bobby.The administration had permitted counters sales of alcohol from 9am to 3pm, while home delivery was allowed till 6pm.Meanwhile, liqour vendors have objected home delivery of liquor, stating they do not have required manpower for the purpose.On Sunday, Congress councillor and cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s wife, Mamta Ashu, had also urged the CM to reconsider the decision of allowing home delivery of liqour. She said that fight against drugs was an election promise of the Congress and the home delivery of liquor may lead to increase in cases of domestic violence amid lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seeking-revision-of-excise-policy-ludhiana-contractors-keep-liquor-vends-closed/story-CL1WR9oYPLNQmvJeS21zIK.html
13-05-2020||City||Ludhiana: Labourer booked for murdering wife, dumping her body in well||The Sadar police on Tuesday booked a 33-year-old labourer for allegedly murdering his wife and dumping her body in a well at Dhandhran village in the district. Sadar station house officer (SHO) inspector Sukhdev Singh said that a body, bearing no injury marks, of an unidentified woman was recovered from a well in Dhandhran village on May 7. Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras had captured a couple passing by the area. When the police inquired in nearby areas, the duo were identified as Shakeela Bibi, 30, and Mohammad Rivani, 33. As per information, the couple hails from Jharkhand and had been living at Alamgir village in Ludhiana for the past one month. During investigation, police learnt that the couple had been married for more than two years and it was the woman’s second marriage.“The couple had a strained relationship due to Rivani’s extra-marital affair. Villagers said Rivani had brought home another woman who stayed with the couple for a few days, before her family members traced her and took her back,” the SHO said.He added that the police have informed the victim’s kin, who were on their way to Ludhiana from Jharkhand.The exact cause of death will be ascertained after autopsy report arrives but police suspect the woman had either been strangulated or poisoned.“A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Mohammad Rivani at Sadar police station. A hunt is on to nab the accused,” he SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/labourer-booked-for-murdering-wife-dumping-her-body-in-well/story-sIhIg7ZylxKNWvSJ0yrncO.html
13-05-2020||City||Pune varsity opens ‘Guidance and counselling centres’ for students in 3 districts||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has launched ‘Guidance and counselling centres’ for its students in three districts, namely, Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar.Four centres in Pune district, three in Ahmednagar district and two centres in Nashik district have started operations.This initiative follows the recent announcement by state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant about final exams of third year students in July. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country, the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the state education department had appointed a committee to decide on examinations to be held in the state. This committee had also instructed all the universities to open such counselling and guidance centres to help the students. In the order on May 11, SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said the centres would be expected to help the students with regards to their forthcoming exams and to address their queries and issues.Contact details of the CentresPune District* H V Desai College Centre: 982314387 / 020 24450373* Shrimati Kashibai Navale College of Pharmacy, Pune: 9890937888 / 020 26931322* Arts, Science and Commerce College, Indapur: 7588942116 / 02111 223102* JSPM’s Imperial College of Engineering, Wagholi: 7843092957 / 8999257224Ahmednagar District* New Arts, Commerce and Science College: 942139950 / 0241 2324024 / 2324715* Dr Vikhe Patil College of Engineering, Viladghat: 9325692325* Sangamner Mahangarpalika Arts, D J Malpani Commerce, B N Sarda Science College, Sangamner: 8888567032 / 02425 225893Nashik District * KTHM College, Nashik – 9420588610 / 0253 2232047* K K Wagh College of Engineering, Nashik – 9822379056 / 8830428842||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-varsity-opens-guidance-and-counselling-centres-for-students-in-3-districts/story-BgLpgWHYjXwrHPjV96IagL.html
13-05-2020||Chandigarh||MBBS intern, policewoman among six fresh Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh; count climbs to 189||Two healthcare workers and a policewoman are among eight people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, taking the count of confirmed cases in Chandigarh to 189.A 24-year-old MBBS intern posted at the emergency ward of Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and a 44-year-old sanitary attendant from Kachhi Colony, Dhanas, who works at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, have been found infected. However, the sanitary attendant was not on active duty since April 28.Meanwhile, for the first time, a Chandigarh Police personnel tested positive for the infection. The 25-year-old woman police constable, who is putting up in the barracks of the recruit training centre in Sector 26, was part of a team deployed at the grain market and was tested positive after complaining of regular flu.The remaining five cases are from the hotspot Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. Besides a three-month-old girl, a seven- year-old boy and three women, aged 33, 35 and 75, have tested positive. With this, the number of cases in the colony has shot up to 120. Among the active 156 cases in Chandigarh, 75% are from the colony.The day also witnessed two people getting recovered, taking the total to 30. A doctor and a healthcare worker, both in their 20s and working in Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, were discharged from the PGIMER.SEVEN COPS QUARANTINEDSpeaking on the first case among the local force, superintendent of police (SP, headquarters) Manoj Kumar Meena, said, “At least seven of her colleagues living in the same barrack have been quarantined and they will be tested by health officials.” A source privy to the matter said four women constables living in the same barracks have shown symptoms, but their test reports are awaited.Meanwhile, the department began disinfecting the barracks housing nearly 200 constable-rank personnel. “From now on, sanitisation of barracks, and the police lines in general, will be done on a daily basis,” said Meena. The movement inside the police lines and the recruitment centre have also been restricted. Barring cops, no one is being allowed to leave the campus.A barrack can easily accommodate around 16-17 persons, but due to social distancing, only eight were asked to stay together. Last year, nearly 520 new recruits joined the Chandigarh Police force and were undergoing training at the recruit centre. Due to the pandemic, everyone was put on field duties to enforce prohibitory orders. Apart from the new recruits, nearly 900 families of cops live on the same campus in Sector 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mbbs-intern-policewoman-among-six-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-count-climbs-to-187/story-uxH7NJZWXXBHfvB1RIEDOL.html
13-05-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata firm develops Rs 500 Covid-19 test kit, can give result in 90 min||A South 24 Parganas based private firm GCC Biotech India claimed it has developed indigenous ‘real-time’ Covid-19 test kit costing only Rs 500 for a single test.“After 2 months of R&D we made this kit. It is cost effective as it contains all reagents produced by us. We’ve made 1 crore test kits and have 40 lakh in store. If India can do 3 lakh tests per day,we’ll be able to support the government without any problems,” Raja Majumdar who is the Managing Director of GCC Biotech India said while speaking to ANI.Developed indigenously, one kit can test 100 patients.GCC Biotech, located in Bakrahat is engaged in preparing the testing kits in its own laboratory. This indigenous test kit includes two steps - QRT PCR Master Mix Primer Probe and RNA Template each of which is developed in the laboratory itself.Testing kits were prepared following three procedures all leads to testing quality of Proteins and Enzymes.Raja Majumdar said: “It is a real-time test kit which can detect infection. Within 90 minutes, the patient can get the Covid-19 result. The incubation period is not required for the test. Producing reagents is an advantage of the company. We are supplying the reagents across the country. We have the capacity to manufacture 1 Crore test kits per month.”Raja Majumdar further added: “We have got Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) clearance and are waiting for WHO approval. If we are asked by the State or Central government for providing test kits at this hour of crisis, we are ready to meet the demands as required. A private laboratory is charging Rs 4500 for the COVID test. This kit will turn out to be fruitful to those who are economically weak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-firm-develops-rs-500-covid-18-test-kit-can-get-result-in-90-min/story-YA83pH7FKCkucht2WTcKcK.html
